What do you do when God is silent? What do you do when you get to the end of each day and his answer to your prayers has not yet arrived? When you feel like your prayers are just bouncing off the ceiling, what steps do you take next? How should you direct your soul's inner dialogue when you're just tempted to go into despair over what seems like nothing but silence from the Lord? Well, the Bible has many answers to those questions from all kinds of different passages, but we're going to see just some of those answers today out of John chapter 11. So if you haven't already, turn in your Bible to John chapter 11. The Apostle John presents a final pre-resurrection sign to prove to his readers that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. In fact, after this miracle of resurrection We won't see another miracle until the resurrection of Jesus in chapter 20. One of the unique aspects of this particular miracle is that it's the only one we know of where Jesus denied a request for healing. Martha and Mary rightly understood Jesus to be the Son of God, as we'll see next week. So we can rightly call their request to Him to come as a prayer. And while their message, as recorded in the gospel, doesn't include a request, we can assume very confidently that along with telling Jesus that Lazarus is sick, they pleaded with him to come and heal him. And what they experienced as a delayed answer and ultimately a denial of their request, we actually see is the unfolding of a God-glorifying, love-motivated, faith-increasing plan from God. But between the request that was sent out and between the resurrection at the end of the chapter, there are lessons for us to learn here in unanswered prayer Now, for the sake of time, I just want to read verses 1 to 16, and then we'll work through verses 5 to 16. Look at verse 1. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So, when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this he said to his disciples, Let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any one walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if any one walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him. After saying these things he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep But I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if if he's fallen asleep, he will recover. Now, Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep. So Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died. And for your sake, I'm glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him So Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die with him. Last week we worked our way through verses one through five to set up this chapter in the context of Jesus' life, his ministry, his location, and his relationships. And we noted that this account is unique in that while most of the accounts of Jesus' miracles uh state the miracle and then uh emphasize the response, if there is one to be uh emphasized, this account In this account, John focuses primarily on what took place before the miracle. Before getting into the wonder of the resurrection, the Holy Spirit here reveals several life-transforming realities for us to consider for our lives. And when we embrace these life-transforming realities They give us strength and endurance in times of trial. And the first life-transforming reality that we saw last week is that suffering is a servant in the hand of the Lord that he intends for his glory, to reveal his glory, because he loves you. Because he loves you. Now today I want to expand on that point and then add two more life-transforming realities. Since these realities are set in that context of Jesus not immediately responding to the appeal of Martha and Mary, we're going to frame these realities as lessons in unanswered prayer. And we'll see, first of all, that God's timing is determined by sovereign love. That's really an expansion of of the first point we focused on last week. God's timing is determined by sovereign love. Secondly, we'll see that God k God's will keeps us from stumbling, and third, that God's design is to increase our faith. Those are the three realities we'll draw out of this passage today. But first, God's timing Is determined by sovereign love. When our prayers don't seem to be answered, we might be tempted to question God's love for us. After all, if he loved us, would he really let us suffer? Would he let us linger in this state of uncertainty or pain or sorrow? Would he leave us languishing if he really loved us? Well, here we are presented with a lesson that love doesn't always prevent suffering. In fact, sometimes love lets suffering through its protective hand. Why? Because love has priorities beyond temporary happiness. Notice how this is brought out here in the text. Look at verses 5 and 6 again. It says, now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So, when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. The word so there at the beginning of verse 6 makes his delay the logical result of his love for Martha and her sister Mary and Lazarus. That Jesus didn't heal Lazarus from afar or go quickly to heal him in person is not the result of him finding it to be an inconvenience. It's not because he was too busy. It's not because he didn't care. It is because he loved them. that he determined that the best thing for them was to let Lazarus die This love here is agapeo, the verb form of agape, and it's in the imperfect form, which means it began in the past and continues in the present Jesus loved Martha and Mary and Lazarus before the news came. He had a relationship with them where he cared for them the way that God cares for all of us. And he was loving them when he heard the news, and he loved them uh as a r as such that he stayed two days longer Again, we don't need to sugarcoat this situation. It's out of his love for them that Jesus determined to let Lazarus die. Now, what I want to unpack further from last week is how it is loving for God to allow us to endure suffering, especially given the context of suffering that many of you endure. How is God loving? We saw last week that the supreme example of love-driven suffering is the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, the fact that the Father love the Son, and yet because of the love for the Son, he caused him to endure the suffering of the cross, and all that went along with that God not only loved the world that he sent his son, but he loved his son whom he put to death. As shocking as uh as it might be, Isaiah 5310 says Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. And the word will there, as it's translated in the ESV, actually means to take pleasure in. So other translations are correct when they say it was It was the pleasure of the Lord, or rather the Lord was pleased to crush him, putting him to grief. The Lord was pleased to crush him. How could the Father take pleasure in crushing his Son, whom he loved eternally and infinitely Well, the pleasure was not in the crushing itself. The pleasure was in the demonstration of his glory. And so we should ask: how should how does the crushing of the Son demonstrate God's glory? Because in crushing his son, God put the full panoply of his character on display His perfect love, his perfect justice, his grace, his mercy, his faithfulness, his righteousness, his forgiveness, and more are all on display at the cross. By crushing his beloved son and by giving him uh give himself up to be crushed by the Father, the Father and the Son fulfilled covenant promises, they broke down the barrier between Jew and Gentile. They redeemed the people from their sin They reconciled man to God. They conquered sin and death. They put the devil and his angels to open shame. And they secured the right of eternal life for those who deserved eternal death. And for all of this, the Triune God will receive praise and glory and honor forever and ever and ever. God the Father loves the Son, and his plan was to see the Son glorified. Now someone might ask, did it have to happen that way? Could God have chosen to glorify the Son and redeem humanity in some other way? Well, I think the answer has to be no. And I believe we can say that because Jesus pleaded with the Father in the garden, Father, if it be possible. Let this cup pass from me. Jesus asked the Father, Father, if there's any way to redeem your people, if there's any way to glorify your Son. Apart from this, let this cut pass from me. And because there was no answer, the answer then had to be This is the only way. So God's sovereign, eternal, infinite love determined that this was the only way To demonstrate his glory and accomplish the redemption of sinners. And so it is that God's sovereign love determined that Jesus must stay two days longer so that Lazarus would die. Understand that Jesus had to deny their request not because he was following some arbitrary plan. That's really fatalism. Sorry guys, father says I have to do this. Bummer for you. No, he denied the request because what he planned to accomplish was something in their lives that they couldn't even begin to imagine. He loved them too much to yield to their limited perspective of what was good. And so it is that God's sovereign love determines everything about your life and mine, including the suffering we experience. How can love allow suffering? The answer is that suffering leads ultimately to glory. Last time we saw this in the example of Christ in terms of how God glorified the Son through the suffering he experienced. Let's consider for today the example of the Apostle Paul, which actually applies to each one of us from 2 Corinthians There in 2 Corinthians 4, Paul talks about his suffering, and he says in verse 7, But we have this treasure, namely the gospel, in jars of clay. To show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed perplexed but not driven to despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed, always carrying in the body the death of Jesus. Listen, so that So that the life of Jesus might also be manifested in our bodies. In other words, Paul understands that his suffering was not about himself His suffering is about putting on display the glory and the character of Christ. Well, he concludes that section saying, so as a result of this, we we do not lose heart, though our inner outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light and momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison As we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. Now I realize that many of the sufferings that we experience are anything but, or feel anything but, light and Temporary. Some of you have suffered chronically your entire life. Or if not for the whole length of your life, now your suffering encompasses the entirety of your life. The only way to see your suffering as light and momentary is to do what Paul says here: to look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. So how do you do that? How do you look to the things that are Well, you remember what Paul says affliction does. Do you remember what it is? He says, affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory. The the word preparing then uh there means to produce or to bring about. In other words, there are benefits of suffering for our life now, but there are but this is saying that our suffering somehow Increases our experience of glory for eternity. Your suffering, beloved child of God, your suffering is not meaningless. Your suffering is not wasted. In ways that we cannot comprehend Your loving Heavenly Father is using your suffering to compound your experience of everlasting glory. In the same way that a sinner who is forgiven much loves much, as Jesus says A suffering saint who has suffered much experiences greater glory God loves us too much to leave us consumed by love for this world Which if God answered all of our prayers, that's where we would land. We would be consumed by ease, by prosperity, by success. So when your prayers go unanswered, consider that instead of granting your request for the things that pertain to this life, out of his love for you, God is working for your everlasting glory. Well, the second lesson in Unanswered Prayer is the life transforming reality that God's will keeps us from stumbling. God's will keeps us from stumbling. Sometimes we're praying about a situation to discern how to respond or move forward. Maybe it's a job opportunity. a broken relationship, a ministry opportunity, a change in in life direction. We're waiting upon the Lord to know what next step we should take for fear that we might take the wrong step We're afraid of stumbling. We're afraid of going the wrong direction, of doing the wrong thing and faceplanting. Or we're afraid of facing various kinds of consequences if we make the wrong decision. Well, the lesson we learn here in verses 7 to 10 is that as long as we are walking in God's will, we will never stumble. We will never stumble. Look at verses 7 to 10. Then after this he said to the disciples, Let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, He stumbles because the light is not in him. As we have studied the life of Jesus, one thing we can say for certain is that Jesus lived his life committed to doing the Father's will, no matter what the cost. We have heard him say in various ways, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. Whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. Sometimes doing the Father's will put him in conflict with the religious leaders. Sometimes doing the Father's will drew massive crowds to him. Sometimes doing the Father's will threatened his life And ultimately, doing the Father's will would take his life. One thing doing the Father's will never did was to cause him to sin. or to stumble, to hesitate, to doubt, or to be uncertain. By doing the Father's will, he never made a mistake or went the wrong way He never stayed in one place too long. He never rushed to the next place too quickly. Jesus was committed to doing the Father's will. And so in these verses, Jesus teaches us to live that way, both by his example and his words Consider his example simply there in verse 7. Then after this he said to his disciples, let us go to Judea again. So as we've seen, this two-day delay was was not a hesitation on his part. It wasn't in fear of what could happen. Jesus wasn't trying to drum up the courage in his soul to go be with the family of Lazarus There was no turmoil as to whether or not he should go. With his unique insight into the divine plan, he knew that he needed to wait two days, and when those two days had passed, he knew that it was time to go back to Bethany. The brevity of his words here delay, or rather convey decisiveness. There's no nuance of being, hey guys, let's be careful as we go. Keep your eyes open. Watch out in case somebody follows up us. There's no expression of concern here. Simply, let's go to Judea Now geographically the the Jordan River, if you can imagine Israel in your mind, the Jordan River uh separates the Sea of Galilee, or rather connects, not separates, connects the Sea of Galilee in the north and the Dead Sea in the South. To the east of the Jordan River are the Decapolis, the area of the Decapolis in the north, Perea in the south, and then Galilee, Samaria, and Judea on the west. There wasn't a strict border between Judea and Galilee and if they were on the north side of the Sea of the Dead Sea, rather When they crossed over, they would have either gone directly into Judea from Pharia or perhaps had to cross a corner of Samaria to get to Judea. Either way Bethany was around a day's journey from where he was staying. And I told you last week that we would go into more of the different timelines that the text allows. But we'll have to postpone that till we look at verse seventeen, Lord willing, uh, next week. So Jesus was ready to go. Let's go to Judea. The disciples? Not so much. Jesus knew the Lord's will, and so he was ready to go. The disciples heard the Lord's will from the lips of Jesus and they hesitated. They responded in verse 8, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you. And are you going there again The disciples vividly remember what happened the last time that they were in Jerusalem. Remember that back in chapter 10, verse 31, it says that after Jesus had essentially declared himself to be the Christ, the Son of God, that the Jews picked up stones. To stone him. And so knowing the intent of the Jewish leaders to murder Jesus, and flashing back in their minds to seeing the rocks in their hands and the murderous intent on their faces The disciples question the wisdom of this trip. For a moment, they forget who they're following. By not implicitly trusting Jesus in their hearts, the disciples tripped over what Jesus said they were to do. Fear gripped their heart when they thought of going back to the Lion's Den, as it were. So they questioned Jesus, even though He's never done anything to lead them astray or put them in a p position to doubt his wisdom. Does this not reflect how we sometimes respond to God's will in our life? Sure, there are many times when you read the word, you hear wisdom of how to live out the word, and you're like, got it, I move forward with confidence, I understand what God wants me to do, and I'm happy and delight to obey His will. But then there are those times when the Lord's will seems to be clear, and as we begin to walk down that road, the the risks become part of our awareness, and all of a sudden we wonder, is his will as clear as I thought it was? So we hesitate, we question, we wonder if true wisdom would have such risks. And doubt leads to stumbling The disciples questioned the wisdom of Jesus, and at least initially, if it were up to them, they would have voted Jesus down. No, let's let's stay here. Well, Jesus example models following God's will regardless of circumstances, regardless of the risks and concerns, and now his words explain his decision. Look at verses nine and ten again. Jesus answered, are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. The simple meaning of this metaphor is that we should walk in the light of God's truth and not in the darkness of our own desires. That's the end result of this metaphor. We should walk in the light of God's truth and not in the darkness of our desires. Notice there that he says at the beginning, are there not twelve hours in the day? In that day time was cut by the light of the sun. divided into twelve hours. These are not sixty minute hours. These are twelve periods of time that start from dawn and end at dusk. And so because the length of days changed throughout the year, so did the length of those particular length of hours. That's just how they kept time. But Jesus is pointing out the twelve hours in the day to just reflect the fact that there is a daytime as opposed to a nighttime. Is there not a daytime? Are there not 12 hours? In other words, a limited time in which the daylight shines? And so then next he says, if anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world The word stumble simply means to to strike or to beat against. Think of hitting your shin against a piece of furniture The simple literal meaning here is that when you walk in the day, you won't run into obstacles because you can see them to avoid them. On the other hand, if you walk in the night You will run into things because, well, you just can't see them. That's a rather obvious literal meaning. What is Jesus actually saying here? Well, there are two clues that help us understand this metaphor. At the end of verse 9, you notice, Jesus says, because the light is not, or rather, he sees the light of this world. The second clue is there at the end of verse 10, because the light is not in him. So the light is out there, the light of this world. But this is a light that shines in the soul. It's either in you or it's not in you Scripture uses the metaphor of light to refer to truth and knowledge that gives life. For example, in 2 Corinthians 4. 6, it says, For God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of Christ in the face of Jesus Christ. In other words, the knowledge of Christ supernaturally shined in our hearts gives life. Darkness, on the other hand, is error or ignorance which leads to death When Paul describes the natural condition of humanity in Ephesians four eighteen, he says they are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to their hardness of heart. To walk in the light, then, is to live according to truth. The Apostle John wrote in 1 John 2. 10: Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him is no cause for stumbling. In other words, when you love your brother and sister, you are living according to the truth You see life with clarity. And because you know the truth, you are able to love those around you. Now because light speaks of knowledge and truth which produce life Light can also refer to the personal presence of Jesus, who is the truth and the life Remember back in John chapter 9, verse 4, Jesus said something similar to what he said here. He said, We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. Night is coming when no one can work As long as I am in the world, what do you say? I am the light of the world. Saying that he is the light is another way of saying that he is the truth and the life. If you want to be able to see reality for what it is, you need to look to Christ and let his life and his words shine light on everything else. Now, for that reason, while he walked this earth, his disciples could follow him and have confidence that he would lead them according to what was good and right and true. He was the light of the world, and so he would lead them according to the truth. And as long as they followed him, they would not stumble. But we should ask what happened when Jesus ascends into heaven. He's no longer on the earth. Well, then the light shifted from Jesus, the person of Jesus, to the Holy Spirit. Who dwells inside those who believe. And part of the Spirit's work is to illumine in our hearts an understanding of the truth which is found in the Word of God. So Jesus is still the light of the world because the Spirit is the Spirit of Christ, the Scripture says, and the Word is the Word of Christ. So Jesus continues to shine his light in the hearts of his people by the Spirit through the Word. Now the alternative to walking in the light of day, that is to walk by the light of truth, is to walk in the night To walk in the darkness of our own desires. That's what those who do not have the light They walk according to their desires. Ephesians 2. 3 says that all people apart from Christ live according to the passions of their flesh and the desires of the body and of the mind. And because that was our condition before Christ saves us, if we're believing in Christ and have been given life by him, we have a tendency to not walk by the light, but rather go back to our own desires and live according to that. And that is why Paul reminds believers in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 8, for at one time you were darkness, But now you are light in the Lord. So walk as children of light, he says And he says that because walking in the darkness leads to destruction and ultimately death When we live according to our own desires, what we think is is best for us based on our own fleshly desires, we will prioritize anything that promotes our sense of safety or security or ease or pleasure. We will try to avoid hardship or trials or sacrifice or discomfort But as Paul says in Galatians 6. 8, the one who sows to the flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But the one who says to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. That's another way of saying what Jesus says here to his disciples, though they perceive danger. The reality is if if going to Bethany is the Lord's will, there is no safer place for them to be And so the lesson for us, beloved, is, especially while we are waiting to hear an answer for our prayers, is that when we feel stuck When we feel uncertain of what to do next, when we are unclear of the steps that we should take to move forward in life, what we must do is walk in the light of God's truth. When we don't know what steps to take, we can ask ourselves this simple question. What would God want me to do no matter what his answer is? What would God want me to do no matter how he answers my prayer? Well, we know that whatever we do, we are what? To do it all for the glory of God. This means that as ambassadors of Christ, we are to live with an o orientation in our hearts around God's priorities. So we should ask ourselves, whatever state or condition we're in, how can I serve God? How can I serve others? How can I put myself in a position to grow in Christ? How can I steward my God-given time and resources and abilities to be a blessing to others How can I cultivate a heart of thankfulness and willingness to endure hardship knowing all of what Christ has endured for me? Sometimes when we're waiting for the Lord to reveal his will of the future, we forget what he has called us to live by today. Sometimes when we're waiting to know God's will for the future, we forget what God calls us to live by today. And so, no matter how he directs us, we can know for certain that it will always include the same basic orientation that we ought to have right now to live. for the glory of God where he has me today. Beloved, we err when we think Once I know what God's will is, then I will start living for Christ. Once I get into a better financial position, that's when I'll start giving. Once I get into a larger home, that's when I'll start showing hospitality. Once I have more free time, that's when I'll serve in the church and use my gifts. Once I have Then I will. We have all had thoughts like that And in having thoughts like that, we stumble because we basically are saying, I'm going to live the way I think I should live until God makes his will clear to me. And then we're surprised that when we find ourselves in that situation, we have more resources, we have a larger home, we have a newer job. We just continue living the way we were were before because that's how we're used to living. And so, beloved, whatever clarity you're seeking from the Lord for your future, whatever your hanging whatever requests are hanging in the air to be answered, look around to where the Lord has you and be busy doing what He has put in front of you to do for His glory. And for the good of others. Because God's will prevents us from stumbling Well, the third lesson in unanswered prayer is the life-transforming reality that God's design is to increase our faith. God's design is to increase our faith. Along with using suffering to promote his glory and put his glory on display, the Lord designs suffering to increase our faith. That is to cause us to know and trust him more. Look at verses eleven to sixteen. After saying these things he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now, Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died. And for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that they may believe. Or rather, that you may believe, but let us go to him. So Ta Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die with him When Jesus says here that Lazarus has fallen asleep, he's not being obscure or obtuse. He's speaking the way all kinds of people speak about death. In Acts 7, verse 60, Luke concludes the stunning of Stephen by saying, After falling to his knees, he cried out for uh to the Lord, Lord, do not hold this in against them. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 6, Paul lists the people that saw the resurrected Christ And he says, of them, then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. And then in 2 Peter 3, Peter quotes mockers of the second coming who say, so this is the words of unbelievers, they will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. You'll find that language all over the Bible. This is just how people spoke about death. And the language of sleep refers to the condition of the body. the resting state of the body, not the soul. The scripture teaches that those who die in Christ go immediately into the presence of Christ, or as scripture sometimes puts it, paradise And those who die without believing in Christ go immediately into hell. The account of the rich man and Lazarus, a different Lazarus in Luke chapter 16, is a case in point. Lazarus went to the bosom of Abraham, and the rich man went to hell. It is the body that will be revived at the resurrection And reunited with the soul. First Corinthians 15 says, Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet, for the last trumpet will sound, and the re the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed. For this perishable body must put on imper Perishable, and the mortal body must put on immortality. So it is the body that in a sense is sleeping and will one day be revived and reunited with the soul Now maybe it's the fact that Jesus said, I go to awaken Lazarus that kind of caught the disciples off guard. Whatever the case, Jesus used that language in this context to describe the temporary nature of death. And certainly that would be true of Lazarus' death For their part, the disciples reflect the common view of the day that once a sickness has passed its lethality, the person would sleep, allowing the body to recover. So Jesus clarifies in verse 10, Lazarus, or rather verse 14, Lazarus has died. Lazarus has died. And then Jesus gives the profound truth that reveals his heart and design behind his sovereign will. And this is something for us to wrap our hearts and minds around. He says in verse 15. For your sake, I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe One observation we can draw from this is that God's design to increase faith must have been true for Mary and Martha. But he's not speaking to Mary and Martha. He's speaking to the disciples. This means that when you go through a trial, Whatever purposes God has for you and He always does, He also has designs to use your trial in the lives of other people. This is part of the mystery of God's will. We are obviously oblivious usually to what God is doing in the lives of others through our trial, but we can be confident. That whatever it is you are going through, God intends to use that not only for your benefit, but also for the benefit of others. O Lord may put us in environments around other people that we may otherwise not normally meet, so that we can be witnesses for Christ The Lord might use your faith-filled response to your trials to be an encouragement or even a conviction to those who need to cultivate the same biblical mindset. The Lord might use the blessed outcome of your trial to strengthen the faith of others who are going through something similar and who can trust in God's goodness. Or the Lord might use you once you have learned how to be comforted by the Lord to give that same comfort to those who are in any trial, as it says in 2 Corinthians 1:3. The Lord always is using your trial directly or indirectly in ways that you're aware of and not aware of. To work in the lives of others. And most of what he's doing in that regard, we won't know until we get to heaven. So that's one observation. The second observation we can make here is that is what made Jesus glad? And again, he says, I'm glad that I was not there so that you may believe. What's interesting about this is that at this point in Jesus' life, which is probably just a matter of weeks, maybe a month or two before his death, the disciples already believed. Like Martha, they knew that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God. That was already settled in their mind. They had plenty of evidence to be convinced of that. But just as we said last week about Martha and Mary having a deficient view of Jesus, even while they had a genuine belief in him, so was true of the disciples. The disciples had already seen Jesus raise people from the dead. They knew that Jesus had that power. So, how would this resurrection be any different? Well, there is evidence that in this time and for the following centuries there was a superstition among the Jews, more of a folk uh folk doctrine, if you will, not official dogma of Judaism, but a a superstitious belief that at death the soul would hover over the body for three days hoping to re-enter the body. But once the body decayed to a point where it no longer recognized the body, the soul would depart In other words, a resurrection within three days required the power of God, but it was still possible. After three days, not even divine power could raise the dead. So the Jews really had two categories. There are the things that are possible with man, and then there are those things that are impossible with man, but possible with God. And of course, I guess you could say the third is there are the things that are just absolutely impossible. Well the disciples were about to learn that there was a category of things that Jesus could do beyond what was in their imagination. Again, Jesus had already shown the power to raise the dead, but in those previous instances he had done so r relatively soon after the death. In Luke 7, Jesus raised a man who was on his way to be buried, which they did within a day or so. So that was within approximately 24 hours of his death. In Luke chapter 8, Jesus raised a young girl just within hours She was still in her home of her death. What he was about to do with Lazarus would go beyond what they thought was even possible with God. In fact, next time we'll see, and you can read it on your own, that even Martha did not think that Jesus could raise Lazarus from the dead. She even tried to stop him. There's almost this sense of she didn't want Jesus to embarrass himself. In her mind and in their minds, it was too late Oh beloved, I wonder what are the things in our lives that we would say it's too late. God can't do anything with this anymore. They all had a deficient view of Jesus, but Jesus was about to shatter their expectations and radically expand their belief in God's power The divinely inspired definition of faith, this is something that's good for everybody to know, is Hebrews 11:1. Now, faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. Assurance and conviction describe the firmness of one's foundation for thinking and living according to God's word. And that is over and against the lies of the world, the flesh, and the devil. So God's design is to allow suffering so that He can display His power and wisdom. And as we see His power manifested in our lives or on display in the lives of others, Our faith is expanded and solidified. When you know, not just by the teaching of Scripture, but by your own experience and observation That God forgives sin, that God restores brokenness, that God provides for our needs, that He comforts in sorrow, that He heals the sick, and most of all, that He raises the dead. Well, Scripture says we can say confidently, the Lord is my helper. What can man do to me? Hebrews 13, 6 The greater and stronger our assurance and conviction grows, the more faithfully we will live in obedience to Christ. The more we will resist temptation to sin, the more impervious we will be to doubt And the more joy we will have in trials. Remember that when Saul, King Saul, doubted David's desire to fight Goliath. David said, The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and of the bear will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine. Experiencing God's power increases faith. In Psalm 77, when Asaph wrote of his trials, he said that his soul refused to be comforted And he asks in the Psalm, how, or rather, has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion? Then I said, I will appeal to this, to the years of the right hand of the Most High. That's the power of God. I will remember the deeds of the Lord. Yes, I will remember your wonders of old. And on he went to declare God's power in redeeming his people and in the work of creation. He was strengthened in his troubles by what God had done already to demonstrate his power in the past. Beloved, our church, just like every other church at one time, or another, has faced various trials that have been intensely painful for many of us. And one of my one of the most significant boosts to my trust in the Lord has been reading or hearing about how other churches have gone through objectively far greater troubles, and yet God has worked mightily. to preserve, protect, and strengthen those churches. And it compels me to believe that whatever trial we face, in the present or the future, That God will be just as faithful. When our prayer isn't being answered or it's d answered differently than what we had hoped. Know that the reason is because God is doing something that in the end will show your request to have been short-sighted. And limited to your finite imagination. At some point, sooner or later, the Lord will increase your faith by what he has determined to do. Well notice there at the end of verse 15 that Jesus says, but let us go to him. It's an interesting way of speaking. We don't typically talk that way about somebody who has died, which indicates, well, exactly what Jesus has already said, that Lazarus will not uh be dead for very much longer. The disciples, though, don't get it. They're convinced this is going to end very badly. So they say in verse 15, or it says, Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die. with him. Now some of your translations say Thomas called Didymus. Thomas is an Aramaic name. And it is transliterated, it's put into Greek letters here as Thomas. But Didymus is the Greek word or name that means the same thing as Thomas. So these are two names, an Aramaic name and a Greek name, which both mean twin. So Thomas was a twin. And whether one of his twins was also part of the disciples, we're not told exactly. But Thomas Says, let us go also that we may die with him. You could say that Thomas expresses a courageous lack of faith. He thinks they're going to die, but he says, let's die with them. Now of course we know that when the time actually comes for Jesus to be arrested, the disciples flee. So he has good intentions, but his faith is lacking. And so I think there's encouragement here for us to imitate his courage, but to have a better faith than Thomas. Well we have all found ourselves waiting on the Lord to answer our prayers. We have all had that sinking feeling. That the answer is not what we had wanted. We all know what it's like to feel that disappointment and discouragement when we've prayed with boldness and with courage. seeking the Lord's glory, convinced that our path to his glory is the best way for him to be glorified Some of us know what it's like to fast and wrestle with God only to have our appeals turned down. In those moments of weakness and discouragement, we can say to ourselves, soul I know that the Lord's providence in my life is out of his love for me. And I know that though I can't see it yet, God will do something that I cannot even imagine. And so today I will walk by faith in obedience. May you walk with that faith and obedience today. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this text. There's so much more we could draw out. For our encouragement. But thank you for the truth of Christ, His example, His words Lord, you know our hearts, you know our weaknesses, you know our propensities, the things that we struggle with. You know the sorrows, the desires, you know it all. And you know that when you answer in ways that don't conform to our requests, how painful that is for us. And so we thank you that you are compassionate and gracious and merciful, that you draw near to us in our sorrow. And that with truths like these you encourage and strengthen us. May we take that encouragement Not just leave it in this room, not just leave it on the page, but take it to ourselves and speak to ourselves the truth of your word so that we might walk faithfully with you. Knowing that glory awaits. For Christ's sake we pray. Amen.