And poured out the blood at the base of the altar and concentrated it to make atonement for it. And he took all the fat that was on the entry and the long loaf of the liver and the two kids with their fat. And Moses burned them on the altar. But the bull and his skin and his flesh and his And he's done, he burnt off with fire outside of the camp as the Lord commanded preaches. Then he presented the rhyme of the bond offering and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the rhyme and he killed it And Moses threw the blood against the sides of the altar. He cut the rhyme into pieces and Moses burned the head and the pieces and the hat He washed the entrance and the lamp with the water, and Moses burned the hand and ran on the altar. There was the one altar with a present aroma, a free offering for the Lord, as the Lord commanded Moses. Then he presented the second ram, the ram of ordination, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram. Moses slaughtered it and took some of its blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron's right ear, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot He also had Aaron's sons come near, and Moses put some of the blood on the lobe of their right ear, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the big toe of their right foot. Moses then sprinkled the rest of the blood around on the altar He took the fat and the fat tail and all the fat that was on the entrils and the lobe of the liver and the two kidneys and their fat and the right thigh from the forehead From from the basket of unleavened bread that I was before the war, I took one unleavened cake and one cake of bread. Mixed with oil and washed them over and placed them on the four pieces of fat and on the right side. He then put all these on the hands of Aaron and on the hands of his And we'll just put them on the offer them up on the altar with the first They were in the or they were an ordination ordination offering for a soothing aroma. It was an offering by pirates Moses also sent the breast and presented it for wave offering before the Lord. It was Moses Moses' portion of the ram of ordination, just as the Lord had commanded Moses. So Moses took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood which was on the altar and sprinkled it upon Aaron And on his garments, on his sons, and on the garments of his sons with them. And he consecrated Mary and his garments and his sons and the garments of his sons with them Then Moses says to Aaron and to his sons, boil the flesh at the doorway of the tent of offerings, tent of meat, and eat it there together with the bread, which is in the basket of the coordination offerings. Just as I commanded, saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat it. And what remains of the entrance of the tent of the uh of the meeting for seven days until the day of coordination are uh um Are completing it, for it will take seven days ordaining. As has been done today, the Lord of the meeting, you shall remain day and night for seven days, performing what the Lord has charged. So that you uh do not die. For so I've commanded, and Aaron and his sons did the things did all the things that the Lord commanded by Moses. Yeah, thank you guys. Um So now we're moving into right the consecration of the priest And let me read to this, but remember, um, big picture again. We're in narrative It seems like we were just stuck stuck on law and we're just getting a bunch of rules. But it's actually it is happening happening. Things are happening in a time sequence Um it doesn't seem like that. Seems like a bunch of rules and regulations were just in there. But it is, it was being presented. Um if you remember we went through all the different sacrifices. But they hadn't happened yet. They were really just getting the rules. The first part, remember, it was for what is the responsibility, what uh uh w what does a lay person, what does a common person do? Then they went to the priest. We kind of repeated the sacrifices again. Okay, so what does the priest do? What is his function Now we're finally going to start to institute this. Well w we actually they actually are instituting this. the priests are being consecrated. Because they haven't those sacrifices, uh uh the ordinances and the rituals and all that in the temple haven't happened yet. So Um this is kind of a paraphrase of uh of what um Wenham wrote in his in his commentary. Uh I thought it was quite good. So far we have been studying the laws and regulation of the different sacrifices. This is a narrative of the history of God's people, Israel, being formed into a holy nation. God redeemed them out of Egypt and brought them to Sinai, where he made a covenant with them. The history of events provides the setting for the laws, not vice versa. And and that's gonna be his think of that. God is working in time and history and events. It's n the laws are are just part of that. It's a manifestation, it's a ritual, it's it's uh things that the people are actually living out And you know, we tend to forget that. Uh or I do. Maybe you don't, but uh you know, you kinda make it just spiritual or you know, God you know, people do this, uh but it but These were actual they were they were actually the s sacrifices, there was the blood, there was all of that. And when I read through this, I mean unless I really put that forward in my mind, that uh you know, you just becomes familiar and and I miss the whole um the ritual that we don't we don't participate in at all It is not just the law or the words of God recorded in Scripture that are significant. It is the action and saving events of the people that are as important as the law. Biblical revelation is not just God's law and will for people. Scripture reveals God's God directing the course of history to create a holy nation and a people who know him and obey his will. The laws and rituals were established for man to have a means to worship the Holy God in a manner worthy of his glory. The sacrificial system was the means by which man could atone for his sins. The tabernacle was constructed according to God's design that he may be present in Israel's religious life. So this I just quoted verbatim because um he did a good job. I would just foul it up, I'm sure, if I tried to This narrative then reveals with a vital s uh with a vital stage in history of redemption. Israel has been constituted as the people of God through the covenant at Sinai. This relationship of grace conferred both privileges and responsibilities. The Israelites were assured of God's blessing so long as they adhered to the terms of the covenant. But if they broke the covenant, they were warned to expect God's judgment. Indeed, after the golden calf was made, God threatened to destroy Israel completely That episode emphasized the gravity of sin and the need for atonement for sin. This was provided by the tabernacle and the priesthood. The tabernacle stood in the center of the camp to bring to mind God's glory and holiness. And it served as a center of worship where forgiveness was offered to the people The inauguration of this priestly ministry in the tabernacle therefore constituted a most significant step in the history of the nation. So the premise of all these institutions is summed up in Exodus 29, 43 through 46. I will meet there with the sons of Israel, and it shall be consecrated by my glory. I will consecrate the tent of meeting in the altar. I will also consecrate Aaron and his sons to minister as priest to me. I will dwell among the sons of Israel, and I will be their God. They shall know that I am the Lord their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, that I might dwell among them. I am the Lord their God. Part of the problem is when we study like this, we like to get the detail, but we're kind of missing the whole narrative. Think about chapter 8, chapter 9, chapter 10. It's the institution of when they're actually going to be practicing these things in the tabernacle. In eight, we see this consecration And uh the people uh again it's a visual sign for the people. And nine we see a a a really important aspect at the end of chapter nine. Uh The fire comes down from heaven, right? In God twenty-four. Then fire came out from before the Lord to consume the burnt offering and the portions of fat on the altar and and when all the people saw it they shouted and fell on their faces. Well again, think about it. We do miss that aspect, don't we? We we have different we have a whole new gift. It's it's we have that great gift. The Spirit is dwelling in us It it makes the scriptures alive, right? I didn't understand the scriptures really until I was saved. And then my eyes were opened. And I thought, oh, okay, you know, now I'm looking at it from another point of view They were the they were they were getting signs and miracles in their in front of them And then in chapter 10, and think of this as a unit, what happened to chapter 10? Nadab and Abahu, right? We all know that story. What happened to them? They they violated them. Far came down on them. Yeah. Right. There's a blessing and there's a judgment always. But again, rem uh that's the problem when we look at this and we get y we want to get into the details and even this could be considered a survey class, uh but um so you kind of move we we lose something we forget that when we read the Bible. We lose the context Yeah, so just keep that in mind. And and it's again, you almost have to force yourself to do it, you know. Uh when I'm in the word I kind of get into the weeds and sometimes I have to pull back and say, Where am I? Where are we uh, you know. So here's an outline. Um this is one of them's outline uh is uh there's a double command of Moses where he he says uh take Aaron, he clothes him, oil him, anoint him. And also bring the assembly together. We're going to see that in verses 1 through 3. Moses, obedience, the congregations assembled, verses 4 and 5. Aaron's uh clothes are put on. Obviously this is uh uh a big s uh symbolic. We'll look at that. Aaron's anointed There's a purification offering, burnt offering, a peace offering. Okay, Moses' command to Aaron, and Aaron's obedience. So the congregation is brought to witness the ordination. Chapter 8 begins with the statement, The Lord spoke to Moses. It's important to be reminded that Moses was the prophet. He was receiving revelation from God. So, yeah, and again, as I put down there, lest we forget and become familiar with God's communication to his prophets. They were getting revelation, okay? They were here. Think about it. They were getting the voice of God. Aaron, the priests, weren't getting it. Moses was the prophet. He's directing this whole yes. Remember, this congregation is awful big. Yes. So they wouldn't have most of them wouldn't have seen it. And that we're gonna we're gonna get into this in a second. Yeah. And that's uh we would have been outside the Well yeah, but we touched on this and there's there's some controversy as to what congregation means and we looked at that before You have two Hebrew words, assembly and congregation. And they c it it still means a lot of people. Okay, well. And in the previous chapter, the uh the modifier was the elders, the elders of the congregation. And so we're gonna get into that in a second. And when when um that's his assumption here. So I uh uh So we talk about um communication with the prophets. Uh chapter eight begins a statement the Lord spoke to Moses. We talk about revelation from God Moses was briefly told to get Aaron and the sacrifices and the oil to ordain to ordain Aaron for the priesthood. That's verse 2 Details of this ordination were given in Exodus 29. Moses is now to perform what was revealed earlier. We may spend some time in 28, 29. Remember, all these regulations, the making of the clothes the instruments for the tabernacle, that was all in Exodus, you remember that? And uh now we are implementing what's already been commanded. They the these things were being uh he the uh weavers and uh builders were a lot of them were uh uh had the spirit of God come on them and the ones who were gifted and uh allowed them to build these things to God's specifications and obviously with uh uh a lot of technique. All that's done in Exodus So really, if you want to know the details of some of these fabrics and these garments, you look at Exodus 28-29 So Moses gathered the assembly, all the congregation at the doorway of the tent of meeting. Wenham interprets this to mean the elders of the people. He also interprets the opening of the tent in the meeting to refer to the entire tent of the tabernacle. He pictures the elders gathered around the altar from the burnt offering, of the burnt offering, witnessing the ordination of Aaron and the sons. Whether one interprets the verse as the whole congregation or the elders representing the whole congregation, this was a public ordination to be witnessed and recognized by Israel. The people are called to witness those whom the Lord is called and consecrated to ministry We do that today. We'll look at that later. The person being consecrated and the people whom the person ministers on behalf of God must recognize it is God who consecrates. And we kind of touched on that before last week. Yes, he's saying the oil was holy, the blood was holy. We we looked at that Uh some of we took remember we talked about some of the sacrif uh official uh things that were sacrificed and the meat or the uh bread was most holy and a layman wasn't supposed to touch it. Just remember, I mean, you know, try to keep in your mind. It's only most holy because God obviously made it most holy, right? It's not the brand itself. It's not I think of uh where there's a lost ark in the covenant, right? And they find the c ark of the covenant and they open it up and flame comes out and it's like the ark has this power unto itself. No. It's right. We talked about that last week. The Philistines captured the ark. Yeah, they got boiled because God cursed them, but the ark, if he touched the ark, it didn't kill 'em. It's God's presence. It's it's God's the one who consecrates the people. God's the one who makes things holy. And it's really w why does he do this? Well what is the point? What what what is he trying to get the people to look at? What's that? He's trying to get them to look at himself. Yeah. But we as people, I mean, we go to the concrete. It's it's our nature That you know, it's a bread that's the you know. Yeah, but it's God's power. Who uh you know, if if they get the consequence it's it's a result of God God's cursing, right? So we see the same thing with consecration. If God consecrated them and and all we have to do is think down through the history of Israel Some of those high priests were downright corrupts. Right? They were believers. So You know, there's always that question. Sorry about my eye. It's uh got the sign of saying going on, it's tripping. Um It's God. God is is uh you know, y you asked the question, why didn't God save more people uh uh back then Why weren't more people believers? You know, it's one of those things. God's plan, I don't know. He had the plan. So, cleansing of Aaron. The act of washing in the ceremony was to be the symbol of a cleansing of the inner spiritual light. Right? These are outward symbolic things The Israelites were being taught that the ways of life make a person unclean in the presence of God. These symbols of water cleansing were to demonstrate spiritual defilement and God's grace in restoring. the sinner to purity. And it's God's grace. Again, it's the power of God that does this. We see the idea presented in scripture in places such as Psalm 24. 4 And it's worth I should have probably put down 23. Who's who the question is, who can enter uh his presence? Who can enter the sanctuary He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood, and has not sworn deceitfully. So again, it's the outward thing. Isaiah 116, right? It's in the context. He's saying what he's saying in the first part of chapter 1, Isaiah. And I'm sick of your sacrifices. I don't need this stuff. I don't need these sacrifices, you know. Yeah, you know, that's corrupt as ever on the cusp for being carried off into Babylon, right? Um Seven it's gonna be a good hundred and fifty years plus, but it uh they're they're on the cusp of of of being turned over. Before you scroll past it, why did you start a paragraph with inner spiritual life when all the verses that you use there speak to both the outer and the inner? I I feel like that's confusing. Uh the washing and the ceremony was to be a symbol. I would say that would be the outer I I could dance around this very politely for a long moment or I can succinctly say that that's not true, right? Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean. Remove the evil of your deeds from my sight. Cease to do evil. And then in Ezekiel 36, there's a contrast between those outward actions of cleaning and the uh meet cleanse I will give you a new heart. Give me a second, I'll get there. The whole She the whole evidence of Leviticus went back to look at my notes from Lenin, because he keep taking me back there, right? And he's got holy and common. But to get back to holy there's cleansing and sanctifying. And there's to go from holy to common, there's sin and physical infirmity. Both Both were included in the the corruption in here, the corruption out here as well, which I would call the you know the the the curse as it were, right? Oh, yeah, no, no, yeah. Absolutely I I guess I'm But here's the thing. You're right. And that's that's always intention, isn't it? I mean, because we don't want to just say And we've gone through this, I know before, this theology, but grace is the ability, and we'll look at that a little bit in Romans We're no longer slaves to sin. We have the ability now not to sin. And he says right there in that chapter. Okay. Now he's a command. Present your members. No longer present your members to uh for unrighteousness, but now present them to righteousness, you know. Uh but y and you're right, there is a he wouldn't give a command if there wasn't a wasn't a there is some will. With some choice within us, but we regardless, we are ch the power to do it is to choose grace. If you try and do it by the law, you won't succeed You'll fail. You'll might knuckle it and you'll get by. But then eventually it's going to overtake you. And I think that sin is powerful. We underestimate it Jesus said when he said, anybody who sins is a slave to that sin. And we don't really I won't do it next time. We can pardonalize it. No. This sin is bigger. You are comp we're compartmentalized. Sin is bigger than us. And the only way we can get out of it is through God's grace. You can't do it. And it's It boggles the mind. We know it's hard to buy. But yeah, there is a I My vi one my verse, uh my one-sided verse is always 1 John, 5 through 10. You know, God is light, and in Him there's no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with one another, but walk in the darkness, we lie, we don't practice the truth. Walking in the light is hard It means being totally honest. Light, no darkness at all. And you know, if you catch yourself, how many times do I Ninety some percent true. Right? What percentage is like a little a smooth It's hard. This life, this Christian life is hard. It was a lot easier being a sinner. I can tell you most of you guys got saved younger. I was forty-seven years old. That's Pete's Cape. Yeah. And another way is there's great peace and joy. Oh man, there's well there's all the blessings. I and I tell people that. Um when I was practicing all the stuff that I was doing I mean, there was a modicum of happiness or highness or whatever you want to call for the moment But I never had that peace. Right. And when when that was one of the first things it's like, yeah peace. A lot of the anxieties went away. There's a lot of anxious people out there medicating. It's harder to live the other one. But it's scripture. make an interesting reference to that, right? I look at uh the sinner over there, fat and sweet and bulging and I'm you know scraping by. Okay, go ahead. But then they go on to talk about the cost of scent the the extreme cost of scent on the left. And how much better it is to live free. Trust me, I'm dealing with these guys in jail and a lot of them are in denial and they're like, Yeah, but what got you here? They told you made choices to get here. You think you didn't He can blame it on your circumstances or anything else, but you made choices. We're in denial. Yeah, but when we see Christian The non-Christian life is easier. I have to see. Well, in other words it's easier to do those things. Oh it's yeah, uh but you can sleep at night in a child. Oh yeah. Yeah. And you can ultimately have them your words. Yeah, I uh God's not a curmudgeon. Yeah. No question. And he blessed a lot of us. I mean, uh look when you do foolish things in one area, you tend to do the these people have And lucky if they have a roof over their head, some of them. What them done. They go they're gonna go out of that jail, they don't really don't have a place to to go. So Yeah. Can we can we move on? Well we should either yell at me for saying too much or you yell at me for the battle. No, no, no, no. And and s yeah, sometimes I'm afraid I go on too long and I don't know if I'm in enlightening or confusing. So Ez Ezekiel thirty-six, twenty-five, th twenty-seven and twenty-nine, uh it's right here in the text. And remember, Ezekiel what? Where are the people in Israel now? Anyone know? Ezekiel. They're in Babylon. They're in Babylon. They're in captivity. By this time, Ezekiel, they're in captivity. Ezekiel was uh starred off in Jerusalem and then he got taken Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idols. Moreover, I give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statute. And you will be careful to observe my ordinances. Moreover, I will save you from all your uncleanness. And I will call for the grain and multiply it. And I will not bring famine on you. You know, if you read it, it's good to read through this whole chapter I will, I will, I will, I will, I'm not saying it 40 times. God's gonna do it. God's gonna do it. This is grace He gives them he's gonna cause them to walk in the statute. One quick thing and I'll leave this When when uh I went to work with a church was it was almost like a church plan. It was an old church that was being transitioned from a uh community was changing over and there were a few white people left there and it was basically a white church and they were older. And there was a new community coming in, uh not Hispanics, most of the Hispanics and there spoke Spanish. They did have an Hispanic ministry at that church But a lot of the African Americans and and uh that that group was was coming into the neighborhood. So it was almost like a church plant. And a lot of them were new believers And this one woman we were doing a Bible study and she was saying she has she came because uh we had a good effort, the guy who was the pastor had great outreach for the children And he some parents got saved to his children. It was cool. They the parents kept seeing him come and they go, okay, what is this So she says she went in his Bible study and and she says, I you know, I don't know if I'm saved. I I I'm doing all these things that says I feel guilty. And I'll go that's the spirit. I said before you probably did all that stuff and you didn't feel guilty at all. The spirit's causing her to change her life. Does it happen all at once? No But she was starting to feel guilty and convicted about the things she was doing. It's neat to watch that. I mean everybody we're all uh we have people all different levels of this wall In the New Testament, we see this symbol used of Christ having cleansed the church with the washing of water. And then I picked up the verse, Ephesians 5. 26, so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. So it's the outward um kind of symbolism, the washing of water, but it was with the word. And the Jewish mind would have understood this, the this clean, unclean that was so ingrained in them. Yes. Um question about Ezekiel 36. So when I I've never studied Ezekiel 36, but every time I've heard it referenced, um like it's referenced in like uh you know as believers heart of flesh in us and those kind of terms. Uh but when you when I read it just a quick read of it, it looks like these are These are words that God has specifically for the house of Israel. It is. Um so two questions that come from that are one, uh why do we apply it to ourselves as Gentiles today. And then two is if we take it literally, when does this happen? Because the description given is like you've got to go to Clean them and make them walk in the statues and then the nations around them will see. Um let me answer that real quick. I gotcha. You see there in verse twenty-seven See where it says verse 27? I will put my spirit within you. Day of Pentecost, the beginning of the church. Sure. We have the Spirit within us. That's the new covenant. They didn't they look this is um where are we at five five eighty six was the fall so we're somewhere in in the f uh 500 range here Um God the Spirit came at Pentecost, right? Uh so it's uh what thirty plus A thirty AD, depending on when you say Christ was. 30, 33 A. D. Then we're talking 500 years. So that was future, but that's the new covenant. Yeah He they they was offered to the house of Israel first. And the early church was Jewish, right? Really, Acts 10, when you have Cornelius, that's about eight or ten years after Christ ascended. Okay, so it was really Jewish, but it was a remnant. And yes, and it as it moves forward, um you're right. This is gonna be in the millennium, you know A lot of Jews are going to get saved in a tribulation. This is going to be the millennial king. Thousand-year reign. Revelation 20. Thank you. Mm-hmm. And you know, again, we're dis we believe that uh not everybody buys into that, but um I think if you read it literally, it it's pretty obvious. In the New Testament, so we see the symbol. I just read this, you know. God's going to sanctify her. This is the church. He's going to cleanse her. And it's and the Word is is what what cleanses us. The Holy Spirit uses the Word and brings it to mind to us. It opens our eyes. So the clothing of Aaron. So we'll get into a little bit of this with the nuts and bolts. The first piece of clothing was a tunic. It was a long undergarment. It was next to the skin. Again, um when you look back and especially with the covenant and even in Revelation when he seals uh Uh y you see that the what Scott was referring to, even the body with sores and things like this, they're a defilement to God. Um this covering, of course, uh is the first layer. This is right next to the skin. And This is what God requires to enter his presence, this this holiness. It was a long undergarment, it was neck to the skin, the type of dress for layman as well, but the priest tunic was made of fine linen. Again, uh I put the references in there. You can go back in Exodus and and see some of the detail of all this The sash was to be a work of a weaver and thus uh quality work. Um all these were uh it was fine linen, all these were separate. I mean they're visible signs to the layman. This guy is set apart. It's like, you know, today somebody's got money, might have a tailored suit, you know what I mean, and the fabrics and everything are expensive and you know, it sets people apart. It it it uh This was to show them this is God's consecrated individual. We're going to see that all throughout here. The road or Kate is specifically for the High Priest and describe Exodus 2831 to 35 The piece of clothing, the breastplate, is described in Exodus 25, 28, 5. It was put on the priest with 12 stones representing the 12 tribes of Israel This is also where the Urim and Thuman were placed for discerning God's judgment matters. So the words Urman and Thuman literally mean lights and perfection. So we don't know exactly what the nature of these objects were, so thus they're typically translated with in the literal sense. They seem to be some sort of dice used to determine uh God's will in a matter, kind of like casting lots like they did in uh Acts, you know, when they wanted to see who was going to replace uh Judas. Remember the Catholic This according to Wenham. This is it because really uh I I kind of w did a little search on this and um just to see if there was anything uh um We we just don't know. The answer could be po uh uh so let's see. They seem to be some sort of dice uh used to determine God's will in a matter. The answer could be positive Negative or neutral. In Numbers 27, 21, we read, Eliezer was to inquire the Lord with the Urim. There is no detailed explanation of Scripture concerning the Urim and Thuman. As Wenham observes with the coming of the prophets, this seems to have gone out of use. So God's using this now maybe to determine his will. I I look, I didn't see any specific uh references to, oh, you know, we decided this. The the closest thing was this um when LEAs are used But other than that, there's not a lot of detail. Do you have any opinion about why the Lord used this indirect means of communication while he was actively speaking to Moses? Like his voice was active in one sense and Maybe this is to pass on or to get in get them to inquire of God when Moses is gonna okay, he he's got his successors, the priest. And then, you know, Moses ain't gonna be there forever. Uh so maybe it was to move moving forward to do uh determine God's will. I don't know. Why didn't he raise up prophets and all of that, right? But And and again I I almost think we don't see any use any reference to the Urban poem outside the outside the first five books. No. And what you see in there Doesn't doesn't satisfy my curiosity. Yeah, but d these were some type of and that's what they're not even sure what the material of of the w things were. Um So but again, I I to me the general thing is I think is stop, inquire of God. Pray it's like pray to God, ask God Remember when the spies or the um who was it that came when with Joshua, right? And the they pretended uh huh? Joshua and he would No, no, um when they were in the land and the soldier came and they said, Wow, we came a long way. Remember the clothes are old Their bread was all the way. Oh yeah. But and what did the what what was the one thing they didn't do? They didn't ask. They forgot to have God Didn't pray, didn't do anything. That's what we do. We ask and we go, I don't know about you, but a lot of times I said, you know, I guess I should have prayed prayed about this and I'm already steps down the road, right? Yeah. That's that's my piece of that. But you know, we don't know. We don't. So the consecration with the anointing oil. The recipe for the mixture of the anointing oil is given in Exodus 22-33 The Lord gave instructions for the consecration of the temple with its utensils and the anointing of the priest. The items that were anointed were most holy, and whatever touches them shall be holy. We saw that all the time, right, with these sacrifices. Again, it's the same thing. The layman need to uh this is most holy. No one is to make oil in this manner. If a layman touches the holy things, he shall be cut off from the people. They also, if you were to make oil with the same ingredients that he he he if you want to read the details, it's right there in uh Exodus 30, 22 through 33 If you were to make that that oil in the same uh ingredients and and proportions that he you would be cut off Yeah. And again, it's God saying, This is holy, this is how you approach me. Again, bring yourself to me. And this is nothing to do with anything, but I never read this, but I think they're dirty enough the temple. Oil everywhere, blood in the soil. I know. I'm having a heart attack. I know. I'm not getting it clean. That's what I said. Yeah, it's like You don't and I said that early on, I said you don't think of blood as cleaning things. See if blood's on something you want to wash it off. But you know there's one thing that can one Flas fast forward. That was very funny. Fast forward to the New Testament and and have you seen some of the estimates of the number of animals? Oh my goodness. And they said they had a trough, right? What's that? We've just built this. Now the fruit and aisle on that blood and I'm thinking. Right. I mean it's it's It's amazing even to think about it. Right. I'm only on the inside for you. That's hilarious. Right. And when Solomon when Solomon dedicated the temple, I mean he it was Thousands. Thousands. Oh well. Well it must have You know it's a visual picture though. You know, now question is do we get the picture? I'm glad the cost of our sins offends you. That's a good thing. Right. That's true. That's true. Right. Yeah. Uh blah blah blah blah blah. The oil represents the Spirit of God and those priests uh are to mediate between the people of God. Jesus read Isaiah 61. 1 in the synagogue. You remember this and uh what was it, Luke? declaring that uh he fulfilled this prophecy, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the afflicted He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and freedom to the prisoners. This is to relate the start of his ministry. The Lord anointed him. And he separated, he set apart, right? Christ means what? Messiah. Anointed. Anointed. Messiah anointed They got this. It was uh kings were anointed, right? David, Saul. Yeah Well Carrie, I've been meaning to ask. Um in so with the anointing oil, it you said it's it represents the Spirit of God. Is that I mean I've always understood that to be the Holy Spirit. Is that what it is? Mm-hmm. So David actually is one of the few that actually had the Holy Spirit before the Holy Spirit came upon Saul And see and here's the one difference and and I don't have this theology down, maybe so one of you guys do, but In the in the new covenant, the Holy Spirit seals us, doesn't he? And he's never leaving, right? And now it came upon the Old Testament Saints. And if you remember in Psalm 51, David says, Don't take your spirit from me, right? And he's confessing his sin. But he also says in that passage, uh I should read it. See he talks about the joy he says. Yeah, but he didn't say he said bring back the joy of my salvation. Don't don't uh bring back my salvation. So and that's the question. Does did it not take the Holy Spirit any I haven't seen anybody answer it uh Yeah he says it right here. He says don't cast me away from your presence and do not seek your Holy Spirit from me, but restore to me. The joy of the salvation. The joy of the salvation. Yeah. So yeah, that does imply that it didn't leave. And it says in 1 Samuel 16 that it came upon him from that day forth. Yeah. And and what was the difference? Saul never really repented Repentance is a gift. Saul never did. He kept saying, Well, the reason I did it or You know. He gave what do you think? He grabbed Samuel, Go to me before the people and he forced him to do it, right? Whereas at least David said, You're right, I've sinned. And he says, Here, I've I've sinned against God Blah blah blah. Purification. So this is eight fourteen through seventeen. So then he brought a bull of the sin offering, and Aaron and the sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering. Next, Moses slaughtered it and took the blood with his finger and put some of it around the horns of the altar. He put uh uh he and purified the altar And this is that word we we had for for sin, uh kata, and we said in the verb tense, and and it typically means purified. Then he poured out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar and consecrated it to make atonement for us. He also took all the fat that was in the anterols and the lobe of the liver and the two kidneys and their fat, and Moses offered it up in smoke on the altar. But the bull is hide in the flesh, and its refuge he burned with fire outside the camp, just as the Lord had commanded Moses. So again, this first uh sacrifice, the ordination, the priest was to offer a purification offering for the sins of the priest, Exodus uh 29, 10-14 The altar of burnt uh offerings was smeared with the blood rather than the altar of incense in the holy place. And this may have been because the priest hadn't entered the holy place. Remember, this is the institution. They hadn't gone in and made sacrifices in the temple yet. Um they hadn't probably gone into the uh altar of incense and uh etc Moses officiates the sacrifice, and the priests lay the hands on the victim to identify the innocent animal and the place of the penalty for sin. The blood of the animal purified the altar, and this may be a symbol that the altar needed purifying before the whole burnt offering was performed. And I I think it's kind of both. I think, you know, it makes sense. We're we're just speculating, really. The scripture doesn't tell us. But he didn't have to cleanse the holy place yet. They hadn't been there. But he he is purifying that that altar. And the burnt offering, remember, is that kind it's that whole It's just atonement, it's a substitute, that's the main gist of of that offering. The whole The symbolism they used back when we went through the burnt offering was it all ascended. That's what uh uh was it own? I think uh awam is the uh word for burnt offering. It means really to ascend. So It it's it's a sacrifice that ascends to God. And this is separate from the people. It's it's the substitute died for you. You bought the substitute, but that's all you did. The substitute died for you. This is uh atonement. Carrie? Yes. Uh regarding the anointing oil and how it represents the Holy Spirit. So there were um So with the priest be being anointed with the anointing well, was that the the Lord putting his spirit into the priest as well? Is that what that means? Okay. Yeah, but yeah. And there if so, is there a distinction between When God puts the spirit in people through that means, like through the anointing will like for the priests and the kings, versus when he just puts the spirit in people, like for example, um those that he put his spirit into to do the work of building up the tabernacle. Like I don't think they got anointed with the anointing oil, right? You don't think what? They got anointed with the anointing oil. The people who were doing the the building of the temple but God puts his spirit in them. Yes, right. Yeah. Now is there a distinction between like you know it again it's an outward sign It's a v outward visible sign for what God is doing. Look at the New Testament. Think of it this way too. It's a thought that came to my mind. In the New Testament we have all these sign gifts. tongues. Uh Jesus did miracles to ver I trust me, he wanted to heal the people, but w it was mainly to what? Verify. Hey God. He Raising dead people. The blind can see. He's cleansing lepers. When they brought lepers, they weren't cleansing them. They were they were uh determining or they were verifying that they were clean So these are symbols. The symbols are outward things. It's a symbol. This is and that's what the spirit kind of quickens us. We we believe and know that God is working through all of this these things. The unsaved person doesn't see that But God opened our eyes to realize God's in this. God's is chaotic as seen now. Is God in control? Completely. It doesn't look like it does. You're like, wow, we look like we're out of control I wanna say um in regards to that, maybe not to overthink it too much Because you think about you know it's gonna be Aaron's sons, which pretty soon they're gonna be standing against the Lord. So and then you don't want to get confused as this idea like that, but the Lord put his Holy Spirit upon them. There is this active that she's setting them apart. And this is all something that he's doing in the evening of the examples that she gave where he's moving on people's heart. That's just an aspect of his sovereignty and not necessarily so much as he's blessing certain people with the Holy Spirit in that sense. Right, yeah I I just online conversations that we've been having last year. I just keep going back to the time of David and or even um who was it? Um the the priest that um Where he he had he had grown fat and his sons were easily Yeah, because you know, his sons were were were wicked and they were sinning and then the Lord judged them and then you know David talks another time about well another situation where he he went to the priest and he got the show but it was given to him. So and then there's the word points to these things at different times what he's teaching in the New Testament so Right. Be careful not to over think that okay when you're it's like when like I mentioned earlier, these are the tangible physical things But then the oil if we were having a concoction of oil now we burn it on it. You know what I mean? It's it's not the oil It's a representation. If God chooses to fill that person with the Spirit, he'll do it. It's not like this the Spirit of the person is God. Hi. Well, Hannah didn't have any oil. And she was full of the spirit. Oh yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, God it's God chooses. Yeah. Well must add a sound. Let's go through the burnt offering. This is rather short. Moses then presents the ram, a whole burnt offering, after the cleansing of the altar by the purification sacrifice. Aaron and his sons laid the hands on the head of the ram, identifying with the sacrifice. Exodus 29, 15-18. And Leviticus uh one gives the details of the procedures of this sacrifice. We went through the burnt offering. Aaron and his sons are seeking reconciliation with God by offering of a substitute as a ransom for their sins. Right? That's you're laying your hands on the head of these sacrifices and you're identifying, this poor animal dying for me. This is I should be the one here, right? It's a substitute. Uh you know, Christ is our substitute. He did it for us. He paid all these, he went he he he encompassed all these sacrifices, all these purifications we're going through. Moses is officiating, Aaron and his sons are being atoned for, much as the layman who approaches the tabernacle. By seeking God's forgiveness, they are dedicating their lives to God. Think about it. Moses is playing playing the part of the priest now. He's sacrificing the consecrated priest. are playing the part of the layman. They're laying their hands on it. Moses is sacrificing it for them. Um they're being set apart though. So uh by seeking God's forgiveness, they are dedicating their lives to God. You know, uh one of the things I was thinking about, we we say this all the time and um You know, uh, if you confess with your mouth, Jesus is Lord, believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. But that first part, if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord, it's this whole thing we've been going through, you're saying he's your sovereign king. He he's he we we're making a covenant with him. And I d I think we think that lately I've been known to do that. Forget about who's in charge and instead of conferring with him first. Um it it's the same thing. Ours is so so packed in. I mean if you look at the New Testament compared to the old testament, I mean, uh, you know, there's it there's a lot of information in a short space and and uh I think that's what helped me with Leviticus, thinking through some of this stuff. Because it's the same, all this Christ paid for. All these things, he he separated us, he consecrated us We're we'll look at this. We'll have to finish this next week because the application to this is is really good. They were a kingdom of priests. We're a kingdom of priests, right? 1 Peter Uh we're separated. Any questions before we uh Hey but I really want to come back, look at this. You can look through these notes. Um uh I think there's some really good application here. There's a a couple of things you could do if you have time. Look at Ezekiel 3 and 4 if you get a chance. Very short chapters But I mean we're talking about it's so neat because he clothes uh he puts new clothes on um Joshua. Joshua was the priest at the time. In Zechariah chapter 3. Chapter 4 is the lampstand. And it's that great line in there. He's telling them zerubbable, the Holy Spirit's going to help them build the tabernacle. And he says, not by might, not by power, but by my spirit. Um two to you know two great applications for this