So, my goal is to get through two chapters Really, if you look if you've looked, if you read it. Um chapter nineteen, chapter twenty gives us a list of uh Laws, obviously. Um and chapter twenty gives us the consequences for those laws So it's kind of a recapitulation really. If you look at my notes, there's nothing earth-shattering in here. It's almost like uh a little uh summary of what's in the text. So I think what we'll do is we'll read through the text slowly and think about it and then maybe we can branch off. Because I mean there's really what we need to do is kind of talk and and and and think through some of the ramifications of these laws. Most of them we in this Christian community we all agree with. But re you know, so I j I want us to think through some of the things, you know What was the setting? How how different it is, you know, compared to the other cultures And and really we act like we you know these things don't go on today, but really just about everything that's in here happens today in these soci in our societies now You know, we might say, well there's not slavery, but yes, there really is. It's just not um the slavery that everybody recognizes. We had uh an early part of this country, but there is slavery. I mean there's people being trafficked all the time. Um so let's open a quick word of prayer Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this uh time. Thank you for your word. Uh thank you for this study, Lord. Um uh Lord, uh let us consider, give give us some insights into things that are so familiar. Let us uh uh look at it from your perspective uh today. Um you gave these laws, and it's not just for um It's for our good. You're telling us how you've designed things. And Lord, uh, let us uh consider why this is so difficult. to follow these, to be obedient. So Lord, may your spirit be with us. May we consider, may we uh uh just be uh Just see something and and think of of uh your world and the way you've created it, your created order. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. That's what I want to do. I want to okay, so let's look I want you to get go with me on my big picture journey, because this is who I am. We're in Exodus 19, right? We got the covenant. God has brought them out of Egypt. He redeemed them. We know all the miracles. We know the plagues that happened. God was in charge of all of this. So he's blessed these people. He's done something for. They're making a covenant. And he says I am your Lord, I am your sovereign, I am the suzerain, as they they like to refer to it back in those covenant-era days I will bless you, but I am the Lord. I am the sovereign. Okay? So there was always the idea, if you don't follow me, you won't be blessed, which is kind of really implying you will be cursed. So they make the covenant, the they go on with some laws, but the the good part of Exodus is the details for uh making the tabernacle so that God's going to uh uh Tabernacle with him. He's going to be present there. Uh uh it's so the relationship i is there. And I think about I've this is what All these laws really have to do with relationship. If I lose track of that, I've kind of lost the whole thing. He's not doing this just to It's not just a taskmaster thing. It's it's it's everything about him is relational. He's telling us how relationships work And it goes to show you how difficult a time we have with relationships, because we can't we're not totally obedient. So they make the tabernacle, right? We move into Leviticus. Now we start with the worship, right? Okay, w there's a relationship. God's sovereign. Okay. God has approached them. Now the with the the uh sacrifices It's now how does we, how does that person, how do those people in that economy approach God? And that and If you approach me, these are the sacrifices, these are the cleansings, these are the methods, I am holy, I am separate. It's relational. This is the way you have to come in relationship with me. So they're getting this idea that they're not holy. Um so we go through what we went through all of those, we saw the different flavors and the different aspects, the different symbolisms for all these sacrifices And uh the holiness of God and our sinfulness and separation from God. Um so uh We're at that point, right? Then we have Nadab and Abahu. And they're consumed with fire. Now, they've we don't know exactly, and you know, looked at the commentators, we're not sure. They the only thing we know is they brought strange fire. That was the only real thing we had. But Yeah, yeah. They if you uh you when when you go when we went to Leviticus sixteen, the Day of Atonement Right there in the beginning of the chapter, he tells, he talks to Moses, he says, tell Aaron not to approach me in the inner part of the, you know. You can't come into my presence. And yet, what he's telling them is in in that chapter, this is how you do come into my presence once a year. It seems to me, I don't know what happened with Nate Avenabayu, but somehow they were Wha whatever means they were uh trying to approach God's presence in the wrong way. That's what it that seems to be my takeaway. Again, it's uh it's a holiness thing. So, they let's go back to Nadab and the Bible, chapter ten, right? And then what's he do? He goes into all these things. Cleanliness, uh you know, kind of look at the highlights of it, right? Uh chapter 11, right? He talks about foods, clean and unclean animals Right? All these different foods. Chapter 12, he talks about motherhood and how The natural thing is God told them to uh fill the earth, right? Uh and to have children. But this after motherhood they're not clean to come and Uh it's so we're learning all these things, these tests for leprosies. And we said leprosy is a broad term. It could be uh any type of uh uh scab or uh infection could be a from a burn, okay, that that's even mentioned in there. Uh s you can't approach God. So we're seeing all of these oh uh you um uh cleansing of the lepers, cleansing of a lepers house. Okay. He's he's telling us These the the you are separate from me. You are not holy. I am holy. I'm showing you the means to do it. And then he goes into uh it leads up to the ultimate, right? The Day of Atonement. He's going to, there's a one-day year that all the sins And um that's the way I read it. It says all sins in that chapter, uh all the sins uh can be paid for. Okay? And and so God w will, he's reconciling the relationship again Then we move into eighteen, which we did last week. Well, excuse me, seventeen. Let's start with seventeen. Seventeen was a short chapter, you remember that? And he talks about um he he didn't what uh would the the two big things was he didn't want them eating blu uh blood, was it? And um For the life is in the flesh, and he says, don't eat the blood, but he he wanted to meet the sacrifices brought to the sanctuary. And he says in in in verse 7, really, he, they shall no longer sacrifice their sacrifices to the goat demons And and it might just be goat, uh there there's question about that. With which they play the harlot. Uh this shall be a permanent statute uh to them throughout the generation. So they don't want the sacrifices to whatever whatever they were using to some other deity. And it could be anything, right? They're playing the harlot It's a relationship. And it's so hard for us to get into that relationship. There was that relationship with God But we we we find other things to worship and and and and that's the issue here. So in seventeen we move into now the practical behavioral side, which we c might call the moral, but I call it It's behavioral, right? Worship me. Worship God. Don't worship other things. 18, he talks about sexual uh things and we say, oh man, this is a bunch of perversion, you know, I'd never do that. But what is the to me when I when I step back and look at this, what is the essence here with sexual relationships? It's between a man and a woman, a husband and a wife. It's Probably one of God's designs, it's one of the most bind bonding and binding things between a male and a female. And we know the differences between the two. It bonds them together. It's the relationship. And what is a nucleus to that relationship of of uh husband and a wife? It's the family. I mean this is huge, right? And what do we do? We mess it all up. And it's d they did it almost from the beginning. This is just a kind of a again the wor this is a fall. They messed up sexuality. Sex was one thing, marriage is another, right? No It it's it's it's home part of the thing. It's it's that relationship and when you come outside and do all these different things, it does not work relationally. You know, and again it's a sin against God. This is God w all these things we are taking God's created order and then We want to do it our way. Well what about this? Why don't we do it this way? I mean, does this really matter? And r God saying, Well I'm not g I think God to me, my p my takeaway from this, God's not saying, Well, I'm not trying to restrict you. I'm trying to show you how it works. I designed you, I created you, I planned you, I got all this together and and you've got a better way of doing it than I am. That's That's really what we're doing throughout all this sin, aren't we? We're saying, I gotta I gotta have this way of work. I I like this Uh and really God's going, no, this is the way I designed it. Follow the rules. These are the instructions. 19 Um he you know, he he talks about uh idolatry uh and um you know worshiping um others Um you know, when you enter the land and and um so we'll we'll look at this, but nineteen he's really talking about, okay, now how do you treat other people? What are the relationships? Before we get into this, and again my notes are there, there's really even as you read the commentary, there's not a whole lot there that's that's uh uh Not right there in the text on the surface. I find two big things in this one, right? Love your neighbor as yourself. That's really the essence of this. Love your neighbor as yourself. And then he goes on and he says, love the foreigner. As yourself. Right? And isn't that what God's kind of summed up in Jesus in the New Testament? He goes, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and will Love your neighbor as yourself. These are the two greatest commandments. If you do these, you fulfill the law. Um again it's relationships. How how is this how is this going to work Chapter 20, uh really, he just tells us um what he says is uh he tells us and again probably some of the things to note in chapter twenty Look at how he comes down on some. Some of 'em deserve death. Uh uh, some of 'em people would just be maybe cut off or but even that, I I think we we undermine that. Uh we'll we'll look at that a little bit. What does that cut off mean? Um but really there's going to be consequences for this. So let's read through chapter nineteen. And really because of the time and because you know if there's something I I want you to speak up. Uh if there's something they say, well what about this? Let's l then let's go off on that. Um let's read through this slowly. If you if you ask some questions beside the TV, please. Because really, uh again, most of these laws When they get the U on today. Most of these laws are are kind of straightforward. Um so I'll start off. Let's let's kind of read through this chapter. Let's read it slowly and think about it here. When the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, speak to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and say to them, You shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. Right? Uh and and how do we do that? And really I think what this chapter does it these are some of the practical workings out of being holy. He goes, Okay, you say you want to be holy Uh okay, practically how do you do that in everyday life? And here's the laws. Every one of you shall reverence his mother and his father, and you shall keep my Sabbath. I am the Lord your God Do not turn to idols or make yourself molten gods. I am the Lord your God. You get a little uh gist there w what's going on. I am the Lord your God Right? You're gonna see that all throughout here. Do not turn to idols and make yourself molecular as that. Now, when you offer sacrifices of peace offerings to the Lord, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted. It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, and the next day, but what remains until the third day shall be burned with fire. So if it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an offense. It will not be accepted. Everyone who eats uh it excuse me will bear his iniquity, for he has profaned the holy thing of the Lord, and the person shall be cut off from his people Somebody want to read me 9 through 14. Now when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap to the very corners of your field Neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest, nor shall you glean your vineyard, nor shall you gather the fallen fruit of your vineyard You shall leave them for the needy and for the stranger. I am the Lord your God. You shall not steal, nor deal falsely, nor lie to one another. And you shall not swear falsely by my name, so as to profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. You shall not oppress your neighbor, nor rob him The wages of a hired man are not to remain with you all night until morning. You shall not curse the deaf man, nor place a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall revere your God. I am the Lord. Somebody reads uh fifteen through nineteen You shall do no injustice in court, you shall not be partial to the poor or deferred to the great, but in righteousness Shall you judge your neighbor? You shall not go around as a slanderer among your people, and you shall not stand up against the neighbor. I am the Lord. You shall not hate your brother in your heart, but you shall reason frankly with your neighbor, lest you incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. Um somebody reading nineteen through twenty two. You shall keep my statutes, you shall not let your cattle breed with a different kind. You shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed, nor shall you wear a garment of cloth made of two kinds of material. If a man lies sexually with a woman who is a slave, assigned to another man, and not yet ransomed or given her freedom, a distinction shall be made. They shall not be put to death because she was not free. But he shall not bring his compens he shall bring his compensation to the Lord, to the entrance of the tent of meeting, a ramp or guilt offering And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering before the Lord for his sin that he has committed. And he shall be forgiven for the sin that he has committed. Uh let's see. Um somebody wanna read twenty-three through twenty-nine. When you come into the land and have planted all kinds of traits of food, then you shall count their fruit, their fruit as uncircumcised. Three years it shall be as uncircumcised to you. It shall not be eaten. But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy, praise to the Lord. And in the fifth year you may eat its fruit, that it may yield to you in its increase I am the Lord your God. You shall not eat anything with the blood, nor shall you practice divination or suiciding. You shall not save around the sides of your head, nor shall you disfigure the edges of your beard. You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh. uh for the dead, nor tattoo any marks on you, for I am the Lord. Do not prostitute your daughter to cause her to be a harlot, lest the land fall into harlotry and the land become full of wickedness So let's see, somebody wanna read twenty-nine through thirty-two? Do not profane your daughter by making her a harlot, so that the land will not fall into harlotry, and the land will become full of lewdness You shall keep my Sabbath and revere my sanctuary. I am the Lord. Do not turn to mediums or to spiritists. Do not seek them out to defile To be defiled by them. I am the Lord your God. You shall rise up before the great-headed and honor the ages, and you shall revere your God. I am the Lord When a stranger resides with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong. The stranger who resides with you shall be to you as a native among you, and you shall love him as yourself, for you were aliens in the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God You shall do no wrong in judgment and measurement of weight or capacity. You shall have just balances, just weights. a just ephah and a just hen. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. You shall thus observe all my excuse me try that again He shall thus observe O my statutes and all my ordinances and do them. I am the Lord So a couple of things. This is uh I gave this to you last week so you could kinda look it over. I know everybody's busy, but um it's a good little outline. It kind of gives you the the big picture. So Uh you know where it's going. Um Lenham says this. He says in and a lot of break this up a little different differently. I mean everybody has a different outline. Uh But um uh there are multiple topics in this chapter, but it would be noted that each paragraph is marked off with I am the Lord and then sometimes your God. So he says it both ways. The chapter falls into 16 paragraphs arranged in three sections And so what he's saying is there there's uh four paragraphs, four paragraphs, and eight or eight paragraphs in each of the three sections. All ten commandments are quoted or alluded to. And this is something you if you w it's probably not a bad idea to take your time and and go through these and and see the uh uh allusion to or oh sometimes maybe even a uh direct quote from uh uh the Ten Commandments So the theological themes, this is Ross's uh the the whole chapter theme is the holiness of the people. Ye shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. This chapter reveals the traits and actions of holiness what holiness should look like. Devout worship, honesty, justice, charity, and love. The other major themes in this chapter chapter is love for your neighbor and love for the alien living among you. That's uh verses 18 and 34. Israel's love for God was the foundation and means by which the people were to love one another and love the foreigner and stranger. The love expressed here is not emotional love, but love expressed in action Holiness and true love are the two principles that are the essence of the new covenant and the foundation of living out the heart of will of God. So And and that's kind of the the essence to this. And when you think about um you know going through these um We can go through the the motions and and and do certain functions, but Uh uh there were a couple of of of things that uh I I kind of thought were uh spoke to me. Um so again with time t is if anything They don't have to really go on war. I'm really looking for your feedback. Is there anything in here that jumps to you, speaks to you? Let's talk about it. Um because really it it's most of these notes, is it's pretty much a r uh a recapitulation of what it is, right? We know that God is holy. Isaiah 6. 3. We all n uh I think I'm speak speaking to the choir here. I I assume that you're familiar with this passage. Isaac Isaiah sixty three, Isaiah's caught up into the uh sanctuary, the heavenly sanctuary in spirit or or uh uh with God, right? And um and one called out the the seraphim, cherubims and the uh flying over and they say, Holy, holy is the Lord of hosts the whole earth is full of his glory. And I didn't quote this, but you know, what does Isaiah say? He goes, man, I I'm I'm ruined. Um um um you know what I mean? I I'm not holy. I come from a a people uh with unclean lips and my lips are unclean, right? It's it's it's just Uh he you know he sees the the difference there. It's it just penetrates. Uh we are in Romans 828, which they call the golden chain, those who you know, predestined or, you know, called and um what is what is let's read that. Let me read that real quick so I get to all get it I don't want to paraphrase it because I'll miss something. I'll say in twenty-eight. And we know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son, so that we would be the firstborn among many brethren. And then he goes with the chain. And those whom he pre predestined, he also called. And these whom he called He also justified, and these whom he justified, he also glorified. So there's this sanctification, but what is the goal? To be conformed to the image of God, the Son. We are to be holy. And and uh obviously we'll never get there till full full glorification, but We're in the process, right? It's to be holy. Honor your parents in the Sabbath Again, you can see he's kind of going with the with the uh family structure. I mean this this is critical. Okay. Um Again, I I think uh eighteen, I mean we have all these these guides on s uh different sex sexual acts and uh It's because it's to be confined in a marriage and what comes from a marriage is that, you know, you're supposed to uh uh populate the earth and and of course that's a family structure Uh so here we are. Uh children have to obey. Uh because really uh the the parents are are showing authority, right? It's it's the essence and Hopefully that authority is uh ultimately going to point them to the the the fuller, the act the authority of everything, God, right? Um But you can see how sin comes in and and um the family's in trouble, is it not? Uh what's the divorce rate here? Fifty Fifty plus percent? Right? Um in some sections it's it's w way higher. Um yeah. So I mean again, to me I just see all these laws, all these rules Everything has to i i it ultimately comes to relationships. If we're gonna we can't do relationships without God and even with God We still we're it's a work in progress, is it not? Believe it or not, Laura, they say from time to time that I'm not holy. It is interesting to me that when God is making these laws and he wants them to follow them, it's individuals. How am I going to be holy? Individually, you're going to mean you're going to live holy. And that's how a country is run. Legislation doesn't make it. And he's speaking to the people one-on-one You have to remember to be holy. And these are the rules that will help you be bold. Right. You'll do a difference. And that's still the same week. If your neighbor if you're gonna live in as a citizen of America, you're gonna live in your neighborhood Right. Your next door neighbor. They should be able to see that we are making we have a difference, a different law abiding in us, a different law living lived out in us And no country, no country in the world, no matter what you legislate from Washington, will be good until it's applied individually. And that's why, and that's that was I think my point with chapter seventeen. The transition, and I said this when we when we went over chapter seventeen, the transition is, okay. You know, we went through all the uh uh sacrifices, we went through the holiness. I showed you you were unholy, I gave you the Day of Atonement. Now you have to practice it And and really what some of the commentators are saying is, if you don't follow God, you will live like the pagans. This is your only hope. And in Connor 17 is a short chapter, basically saying, bring your sacrifices to me. Bring to me your sacrifices. And I think that should be a broad thing We let's not just think of that economy. If if for application, it it m it's my life, it's everything I bring to God Um that's not eas it's easy to say, but that's not easy to do, is it? And it's kinda al line what you're saying. You can't legislate this stuff. And you're right, it is individually. Uh it's responsibility. You know, with with predestination and you really get into all that and I've I've heard different theologies on it and some will talk about, you know uh you know he talk of this this debate about free will and all that. God is sovereign. We all agree with that. But he gives us a lot of choices, doesn't he? Gives us a lot of choices. All you have to do is look around and see the choices we're making. It gives us a lot of choices. It is. It's it's uh it I don't know if you were saying this, but this is what I'm you know, you're right, you can't legislate it. It is individual. And individuals have choices and you gotta and You know what choices are you making? You're responsible and there will be consequences for your choices That's what we're trying to teach you guys in the in the in the jail ministry that that w uh um we're involved with and um They have to realize I don't want them feeling guilty. I want them to see their story, and I want them to say, okay, what choices did you make? Bad things may have happened to you, you were out of your control. I get it. You know, we all got a sob story in a way. Uh but what choices did you make And they have to pull back and see that and then not feel guilty about it so that they can actually look, okay, when this happened, these are my go-to choices. Right? And it's Yeah. Uh I and you can't the other thing is w we agree with all these laws. Why is it so hard to do? Why is it so hard to do this? You all know, I'm waiting for you to answer. Why is it so hard to do this? Yes. Sin. And we say that. The reason I want you to say that is because We gotta realize sin is powerful. God knows we're in sin. He cursed us, right? We were cursed from Adam and Eve. We are in sin. We as Christians, we recognize that we say, yeah, we're sinners. But we need to realize I'm a I'm a Christian, but I still have part of this flesh, this nature. I am in sin The only way I'm going to overcome this is with God. If I'm trying to do this just by uh being obedient to these laws I can I there are certain things I can do and and I'll look good, but I can't change the heart. And I can't change the attitude But God can. I've seen it with addicts. Okay? I've seen people I had a guy I did jail ministry with. He was he was addicted to crack cocaine for 17 years. That stuff was really addictive Uh and um he got saved and he went back to it once but he qu he just he quit just like that. And with God. Don't get me wrong, he's not perfect. He's got other things he deals with. But God can change the heart. God can do it. But as a matter of fact, without him you're not gonna do it. Yes, yes we need to be obedient and uh Uh but at the same time we need to be seeking God. That's what he's talking about. Bring your sacrifices to me. I'm a source. Yes. Um just uh I'm thinking of the role of the Holy Spirit, like in this Old Testament things and the Jews as well So I'm thinking like this all that uh at at this time what this is going on before even the law was given to the Israel, the Israelites. They were used to be sinning because they learned all these stuff, you know, from Egypt and all the neighbors and they didn't think of that a sin until God. Give this law that don't do this, don't do that. No, it has become a sin and well don't do this, otherwise you will have some punishment But I'm also thinking that uh in between this since there is a Holy Spirit in the Old Testament that convicts you of your sin. Do you agree? I don't know. I'm thinking like uh since the Holy Spirit's job is to convict us with sin and righteousness and judgment. So when they sin the Spirit of God is like convicting them that they're sinning. But there is no righteousness of uh Jesus Christ as a time, you know, to to to them to lean on. But I'm thinking also that God was allowing them to think of their sin that they're going against God so that they would repent. So I'm thinking of repentance as the you know, go before God's grace before God gives them grace. I mean God you cannot obey unless you have grace from God Right. You know. Right. Because when you're own we are dead in our clash process because we live in our flesh. Right. Our flesh loves to do evil. Right. Uh we cannot do the good stuff because we love the things. We need grace from God. Some people testament uh Israelites, how would they get the grace from God unless they repent? You mean how? Yeah. I you know, I see I think again, number one, we're we're we're it's God, okay. No so number one, uh I obviously he didn't make me his Bothman. I I'm really I'm studying the word. I'm reading what his word says. Uh number two, um Uh God opens the heart. Uh God uh you know faith. Okay, those who had faith. And we we've talked about this before. Um I'm gonna d I know. The the and it says in the Old Testament the Holy Spirit came upon people. Is and there's uh in j in John he he uh Jesus is telling 'em I think I forget what it is, fourteen or something. But anyway, Jesus is telling 'em, uh, he's gonna go away. He's in the upper room. It's like I think fourteen or fifteen And and he's telling 'em, you know, I'm going away. He's preparing 'em because I'm not gonna leave you alone. There's gonna be another comforter He goes, you have the Holy Spirit is is but uh the Holy Spirit, you have the Holy Spirit, but he will be in you. It's future Uh so there's a difference, you know, the new covenant we're sealed with the Holy Spirit. Uh that's never uh put that way in the Old Testament, but the Holy Spirit came upon people Well I the point is this, is that yes uh yeah how uh they had faith Abraham believed God and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. It says that in uh Genesis 15, 6. He must say, you know, uh He it must have been the Spirit. I mean, the the God is one, Father, Son and and Holy Spirit, right? Um Yeah, you're not really. You're not you have to be careful about how we divide 'em up. Uh if you're s y yeah, I believe they were getting they were their consciences was was being uh Convicted by the Holy Spirit. I was thinking about doing a study. I mean to to look at the Holy Spirit and to do a study on it it's There's there's a really good book out by Walvert and it's it's thorough, it's scriptural, uh uh and he and he goes through a a tremendous amount of scripture about it. Uh And it's difficult because the question you're answering asking is and it they don't really it's somewhat of a gray area. What was the how did the Holy Spirit work in the Old Testament and how does he work in the New Testament? We have scriptures but um it came upon 'em. Yeah, they were convicted. I'm thinking also it's like and then you go to chapter twenty. If you don't obey your parents and like that you honor them, you get you die, you know. God kills you. But again I was taught and I don't mean to cut you off, but I was talking to somebody this morning. Remember, that's the other thing. We are dealing in Leviticus with Israel. Israel is a nation. Now some I know a lot of the woman I was talking to asked me asked me about some of this. She goes, I'm not dispensational. I'm going okay, whatever But it's a different economy. This is a nation. We try and make the church is not Israel. He's dealing with the people. This people is going to have a nation. They're going to have a land. He's dealing with them differently. You see what happens? He's cutting them off They're being put outside the camp. Uh okay. This is the way you deal w with them. The church, we we are not We're not um well, we don't have a nation, we don't have a land. We are we are a collective body, we we we are uh uh we are the body of Christ. But it's a it's it's it's different. And so you're gonna see some different things. Uh uh and this is part of it. Um Why? Because he wants his nation pure. This nation was to make God's name great to the other nation. He says that in the prophets, Ezekiel, he says, you know, you made my name, you basically made my name mud. He goes, but I am going to restore you. Now Ezekiel's writing right about the time when this happens. They may, Ezekiel may be in Babylon. The nation is going to be crushed and carry it off the Babylon. It's going to destroy Jerusalem. Uh but it's a different This is Israel. These are an ethnic group. This is uh uh sons of Abraham that he's called. Uh It it's i they he's going to he's dealing with them differently than he does with the church And when I say that, in the essential things for salvation, for godliness, for holiness, and all those types of things, he's not dealing differently. It's the same story. Because he's God. I know it's difficult, but there is a difference. He's we don't kill people nowadays. Uh Say for homosexuality, right? And he says in 20 uh they should be murdered. In chapter 20, uh if a man Has a woman and his daughter, uh they're supposed to be burned. That's serious Okay? And it's not to say, well I look at it from God's point of view. What God is saying by that is this is serious. This really goes against by creation order. That's what you're doing. And we we we just worry about ultimately though, think of a we We this this earth, this life is short. Right? We need to say, okay, what happens? W do we go to eternity with with Christ or do we go to eternity with separation from God? It's the same thing with these people. Okay? Only we see this as harsh because it's being played out uh on earth while while they're existing. But somebody who's practicing these these things now, the right, it's appointed for man to die once and then the judgment. Romans 9 Twenty-four, twenty-six, I can't remember These this is God's holiness here. And He's telling us how to live. And The thing of it is is that we do because we want to do these things our own way. And it and is is what he said. All we gotta do is look around at our world and the and the things that we're doing. This Solomon told us in the Ecclesiastes, nothing's new under the sun You've been doing this for like, you know. We want to do it but relationally it it won't work. It just won't it doesn't work. Our relationships are our big if we look at the church, anything in life, our relationships are our biggest obstacles. And look at some of these things he says to me. Oh, uh and I'm just zipping around because I want to hit some slander, he says, you know, would people slander Right? You should don't slander one another. Because he talks about fair judgments, right? Don't judge the poor one way and the rich another way. You know, don't favor the rich, don't favor the poor, really. Or, you know, and vice versa. Right? Have just judgments. And it's not easy, is it? We have uh uh pre percep preperceptions or uh kind of uh taint you know tainted perceptions of of things going into it. He says don't slander How many people have been guilty before any evidence came out from slander? It's horror it's horrible. We we are harming each other. Words do matter You know, people are guilty before they're even even tried. They be don't even know what the evidence is. They they slander them. They they s they say things that and there's there's no evidence From the womb the baby speak nice. But it's about and it's we how it's about relationships. Relationships are st are very difficult. And I and that's what I just want us to get to recognize. You know, we were we were watching this show and and uh it was one of these detective kind of things and this this one girl made this statement I thought, man, this is really good for a secular show. She says um uh Sh she was looking at the this um woman and uh her husband was saying, Yeah, they were friends of theirs and she had to ask her some tough questions and The husband says, Man, you upset so and so And she says, You know, I'm trying to get to the truth. I'm trying to find out what happened to this other girl. She goes, You know, people We there's things going on in people's lives because we don't even know. W we don't really know these people And it's you know, see being a detective, you kinda find that uh the the the things out, um, but it's true Uh the these the these laws are for relationships. If you go if we do it our own way, it it won't work And it's hard to get to that relationship. I mean that's that's the beauty of being glorified. No more of this false stuff we gotta put on. Won't that be great? Everybody's got secrets. Everybody in the room got secrets, right? No more of that. That to me is heaven. No more False falseness, no more facades I know I'm off it also a thing here, but I mean y you see the laws. Uh any of these come out to you? Do not hate your fellow countrymen. Oh, here's another one I like, seventeen. Verse 17. You shall hate your fellow country uh you shall not hate your fellow country Yeah, we got the hate thing now, good. You shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart You may surely reprove your neighbor, but shall not incur sin because of him. That's the hard part, isn't it? When somebody does something wrong You know why we get anger and everything else is because we don't tell the person. We tell Each other, or we tell the people that we know. You know what so-and-so did? Well, we don't go to the person who did it. It's hard. I mean we may you know they may go oh you know they we may not get the response we want. They may that they may uh become angry with us. But but really if if we're If we're going to grow, we have to tell the other person, really, what you did was harmful. This is what it did to me. Or what you did was was wrong. We talked about this a little bit last week and we brought up homosexuality. Well what about the people that say, you know, uh, you know, it's you have to accept them or I uh I'm not sure exactly I don't want to put words in their mouth, but Um, you know, it's it's it's how could we say, you know, is it unloving to to to uh you know, tell 'em what they're doing is wrong. Um I think it's unloving to to tell them it's okay or to ac to be accepting. I accept you as a person. As a person, you're a person. I see you the image of God in you Your practice of of this or that, it's wrong. It won't y you shouldn't do that. Um it's not easy. That's loving Reproving each other is is not easy. I mean there but I bet everybody in here can think of a time where there somebody did something and and We didn't say anything to that person. But you know, we were thinking about it. It's it just Any uh anybody else? Anything jump out at you and and to did you read through this? We've just read through it. Did anything jump out of you? I'm just every time I read this, I just see that God is interested in the person and a society is going to break down in in the lower parts I mean in the families in the neighborhood and he's trying they're going to have to live for a few years together in this wilderness And he's trying to tell them how to get along and that makes them holy. If you were legislat and laws for our country, we would not do it to an individual We'd be making these sweeping statements and we wouldn't even get into being ugly to your neighbor. That's why it's God is talking. Right. He's interested in the the holiness of the first And it starts right at the very source of your family, your village, your towns, and so forth. But that's why there's a difference in his laws and in man's laws. Because man doesn't see us as evil. Right. Right. DCS says we're really pretty good. Yeah. And we'll just encourage you to be better. Right But um God's getting it at the hack and he can't miss it. The his laws are not our laws. We wouldn't have put them in if we were having a committee meeting, they wouldn't have come off. Right Right. That's why it's important that we see when you honor your father and your mother it says that the law may be that That your lives will be long life. When we say that to our kids, really Our sons says Yeah, it only seem longer to be as you Okay. But that's for a society we don't condemn here. Divorce is everywhere. Right Immorality is everywhere. And it's really true he'll live long in the land if you'll be an appearance that doesn't always be doesn't obey his boss, doesn't obey the policeman, doesn't obey the teacher. It starts in the basics. Okay, several. And that's Again, we could go go through each one of these. My and and again, most of us would would uh there's nothing really theologically that w we can't grasp. It's it's it's right here in in the text. It's it's kinda straightforward. But you're right. Um you said something, they were gonna live forty years and it was another thing I was thinking about. Also, again, put yourself back in their situation. What are they? Two million plus people. They're in a camp. That's a small town. You know what small town is like anybody live, grow up in a small town? Laura Laura used to go back and visit her grandparents in a small town and um sh um She went out one day and was riding on the back of his motorcycle and her m and her grandmother said, Don't go too far away, people will talk about it. Well they w you know they were just exploring around and nothing She but they went up on the top of the mountain. She said by the time they got back her grandmother already already knew about it. But think about it. Uh it's it's uh they had to live forty years, and that's why think of the proximity. You know everybody's business. One of the things uh in chapter twenty that we're obviously not going to be able to go over, but that you know, he he talks about um And I can't remember offhand what uh what what uh like if somebody sacrifices to Malak and uh which is one of the gods But does a and and and and there is a retribution if the family or the people around him don't report him There's a responsibility for the the community. Okay, he's got this nation and he wants them holy, and part of your responsibility is to tell the elders or whatever If somebody is is doing this, they are culpable and responsible if they don't Um you know, uh so I I thought that was uh interesting too because what do we do? It's like, well I mean, you know, I like this person. It I maybe it's a relative of mine, a father, a brother, I don't know, a sister and whatever. It's like I don't want to turn them in Right? Think about it is it could be d you know it's difficult. But that's a responsibility. God holds them accountable to that. It's to be holy, it's to be separate. And then God knows even if you don't tell. So but I think the punishment here is Cut off. Does it mean chili or just second? Well see and there that's a good question. And and some of them think maybe it's a premature death, and I'm glad you brought that up because that phrase cut off Typically um one of the things and and the commentators se seem to uh emphasize this if somebody is is Well, we talked about uh in 17 offering sacrifices out in the open field, right? A lot of times people would never know you did that. But the Lord there you would say something like that person will be cut off. And that's the thing we have to remember God you we we act like God doesn't see what we're doing and those people would would probably be doing the same thing what he's saying to to these people over and over again you'll see that phrase cut off cut off That means typically that's what he's saying is, God sees it. Okay? You're gonna be cut off Now he could do that in a number of ways. Your health could go bad, uh, you know what I mean? You're not going to be blessed. God sees, and that's and that is one of the essence of of that phrase, cut off. Um okay, you may think you've gotten away with it We say that now, but and we say, but we don't think this way. God sees. God knows God sees what you're doing, and you will not be blessed by this. Remember, it's not like he's obeyed God with the stick. He wants to be the God with open arms. I want relationship with you. I am holy. You can't come to me with your in your way I've told you what the plan is. You know? And he also knows, again, God knows he cursed the people. He knows we're sinners. Right? He gives us the Day of Atonement back then. He gives us Jesus Christ. He goes, You can't do this. You need to come to me. It's it's uh that's humbling yourself. Catch yourself this week. See how many times you you do stuff When you're up. Maybe things you didn't pray about. I didn't catch myself doing it all the time. Scott and I were talking about it one day. How many times we're doing things You know, we're way down the road with whatever it is and we're going, you know, I'm praying about I guess I ought to pray about this. And think about praying about it up front, you know what I mean? But you know is our child sacrifice um some thinking that cut off maybe not just uh blessing, blessing I'm sorry? This uh this the thing is uh they're offering their children uh to Molek as child sacrifice. So I'm thinking maybe the cut-off is a punishment, not yes, a grievous punishment. Probably even death. And the Russian Moloch is child sacrifice, but it was more than that. There are other aspects of it too. And um Sometimes too God will uh name something and and really he's thinking about uh uh to the people it could be a broad category Don't be worshiping these false gods. Moloch, you're going to hear about, but there were other ones, and you you see the names of them uh in the Old Testament. And oftentimes um You know, it's kind of like an idiom or something like that. You you you say something and you mean, you know, a whole category of things. It's it's like So yeah, the worship Moloch did include child sacrifice. There were some that were debating that, but they with archaeological stuff th they've definitely found uh remnants of child sacrifice during this in that area. But it meant more than that. Ma there was other aspects of worshiping Moloch than than just that So uh again, do you believe in God or not? Are you trusting in God or not? I mean that's faith, isn't it? But I have faith in God for all these aspects And it's a process, people. I mean, again, we need to know our story. Our story is that we're being sanctified. We're not glorified. Any thoughts? Any last minute thoughts? Yeah chapter nineteen verse thirty-two. Read it to us real quick and then we'll Read it, do you have it? Oh no. Alright, let me find it. What what it says is you say it thinks you guys with white arrow. So yeah. I was actually actually I was gonna bring that up. Because really more of us in here that deserve a lot deserve a lot of respect. I don't know that we deserve it, but you know, um it's funny when uh when I was thinking about talking with my son, I was thinking Just by going through life, even if you don't do a good job of it, even a secular person, there's a lot of things you learn just by going through life, isn't there? And of course, uh those of us, uh the more we we've well walked with God and uh the the more insight and wisdom we've gotten. So yeah. Yeah, if you don't uh learn from the past you repeat it and you tend to repeat it, don't we