Wha what did you just see repeated through there and those verses? The Lord would go through the land, straight down all the firstborn of man. Uh bread is the uh taken out of con uh taken in the context, it's what's offered. You'll see that in Acts. Right. Yeah, the common words that were in there had they kept the Hebrew language. was to be recognized as a provider for food, uh for fulfillment of the promise of the land and for all things. These are the appointed times. So this chapter lists, excuse me, the holy gatherings, convocations, right? So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation work. Well what I'm going to read to is a is I s this isn't perfect, but I I like this. One of them was Howard Hendricks with a teacher at uh Dallas, uh beloved teacher. Another guy I thought that I've read uh several times, he used to be out at Cedarville, a guy named Robert Gurmackey, who was uh and a sign between Jehovah and the children of Israel forever. A foreigner and the beast. Uh but we oftentimes we don't think of it in context with um entering his rest and and uh chapter three with those disobedient. Sometimes you have to get out of bed, isn't that what they say? And again, remember these holy convocations, these are one of the times they were, quote, required to come back to the sanctuary. without distraction of life in a fallen world. in a holy convocation. The Lord Jesus on the night he was betrayed took breath, and when he gave thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. For as often as you eat the bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Uh and this is what you wish God kind of would tell you. Egyptians. being an Egypt before? And we couldn't understand the world intention. Okay. So you don't pump my grandfather lived in a rural place. When you come into the land that I give you and reap its harvest, you shall bring the sheep of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest, and he shall wave the sheep before the Lord, so that you may be accepted. A fine flour mixed with oil, a food offering to the Lord, with a pleasing aroma, and the drink offering with it shall be of wine, a forth of a hymn W one of them looks like what they call a heave, it might be lifting up, the other one's called a wave. It's just a way of physically expressing thanks to the Lord. The Middle Eastern God, where they were trying to placate the gods, right? of all of life. Their guys had to be coerced into providing or allowing provisions for life. we're gonna have uh glorified bodies. Somebody want to pick up in twenty-one. The Lord's appointed time, which you shall proclaim as holy convocations, my appointed times are these. So this is what's r I hope it spoke to you throughout this these this class, this these two quarters. Biblical tradition sees the keeping of the Sabbath from the culmination of creation with God wrested from his work of creation. practised weekly on the seventh day. In Exodus 31. Made a covenant with Israel and in his law declared the seventh day as a Sabbath and declared it holy of the we to be holy day for man. Uh mentally I think we need a break. And then let the emotions catch up with it, right? I don't know about you guys, but I just have to practice it. put our minds to it. This is a barley harvest, right? The sacrifice of the lamb and the blood was a sign of their faith, of God's mercy for those who believed. Uh each of these really you can you could spend uh uh time just studying the pass over. uh which represented the purging of yeast uh or sin from the life of the believer. Who uh says uh but the uh the Lord saw these as two different uh uh feast. So the Israelites saw the judgment of the Lord on the land, a judgment that was uh they were spared from, right? They were to look forward to a new night, new light, not to look back where they were leading, from where they were leaving. And that's kind of what I'll repeat, I think, when you see this, but to me I saw the connection between the two. The image of the new life was symbolized by the unleavened bread, the purging of sin, and the life after rejoicing in the redemption from the land of slavery. Okay? In the same way, he also took the cup after supper, saying, This is the new covenant in my blood. It sounds basic to us but it was important to them. signs and wonders, but you're right, there were pagans within that this far along they were heathen. Religious ideas and everything. Aramaic became a part of this public. It came off the septuag. I don't even think it takes that I don't even think it takes that. Uh, he called them come here people. to the Lord. And on the day when you we wave the sheep, you shall offer a male lamb a year old without blemish, as a burnt offering to the Lord, and the grain offering with it shall be two-tenths of an equal So these first fruits, because he calls a lot of things first fruits. 50 days later, right? And you shall eat neither bread nor grain parched or fresh until this same day, until you have brought the offering of your God. This offering looks ahead to when people would occupy the land which the Lord was going to give them. in order to worship uh in order for the worshipper to be accepted. uh here is referring to the Sabbath rest of the Passover. uh dedication to God for his provision. So the people must uh thank God for all those provisions, and this is in 12-13. Was it's typically mincos the word that you use there, has nothing to do with bread. The drink offering would have uh pointed to God's blessing of refreshment for the people, taken as a whole, the meat, the bread, and the wine constitute the po uh the provision of food and sustenance with the people uh for for life which God provides. You remember the food for God? The gods are at the get you. or or you know, uh to that whatever degree. I remember going to uh and it's such a universal thing. And I'm thinking these are their gods? Speak to the sons of Israel, say to them, When you enter the land that I am going to give you. Yeah, they were right. uh Joshua and K and uh Caleb, right? and contentment. Paul goes on to say, 2 Corinthians 9. Right in Matthew 25, 34 through 40, remember, he goes, uh, when you took care of the the poor, when you fed the widow, when you visited the pris prisoner, you did it for me. who have died will be raised from the dead because Christ has been raised from the dead. who are asleep. Also, Paul even used the analogy of a seed being planted uh in the ground as to what type of resurrection uh the dead will be. And in the uh same way, he took the cup uh after they had eaten, saying, This cup which is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. Pentecost is kind of the the the Greek, right? for a wave offering made of two tenths of an epha, they shall be of fine flour baked with leaven as first fruits to the Lord They are a burnt offering to the Lord with their grain offering and their drink offerings, an offering by fire for a soothing aroma to the Lord. First Corinthians twelve, thirteen I think it is. For your your son uh redeeming us and and redeeming us to a relationship with the Father, Lord. humbling himself and stepping down and the Holy Spirit indwelling us and and enlightening us and um uh lift up uh pastor gave is uh he brings the message lord you we ask that you fill him with your spirit as he's uh presenting to us We thank you, Lord, for the blessing of this church, for bringing us together as a body, and we we know that you are the one who appointed this time Well, let's go to the Lord in prayer. understanding of of uh what you're trying to communicate, Lord, and and just coming up with some of the questions uh uh and thinking through uh some of the mundane things Lord and um Uh Lord, so I just thank you for that blessing that this uh through this course. Consider uh what we're the scripture we'll look at today. We're going to try and look at this this this spring and and just think about it uh uh some of the implications. We will get through chapter verse 22 today as the goal. uh to look at God's administration and the life and it uh to be thinking and praying and considering him and and more of the things that I do As for six days, work may be done, but on the seventh day there is a Sabbath of complete rest, a holy convocation, you shall not do any work. God is in control of the times. Uh y you know, he is holy. But I act still independent so many times. In worship, right? Right? And Mount Sinai, God made a covenant with Israel. Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, preserve the Sabbath throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant. The Sabbath has no one event as subject of its observer, but is only the day which Israel is called to sanctify to the Lord its God. Because God blessed and hallowed the day at creation by resting on it. This blessedness was lost to the world through the fall, but forever, uh, but not forever. The rest of God is the goal which the whole creation is destined to reach. To the goal, the Sabbath was enjoined by way of compensation for the losses which accrue to man under the curse of sin. The significance of the Sabbath explains why its keeping through all future generations of Israel is called a perpetual covenant. It marks a finished creation. The rest of the New Testament, it occurs but twice. But as typical of the present rest into which believers enter, he also ceased from his own works and trusts Christ. The seventh day marks God's creative rest. of rest. Um some of you that that it whatever your work is, it's hard to turn your brain off from that work. The Sabbath rest also pointed to an ultimate rest and restoration from the sin-cursed world that was a result of the fall of man. Today, if you would hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as at Maribu As in the day of Masah in the wilderness, when the fathers tested me, they tried me, though they s had seen my work. For forty years I loathed that generation, and said, They are a people who err in their hearts, and they do not know my ways. to rest in God's finished work, not you know, our control, our finished work. fear if uh while a promise uh remains of entering his rest, any one of you may seem to have come short of it I want to do that. sharper than any two edged sword, and piercing as far as the vision of the soul and the spirit, both joints and marrow, able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart A God who discerns that heart, but that heart is is to be changed. And again he just assumes we know all this and a lot of us do. uh feast of unleavened bread. At twilight they were to slaughter the lamb, spread the blood from the lamb on the doorpost and the lintel. The feast of unleavened bread symbolizes the need for purging of sin after being redeemed. 1 Corinthians 5. Clean out the old leaven so that it may be a new law, just as you are in fact unleavened. For Christ, our Passover, has been sacrificed. But with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. you use study apps, but uh journal articles are great. The fees defer any questions, any thoughts on on anything we've discussed? showing his sovereignty over all of life. Well we think of them as because they're God's people and you know it's kinda like we think, oh yeah, he put them in a orb, but he didn't. So they were hate pagans and they had to be taught from the beginning to the end. I think a radical lifestyle for them. influence. uh scribes and those that were studying, they lost their Hebrew language. Right. Well we watched a show that was uh in s uh the was in an uh in the setting was in Scotland. Commentator. But on the seventh day you shall present an offering by fire to the Lord. Just so we we you you kind of I it's easy to c to confuse them, it is for me anyway This was in recognition that he provided the growth and the blessing of the harvest. This appears to have taken place the day after the Passover. the Satur Saturday following the Passover or the Sabbath of the Passover, uh uh or if it's a Sabbath uh It it basically just that, it's it's a substitution. And what obviously you're not trying to feed a God who needs to eat and and but it was kinda like a food for God And the and again, it was really important I think that they kind of got that because rem uh and I've uh to me this uh maybe I'm over stressing this Right, don't have other gods. Member and the peace offering their things where they get to take and share part of that food. And um we went to this museum and of course they had all these ch Chinese gods. The people were to perpetually offer to God the first of the fruits before partaking themselves. Think about that. convocation for 'em to come back to and they're not in the land yet. I am going to provide. We can't take it. And here we have a sacrifice. God exhorts the Corinthian believers to give the gift they had promised to give. uh of your righteousness. He said, uh when didn't we do it for you? God will a bless, and and that's what he's uh trying to point out here. different aspects of first fruits. And a lot of them are still, you know, alive. Then the dead are not raised, but Christ is raised. The drink offering speaks of his life being poured out for the beginners of sin. Uh again, it's one of those things you look up. Uh you're supposed to give a grain offering wi uh which is two tenths of a eva, fine flour mixed with oil, offering by fire, uh the Lord for a soothing aroma with its drink offering A fourth of him one. Along with the bread you shall present seven one-year-old male lambs without defect, and a bull of the herd, and two rams. The priest shall then wave them in the bread and the first fruits for a wave offering with two lambs before the Lord. You shall also offer one male goat for a sin offering, two male lambs, one year old, a sacrifice of peace offering The Holy Spirit comes. at the beginning, that's what he tells them definitely in in chapter fifteen. Really? Thank you, Lord, for that uh plan of yours of salvation and and what a m magnificent plan it is. bringing scripture and and the life of Christ and bringing all things to mind that uh pointing to uh Chr uh the Son and the Father, Lord. Yeah, I green attitude. Uh also when I looked at this I thought, hey, you know, it's just even I'm gonna do two weeks of chapter twenty-three where I'm gonna try and get to the first uh the spring uh Uh and and and think about that as we get through the layers of of these things. Uh and and what was God, what are some of the implications? It's a Sabbath rest for these holidays. Could be lunar calendar. It rejuvenates. Immediately following the Passover, the feast of unleavened bread was observed. Not a good thing. Master Seminary, uh Westminster, they all have have journals they put out. Believers. press time, they can paper the amount, uh you can have a long article on a verse or two. Again, you're gonna see a lot of r repetition here, but um God is is They've been in the land of Egypt. It was obviously something. um di what the significance is. Uh sharing a meal with somebody was an intimate relationship. Uh that's probably a verse you could look up, right? And we'll look at some of the issues with those. Uh and this place. for the men that have uh helped me uh through study and um uh uh moved to a uh a deeper level and The mundane things are telling us something, Lord, and and oftentimes I miss it. I am not sovereign. uh seasons. It is a Sabbath to the Lord in all your dwellings. Okay, tell us. Right, needs to remind them of this. So this is the typology of this rest. As the Sabbath commemorates God's creation rest, the first day speaks of Christ's resurrection. Uh you'll see this and it's oh uh the writer of Hebrew really quotes this. Come, let us worship and bow down. because of unbelief. For who provoked him when they had heard? Did he swear that they would not enter his rest, but those who were uh disobedient? Holy congregation. And and worship, right? You know some people are. He's the Redeemer. source for things like this. For an atonement, find flour mixed with oil and a drink offering of wine. says, I want to be in covenant. And we know it's temporary, but it's still easy to hold on. So when you think about it, it's like, well, he's gotta give us the land. Believing and recognizing the Lord God as the only creator and sustainer of life was to be their act of worship. Uh and and isn't that what he w wants with us? I'm not going to read those here, but you can look at it. Uh quite amazing when you think about it. So, you know, Luke tells them that he's gonna be poured out. Excuse me. Again, talk about a radical thing. uh paying the penalty and the uh uh sacrifice in his his life and So it looks like we're going to get to chapter 23 for this course, and that's about as well we're going to make it. To ask the qu ask the questions of the mundane things and it's amazing. Times. So, you know, right, he's think about it, he's made a he's made a covenant with them and it's a sign. in the contemplation of the finished work, the satisfaction of God in his work, which overflows in blessing upon his creatures. from the heavy oppression, uh oppressive labor, which draws him from God. And that's what we learn as Christians. Maybe we should turn there. Uh let's see, where am I at? they kind of referenced the other uh commentaries of the procedure, which is a good thing, but it's uh it's tremendous um One other thing I just when you were talking about they came back from Babylon, one other thing that somebody pointed out to me, um Different words for different things. Feast of first fruits, um uh unleavened bread really. And I'll probably bring this out, but in case uh it doesn't get stressed, think of the uh difference between Really, it's a wasteland almost. Jesus says when we care for the poor and the widow, when we care for the helpless, we are doing for him. Christ, the spotless Lamb of God, provided the substitutionary atonement for our sins. You know, I don't think I had this, but I think Paul mentions himself being, you know, even if I'm poured out as a drink offering for your sakes Uh you shall count fifty days to the day after the seventh Sabbath, then you shall present a new grain offering to the Lord. Uh you are to have a holy convocation. millennia. Uh holy convocations as he called them when you know for Passover, first fruits. Well let's just read uh I'm just gonna read one through four because the first thing I want to cover is the Sabbath. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the hosts of them, and on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So I like that you can kind of go over that, but I kind of like the way you summed it up. So God's Sabbath rest was a literal day for the rest of the rest for the nation. more and incorporate it into our daily lives. The foreigner and the beast of labor. The nation rebelled, and many of the uh those who were present at Mount Sinai did not enter as rest, right? And he goes on chapter four to talk about that rest. We have a will. Which obviously we can still do. He died for us. Right? They were. We've looked at this. uh in uh tribute in recognition to the Lord uh God and uh in their s uh We look we we can we'll we'll look and see a typology of of the drink offering in the in the New Testament, but I I think in the essence of the Old Testament All over the Middle East. People need the I mean and it's not a it's not a law, it's from the heart. The Israelites, um, I don't know that there's a whole lot of um uh When both these guys recommend something, I thought this might this is probably worth looking into. uh did uh his same work, his his dictionary or whatever, of uh I forget who said this. Um have much. The first day, a finished redemption. And that believers find that rest. But the real picture is our rest, our Sabbath rest, it begins with being in Christ, right? How his sovereignty works out, his plan is going to be worked out, nothing surprises him, but within that realm, there Okay, now we need say it's kind of like say starting line. I think the Sabbath, Gilly, you Sabbath is one of the things you can do a study on. And he said, look, he gave him proof. I'll start off. Trumpets, right? That's the essence of it for us. So before I get into anything, one of the things I w I will I Aaron Aaron and I were talking When I'm done with this, I'll tell you when. Unger's Bible Dictionary. That's the essence of it. It would have happened in their house had they not put the blood on there. Totally different, yeah. Yeah, stuff has to get done. Oh thank you for showing up for the forget all the time. It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever. But this is this is what he's talking about. As I look to uh this um and I think of God's law and God's sovereignty and everything else and They escaped judgment by the lamb, right? These sacrifices were to worship and honor God of all life and provision. For it after Christ died and rose again. It's again, it's a foundation thing. Right? Now there's the purging. All the way to fourteen. Somebody read 9-14 And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the people of Israel and say to them. And he's when you think about it, he's promising these people a lot up front. We're covered, uh we're cleansed, nude by the blood. One of the beauties of going to a seminary library and uh you can get some of these. Cultural influence, sure. For seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. Other than that, it's pretty much what uh men have speculated. We are for I'm forgetful. Symbolism for their present time. So instead of trying to start this, mmm, this is not that long It has to be addressed to believers. Twenty three uh nine. Think about it, he's already promising. New Testament fulfillment. Uh you know, because we in you don't see a lot on the drink offering. Are you really good? I don't know. It's real simple. He's talking about time. That's kind of confusing in a way. So yeah, in three, right? Okay, so again, big picture, remember, so this is the first one. Remember what he told him, he says, um uh Um while I'm reading this, somebody find me Exodus 3116 The Passover feast of unleavened bread was the first convocation of the year. The Lord was the Redeemer and Covenant God. The return of his blessed and hollow day is to be to him a perpetual reminder of the enjoyment of the divine rest. I didn't want to do that before God gave me a heart to do it. They couldn't take the land. And that's what the writer Hebrew, he quotes that in chapter 3, and he finishes chapter 3. And then he says in Romans 6, no longer, it's a command, no longer present your members as instruments of unrighteousness. When they went when they went to Babylon they were really an agrarian society. But the ultimate goal is relationship with the Creator and Covenant God who provides. We kept seeing God's food in in the previous chapters. Brought the sheaf of the wave uh offering. It's God's. So let's start with that. Six days. And it was too, it was a practical rest at the same time. These are the appointed feasts of the Lord, the holy convocations, which you shall proclaim at the appointed time for them. He's the Passover. I mean uh yeah and it was yeah. We have choices. Okay, well I'll start off. 1520 It's the whole argument here he goes, right? But you know, I d I just thought this was a this was an important thing. They weren't to do it uh uh in isolation. 16, God proclaimed the Sabbath as holy and the sign of the covenant. So now we're going to look at the Passover. I was listening to somebody, but God gives us a lot of choices. 2 Corinthians 9. Heavenly Father, uh, thank you so much for the blessing of your word. But um all these if you notice when we look at this I am going to promise you. They kinda apply to us too. The point is they don't necessarily fall on the seventh day. I know. Uh uh uh I even had somebody ask me what the wave offering was. So conclusion. Somebody uh finish up here. Let's see. Satan Satan looked like behind the the the emphasis for the creation of his god. Your boasting is not good. So it's first fruit. From Babylon, from the right Mesopotamia, whatever you you know, you how far you want to go back, all the way to you know, across that uh inhabited land there. He refers back a couple of times. On the first and last day of the week of the feast, uh uh no work was allowed to be done. Um I got First Corinthians here. I always wondered too, but there must have there was obviously some thread, you know, because when And also passes and stuff called it from the septuag. No wonder. The motif of first fruits is seen in New Testament of believers are referred to as first fruits in several passages. So 23 verse 1. And rarely somebody read Genesis 2, 1 through 3, because that's the original, right? After Sinai, it was a day of legal obligation. Our hearts, our desires, our will, our motive. Uh it's in your name we pray. I mean we're trying. Um there's a lot you uh little facts that are in here. We wouldn't have commanded if we d if we couldn't. Basically they were. And that kids don't even know my language. People demonstrate their belief in God by offering their provisions to the Lord before partake uh partaking themselves. We'll pick it up next week. He's talking about time. This is the oldest of all the holy days, and was given to Moses as a command for the people to follow all their days as a sign of their covenant with God at Mount Sinai. And somebody finds Genesis 2, 1 through 3. Uh because this is important. Indeed, did not all those who came out of Egypt led by Moses? So uh what I got there is a fest. And he goes, excuse me, whenever you did it for these people, right? It's the initiation of the new covenant. We are not. We are to rest in God's grace. It also has a spiritual rest of obedience to God, which would result in him blessing the fruit of their labor. And they would s kind of refer to it because they were back to back, right? Yes. But oftentimes, Lord, uh we walk through life and and we don't uh really think of you. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. It's like, oh yeah, maybe I this wasn't so bad after all. But you know, toward the end of those that four hundred years they're crying out to to the Lord, they're crying out to Yahweh. Somebody read uh twenty-three six through fourteen. Relationship. What's a drink offering? Now you have uh the Hebrews, the Jews, the Israelites that have been steeped in the law for centuries We forget that. Or demons. 10. He's talking about the resurrection. We do not recognize that we and all of creation belongs to God. Non-believers can't are not capable of doing that. But think about it, it's totally opposite of what the Middle East uh bas each Egyptians, all the other ones, uh you know, the gods were not uh you had to be careful. Day of Atonement and Booze It's in other words, what he's saying is it's his rest, God's rest on our rest of the day, right? So uh he was he was looking ahead really, uh because they're there now, right? Oh, this would be easy, right? Well they were um like Egyptians. The bread offering as a tribute in recognition that the Lord God is their sovereign with whom they are in covenant with But then again, you see a promise and don't miss that. They said uh some are asleep. Um you know, sometimes you need a break from work. He he quotes the same thing. I don't necessarily want to do something, but to go ahead and do it Somebody read 9 through 14. God exhorts the Corinthian believers to give the uh the gift that they uh had promised to the uh I don't know where I did then The most important connection obviously is the first fruit typology of Christ, right? Hey Karen. Chapter four turns the corner and he goes, Look, there's still arrest. Alright, so anyway. 10. Romans 8. Okay? Uh you know, purging the sin. Uh typically the wave offerings were given back to the people and not consumed by fire. Uh there were they we we y you'll see some of them in there and this is just kind of for your own information Um and that was the mindset for the culture God says, the land that I am going to give to you. Don't hold on to it. Lord, uh, we just thank you so much. And it went from some titles and go, in the world did he say? To us it's sh it's big. Now it's a new covenant, a new way. Let's read, I'm going to read um let's see where we want to stop before we get to That's the hard part. They're again they're getting that early picture of a substitute, aren't they? It's that Passover. He goes, all these people have seen. Why uh these laws, these rituals, these And this was the big you know, this is the thing for me too, it's like, yes It doesn't and they come on at uh certain particular days in the month, right? And with whom he was angry for forty years? Details of Passover found in Exodus 12, where each family was to take uh unblemished lamb for the house on the 10th of Nisan and keep it until the 14th. I'm going to give you the land. There's not going to be any wheat, there are eight manna, not going to be any wheat to offer to the Lord until they get to the land. Uh God gave, God bless us with this. He's he's drinking that cup with them, that last supper. Well, it's only one more verse. And they're like, um, you only do all this, you only do all you know, uh it's a lot. Okay, this is not uh Pentecost, okay? The first fruits, right? I mean God's trying to show us his his uh administration through life. Um and now he's telling us about times. The Sabbath commemorates God's creation rest. Not only that the language changed. People that moved in. I want to bless you. The gods are going to protect you from the demons. I remember we were in uh China. I know, but see the the reason the reason I want you to g I don't care if you get the right answer, but I want you I again this is one of the things I was taught I was uh we were talking. These are the first fruits. So it's not like they were intermixed with each other. So they're probably bringing barley, uh, I think is the early stuff is what they said. You know, it's just paganism. Um Paul says it, I'm giving my life, I'm pouring my life out. The seventh day. By putting the blessing of his rest on the rest of the day And God is changing us. I would have been I would have been one of those, do we really need to do that? Yeah they were. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your grace, for your son. I would recommend that dictionary. Colossians 2. We are we are to rest in God's completed rest, right? This uh was to remind people that they left Egypt in haste Therefore, let us celebrate the feast, not with old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness Well I'm just saying a week of work You know, when you come to live in a foreign land, I had to change my language. As a matter of fact, he even has uh a holy convict game. Uh and Lord, uh we just lift this up to you. On the first day, Christ was unceasingly active. Uh and remember, these are uh again, sometimes put yourself back in their place. Well there's a uh significant distinction between the Hebrews and the Hebrews. I mean, the church. 27, 11. Uh uh earthly bodies are are going to dust. So the Feast of Weeks, this is Pentecost. That passage kind of sums it all up, doesn't it? The message uh the people were to see from this offering is that God Memory. Paul reminded them God supplies what you have and will provide in abundance for the righteous who care care for others. We'll start it, I don't know if we'll finish this. I mean, and it it is. And radical for them. What did they know? On the first day you shall have a holy convocation. And he's already promised the land. He's doing this as a Passover. Well like when they came back from Babylon, I mean they were more Babylon than Jewish. That's a good point. Uh the bread offering is a tribute, uh uh minka, if you remember back to uh our early thing for meal offering. He's he's got all these sacrifices. Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase your harvest. What anything stick out to you as as we read those Yeah, that was one. Uh uh, excuse me, where am I at? For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day he rested on the refreshment. I would set it up. Uh it's a beginning Next week we'll finish with the um uh fall festivals, the uh uh These are the appointed times of the Lord, holy convocations, which ye shall proclaim at the time at the times appointed for them. In the present dispensation of grace, Sandy perpetuates the truth that one-seventh of one's time belongs to God. That's the beauty of teaching in a uh class in a church like this, right? The gods were angry at them and they were trying to make sure that they blessed the you know, that they weren't gonna attack 'em or whatever. Israel is going into the land that uh provided by God to dwell in houses they did not build. God will bless and give you abundance. People go, What would the resurrection be like? You shall also count yourselves from the day after the Sabbath to day when you uh When you deal with Cornelius, they received the Holy Spirit as we did So there's an obedience thing there. But then you got the Septuagint that came because of Hellenization of the Mediterranean It's kind of having a meal with God, which is Middle Eastern, you know. The Lord spoke in speaking to the sons of Israel, the times. We are to depend on God's grace. Immediately following the Passover was a feast of unleavened bread. Don't put the leaven back in there that you had before. Amen. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump of dough? On the seventh day is a holy uh convocation. There is uncertainty as to whether this is after the Sabbath day. And that's that's what this is. You will look at things that you you you go, Well yeah, I get that, I get that, but you don't think he's repeating this stuff What's your will? I people have written papers on this. Oh I know. He tells him, he goes, Some of you guys believe uh the dead are not raised. He doesn't really go into it too much in even in Leviticus, and yet it's there. Oh, just about out of time, let's see. Penta, fifty, fifty days later, uh rejoicing in God's provision, really. The Lord uh would uh pass over the houses that were marked with the blood. We only have about five minutes. No, but I'm good though. Um the theological uh mm like Dallas Grace They knew something. Uh Paul writes, uh, but now Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those But it he's telling us through here how things work, how relationships work, how to come to him. 16, Hebrews 4. But again, in sanctification, we grow and understand and learn and practice that Yeah, they're all right, so back to this Uh but yeah, it's it's it's the beginning of the new covenant The Sabbath shall come to you. We should just probably read them if we're reminded of them. Today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts, as when they uh provoked me. The God of Israel wanted to uh bless the people through the faith uh through their faithfulness to him and to him alone And I think it's interesting because really, here's the key. Sanctification. It's hard not to hold on to this stuff. Share it. The people had, it's just a word. It's our desire, it's that head thing, right? Obviously it is something to do with uh just kind of putting in the air somehow to the Lord The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, Paul uses the Passover of leaven as a metaphor for Christian conduct in a believer's life. A lot of people forget that. The offering looks ahead. And then he he goes on. The wave offering was uh to be presented with a lamb without blemish It really means tribute It's fine, fine flour, barley, or whatever. He s the spies went out and they said, Yeah, you're right, we can't take it. These two feasts were celebrated in the spring at the time of the early harvest And Babylon they started speaking with So that's what I'm saying. They were instructed to bring the first grain to appear on the crops and to bring them to the Lord as a tribute to his provision. We lift up this time of of corporate worship. Uh so let's let's look through this and uh hopefully I'll point out some of these themes that uh hit me It's a sign of of their belief, their faith Then on the fifteenth day of the same month there is a feast of unleavened bread That's in verse eleven Lord, you are sovereign. One is the thing that was repeated. But again, sometimes Get out of bed in the morning. And really it kind of dawned on me, we'll see this as we unpack this a little bit. And the neat thing about 'em is is they can they can spend Christ isn't their Passover This is where the next day really, this is a week, this is the next day after the pass of Uh so what we'll do is uh But it is kind of the essence He was showing them the the correlation there. The atonement of the animal is the substitution for the sin of the people, right? We need cheerful givers. God man is he's trying to show you man is designed to rest. This is um this is the essence of the rest. We have been blessed with a new heart. Uh so again, this is these are just highlights Right. In 23, uh we start with the fall festivals Mm-hmm. This is uh Meryl Unger wrote this in his um Yeah. Because he went back and he said, I'm the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac. It was kind of that idea. I mean uh In other words, Paul's exhorting these people in 2 Corinthians 8 and 9. Basically saying, if you don't believe me, go find one of them. Lord, we want to bless this time. Leviticus, somebody read 4 and 5, 23, 4 and 5. Who had taught them this four hundred years that there was no teaching. You know, when you think about it, okay they may not have understood everything, but if if had they read the scripture they would understand the Um the offering uh looked ahead to when the people were let's read that. This is totally different. He'll he'll bless you There shall be seven complete Sabbath Um again, Lord, thank you for this book of Leviticus. I just couldn't rush through it. It's a covenant with God. He goes through the apostles and he goes, five hundred people at one time have seen him. So the Passover represented the freedom from judgment, the redemption from slavery. It's a relationship though. We have to get the land to to offer the the sacrifices Ye shall do no laborious work. Does somebody want to read me Exodus 31, 16? The Sabbath is mentioned often in the book of Acts in connection with the Jews So I see these two coupled together like this. This is so we know this, but uh I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you that Laura won us a trip to to China. Think about it. 16, James 1. So Sabbath rest has a broader picture, it always did When they came back they were much more commercial. The writer Hebrew quotes the psalm in chapter 3 when he writes that the people did not enter his rest So remember, this is the first generation. He's sovereign. For one week after the day of the Passover began, the observance of eating unleavened bread in devotion to the Lord Do this as often as you drink it, and remember to me It only takes a generation to change habits in the farmland He used to uh he didn't like he was basically country and all and uh See it you can just go right over our heads but they're thinking so when you think about the spies going out there That's when the church received the Holy Spirit. Uh uh 4. For me anyway. God's rest was a literal day of rest for the nation. Uh and yet, you know, they were right there But there's always gonna be that And he goes, Don't you know when you plant a seed it doesn't come up a seed, comes up a crop? Pentecost is uh what what happened on Pentecost? Oh you got your royalty. So we see that they were not uh able to enter because of unbelief. I now have the ability to uh to no longer we're no longer slave to sin, right? We're we're gonna get to Pentecost when we get to fifteen, first fifteen. Right? Okay. So anyway, this is what Ungar writes. Was it not those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness? They were to roast the lamb, eat it all before morning. There were there 400 years that were completely Egyptian in behavior He says that over and over. They were the only ones who got it. On the same day you shall make uh proclamations as well Yeah. You know think about it. A lot of people really loved the guy. You're saved That needs a little correction there, doesn't it? Whereas you can't do that in a commentary. After being an Egypt picked up the habit. It's out of intention I gave her a couple oracles. But they're not sure of either one of these. The unleavened bread symbolizes his tyranny and sinlessness. The first holy con uh convocation commanded was the Sabbath, which was to be And it it's interesting when you go through what they had to say The relationship Israel was to have with the Lord was in stark contrast to the gods of the ancient Near East You're doing it for God Believers, a new thing happens with believers. Two people recommended it that I really respect. Thus the Sabbath was hallowed, that is, separated from other days He kind of says, look, Christ is our Passover. Except for the uh intellectuals, the Well this week. These are the works, the Lord. The Passover was on the fourteenth, unleavened bread, next day, fifteenth When you think about it, it was judgment. And it's just that. All these who have believed in Christ will be raised from the dead Um you know, when I look through this, it m it the really too I am controlling the times. The completion of creation, the rest of God, is his blessedness Oh God's people must recognize that it is he who causes the crops to grow and provides the harvest. And they are the angry, I mean they're gargoyle looking things, you know what I mean? But he says, don't reap your fields. Better than I was. I mean these are and I'm thinking I looked at all these different statues that they had in this this Chinese museum and it's like They weren't there yet. Luke 2. In these passages, the Sabbath is set forth, not as a day to be observed. You know. Excuse me This is the uh Think about it. This is called uh Shaburuth, uh I think it's our pronounced. If I did an overview it'd be horrible. This law is for the people to acknowledge that God is the creator, provider What's it uh verse ten Are we participating in God's kingdom work? The people were to meet, to come and meet together. Right, and so that that's kind of what this is based on. For he is our God, and we are his people, and the pasture and the sheep of his hand. Uh uh Uh may your spirit be with us. Right. You shall not do any laborious work. It's an intimate relationship. You you need to you come home The faithful worshiper knows and understands that provisions are for life. Sacrifices, there is one sacrifice. The seventh commemorates a finished creation. Are are we holding on to it? 18, Revelation 14. Uh w what are the applications? I am the Lord. This is uh in the same uh uh He did command it. Don't do it. Yeah, actually um Come to me in relationship. Everybody see it. Again, like we talked about, they came out as pagans He is First Corinthians fifteen, Paul argues that uh believers in Christ Uh and and the action, the activity, uh, the father's plan, the son You are in control. I I w ask for your spirit to come and open our hearts and our minds and our thinking. And again, even with this, this is just an overview. Um Um The blood did it He showed them a lot of revelation and and gave them Right. So And especially all the stuff he's blessed us with. The priest was to weigh the sheep of the harvest before the Lord 20 Uh I'm gonna be poured out as a drink offering. Uh We're remembering, right? They you think you're in the desert at this mountain, there's nothing there He's sovereign over all this stuff He gives us a lot of choices in this life. You see it in Exodus. They they're uh Uh mm we talked about this before. He was apparently good. A lot of times you miss it. Yeah As your thoughts, right? He's telling us right there in the scripture the two, right? And he and he talks about the You know, if we all know this verse. In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at twilight, is the Lord's Passover. This was a time of worship and dedication to the Lord Uh what the extent of their knowledge was of course we don't know. They just don't really know. Oh that's good. They are to be a holy to the Lord for the priest It is to be a perpetual statute in all your dwelling places throughout your generations. Okay, good, yeah. You know, and the it's it's helped me. I don't know if any of you all have studied things on The significance of the wave offering is not determined beyond the obvious Huh? Uh these are the dwellings, and these are the appointed times, the Lord. Need to read 17, too. But in verse twelve he talks about here's the essence, for the word of God is living and active. The commentaries are getting bigger and bigger is because First day in the church See what happens, right? You shall not do any laborious work We are doing it for him. For though through the redemption the divine mercy will restore it. Uh if they obeyed the Lord's command They really don't know beyond the obvious Go ask them. Um Th there was the the kind of paradigm, if you will. The Spirit. Uh but again, so just It's in your name we pray, amen. Therefore I swore my anger, truly they shall not enter into my rest. And he talks about that in that that whole chapter is really uh The essence of the rest was It is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings. Um but it's a tribute The feast of unleavened bread It they said, yeah, God's gonna give us this land I am the Lord. We So in other words the wave offerings weren't put on the altar He he promises and and all throughout We have it here, right? He recommended it Well familiar with I give you a little synopsis just to kind of So uh he's projecting ahead Right They went man they paid the whole thing. We're gonna get a spiritual body Renew your thoughts, renew your minds with God's Word This is huge, right? They've seen him. You shall bring in from your dwelling place two loaves of bread And he goes, Is Christ not raised? These two, they would call this uh the uh You know, you got your redemption. Uh he's going to talk about that. Are we gonna share in kingdom work? 4. How do they apply to us today? Um a lot It's easy to hold on to the stuff of this world, isn't it? Uh Psalm 95, Israel's rebellion. We are baptized into the body of Christ. Um thank you for your law, thank you. Do this in remembrance of me. It was his blood. Remember the only two that said they could, right That's right. Sacrifice is done. We get the Spirit with that You're not supposed to work. And we do that with prayer, time and money. Lord, um Um They were passing down 2315-22 We saw that before Yeah. They're they're basically pagans If you want to take a start of labor and stuff And if Christ is now raised Uh in 13 I hope it's I hope some of these things have helped you. Right? This is a covenant in my blood. It's it's common in in churches. On the day after the Sabbath, the priest shall wave it. I'm good They look like they're gonna devour you Um He's talking to uh And to whom This God I know You need You know, provide for the poor. Um Therefore, let us I brought you out of the land. The gods were not He goes But We couldn't believe it Um Roman 6 Um