So uh we started with the uh overview last week. I I tried to get you into it and um Well start, I'm kind of curious what if if you have I'm curious what people think about this. This is one of these things um Why did why did God do this? Uh uh why so harsh? Uh what were their sins? Uh and really so we can get a kind of a framework of it. Um so I'll read the first two verses in uh chapter ten of Leviticus. Uh now do there uh Pete do y do you all access th the online stuff at Hope Book, the notes and things? Do you know does everybody know how to do that? If you register for the class, they're accessible and um J just always uh I'm just curious how these classes are. How many people I know a lot of classes people don't really take advantage or aren't even aware of it. So So anyway, so we we I gave you the notes last week. Um they're online and of course I'll put it on the it's on the screen today. Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took their respective fire pans and off And after putting fire in them, placed incense on it, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them. And they died before the Lord. So I'm going to stop there, because this is the first section. I did do it and uh uh I know I have some different versions to have I used the American standard when I copied it here So we talked about this. The scriptures don't uh uh particularly tell us or specifically tell us the exact nature of the sin of Nadab and Abahu. Other than that, they offered strange fire, uh, or unauthorized foreign could be in there. It's it's just something uh uh he didn't command. unauthorized fire before the Lord. There are different interpretations regarding this sin. One being they put fire in their fire pan from a source other than the altar of burnt offering. Um I don't see I don't know how that works out because they were in the uh you know, where I don't know where else they would have gotten the fire, but That is one of the um interpretation. It's also been suggested that the incense uh put on the fire in their pans was not according to the ingredients detailed by Moses in Exodus uh thirty, thirty-four through thirty-eight. Remember Exodus, really after nineteen and all, you really get into the law. He's telling 'em how to do the tabernacle, how to uh make the garments, all the oh the uh the uh ark of the covenant, uh every all that detail is in Exodus and uh this incense was also won. And if you've read that before, it also says, don't make this incense for yourself. Uh y those people would be cut off. Uh the God had a specifically uh formula for this i this incense that was to go on there And uh uh you know, you you certain people you weren't supposed to use it for yourself. Uh uh and it was really, again, it was uh separate. It's uh something God wanted for his uh holiness. Some have suggested that they offer let's see, suggested that they offered it before the Lord and the Holy of Holies behind the veil where the Ark of the Covenant resided. And we're going to, you know, they took these sensors in there and they put the cloud in. We'll see this in detail when we get to uh uh Day of Atonement. Right? 'Cause they they fill the holy place with this kind of cloud and then they can access It's kind of another step they have to do uh to access that holy place where they go into the uh holy of holies, the Ark of the Covenant. So uh some one, not many, but one suggestion, well maybe they were actually trying to go in not just a holy place, right? Then there's the veil where the Ark of the Covenant is. They only went in there once a year, right? That was the Day of Atonement. So s some have suggested maybe they were like, wow, what do we know It trust me, I I get it. I don't think I'd be a good high priest. I mean yeah, I'd be curious too, you know, but this is it's specific Um it's just a s it's just uh one of the things, uh possibilities somebody put out there. Um let's see, um Uh the Lord spoke to Moses, or yeah, and and uh we're gonna look at this in a minute. In chapter 10, uh, in verses 8 to 11, right, we he's uh commanding the priest not to drink wine, was drawing drink, when entering into the tent of meeting. Thus some conclude that Nadab and Abahu had been drinking alcohol before offering the sacrifice. Another option is they were uh offering uh Option is that the offering was presented at the wrong time of day. These are all possibilities. We really don't know what they did. But again, That last verse, um uh which uh at the at the end of uh verse one, they offered something other than Foreign or whatever, strange fire, the l which the Lord had not commanded. Uh so whatever they did, um uh uh You've got to remember, they uh and uh this will come out, and I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but uh these are consecrated, they're moving closer and closer to God the lay people were not allowed to move this this far close. We don't really understand that because our our high priest is Jesus Christ. But they you know, the he's still the mediator. This was their mediator. Uh and, you know Whatever strange fire was, Nadab and Abihu offered before the Lord that which had been not commanded, verse one They had not followed the explicit instructions concerning the ritual of the offering prescribed by the Lord. They were disobedient and undiscerning Emphasize that. They were disobedient and undiscerning when approaching God. With this act they uh profane the holy things with unholy things. God through Moses gave specific instructions on what should be done and what was not to be done. It must be remembered that these men were approaching the presence of God, and as representatives of the people, there is no room for variation or innovation of the procedure. The day before this incident, Moses and Aaron had come out of the tent of the holy place and offered prayers. Then fire came out from before the Lord, consumed the burnt offering, and demonstration of his acceptance of the atonement. So let's remember the scene, right? This is the eighth day. They've been in the sanctuary for a week, the priest being consecrated. Uh they didn't t do it just that one day. They they'd had to th this is God separating them. They had done this for a week, seven days straight. They never came out. This was just for the the priest at this time. There's one thing for sure. Yes. God knew. And God doesn't make mistakes and they blew it. Exactly. Yeah, it doesn't matter whether come in T or C because they don't know. Well exactly But we know God knows. Right. That's kind of interesting. The same thing happened in Acts with Sapphira and Yeah. The member they pretended they need more money. Didn't say a whole lot except got two pen. Right. And that's on that theme which I kind of uh you know look around, preachers of the choir here, you all know the scriptures well. That to me is is what Morach said is kind of the the bookend. I mean The commentators don't really point this out. I'm gonna harp on this in a bit when when I get a little bit further in. Well so what is a fire, what do you think a fire represents And in this this holy fire. What what do you think of what would be the symbolism for the fire in this uh ritual? What do you think the fire would represent? You think it putrifies? It does. Yeah, but it represents the presence of God. And Because remember when in the Exodus the the the fire the fellow fire panai of smoke. Right. Yeah. Right. And when the Holy Spirit descended on the Pentecost, thumbs of fire appeared over the heads of the people. And that's where that's where I'm going. Yeah, the presence of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit. I think so. Most of the commentators don't harp on this. I think it is a representation. They they in some of the previous chapters they they kind of uh referred to this as a symbol for the Holy Spirit. Again, but uh uh uh I'll point it out some more uh um I can't be, you know, uh I can't say oh it was the Holy Spirit, trust me in this way. I to me I think it represents the Holy Spirit. Uh you had the glory of God in um Leviticus uh nine, right? Moses and Aaron went to the tent of meeting when they came out and blessed the people, the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people. Then fire came out from before the Lord and consumed the burnt offering Right, in the portions of fat in the altar. And when the people saw this, uh they shouted, fell on their faces. Yeah, I think it's I think it's uh an aspect, right, the the person of the Holy Spirit. I that's so Yeah, and and when Morag said that with uh and I'm kinda getting to the end, but uh and I'll wrap it up with this. You know, when Morag was talking about uh Cananias and Sephara lost his name for a second. It was a it was concerning the Holy Spirit. Yes. Um one of the cross-references that my Bible gives for this is actually Exodus 30. Where it says, and Aaron shall burn fragrant incense on the altar. Every morning when he dresses the lamps, he shall burn it. And when Aaron sets up the lamps at twilight, he shall burn it, a regular incense offering before the Lord throughout your generations. And then it says this in verse 9. You shall not offer unauthorized incense on it. For a burnt offering or a grain offering and you shall not pour a drink offering on it. So they're the same language is used as far as the word unauthorized, but instead of saying unauthorized fire is unauthorized in Right. So I think a strong likelihood is that the incense that they offered was not the incense that the Lord had had offered, but it was a daily uh that uh ritual that they were supposed to be doing but they just did it in in the wrong way. Did you say the high priest had to do this Well here in Exodus thirty he just refers to Aaron and doesn't say the high priest. Right. Right. Yeah. And they were less than See and that's what the funding sells happening the And yeah. I and the that's another yeah th that kind of struck me the same thing too Um but it doesn't give me the it doesn't give us the details. Right. That's the problem. It's it's vague and so we're and that's what I was thinking, what Gabe was thinking all you know, I But again, we we're not sure, but I was thinking it's it is foreign fire. He he he says that specifically. Um That seems to be the emphasis here. Right? So that's what I was thinking. Well I mean did they go outside to camp to get fire from someplace else? It seems to me incense. But but again, that's just a conclusion we're making. Yeah, I think so No, I not disagree at all. Yeah. That was super helpful. But if if we do types And truths, if you will. Right. Right. The type is the strange fire. Because I that's the one that's gonna point into into us, right? That that's the one that teaches us. That's the one that, you know 316, right? Every word of scripture is relevant to us. The type is the strange fire. It's interesting to try to ascertain what it is, but it will only ever be a type, even when we figure out if we figure out what it actually is. What's the truth associated with the type Um I'm kind of following you. Now it could you s draw me in, what do you mean the the truth with the type the type of fire? No, like in a typ typology type sense, right? The the symbol, if you will, the type, typos, I think. Yeah right where for it's people put on focus all the time. I can't remember what it is right now. But anyway, you know, that that's the fuck. And and like I said, we can you know, curiosity and historicity, we can study that all we want. We may actually be able to figure out what it is at some point. point in time, but it's still just a type for a truth. Right. What's the truth? You mean the truth for um what the truth for the transgression No what is or maybe uh let me cut a little deeper here, maybe that will help. Right. You you did an eyes and supplier, right? Right. So You you said it. And I was thinking about in the Luke passage that we were studying this week, Luke eleven, when the Lord goes to the Pharisees' house and talks about how you clean up the outside so good. And the inside is filthy, and he proclaims these six woes. Pharisees and the scribes are lawyers, depending on which verse is being referenced. And so there's a, I mean, clearly in that New Testament passage, there's a lesson for us. Yeah. What's the lesson here in Nadab and Baihum? I to me I we we were talking a little bit after class last week. I think God purposely I'm alone here. This is just my thinking I think one of the reasons God doesn't tell you specifically what the what it was is because Us being humans, we'd be going, well I'll never do that again, and we'll check that off the box, and it's kind of like, okay, so now we're being obedient to God because we don't do this specific thing, right? Let's say it was they were drinking Uh, okay, I'll never drink again when I go in there. But is that really obedience to God? I think that's what you're getting at, is that inner heart of man you know, well what why why didn't they offer something either through direct disobedience or um Just negligence. Were they taking God seriously? Is that the question? Is that the answer you're looking for? I'm sorry, it wasn't a vague question, I promise. I really just wanted to engage on that particular area. I'm not sure I know. Well my mind was kind of showing their also aspect of If you're putting the two together, but also thinking about the gentleman who um even though I don't think that his heart was necessary in the rough place, but he's still syllabic when they're bringing back the heart covenant. Right. Um hard and each other. Yeah, it's uh and so this aspect of not really understanding the holiness of the Lord and really um Yeah taking that into account and then also like this is the beginning of the establishment of the same type of animals with the fiber and they really need to understand The Lord is holy. He is not like the Egyptian gods that you have just left behind and you can't be forgetting all these things and other things that like Jesus not the other side like he's establishing the precinct and whatever it is that they did they weren't taking really seriously what the Lord had commanded and Right. Remember when God speaks at the beginning he makes things dramatic. For instance uh this incident, but we knew there was priests that didn't handle things correctly. It's of Eli who's sons. Right. Okay And then in Acts when the two Samaya and whatever it is, Mr. and Mrs. Sophia. And the Ananiah. But he didn't do it later on. And all of us have often been given the picture of being more religious than we are. Right And that's only what Sapphira and Ananias. But God doesn't continue to kill 'em But he makes it dramatic enough that we need to see that God is holy and has power and we need to respect it. See and that's a problem with a thing like this, because really what we're going is to the end, the conclusion, right? And it is true because uh most of the the detail in here is not uh most of it isn't earth shattering. So I will all right, so I'm gonna do it then. We'll go to the we'll go to the conclusion. Because for us Which is really what we're kind of talking about, what Morai was saying, okay, he doesn't put us to death. Um that's his grace It is. But that's the negative. What about the positive? If you want a and I it's in my notes and I quoted somebody, the closer The closer you get to God, the holier you're going to have to be. And if you want to get closer to God, you're going to have to be holy before you get closer to God. We want to pray. Let me just finish this. We want to pray. We uh uh you know our prayers go into the throne room of grace, right? Uh thinking of Hebrews But if we it my theology is if you're living, if you've got sin and you got uh a Things that are uh uh a barrier between God, which is kind of first John, if we confess our sins, He's gracious and righteous to forgive us our sins, cleanse us from all our righteousness, the blood of Jesus, right In order to get closer to God, you gotta be holy. And That's where that tension between God's sovereignty and our disciplines or our will So are you am I disciplining myself to take care of the external things like If they Nadab and Abahu are drinking, they're not going to make good judgments, and that's right in this text. It's going to hinder you, and you want to be full of the Holy Spirit. To be full of the Holy Spirit is to be close to God. He commands us, right? He says, don't get drunk with wine. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. Be full of the Holy Spirit. That's a command. I'll leave it there. I'll let you guys think does that make any sense? I don't know. Is it more about us or is it more about him? Right. In the sense that God has just laid out and consecrated his priests. And on the heels of that, you go into God's presence a specific way that's wholly against what he just said to do. And so if he's already said something about himself in the way that he's outlined worship, and you come and test it. Is he holy or is he not holy? And so he demonstrates his holiness in the way that he treats Nadab and A Bahu because I just told you what the NSA should be and how you should approach me and who should come in. I've laid out these things for your good so you'd understand me. And in that sense, I think there's there's a duality there. And I think what Scripture doesn't say speaks just as bad as what it does say. How they did and what they did and what I didn't tell you is not the point. Right. The point is what I did tell you. Right. They approached me in a way that was not authorized. Right. And that's not That is not a way to either respect God or or state that you understand who God is. So God protects his holiness in that sense. David Duzick has a series on Leviticus and he mentions that Aaron could be looking at the situation and saying, I literally just created a golden calf. Well Moses was up giving the Ten Commandments. He didn't strike me down then. Right. But yet until my sons were behind uh uh Go and offer this and why is that? And and his assumption is that they were just consecrated unto God for a specific work. They were. And what was Kian, Ken, go ahead and expand that because then the second one thing what was it and what were they consecrated For, specifically to, to who? To God, for a specific word, to represent the people for him. to the people. And if they're here it is, they're just initiating this whole system and God is holy And if now they're representing them like, well, you know, it's a little casual. Mm-hmm. Right? And This is the initiation of it. I think that's why he comes down. It's almost like too the Acts. Acts is what? The beginning of the church. And he's going, You're lying to the Holy Spirit. You're lying to God. I'm sure people say, well, did they think they were saved? I think they were. I don't think God everybody lies the Holy Spirit because we're all liars, but they have now the Holy Spirit. Now You know, that was that that's my belief on that. No. If we if they're talking here about the altar of incense Which is what it looks like you're talking about. Right. They were not supposed to bring anything to the altar of incense anyway. They was fire was supposed to be polluted in the morning I I looked at that and nobody touched that. And that's what I saw. In this case, I think that's what it is. They were not supposed to bring to bring incense to the altar anyway. The incense was already there So they just they just did something they were not supposed to do. And which and when you are in when you were in high positions as they were, more is expected of you than it is of the average person And they just they just basically they just blew it. They did something they were not supposed to do and God punished them. Absolutely. But and they're setting a precedence for the people Uh and I I have this in my notes, we'll have to pick it up. But yeah, I mean if if they could if you know if what happens when you when you start down a path, right? You oh it was just a little sin. You you know, if you continue, if if it's okay, you break down the barrier, you typically go further. Right? You're either on the right path or you're not. And that's what God's saying here. And you're approaching me, to me, you want to get to me, you have got to be on the right path You can't come in here. You know, w with your flesh. I mean you you gotta be obedient here. Alright, let's let's go through the next, because a lot of this I kind of pick up in here. Uh I don't even know where we are. With this act, they profane the holy things with unholy things. God through Moses gave specific instructions of what should be done and what was not to be done. It must be remembered that these men were approaching the presence of God, and as representatives for the people has no room for variation or innovation. From the procedure. The day before the incense, Moses and Aaron had come out at the tent of the holy place, uh offering prayers, and fire came out from before them. The Lord consumed a burnt offering and a demonstration of his acceptance of the atonement. And rem and really remember, it's just like the New Testament. God, yes, Jesus wanted to heal the people, but the real big thing was It's a verification, this is the God amongst us, right? It's his it's demonstrating he is who he says he is And I think most of these signs, most of the miracles in the Bibles and everything, if you look, they come in chunks. Right? And usually it's when God is doing something different. It's a verified. You look at the miracles during this period, right? He he's he's uh setting up a nation, he's setting up uh worship. Uh you look at the uh uh prophets, they are verifying, uh they're trying to tell the people, look, I got these prophets saying the king and the priests, they're all going the wrong way a and he uses a lot of those miracles to verify them. So he they when they saw this, to them I'm thinking the picture was they should have gotten, God has accepted this. He's accepted these offerings and we feel closer. We feel like we, it's a relationship. It's kinda like what Chester was talking about. Yeah, he's holy w it's kinda like doing something against s a friend. Am I gonna insult you and expect to get closer in our friendship? You may tolerate it if we're friends, right? And we have the relationship, but you're not. It doesn't bring us closer It puts up barriers. Essentially, it's what they're doing. They're putting up a barrier. It is a relationship with the living God So one day later, Nadab and Abihu offered a strange fire, which was an act of disobedience, which would not signify what the true fire did. And I forget who I quoted on that, and that's why I see this as the Holy Spirit. That's Ross. Alan Ross. By accepting the uh By accepting the offering, God's wrath was satisfied and judgment removed. Offering the sacrifice in a way not commanded by the Lord means offering it by the flesh The will of man. Thus the judgment of Nadab and Abihu. God is not pleased with man's attempt at redemption. Only God can redeem. That's really kind of what what we're doing. Isn't that always how we go false? We make a God and our Yeah, uh I would rather God be this way Uh uh he's gonna be tolerant I want my God to be tolerant of this. This is no big deal And let's So I'm having trouble picturing this tent, the the tabernacle. Where is this offering being done? Is it outside the tent or inside the tent? And that's the that's an uncommon trouble. Well they're because because they had the censors and they're taken they must have taken the censors in to the holy place To the holy, that's fine. Yeah. And so that happened in the holy place. Then the people outside didn't see it. No. And it didn't burn up the tent Well and the well the other thing is and we'll we'll look at the details is they they took 'em out, uh which I was rereading, they took 'em out with their um uh uh roves on. Well you think if they burn up the ro right, the roves would be gone. Well it might not be the reason. So you wonder about the fire, you know what I mean? With it Well according to my map of the Sabernacle, the altar of incense is inside. I know, that's right. And that's why I'm trying to think of this. Right. I think we we don't see this fit I have to have things worked out in my mind where it's happening And that's right there as the showbread or the incense is just before the the veil. The veil. You fill in the blankets because my brain doesn't work. But so they would have been uh killed there. The people outside that were watching this did not see until they were brought out. And then the story was told Mm-hmm. It would be just as effective. But the chan and it would be it's amazing how direct it was. If that came out from God's altar and he killed them right there, nothing else was born done. I know. Well well yeah, I mean and it's the spirit of God. I mean uh You know, that fire and that's why I started speculating the same thing. Because when I kept reading it said, well they're taken out in their roads. Yeah. I'm thinking, well apparently the roads were If I read it correctly in Exodus it says that Aaron, the high priest, is supposed to put incense on in the morning And in the evening. Right. Didn't say anything about anybody else putting insects on it in front of the wheel. So the guys were taking up the taking on themselves authority they did not have. Then they're actually pretty bad kids. Let's read uh somebody will somebody read uh verses uh on chapter ten, uh verse three through seven. We'll cover that section. Then Moses said to Aaron, this is what the Lord has said, Among those who are near me I will be sanctified. And before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron hold his peace, held his peace. And Moses called Meshael and Elsiphan, the sons of Uziel, and the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Come near Curry your brothers away from the front of the sanctuary and out of the camp. So they came here and carried them in their coats out of the camp as Moses had said. And Moses said to Aaron and Eliezer and Ithamar, his sons, do not let the hair of your heads hang loose, and do not sew your clothes lest you die And wrath come upon all the congregation. But let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, bewail the morning the burning that the Lord has kindled. And do not go outside the entrance of the tent of meeting lest you die, for the anointing oil of the Lord is upon you. And they did according to the word of Moses. Yeah, I don't like that. I I use the uh the ESV version on uh this. I like what he said, uh uh those that come near me will be sanctified uh and before all the people I will be glorified. And I think That was why I think that's the essence there, before all the people. They didn't glorify the Lord before the people by doing this. And and so it's so important. And God uh judged them. So yes. So a parallel example is when the Lord tells Moses. Uh Israel is desperate for water. They're in the desert. The Lord tells Moses, speak to the rock. This is the second time. And Moses strikes the rock and the Lord says the same thing to Moses, you won't enter into the promised land. Amen. Because I will be sanctified. I don't remember the exact wording, but he uses the same technology. Right. Right. I think we need to really understand what God thinks of it needs. Mm-hmm. Well how God wants his name honored is so amazing. Right. Right. The chances we'd be empty if we had these same rules. It but it starts with uh you know, a broken and contrite heart, you know, what what Chester kind of was do knocking on this when he was talking about uh the holiness of God and Really, the problem is that, you know, we they we take we take up our cross, die to ourselves, we say this. It's emptying ourselves. Um uh to be full of the Spirit Doesn't mean to be full of yourself. Here's the problem, me. You know? Uh we we have to get out of our own our our way. It it's it's uh our desires, our egos, our our uh yeah, and I think that's what gets us holy. It's so hard. Yeah, you know, uh uh in the Christian life I I look at this and I I catch myself um you know judging, being impatient. It's r I'm thinking about myself They're all manifestations of right. But I love I love just that bold section. God explains himself to Aaron. And Aaron holds his peace because he understands what God is saying in terms of his justification. And in that context You know, Aaron can be feeling a whole lot uh about his sons. And he should be, right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean come on, we'll I've I have a family of unsaved people. I had two brothers that died who probably shouldn't have prematurely. But I still cared about them. I mean uh We we reap what we sow, but you're still sad for them. But then you also understand that God is He is equally just Yes. As he is in his holiness. Yes. And so we don't have to interpret what Nadak and the Baidu did. Like, oh well, we'll try with that. No, we don't have to, because God is expressing Explaining to Aaron in that context and us by extension, um, that he defends his holiness and the way that he does it and when he chooses to do it is just. Right. In what ways are we protected the holiness of God? Well today. He's not changed, he's not different. He wasn't there either. What he expected in the garden, what he expected in the temple, what he expects post-cross. It's not different. Right. So in what ways are we guarding ourselves in the Spirit through the Word, only enabled by grace? To not have the same experience. Because the New Testament talks about the holiness without which we will not see God. Right? My I don't I I don't know about the rest of you, but I will take 2 Peter 2-9. But you are a chosen race, a royal priest for the whole nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous lights. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. So, beloved, I have it so by the way. Go ahead. Little heresy there. I urge you careful. As I know. You had an exchange far. So journalers in exiles to abstain from passions. Right. So I I I just I if we walk out and we've only discussed the symbol or the type and we fail to walk into Monday going, I cannot I cannot Be in God's presence today with the commonness of my life and heart. I must be renovated. The daily prayer in Matthew 5 Today, Father, give me the forgiveness I need to walk and the bread that I need to live. Oh, so good, but if we miss it, right, if we fail to point it into our hearts. Again, but okay, so that's the that's the na uh negative and value and a lot of this, that's the negative side. There will be consequences, right? But the positive side is, again, it's a relationship, it's a friendship. If you want to get close to God, the motivation, I'm better motivated than this. The positive, this will get you this will g it'll get me a closer relationship. I'll know God more I'll be closer to God. I'll believe in him more because I'm closer. I trust in him more. As opposed to if you do this, then this will happen. I mean kids that don't uh don't don't really get us there, do they Um there's there's a temporary thing. Well well I I did it well, but there's this little thing I want to do for this time and and I'll do it and then I'll go back to being godly, whatever that indulgence could be, whatever those thoughts could be. The positive side is I want to do this because I want to be more full of Christ. I has ever anybody everybody in here, I bet, as as somewhat of a testimony is you're closer to Christ than you once were. I mean Bill, that's what you're building, that's what I want to build on. But without the whole salvation of God, there's no hope for us. The fact that he saved us, those we can see it. The hope is in uh uh faith. You know, when when we when God gives us grace to believe. Yeah. But we we could never have done it. No way. Right. But we're we're talk right, that's salvation. But we're really that's Salvation is the beginning, right? Now we're talking about I was saved, that was past tense. Now we're talking about the present, right? Being saved, sanctification Right. Right. Right. Right. But do you think John Four answers Scott's question? God is the spirit of those that worship him must worship him at the spirit and the truth. In the sense that isn't that what God was after made that advisor? Yeah. In context of I want to come to you knowing who you are and knowing who I am and present my worship in a way that demonstrates Or is God asking or requiring something else of us? He's not requiring that we be perfect in the sense that we're still us without them. Because part of our worship is confession, part of our worship is is surrender. But the aspect of our worship that needed to be sincere was to worship him in the context of knowing him and reverence for him. Um And I think those are the pieces that uh to to more expertise that's not striking down everyone every time they they go in the wrong way. If anything, what he's doing is he's using his leaders as the examples for the people. The leaders didn't follow the way that God said that they should in in these examples. And therefore he disciplined them. But I I'm wondering if that is the the crux of the point. If we're translating what he does in the Old Testament to what he's requiring of us. It's it's worshiping him in spirit and in truth and understanding his holiness in that context. Yeah, that's I would agree that that's certainly part of it. Um thi this thing that we see here in Leviticus ten carries through, you know, we talked about Libicus ten, Moses and the rock. Uh it's seen most uh Uh i in um in terms of number number of people in Ezekiel thirty-six when the Lord describes Israel as having profaned his name among the nations. Right. And so he says, I will vindicate the holiness of my great name which has been profaned among the nations. Which you have profaned among them, and the nations will know that I am Yahweh declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. So in the same way that Nadab and If I you misrepresented God and Moses misrepresented God and so do all of us in our own flesh. We are incapable of upholding the holiness of God's great name Mm-hmm. So it was true of Israel, and so therefore God said, You can't do this, you won't do this, you haven't done this. So I will uh sprinkle clean water on you and cleanse you from all your uncleannesses, from your idols I will cleanse you. I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I will put within you and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh and I will put My spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. So the calling to worship in spirit and truth is there, but it's Predicated on the fact that He gives us His Holy Spirit so that we can. That's what you were saying earlier, the essential nature of salvation. Not only does he give it so we can, he also convicts us so we know when we're wrong. It's like you uh once you're saved you you continue to have problems and whatever sin that might be. But now you kind of now you feel guilty about it. You go, oh, I shouldn't have done that. Uh that's huge Unsaved people do a lot of things they don't feel guilty about at all. And it's not because we're better, it's because we have the Holy Spirit inside of us saying, that was wrong, you know, it's convicting us Let me read this. Let me read this and I'll let you go. No, no, I'll forget it. He says, um God brought them near. This is uh I forget who this is. This is Kyle. God brought them near by anointing them in order that they may sanctify Him through their office and life. If they neglect this sanctification, he sanctifies himself in them by a penal judgment. and thereby glorified himself as the holy one who is not to be mocked. I forget, this came up, somebody mentioned this He's glorifying himself by judging him. I will be glorified Uh we forget that, you know. Um God said, I will be glorified. I am glorified by judging these two who operated in a manner that's that's not worthy of me You bet some of the people are watching that, the conversation was different as the table for lunch that day. After seeing that. Yeah. Yeah. So God's judgment seems quick and severe. It was essential that those who had purposely been set apart and brought near and ministering for the people before God display His holiness in complete obedience to his commands. If they were allowed to be care uh careless in one part of the law, eventually they would neglect even the whole law. And come on, we know the uh hi is history of Israel, it's a history of people. Um Look at our nation. My goodness. Thirty years ago, who would have thought we'd be doing the things we're doing or allowing and promoting now? No way. My parents' generation, uh th they they wouldn't their mouths would be open No way. No, people would never do that. It just goes to show you how sin breaks down the barrier so quickly. And if you think about it, think of how fast we've gotten to where we are. It's been a ra rather rapid ride here lately In verses 4 through 7, Moses gives the command on how the precharge proceed with the sacrificial ritual Moses calls relatives of Nadab and Abio to come carry the bodies out of the sanctuary and take them outside the camp. Typically the high priest is the one who did not come near dead corpse, but in this case neither Eliezer or Ithamar were allowed to touch the bodies and thus become unclean Aaron and his sons were commanded not to mourn the deaths of Nadab and Abihu in order that they would not die, and God become wrathful against the whole congregation. That's verse 6 If the congregation witnesses the sons of Aaron mourning, they may have perceived the priest who identified with Nadab and Abihu and not Not in full agreement with God's judgment. God is always just in his judgment. And it is imperative that the priests and the people recognize the holiness of God. Notice that God's wrath would fall on the whole congregation. When you get to seventeen, I think that's incredible. They were in the middle of the offering of the sin offering and the burn offering for the people. These offerings prefer an atonement and reconciliation with God for the sins of the people. In the middle of this indiscretion, Moses gives commands on how to proceed. The people have been obedient to bring their sacrifices according to God's command, the priest's responsibility is to continue as mediators for the people. See basically think about it, he's saying, well, we need to get on task. We're in the middle of this Uh but there has been atonement made for these people and and uh uh so this needs to be the uh God needs to be honored, this needs to be continued So can I speak to Aaron concerning alcohol priestly decisions? Somebody want to read 10 to 11 or 10, 8 through 11? And the Lord spoke to Aaron, saying, Drink no wine or strong drink, you or your sons with you, when you go into the tent of meeting, lest you die, and shall be a statute forever throughout your generations You are to distinguish between the holy and the common, between the unclean and the clean, and you are to teach the people of Israel all the statutes that the Lord has spoken to them by Moses. And so you see, um uh uh of course a lot of people uh think of this as, you know, it's right in the context, it seems logical. that they maybe they had some drink or something, not necessarily drunk. Uh um again, we don't know. But did you notice how it makes sense in the context And so as to make distinction between the holy and the profane, between the clean and the the unclean and the clean, and to teach the people the statutes. You need a clear mind, they need to be thinking clearly. And this is kind of a transition because the next uh commands are what's what clean we're gonna get into clean and unclean foods, uh leprosy, uh and those things. There's a bridge there Um you're going to go through all these commands again, then we're going to have the Day of Atonement. And the Day of Atonement's going to take via the cleansing for all these uh co you know, unholy the defilements, that kind of thing. So if you look, it it's almost like we go back into the law and it's like time stops. But we're actually in narrative So, yeah, they need a clear mind. They are going to discern. These are the priests who discern these clean and unclean things. How do we keep the holy from becoming common? All throughout the Old and New Testament, the word disputes of these people over and over About their you know their worship with him, their sacrifices, their fasting, their Sabbath keeping, uh their tithes and offerings. Like literally everything he commands them to do, he at some point comes back to them. It's like you are not doing this with an appropriate view of my holiness in an appropriate year. But how do you how do you keep the right fear Which is necessary for a holiness without which we will not see the Lord. When when it becomes common to us so quickly, right, you do these things over and over. And it stops being holy, you stop being able to do distinguish so how do you prevent that from how in my own life, right? I think that's my save. Absolutely. Wow I need to I need to change the way that I'm saving To be holy as he is holy. And a week goes by and I pray that prayer every morning at 05 and the one clock goes off. And by Friday, like You know, I wake up and I'm praying for and I realized like the brain is not easy. The brain is not easy. I get it. That's the age old question, isn't it? Well God is holy. Don't forget He's gracious and lovely. Mm-hmm. And He remembers our famous dust. Mm-hmm So while his standard doesn't diminish, he he just loves us and forgives us. Mm-hmm. I know beyond my understanding But you have to have well never be perfect, but cannot be. So you have to Yeah the again the the classic example is the uh addict Um just because they've gone to the extreme and it's it's it's easy to see uh clearly where they've gone astray. It's it's nice nice and definable. There's always a thing with the addicts, until you hit bottom, you probably won't change It doesn't mean it's e you and it's amazing how some people can I had a brother who he could run into walls and he'd go, well, you know He picked himself up, uh I guess he had that uh good pick himself up by the boots trip. But until you hit bottom. And I think it's w Our failures are our best teaching tools, aren't they? When we really do something that we don't as Christians, we don't have to hit bottom, but as you fail You you really learn. As the trials come, that's when we really learn. And I think sometimes God allows those trials, don't you? Just because uh it could be a teaching thing. I remember um poor I can I can never remember his poor the poor guy's name who had cancer. Um He was a teacher here. All but wing? Yeah, thank you. Why, Kim? Anyway, Paul And his testimony was, he says, you know, he he went through his trials and he and one thing he said, he said, you know Uh don't get me wrong, I mean this is hard, this is it but there I have a closeness with God I've never had before. Um yeah, I mean I And somewhere You're assu you're assured you're going to heaven. Right. Sometimes that that to me is a I have to be careful that you're sure. I think as as God walks us through Leviticus and He walks us through some of these other Old Testament books. He shows us what holiness looks like, what setup art looks like. It's a physical representation of how we should also be living. So I guess the first question would be what does holiness look like? So you described a ritual. 500 I say it is prayer. But a lot of what we see in scripture and what's set apart physically, we don't set aside dishes. physically anymore and things of that nature. But we do in our lifestyle say, you know, my my my tongue is going to be sanctified and what my eyes are set to is going to be sanctified. And How I spend my time is going to be sanctified in striving so that my heart knows what holiness looks like. If I don't know what holiness looks like in my actions I think it it it becomes a struggle to make sure that I am setting those things apart so that when I'm looking to live out holiness I'm not I just a hundred percent. No what I'm about to say next. Amen to what you said. But if I could be a little curt, not you, but just in general, I am tired of a discussion of grace. That says that there is no need to set aside those things that you described in my life in order to sanctify and temporate those two scripture's words. in order to sanctify the name of the Lord in my life. Grace is that there is any means whatsoever available. Grace is the strength of the Holy Spirit that allows me to have, to do, to make those things happen. Grace takes the insufficiency of my best efforts. to enter the presence of the Lord. Picture Aaron, right? Never had any worth to enter the holy place except by the grace that was given him through means that he was provided. We now have the means of Christ and of the Spirit. We now have different means. But to so mangle The nature of God and his requirements. You said he doesn't require us to be perfect. He absolutely does. The standard has not changed a bit. I I just I long to talk about grace as the means that required me to live life holy instead of the free pests that I get to not have to do anything in my life to get final salvation. And that's anybody said that in this room by the way. I'm just thinking of a larger theme. Speaking I uh answering your son's thing None of us have made it 100% 1D. I'd love to. I'd like to go to bed tonight and say, God, you must have been proud of me too. I would love it. So I don't want him to be I want his standard to still make that his echo. But There's still grace here. Or else we become like the Catholic nuns trying to gain God's journey. And there's no joy. He wants us to have joy as well. And joy enough to please him So you know, I but could I give you a quick example? Very quick example. Very quick, good. We have a I just wanted to let you know we have a new band aid. We're gonna try and finish it twenty uh Oh yeah I wanna touch it. You got it, but got it but I just want to let you know the beach over And at this age in the age of 15. Now my mother had a friend that came to visit once every year and she'd just turn up And I was home one year. And this woman came to the door and I'm taking my mother in her wheelchair and we were gonna walk and this lady decided to accompany us And if she's talking to my mother, now there's eight kids, bunch of grandkids, bunch of whatever. And then she says in my presence, whatever happened to that religious one of yours Now why would my mother Ian have talked about that? To her friend that she only saw once a year. I had three two sisters and a brother that went to church. Why was I mentioned? Now you know it wasn't perfect, but pimp that saw the difference. And you know it was a nasty little 15-year-old. You know 15-year-olds? Okay, now how did my mother convey that to that woman and you knew I was not holy. But God changed something. Okay, I'll leave that. Yeah. Yeah. Trust me, I deal with people that uh come out of uh It can relate to things that I had my past in my life and I mean some of these people it's like wow it it's a miracle.