L let's pray first. Heavenly Father, uh Lord, lift up this time. Uh Lord, use your word. Uh use me as an instrument, Lord. Uh Uh Lord, may we see the essence of all these laws and regulations. Uh we have your spirit, so we know ultimately things point towards you But even so, Lord, help thank you, thank you for uh having me view and uh get down in some of the detail here. Uh Again, it's just a reminder that you are in control of of all of this, uh, Lord, these people who uh back in this time um Uh the priest didn't heal them, Lord, you did. But even so even today, Lord, the surgeons cut, but you heal. Lord, let us be reminded uh just how uh awesome you are, uh how sovereign uh your your uh omniscience, your sovereignty over all of creation Lord, thank you for this word and helping me to line up with your commands, with your guidance, with your truth. This word is is uh that you've given us, Lord, is just so full of truth. And and that's what we want to look at today, Lord. Uh let us not get bogged down in uh too much detail. Let us uh see w what the essence is, and it's you, Jesus. Uh you were the fulfillment of all this law. This law really revealed you in in aspects. It's a foundation, Lord. Open our eyes and our hearts as we uh uh talk and and work with this uh section. And it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think with this has has anybody been reading anybody been reading these chapters, these especially uh thirteen and fourteen. Yes, no? Just to kind of get an idea. I mean trust me, it's it's not something I would go over all the time. Has anybody been reading ahead? I knew you would, but um most of us aren't disciplined to do it. Uh a and even I'm not. And as we go through this Um we're not going to read through this. It's is uh uh because I want to cover both these chapters. Um so what do we got? 59 verses and 13 and most of it's in fifty-seven in chapter fourteen. Most of its detail. So let's let's before we get into this let's look at some of the big ideas. Um all this law, all these these regulations for determining uh we went through foods uh and now but now we're we're really with something that is probably a little more uh practical and critical Uh but it's not just that. It's it's contagion, it's diseases of different types, right? But who is going to be the judge of all this? Who's Who determines whether these people were clean or unclean? So you know think about it. There is there's all this law that these men were learning Um, they had to be the d the determiner of of whether this can this was really contagious, whether these people would be isolated. Uh so yeah, it's a priest. The priests are g are gonna have to know this law. So you you know, think about it. Um again, tr we're just trying to have little ideas of of putting ourselves in this time frame and not looking from our point of view back. Let's kind of put ourselves in in their shoes, so to speak. So yeah, they they They were educated. Um what's the other thing? My question is, are these like verbal laws or was it written? So it's so hard to remember I think it Well verbanding written down. Um in this section we're not told. In in Exodus um uh twenty-four there was uh there was a covenant in nineteen He brought the people out of out of Israel and um and he gave them some laws. He well, we had the Ten Commandments right after that, and um uh You had uh some uh the he told 'em about the conquest of the land. He told 'em about Sabbaths and and sundry laws. Okay, and this is This is a time frame. Okay, they they've been out of Egypt for um uh a short period of time. They're at Sinai The covenant's being made. Uh so and he's giving them these laws and and in uh chapter twenty-four of Exodus The answer question. Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people, and said, All that the Lord has spoken we will do That Book of the Covenant, they are uh you can take from chapter 19 to 24, all the laws that were in there. So what he's given us an idea. Moses has written this down. Now it's in written form, okay? But think about it. Now we have from that period of time to now more law. So obviously uh that's the indication this is being written down. And at what rate we don't know until uh you know, specifically we can speculate, but there are uh these keys i in the uh uh first five books of of different times when things were were written down. So was those of the first grade? Absolutely. Yeah Yep. So and uh and remember all throughout this and we've talked about this before and this is some of the big things we forget because we really have, if you think about it this, we've had a lot of little things layered on it. And especially for those who uh uh I I know Melon uh Morag missed a lot of the uh uh sacrifices, they were they're really foundational uh uh to and that's what I want to focus on today. There is determining for uncleanness, but there was also a ritual for being clean. And that's what that's what I want to focus on. In chapter thirteen and fourteen it's it's the same thing. There's a ritual uh for the cleanness and w what is that pointing to? It's uh you know, it's it's not cleaning the people That's the other big point I want to make. The priest. Now think about this. This is a different society, right? We're in a secular world. They've coming out of paganism. Egypt uh the land that that they're going to be going to. Those people had um priests and and religious systems and what did they do? They they tried to do magic things and exorcisms to clean people, didn't they? The Hebrews aren't doing that. That's an important thing to note, to really kind of put in our minds. Right? If if you read to the chapter and and looked at this The priest goes that way if somebody's contagious, uh, and I want to give these big points because we're there's no way we're going to get to all the detail, but I don't want to get bogged down to two chapters of if it's red and if it has a black hair or if it has a white hair, it's contagious, right? And it just repeated over and over and over again. But it was important that that they determine whether something's contagious, right? Uh but the priest Went out if somebody's contagious, the priest went out to the camp. He didn't cure the person, did he? He his Soul act was to see is that person no longer contagious? And that was quote the cleansing. So the the priest didn't do it and um the person didn't do it, didn't go to the doctor It didn't have any antibiotics. What what who cleansed them, right? It hadn't been God. And I'm glad you showed up today because I was just saying, you know. God heals, right? Um you th you're a medical person in here, you might work on something, you might give somebody uh medicine for diseases, but Who heals the body, right? The surgeons do the work, but God heals the body. And that and again, this is what this is pointing to here. But Th I would imagine the people during this time as well could get into such tunnel vision. Um, you you look at what's the immediate things, do you look beyond, you know, that that God is in control of all this The other thing that will be brought up in in some of these notes, uh and uh hopefully we'll get to all the notes, uh I I don't even know if we we will, but um hmm, memory. Well, I'll have to come back to that. Mine just just went off track. So that's what we're looking at. We're looking at tests for for leprosy. Um I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time going to these this is really for yours. This is a I I this is really Ross's outline for thirteen. Okay. Uh and it's good. It it it it kinda gives us hooks, you know, you get l lost in the detail of uh whether it's a scab, is it reddish, is is it uh uh contagious, is it spreading? Um So Levi Leviticus continues with the issue of impurity by skin disease, mold, mildew contamination. There is a hygiene and medical application of pre uh prevention uh concerning these abnormalities. But the emphasis on ritual purity that prevents a person from entering the sanctuary. We'll see that kind of as we we go out, particularly uh go through this, uh uh particularly in chapter fourteen. Because if you look This is where it's good to have your Bible. Uh I know people use electronic, but uh I like being able to look at things really Uh it's the test for leprosy and um these contaminations of fungi and all, all in chapter thirteen Chapter 14 is for the cleansing. And particularly uh uh what we're going to focus on w when we get there is is 141 um I don't know, maybe through uh nineteen, but uh r really, that's when the person is dec declared clean and then the sacrifices for the quote cleansing. So it can't be physical cleansing if they're already clean and it's healing. It has to be spiritual. It has to point to something else. So first thing, leprosy. You notice how leprosy was in there all throughout if you look at this? It this is a broad word. It's not leprosy proper. Um so the word is uh such a such army. Uh And it's translated in English as leprosy lepros. Okay. While uh usually rendering uh leper or lepros, the term leper is not correct medically since um Satz or Roth is uh refers to a wider range of skin disease, uh malignant skin disease. Uh for convenience, however, the term leper can be retained. God may inflict the disease of Leprosy. Better than my Hebrew, which is weak, very weak. Uh punishment for sin such as uh jealousy. Miriam, remember Miriam got struck with it uh anger, lack of full compliance with God's commands, Uzziah, uh covetousness is uh Gahabi And uh one must not conclude, however, that all sickness is a result of individual sin, right? Job, we look at Luke, uh, you know, John, the man born blind Disease with eruptions affecting skins is sometimes mild, sometimes uh as in smallpox, smallpox, carlic fever. They're both dangerous, highly contagious. Only effective control in antiquity would have been isolation. Only the Hebrew laws had very uh valuable proof provision for this. So think about it. There are a couple things. The pagans were trying to heal them through exorcism or magic or this or that, but God is educating these people and letting them know this stuff is contagious. So there is a a a very practical sense to this as well. But ultimately I'll be waver the point enough as I go through here. Ultimately it's it's uh it's more than that. Um So uh the nature of uh contagion uh refers to only eruptions of the skin uh uh but to mildew and mold and clothing or in houses Therefore, obviously the word is not specific to leprosy. The determination for the ceremonial fitness to enter the temple. So the interpretive ideas, this passage, the different aspects of the text need to be considered. The literal meaning reveals procedures for dealing with contagious diseases. Uh this hygiene is beneficial for health and containing the spread of disease. Uh the uh the God that was revealed to Israel is the sovereign creator of the universe, and yet disease still exists among his people. God is revealing in his word that the creation is subject to decay and the people live in a world that is fallen, unclean and the i uh the eyes of God. We talked about that kind of last week. We live in a fallen world. Things are not right. All of this really, uh regardless of uh uh say the revelation they were getting because remember we're we're trying to look from their eyes. The revelation isn't Um, they were pretty much looking through a m uh mirror dimly, weren't they? We were y we still are, but we look at the clarity we have with the other side of the cross and all that. Um but think of of uh The other thing I wanted to want to say up front, and it is in here, these diseases were not necessarily a cause of sin, were they? They weren't You know, and uh sin in the general sense because we live in a fallen world, this world is cursed, it's it's kind of a uh uh there is sin and it abounds, we're immersed in it. But uh morally or ethically or or or by their actions The people that got these diseases, say a burn or something, if it gets infectious, um it's not really a a sin of uh Right, a sin of uh intentionality or anything. It's important to keep that in mind. Which is also is uh let's say uh because of the fallen world natural things will happen. So I look at it as health care, right or or preventive making this for everybody not getting uh you know, so things don't travel. Like the Barbara for years even when I was School we had to recognize certain skin diseases and because if you cut it, you can spread it. Exactly. We had to have certain fabric materials where we had to clean uh clippers and things like that. Right. Right. And you then again you can see how much more we have learned. Um back in the pagan world they Especially when we look at houses and clothing, they may not have thought anything of it. But God again is informing these people this is contagious. Right? And those methods, even in the clothing, if you when you go through all this detail, um if the c if the Spot on the clothing spreads, you got a problem. It was expensive. So they tried to pr preserve this thing. But if it's contagious Yeah, it's gotta be gotten rid of. Well that yeah, and and to your point, yeah, the even back then God is educating these people as to uh uh this type of thing. So God is holy and does not abide with pollution and uncleanness of the world. Those who are tarnished by the decay of the world may not enter. his presence without ritual cleansing commanded by him. The priests uh and the sacrifice of rituals do not cleanse nor heal the person or the object from disease. They're only dec declared clean by the priest. Uh God heals and cleanses what was unclean. This is a good again, I I copied this down. This is uh If it's not verbatim, it's it's a paraphrase of of uh the outline. Again, this is good. Um uh I believe this is Ross, yes Um I like uh it's funny I I really am I uh I have three main commentaries that uh uh boiled down to. I I have an one I I just look at it's it's an exposition but it it's not um really good for uh for this class. Um So I use I mean you pretty much use a guy named Alan Ross, which you've probably heard me use, and another guy, Gordon Wenham, and d and Kyle, uh Kyle and Dillich in in their commentaries But um I like the way Ross uh set this up, but I also use I thought Wendham also did a good uh did a really good job with with 14. So So diseases are symptoms of fallen human separation from God. Again, this is very practical. This is hygienic. This was helpful for the people. But but like I just read in that paragraph, ultimately these rituals and everything really weren't for the cleansing. They were They were. They were for the spiritual cleansing. So the person could come back into the sanctuary, into the k into the community first, and and back to the sanctuary to offer the sacrifice We have to see it as a spiritual element. To you know I was thinking about this this this last week, you know, we talk about uh foods and and hygiene and uh uh which we are today and and things like this. But it's almost like what does it profit a man if he, you know for your riches or whatever, if he gains the whole world but loses a soul, uh in hell, right? Um what does it profit a person if they're healthy, wealthy and and good their whole life, but you know what I mean, loses their soul to hell. It's a spirit what is the ultimate here? Even and again, draw back, even with all of this, these people the these people uh in a vague way we're really being a uh told this is a fallen world. We there are things that happen. Uh this is this is You you it should point towards another life, toward is there light beyond here? And what would that be? what revelation they were getting from this and and those that were saved we we just don't know. We we look for signs with scripture uh I mentioned this last week, Abraham, right, before the law was, what is it, four hundred years plus before this law is even coming in, right? Memory sacrifices Isaac. Uh Hebrews uh eleven tells us he thought Isaac was going to be raised from the dead, right? Hebrew, we didn't know that till we till we read Hebrew But obviously God to faith had put that on his heart. Without the book of Hebrews, we wouldn't have known that. The whole Old Testament doesn't tell us that He was also it says that people were looking for you know, Abraham could have gone back to where he came from, right? He came up from the land of Chaldeas. He said he could have gone back, but he was looking for uh country not you know not his own, not made with hands kind of you know. Somehow I mean God is pr ecclesiastes he tells us God puts eternity on and or in our hearts. But they don't have the twenty-twenty vision we have as far as We know there's a heaven. We that we're told s uh uh a lot about heaven in the New Testament. We're we're told that Christ is coming back. We have even end times less All this revelation these people didn't have. What they knew, it's hard to say. What what did God reveal to those who were actually believers? So it's it's kind of a mystery But again, look at some of the things that David wrote. Um uh you know, uh God put prophecy on their heart. Um but again, even like in First Peter, some of the uh prophets were looking ahead. Because they what they were writing, they go, Well this this isn't for us. Wonder who it's for, right? They didn't they it was partial revelation. But again, the this All of this, God is kind of revealing to them, okay, th they're coming out of a pagan thing, and God is kind of revealing to them more education than they would have had before. This is contagious. You have to be separated. And you have to be whole. There's that wholeness theme. All the writers talk about this. Uh it it is a common thread. You'll you'll see it through the different commentaries. And that's what you look for with looking at different commentaries. Do they all agree on this point? Then there's something to it, right? And you'll have different uh especially with symbolism, people will go off in different tangents and you can say, well, that's a good thought. Maybe it's right, maybe it's not But you look for consistency when it when uh when you have good count good men and they and they agree on certain things, wholeness is a theme. They all agree on this. And that's the picture God's trying to get 'em. Uh Any type of deformity is unholeness, and that's not right before God The primary aspect of uncleanness for those under the law, the ritual impurity, diseases, or an aspect of death and decay. And it does point to that, right? Even today with a secular secular people, uh what is the one thing you really don't want to talk about? Death. Yeah? Anybody have have kind of a thing before where they before they were saved, death scared them? Autoscare the autoscare you pretty good, right? I like the last sentence in that paragraph. Theologically, all disease and sickness is an advance toward death and proof of corruption in the world and evidence of the fault. Yep. Yeah. You just made a statement earlier that these were not sin-cause diseases. I disagree with you. All disease is sin-cause the sin was back in the Garden of Eden. Right. If there had not been a fall, there would not be any disease. Yes. Yes. When w and that's what I was trying to say. Thank you. Because it is. We are looking at two sin Encompasses all. That's why I like this sentence. Yeah. But it if I b accidentally burn my hand and it becomes infected, that's what I'm talking about Yes, uh today this was uh was bothering me last week when I was asking about the repentance um because uh Jenna is and I consider sin. So everything is sin to God as long you when even the ankeness, physical ungeness is sin because it's the effect of fall. So You know, so it's it's still sin. Right. Right. So it's not like you don't need repentance because they still give don't they still offer sin of I mean sin offering after they become clean from this So that means that we send it to the same thing. And that's what and that's and exactly and and that's what I kinda wanna have us focus on. I don't see any reason to go through all this detail. And even if I did if we just read over it, you kinda need to do once We've got the hooks, you've got my notes. Uh there's a thinking that I've been influenced by by the commentaries I've been telling you about. It's not like I'm shooting out of the out from the hip on this one. Um Yeah, i it's that whole and that's what God wants us to see, but remember, sin think about sin in a category. Well Well we take a sin, next thing we do, we start judging people. What you do? You know, what what kind of why do you like this? Um what about the b uh I quoted this earlier, uh John 9, right? The boy born born blind. Remember the disciples said to him, What sin did he commit? He said he didn't commit any sins, right? Jesus said that. But see, this is what God's trying to show us. And and I uh hopefully we get this. Uh and it's been etching down to me. We are in a sin filled world. In other words, the which is w w What's really helps me is like don't love this world because it we're it's a sin-filled world. If I want to approach God I need to be holy because He's holy. I need that Total glorification which will come in heaven. That's the only way we're going to see God face to face. And I've quoted it a couple times. It's in here. Uh it's uh Revelation twenty-one, twenty-seven. Uh n nothing unclean, unpure uh will will be in heaven, right? That's the picture he wants us to get us. And why does he want us to get us that picture? Because it It's it's just what the New Testament says. The law was a tutor to bring you to God, right? You look at the law and you're going, I can't do this. I am not perfect and God goes, You're heading in the right direction. Okay? You need me. If you're gonna do it yourself, you're still stuck in the sin fleshly world. And it w it you can't approach me that way All these sacrifices were saying, you can't approach me this way. The sacrifice is what in its essence? What is a sacrifice? When somebody brought that lamb or animal or birds, what was a sacrifice? That's why I keep putting this out, because it has to be in the front of our minds. You know what it is, but you're not it's not coming to you. But what it in it, what's the simplest thing a sacrifice was Or atonement. Okay, atonement. How's it how was it atonement? Is there a covering or a price? It's the sprinkle of the sprinkling of the blood of the the the time rescue. Why? Why is that bird blood work? I'm making you work at this because it needs to be shedding of blood. There is no production It's a what? Substitute for substitute. You can't do it on your own. You needed that substitute, whatever it was. And the and the obviously the the ultimate substitute is Christ But it was a substitute. It was you can't do this. And it's our human condition. acknowledge it really up front, but we do, it's like, you can't do it. Yeah, it's humility at its m utmost. That's the human condition is pride. I was wondering this this like this like this appease the conscience. I mean the duty is things Again, that that's a fate thing, right? 'Cause people could go through the sacrifice and certainly um The remnant was saved, but the majority weren't, were they? We uh Aaron and I were talking about this about churches back in a day when w a lot of pe there were churches on every corner, you know, majority a lot of over m over fifty percent I guess. I don't know, I haven't looked at this statistics I'm making this up, but I think at one time in the United States over fifty percent of the people probably attended church even uh occasionally Well those people say they were church people. Right? Uh and here uh you you have uh We see what happens when they're supposed to go into the land. They didn't believe, right? You had two guys who believed. Everybody else wanted to go back to Egypt. We're glad, you know, with the picture. We're going back to our sins. What were they saying it's and and this uh It sounds like I'm talking off task, but really this is the essence of all this scripture. What were they saying when they didn't want to go into the land? They said, we can't take this, right? No kidding, you're right. But it took faith. God is going to knock those buildings down. God's going to take down, uh, uh conquer the land for them. So when they went into the land, what they if you notice what they did, they they went to the fortified cities. That's what they did. They took all the fortified cities out. They didn't conquer all the people. They took out the fortifications. They started in Jericho. It was a big fortification. They took it out. That's what they took out. The fortified cities. Then they w then they was each of the clans was supposed to take care of the people in the land. But they couldn't do it themselves. You can't they can't these these people are moving from a pagan society, there's no priest or anything that's gonna do a magic act and get rid of their uncleanness. They were declared clean. These are uh and I know I'm harping on it, uh, but these are the big takeaways from this. If we don't get this, there's you just get lost in the detail The realization that all the corruption in the world leads to death causes one to ponder if there is any hope in this world alone. For the believer, we know that this world is not our home, but a future hope in the presence of God, where corruption and uncleanness cannot exist. And here I have this quote, Revelation 21, 27. But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who uh who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of light. Again, without we are going to see God face to face. And that was this picture that these people were getting. That's why these all these sacrifices, all these cleansings Okay? It wasn't the body they were cleansing. They were cleansing themselves in the sanctuary. And the picture was, God is holy. You're in a sin-fallen world. You may have gotten a skin disease or a rash or something that was contagious. Okay? But in order for you to come back to God, you've got to be whole. God is holy. God is pure. You can't come to Him. It's not re and remember, it's who God is. That's the other thing we need to take away. Do we really do I really get that this is who God is? He's totally holy. And I'm not. But on the positive side, he's giving these sacrifices his grace, right? It's a means of sanctification. It's a means of coming back to the presence of God. He offers a way. So Israel's laws uh reveal a pattern of uh perfection and condition required in the presence of the Lord God. One must be perfect in the presence of the Holy One. This meant that one had to be whole, unblemished to enter his presence. For those who had chronic illness, uh permanent deformity must have looked like uh future life and existence apart from the world Uh you know, I thought about that. What happened to somebody born blind? Um you saw the Pharisees uh in Israel thought the man born blind was really a sinner. Um You you uh if somebody was uh born with a deformity here, uh uh it was a it was a difficult aspect for them. It would take a lot of faith. It would take God's faith to open your heart to realize that this this is not their home. There is a future for them. So um I thought about this. I'll So let's uh we can look at a couple of the highlights. Again, most people I take it have not read Leviticus 13 I think there's a no. So like in uh let's see. So let's let's just l highlight and read a couple of them. Uh Uh Leviticus thirteen one. Then the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, Now he's speaking to both of them again. It's important. Aaron has to get this information going to be the priest that determine all this. Uh when a man has a skin or a body or swelling or a scab or a bright spot and it becomes an infection of l of leprosy, and again we're using it as a uh a l uh term, uh broad term, it's not leprosy uh as we know it. Um uh it could just be uh any type of uh thing that becomes uh infected um of his body he shall be brought to Aaron the priest, who are one of the sons of the priest. The priest shall look at the mark of the skin and the body and the hair and the infection Uh if it's turned white and the infection appears to be deeper than the skin and the body, it is an infection of leprosy. When the priest has looked at him, he shall be pronounced he shall pronounce him unclean And remember, if this can if this disease was totally contagious, the other thing is, remember, these people had to live outside the camp. So w uh w w w we don't really think about that a whole lot in and when we're reading the Old Testament. There was a group that was living outside the camp. Uh we might run into this as we come to atonement. Uh which is really where all this is going to. Remember that. All these diseases, the ultimate payment for all these sins was the Day of Atonement. And and uh from After yes. So from eleven through fifteen, right, we're looking at all these diseases. All this is pointing towards atonement. Atonement's gonna cover a lot of the sin The preach uh verse eight, uh let's see. No, seven. And if a scab appears, uh spreads fur in the skin uh and he shown himself to the priest, uh cleansing shall appear, the priest the priest shall look at it, the scab is the s uh is spread on the skin, and the priest shall uh pronounce him unclean in his leprosy He talks about boils in verse 18. Again, could be leprosy. Verse 24, if the body sustains the skin by burn, by fire, raw flesh, again, it can become infected, right? And he goes through all the details, and they they are to determine that Uh again, th there is a very practical thing about this. And there is a think about the education they're getting. They're really starting to learn about contagion and cleanliness. and how things spread. Uh who knows what the pagan community was doing with a lot of this stuff? Probably a lot of it was ignorant, you know Um we think of some of the ignorant things we did back even in this quote modern era, the eighteen hundreds and all that. Um We've learned a lot, uh right? But God is bringing them uh education. So there is a uh a a serious uh there is a good practical hygiene uh uh practice of this If a man or woman has infection on the head, uh he talks about that. Even talks about somebody going bald, it's not necessarily a bad thing, good thing. He talked about eczema in ver uh thirty-eight. Um uh no verse thirty nine. Uh the pre i it could just be eczema. So you see all the this is this word is just a general term for these different things. Um then he goes in in 44 he switches right to lepress man Unclean a pre shall surely pronounce him unclean his infection on his head. As for the leper who has uh Infection uh uh infection, his clothes shall be torn and the hair of his head shall be uncovered. Um sorry. Pluring up there. And he shall uh cover his mustache and cry unclean. So we see that was uh even from an old age. But he goes in and he starts to talk about garments in forty seven, right And again, this was a uh a thing that probably a lot of people would not have known uh to really pay attention to Uh if there's a spot on there, if the spot stays, if it spreads, it it needs it needs to be dealt with. If it's if it's uh if it keeps spreading, th they shall burn the garment. Verse 52. All right. You can read to that. There's there's that all that detail in there. We turn the page when we get to 14, right? The law of cleansing the leper. Uh why don't we read this. Um somebody read uh fourteen one through let's see six No through five. Somebody read six verse six through I don't want to give too much I don't know, six through nine. Somebody read ten that's a longer section. Ten through fourteen. Can we do that? Somebody want to read uh 14, 1 through 5? Then the Lord spoke to Moses say it, this shall be the law of the representative for the day of his cleansing. He shall be brought to the priest And the priest shall go out of the camp and the priest shall look. Then if the case of weapons disease is he and the weckless person, the priest shall command them To take for him who is to be cleansed, two live clean birds, and cedar wood and scarlet yarn and hissp, and the priest shall command them to kill women birds in an earthenware vessel over fresh water. So we pick up in verse six. He shall take the live bird with the cedar wood and the scarlet yarn and the hyssops and dip them and the live bird in the blood of the bird that is killed over the And he shall sprinkle it seven times on him who is to be cleansed of the lepros' disease, and he shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living word go into the open field And he who is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes and shave off all his hair, and bathe himself in water, and he shall be clean. And after that he may come into the camp but live outside his tent seven days. And on the seventh day he shall shave off all his hair from his head, his beard, and his eyebrows He shall shave off all his hair, and then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe his body in water, and he shall be clean Uh somebody read ten through see fourteen, I'll pick it up from f fourteen. On the eighth day he must take two unblemished male lambs and unblemished male youth lamb, a grain offering of six forts of fine flour mixed with olive oil and one third of a quarter of olive oil. The priest who performs the cleansing will place the person who is to be cleansed to get some olive oil To be cleansed together with these offerings before the Lord at the entrance of the tent of meat, priests is to take one male lamb and present it as a guilt offering along with one third quarter more, and he will present them as a presentation offering before the Lord. He is the starter of the male lamb at the place in the sanctuary area. Where the sin offering and the burnt offering are slaughtered. For like the sin offering, the guilt offering belongs to the priest. It is especially open The priest is to take some of the blood from the guilt offering and put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot. Verse 15, the priest shall also take some of the log of oil and pour it into his left palm. That the the priest shall then dip his right finger into the oil that is in his left palm. And with his finger sprinkle some of the oil seven times before the Lord. Of the remaining oil which is in his palm, the priest shall put some of the right on the right ear lobe and uh of the one to be cleansed, and on the thumb of the right hand and on the big toe of his right foot on the blood of the uh on the blood of the guilt offering While the priest of the o of the oil that is in the priest's palm, he shall put on the head of the one to be cleansed. So the priest shall make atonement for on his behalf before the Lord. Uh the priest shall next offer the sin offering and make atonement for the one to be cleansed from the uncleanness. Then afterwards he shall s slaughter the burnt offering The priest shall offer up the burnt offering and the grain offering on the altar. Thus the priest shall make atonement for him, and he will be clean. So again, because of time you can see where we are, but this is the essence of of where this is going. This is the cleansing for all of this And the cleansing again is really to bring 'em back into the c they they're in the community, but it's really to bring 'em back to full restoration so they can go to the tabernacle, he can make the offerings, and he and he can again be f the part of the covenant community. That's the thing we want to uh emphasize. Back to Exodus 19, they made a covenant. This is all the elaboration. This is what it means to be part of this covenant. They're covenant with God, their sovereign king. So God is the one who heals and restores the suffering individual back to the covenant community. Yeah. Again, the priest went out uh In case you don't have time, you you're looking at a two week thing. The the priest goes out, he he determines the person's clean, the person can come back to the community, but he can't go back to his tent yet There's another week. They want to make sure he's clean. Then when he is on the eighth day that then uh uh again there's all this sacrifice for him then to move back into the uh covenant community or the the temple, shall we say, the presence of God. So, God is the one who heals, restores a suffering individual back to the covenant community. He provided the way to bring those who were unclean back to cleanliness. And provides a way of sanctification. God restored the way for the sufferer to come into his presence again. Don't forget that. God is wants a relationship with us. He's holy. It's not really come, but he definitely wants a relationship with us. That's why he came to redeem us. The ritual for cleansing of the persons described. The consensus for the symbolism of this ritual has been described in the following manner. Again They might agree on this, but again, this is not spelled out in scripture, so we have to take this, okay? Uh it's probably it's some good thinking perhaps. It's uh it's theologically correct, it doesn't but it doesn't necessarily uh it's not doctrine, okay? Two birds represent uh healed Israelite. Killing of the one bird is significant, uh the fate of those not healed. So in other words, there's life and death, right? The bird that was washed and flew away represented the freedom of disease, the sufferer experience. The two birds probably symbolize the two fates of the person. disease resulting in death, right? Freedom of uh and freedom of life. Uh Kyle writes, uh the free bird represents new life for the diseased person. The similarity between the ritual, the Day of Atonement, right? Yeah, I I know most of you are s uh familiar with that, the the scapegoat, right? The similarity between the the Day of Atonement where the one goat dies, the other goat lives, is the same fate of the two birds. Kyle continues, the restoration of this full, vigorous life was secured to him symbolically. by his being sprinkled with blood of the bird which was killed in his stead. Again, substitute. Bird was killed in his dead. That that bird represented uh uh the uh the person sinned, so to speak, as as for um he took that away. Th that was a substitute for it the bird died in his place. Was sprinkled not only with blood, but also uh but with the following uh water of purification into which the blood had flowed. Thus it was purified from his mortal uncleanness. The blood was sprinkled seven times over the mercy seat, and seven times the blood in the water of the bird were sprinkled uh on the diseased person. Wynham writes, the cedar wood, scarlet, and hyssop are also part of the ritual and he gets, but we can't be sure of the symbolism with that And and you can. W we just can't. There are scenes that are there that that we see that's similar Uh but you you can't be again, uh y you can't put it down as doctrine. Uh we we can use a lot of symbol symbolism that could be correct theologically, but not necessarily we don't know. In uh the paragraph right above, this one that you're about to get to though when we just finish reading, um, where it was written that the blood was sprinkled seven times over the mercy Um I guess I just had a hard time seeing that when I read um Leviticus 13, because it seemed like this blood, the one that from the two birds, uh, was all done outside the camp So at what point was the blood sprint loop over the mercy seat? No, it it's uh parallelism with the Day of Atonement. Oh, okay, that's where you time out at No, yeah, no. And Then when did that happen? Once a year, right? Yeah. No, it's uh it's uh I I I'm sorry, I'm Russian, but it's a parallelism Because you you got one bird that goes free. And the Day of Atonement, what do what do they do? Remember they put their their hands on the head and the it was to take the sin of the It's this the the Day of Atonement is is for the priest. He has to offer atonement for himself first. But he what is he ultimately doing? He's trying to take away the sin of the people. And Again, we'll we'll look at this, but he's also, why is he going into the temple? He's because the sin of the people symbolically has uh uh made the temple unclean. They have to purify the temple. Right? And and he has to go into the Holy of Holies Which they never did any other time except for this. And c and and cleanse that as well. Which gives you shady. I mean, we talk about this is one of the points I want to debate. Does it seem like, you know, when he puts the blood on the ear, the toe, the finger, he puts oil all over, does it seem like he's being clean? I mean after that it's like man I need a shower. It's gotta be s the whole point is it's gotta be pointing to spiritual. It's got to be. It's it's there. It had to be, yeah. Well what I really say is the the grace and the loving God, uh a father who who wants to protect his people and he just w giving them object lessons to that he really desires purity and holiness. Absolutely. And it's an object lesson for us. It's with It's certainly been for me. It's like, again, I I really see this. This is the foundation of what Christ did. This is This is he's pointing to all of this. Christ is going to fulfill all of this. And he did fulfill all of this. And all of this was necessary. It's a holy God we are being cleansed and brought to. And we d to me, I uh y again, it's uh with the grace that we have, saved, I'm going to heaven, I'm right you know, declared righteous, but uh It misses the point of what God did for me to get to that point. And it motivates me, okay God doesn't change. So my life, especially now that I have the Spirit of God living in me, I need to get myself together. You know, I I can't think you know, i and it's a positive motivation. I want to be in that press just like then if they wanted to go to the tabernacle They had to b had to do this. But i it's pointing to a spiritual thing. If we want to be close to Christ, I keep it if I'm living like the world I am separating myself spiritually even now with the spirit living inside of me, right, to the closeness of of Christ. It has to be. Um so and that's why I see this this you got these two things going on. God's sovereignty, God's grace, he does all this, and yet he's he's he's given us a call uh uh all the imperatives in the New Testament or commands, right? Why would he give us an imperative? It's it's predestined, we're gonna do it anyway. There is some aspect of our will lining up and and turning myself over to this and being conscious of this and making an effort uh and it really has to do with humbleness, emptying myself of doing it my way. I think that's that to me is the essence. Uh I've said this before, First John, walk in the light as he is in the light, right? Um God is light, and in him there's no darkness at all. If we say we uh walk in the light, yet yet, you know, uh uh I'm misquoting it. Um anyway, the blood of Christ cleanses us from all unrighteousness. But it has to do with being t totally honest and open. The inner man, the heart. Mel brought this up last week in Hebrews, talking about God cleanses the heart, the inner man. Uh let me read it for you real quick, because that that this is such a huge Hebrews nine Because you'll see both sides of this, especially as we're going through all this cleansing stuff, of uh Hebrews nine, I'm just gonna get to the essence, I'm not gonna give you the context here. Uh but when Christ appeared on m verse eleven I'll read you that. For if verse thirteen, for if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkled on those who have been defiled, sanctified for the cleansing of the flesh. They were their flesh was cleansed, so they could go into the tabernacle But look but look at how it turns so. Ha verse fourteen, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through eternal s who Let me get this right. Blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God Cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living gods. That's where it's really going. Faith. Old Testament, somehow, what they what revelation they got, but it was the true believers in the Old Testament, just like it is today. Not the people who go to church Not the people who were in the camp, not the people who went to the sanctuary, the people who really believed or had that saving faith. Okay, well can I add to that? I'm in Hebrews 2 and um Leviticus 2 to my mom as I was reading Hebrews 10. Um it starts kind of at the end of five. First five, ten five. So if we're going to put an offering, but a bottom you have prepared for me. You haven't not taken it. You have to be replicate. Then I said people are um of me. If we could jump down to verse nineteen, um it says therefore further inside We have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, by a new living way which he inaugurated for us through the veil, that is his flesh. And that's what all this was this was they were looking dimly, but even then these sacrifices uh uh the uh memory all the sacrifices were pointing to this right The Passover. It started in the Passover before they even got out and got the law. Started in Egypt. The blood. They put the flood on the I mean it just all of this was pointing to something to be f fulfilled. Uh we may have to finish up uh just with the end of this next week because I I promised to get you guys out But look at this notes, especially uh with uh I'm not gonna read it now because uh uh uh I won't have time to really, but look at this section here because this is Um, just real quick. Look at what you got. You got the burnt offering in in this this section. Right? You got the meal or dedication. Remember we talked about the green offering. We said it's a dedication. They're dedicating themselves to the covenant. That's in here. Um right, the purification, which they call the sin offering. I probably should have put that in notes. Remember we said sin, it's it's uh But it's really a purification, it's cleansing. It's uh uh we talk about that, Leviticus four. You look at the notes on that The reparations, right? We looked at that offering. They have to it's it's like, well what do you owe God? Well they hadn't they hadn't been there to to pay the tithes Uh depending on how long they were outside the camp, they weren't able to offer the sacrifices. Again, it's revealing. This is what we owe to God. Yes We'll finish on on yours. Oh just a commentary that uh from that I've been I just realized and that we've been reading a bit it's it's not anything like crazy, it's just that um When we look at all these sacrifices that the Israelites at this time were making unto God and God's um demand for purity in order to worship him and how like if you had these skin diseases you were outside of the camp of Um these Israelites they lived in this place all their lives, right? And so they were constantly aware of how how their lives look before God. Hopefully, but you know what? It's amazing how blind we can be. Indeed. I'm just I mean look at us today. We we still are Indeed. And I think that uh part of the the thing that I've that's been on my mind is today we don't have these practices. And so it's even much harder perhaps for us to to see just how our everyday actions uh what spiritual impact do you think have. Uh we have entertainment and all that that was just occupy our minds and we could feed on that for the rest of our lifetime. Sure. Sure. Um and I think what this is just showing me more is how serious life really is it is before it is. And think about it. Um again like like when I started to think, okay, suppose somebody was healthy, wealthy and all that and they lived a good life and a lot of people have Especially in uh this aging country, uh uh uh but then lose their soul and go to hell. No. And that's why I'll finish with this and pray. That's why God tells us to read the whole word of God. Um this is a book that I really kind of skipped over. I don't know about you. But having uh uh having been convicted to go back and look at it, it's it's been fabulous. Um Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time. Lord, we want to uh lift up our Corporate prayer. Um Lord, we want to worship you. And and as we've been kind of wrestling talking about with different comments, we don't want to just worship you now. We want to worship you throughout the week, moment by moment. Lord, give us a heart. And uh thank you for opening our eyes to the severity and i i it's not a judgment as much as you are holy, you are separate from us and we need to comprehend that. But you have provided the way to bring us into your presence We look to that future glorification where all of these, even the small things, will be taken off uh from us. We will be we will see you as you uh we will be like you because we will see Jesus Christ, glorified Christ as He is. Lord, we thank you. It's in your name we pray. Amen