My rambling, if you can hear it, you can see I I mean I've been pulled in a lot of ways. This has been a great study for me. It has taken me to places I I hadn't gone before. I hope it's done uh with you all as well through the notes and some of the things we've discussed. Um Yeah, there's just a richness to this, uh a depth that I really hadn't seen before. This section we're going over today A lot of it's gonna be uh kind of redundant of what we've already studied The first section we studied up through 6-8, chapters 1, up through uh Leviticus 6. 8 It was uh uh uh but to keep this in mind, it was directed, it was the law, it was the instruction for the individual This is the individual's responsibility. We're shifting now for the same uh as you can see with this outline You're gonna go through we're gonna go through in this section all the the sacrifices again, but now it's just from the priest what w what what their application, what their responsibilities were. And we'll get some more detail. But there's not really a lot of aho movements in here I think as we turn the corner for for the next one in uh chapter eight, that when the priest is consecrated, then uh I think we'll see Kind of what God is doing, how they're separating, how they're He is determining these men, these mediators are holy. uh and separated. They were the ones to mediate for all these sacrifices. Uh uh again, unless God is really in uh behind all this, remember it's a spiritual aspect. uh that really makes this this all this come alive. Um and and and I'll I'll throw in an example later uh w where we're looking at some of this, like when something's holy and somebody eats of the meat that was holy. I I mean, man doesn't really know if God's not kind of empowering this thing Right? It's not really holy. And I just wanted to remember that. These were animals, but if it wasn't for God behind all this They they really wouldn't be holy, would they? I mean we'd be going through a ritual. But I mean pagans did the same thing. Did a lot of these these rituals were actually a lot of them were very similar to pagan uh things that have been going on since uh about Mesopotamia. So um uh and that's all we see. We talk about that too. Uh When we looked at the covenant in Exodus 19, we go, okay, we're at Mount Sinai, he's made a covenant. This covenant was similar to covenants that would have been already in existence with with kings and clans and that kind of thing. So God's using this but he's he's taking a similar thing but It's pointing to the God of creation. That's the thing. And of course he's manifested himself in ways to to bring this to life. Alright, so w now that I'm done rambling there, let's look through the outline. So you got uh 6. 8, chapter 6, uh 8 verses 8 through 13, this perpetual burnt offering. 614-18 is a serial or tribute offering. Verses 19 through 23, chapter 6, is the pre-serial offering. Okay? So you got the peoples, they're uh working for the people, and then of course the serial offering that the priests are bringing. Uh verses uh 624 through 30, the purification offering. 7-1 through verse 10, uh reparation offering. And uh 7-11 through 21, the peace offering. 22 to 27, no fat or blood to be eaten. That's restated. 28 through 36, the portion of the peace offering, the priest portion of it. And then it's just a summary. So again, a lot of this is just a review kind of a thing of going over the sacrifices we already went through, but this is what We'll get some more information, but this is what the priests uh uh have to do with it. So, burn offering 68 through 13. Uh somebody want to read that for us? Chapter 6, verses 8 through 13. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering. The burnt offering shall be on the hearth, on the altar all night until the morning, and on the fire shall be kept. And the priest shall put on his linen garment and put his linen undergarment on its body, and he shall take up the ashes to which the fire has reduced the burnt offering on the altar and put them beside the altar. Then he shall take off his garments and put on other garments, and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place. The fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it. It shall not go out The priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and he shall arrange the burnt offering on it, and shall burn on it the fat of the peace offering. Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually, it shall not go out. So you see what's kind of repeated in there. What was one of the things that's repeated? Did you catch that um says it three times? What were they supposed to do? Yeah, make sure that the fire keep that fire going. The fire does not go out, yes. That emphasis in this section is on maintaining the fire so that it never goes out. The preacher is responsible to keep the fire going with the burnt offering, smoking on top of it. Uh and y you know how fires can be, you can think. There's probably a lot of work. Sometimes you can put the fire out by putting stuff on it and uh you know, uh just but that was their job. Um so The burnt offering was to be a continual offering to the Lord. A lamb was to be offered in the morning and another in the evening at dusk. It was to be a soothing aroma to the Lord, as Numbers 28, 3 through 10. Other sacrifices would be offered during the day, but nothing after the evening burnt offering was offered until morning. But you you can see this is a um so in the morning let me finish it up we'll you know talk about it in the morning the ashes from the burnt altar had to be taken uh from the altar and put beside the altar. Uh you see so they're taken out because you know what happens if the ashes just burn up, right? Or or it'll put the fire out. They had to clean the ashes out, put them beside the altar. The priest had to wear his linen robe and wear undergarments when approaching the altar. Next, the ashes had to be removed from beside the altar and taken outside the camp to a clean place. The priest carrying the ashes outside the camp must remove the linen garments and put on other other garments per uh before performing this task. So there is speculation as to the symbol symbolism of the perpetual fire for the scriptures Uh but the scriptures don't tell us uh exactly what it is. So Calvin observes the first burnt offering in the tabernacle in the temple were lit by fire from the uh from heaven and they were to be maintained uh he calls it a heavenly fire. Uh Kyle sees it as um uh saw it as a symbol of divinity, uh appoint uh uh a divinely appointed, uninterrupted worship of the Lord. Others suggest The burnt offering was seen as a propitiatory sacrifice, perpetual fire is seen as a reminder for our constant need for atonement. But again, uh these are just kind of conclusions we draw from it. You know, uh w we can't be dogmatic about a lot of these things. And and that's a problem. Well and we'll we'll get a quote later, uh, because These are logical, but it's you were, you know, we can also draw long wrong conclusions from our logic, so we have to be careful about that. The perpetual fire represents God's eternal presence with his people. For the believer, it's a reminder to keep the fire ever burning within us. Paul reminds us a command not to quench the Spirit of God. Uh I believe that was Wenham's uh that was his take on it So the responsibility of the Old Testament priests was to keep the fire burning and to provide access to God and be properly attired in order to be qualified to be a mediator for the people before God. So again, God has this He's got a order, He's got a way, and remember this is a visible actual manifestation, but it's pointing again to the holiness of God. And it's it's a reminder people, common, uncommon, clean, unclean. And again It's it's um the typology or the the the point is is that God is holy. And it's it's this constant reminder that people are separate from this So the typology of the sacrifice was discussed previously as representing Christ as a substitutionary sacrifice for sins. of those who would believe in him. That's what we went over in chapter uh four. Uh Hebrews 725, speaking of the superior priesthood of Christ, says he always makes always lives to make intercession for them. So Christ uh Christ is now and always mediating for the saints The gospel ministers of the Word of God are perpetually are to perpetually proclaim Jesus Christ died for our sins. Apart from him there is no forgiveness of sins And uh so we have access to God through the death of Christ, who was the fulfillment of the uh whole burnt offering. And again Each of these sacrifices is kind of a propitiation, expiation, has atonement to it The idea is that we're sh we're showing God showing different aspects of that atonement Uh we see atonement, but these are all he's he's given us different aspects of God, what Christ did for us. And and that's kind of what we tried to point out in examples like New Testament. What did he do when he uh uh made purification for sins and and and This atonement, remember, it's substitute. That's the essence of this. Even in the Old Testament, right, they're taking an animal. They bring that animal The animal is a sacrifice, not the person. Something was sacrificed. Something died for that person. They were to get that. I mean, would did they know to point to an ultimate sacrifice? I don't know. It depends on uh I mentioned this before. It depends on what God kinda put on their heart. Uh Uh you know when a person gets saved, we understand things we didn't know before. But it doesn't p s uh specifically say They certainly didn't know. Jesus Christ of Nazareth was put on a cross, died for our sins, was buried, rose again three days later. That gospel they didn't see. But They n what gospel they did see is that their sin required a payment, and a payment that they couldn't make. Uh and I probably should emphasize emphasize this last time. It's a debt we couldn't pay, right? That's the important thing Even back then, it was a debt they couldn't pay. That innocent animal had to die for them. So Again, I think sometimes we we we get uh I do, I get too far into the specifics and we forget what the overall picture is. We have a debt we couldn't pay. Somebody had to pay it for us. We are sinners. We are separate from God. We're unclean. We've got all these things that the Old Testament apply to us as well. So the most holy, all these things uh We see this this repeated phrase. The offerings listed in these verses reveal uh that these are most holy. Um six seventeen, twenty-three, seven six And instruction is given to the priests as to which of these may or may not uh they may or may not eat. The offerings are the meal or tribute offering The purification offering and the reparation offering. These offerings are holy and must be eaten in a holy place. Uh the um the priest if you look and you you go through this is to to be reminded when they ate the meat of it it says it had to be eaten in a holy place. They're assuming that the priests are the ones who ate this inside the tabernacle. And you kind of saw that with um when he took the ashes out, did you notice? Um He has to have his undergarments on and his linen. And he while he's working at the altar, he puts the ashes beside the altar. But when he goes to take the ashes outside the camp, he has to have other garments on And again, it's a whole picture. You are in the again, Mount Sinai, God is in the mount. He comes down to the tabernacle. God is coming towards man. This is man approaching God. Think of it that way. It's the big picture again. It's man approaching God. And he says, if you're going to approach me These are all these things. You gotta, you just can't come to me. I am holy. And and that's what they were being trained. And think about it, they did this over and over and over again, year after year after year. This just becomes second nature. And it and it's like anything. Familiarity can also breed what? You know, you you take it for granted. It works both ways. But this would have been ingrained in them. Um So serial tribute. This is 614 through eighteen. Let's read that real quick. Somebody more volunteer, uh Chapter 6, verses 14 through 18 And this is the law of the drain offering. The sons of Aaron shall offer it before the Lord in front of the altar, and one shall take from it a handful of the pine flour of the grain offering and its oil And all the frankincense that is on the drain offering and burned that as its memorial person on the altar, a pleasing aroma to the Lord And the rest of it Aaron and his sons shall eat. It shall be eaten unleavened in a holy place. In the court of the tents of meeting they shall eat It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their portion of my food offerings. It is a thing both holy, like the sin offering and the guilt offering Every male among the children of Aaron may eat of it, as decreed forever, throughout your generations, from the Lord's food all things. Whatever touches them shall become holy. Yeah, and I like the way you said holy um you know, consecrated uh uh Holy. So this sacrifice normally followed the burnt offering. This offering is discussed in chapter two is viewed as the tribute or allegiance to the covenant made with God at Mount Sinai. Right? Exodus 19. Again, this is important. Remember, this is a covenant thing. They understood this covenant. This was again part of the culture, but this is Reaffirming and recognizing this lord is their sovereign. Um again, it's it's uh We talk about what is it lordship salvation, how we undermine that sometimes. I mean, th this was again, this was ingrained there. The the Lord is the sovereign. You follow his rules. Uh I don't know about you, but I think we take that for granted sometimes. It's it's again, I I I get too lax and um you know I forget Who kind of disobedience is what God wants and it's really for my benefit The priests are allowed to eat this offering. It must be eaten in a holy place. The grain that the priests were allowed to eat from this offering were most holy. Verse 17 All the males, all the sons of uh Aaron, were allowed to eat of this offering. Uh whoever touches them becomes holy So this is a difficult uh verse right to interpret it. It seems best to take it that a person becomes holy or a thing consecrated by touching the meal offering Wendham says this is probably meant as a warning to the lay people to avoid touching the most holy sacrifice. Kyle sees this in a similar manner and that the lay person uh would be holy and would have to live a consecrated manner as a priest. uh but in the circumstances of everyday life and not separated as the priests were. And I think what he was trying to say there was if this if this person were to touch this He w he uh he doesn't mention it, but would the would he be guilty, would he become sick or whatever, because now he's consecrated and now he's becoming uh famili uh touching in an environment of an unclean situation, in a worldly situation. I think that's what um uh the gist of that was that Kyle was trying to s uh say. Um again Well let me finish this and then I'll uh so we see similar situation in the New Testament. In 1 Corinthians 11, 17 through 22, this is right the Lord's Supper Um people were uh but in the first part and seventeen in in that first part of uh chapter eleven, people were eating and drinking food, they were getting drunk and celebrating the Lord's Supper So they were they were um indulging in the food, they were eating food, there was uh wasn't l uh food left for some of the other people, people were getting drunk during this And in verse 27-34, Paul says that a man is to judge himself and not eat and drink in an unworthy manner before the Lord as a result of eating and drinking in an unworthy manner Some were sick and even sleep, which means they died. Some people were dying prematurely. So again, think of it in the same way. Was that food that the people were eating in the New Testament, right after Christ died? Ascended, rose again. You're looking at uh 1 Corinthians, what are you looking at? 30 years after Christ's ascension, right? So was that And this kind of the point I want to make, was that bread or that wine or whatever really holy? It was it was it was the idea that they were representing God or this was a meal for God. God's the one who made it a judgment, right? Um am I g i am I losing you or am I making sense? I see some blank stares there. I guess I want to say it. Even the Ark of the Covenant. Think of the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of Covenant was taken, right? Was the Philistines took it? Ark of the Covenant, so the Philistines grabbed the covenant. They or the the Ark of the Covenant. They put it in their their their little temple. Of course they had repercussions from that. Um but they touched it. It didn't die. Uh and this is the point is that uh When David finally brought it back and Uzzah was going to move it for him, he put it on a cart, which was not supposed to be. When he when it was sort of getting ready to fall off the cart and he touched it Right? He died. But it was ga it was well my point is, it's God that's behind this. He told them not to do this The same way with this food, they're consecrated. When God says this and you're in this tabernacle, it's not the food or the ark or this, it's God who says, this is holy. I am separating this. And in the New Testament, when these people died, it wasn't because this bread or this wine had anything magic to it. It's because God has has said, you have made a mockery. of something, okay, that I declared holy. You're taking the Lord's supper and a and away. And we say it in church today. If somebody's not saved, you you shouldn't take of the Lord's Supper. Uh we we say, uh well we're ha we're giving the Lord's Supper if you you know Confess your sin right now, before it comes. Think about it. Do you have anything you need to bring to the Lord God God works in ways that we just uh He's there. We just don't see him, do we? We don't have that tangible thing. But it it'd be nice every once in a while to Wake us up. So this passage does not give details on how long somebody would be set apart or or deemed holy. And and and if they were, what if anything could be done to unconsecrate the person? So what they're saying is somebody touches this um Meat there was the uh the sacrifice uh was brought, uh the meat or the grain was the holy part that the priest could keep. If if a layman touched it What he's saying is, um what these commentators are saying is what they have to be unconsecrated. Uh all this is w this is just speculation. We just don't know. The the Bible doesn't speak. So the emphasis is that the common cannot come in contact with the holy. The priests were consecrated mediators of the most holy things for the people of God. And we're gonna we'll really see that next week when we get into chapter eight. When Aaron because remember this is a law, if if if this is moving through as narrative We're getting first we got the law for how the people were to bring the sacrifice and what their part was. Now we're getting the priest. And and uh in chapter eight, Aaron is anointed. So he's If it's narrative, if they're getting the rules up front, Aaron's anointed, then the sacrifices are are going to begin in actuality in in a narrative form. Make sense? So the ritual or the tribute meal offering declares that this uh where am I at? Yeah. The ritual of the tribute meal offering declares a memorial offering mixed with incense. uh to be an offering by fire or the pleasing aroma to the Lord, the priest shall eat the portion that is not burned on the fire, but it must be eaten in a holy place The ritual of the priest eating the offering in a holy place and being consecrated, verse 18, by the offering is acknowledged again to the worshiper that God accepts the tribute memorial. uh the memorial mill. And again how did and again we can only speculate, but but the fact that The offerer knew that what he brought the priest offered on fire, but the rest was holy, somehow And this is my speculation, seemed to me somehow the the worshipper identified and and it was was it acceptable? It seemed like it was, if it was most holy It's a participation again. What did it mean for the worshipper? And that's what God wants wants wants to put forward. Uh what you brought is acceptable uh and it could be on on different levels, but You the worshippers recognizes that in a way what he's doing has significance to God ultimately And and I think that's what's brought out with this it's most holy. It's most holy. You can't touch it. Yeah. It's not just a role uh Again, for the worshipper not to do it, but he recognizes that what he brought was acceptable That's what uh a lot of commentators think. It seems to make sense to me. And also what again What is it what what is the essence? What does it mean for the for the person, the lay person, bringing this? He's moving towards God. He has to know this. Pre-serial offering So this is where the priest offers it, and this is for himself. This cereal or tribute offering by the priest must not be eaten but completely burned up. Verse 23 The phrase on the day when he is anointed, uh verse twenty, is thought to be uh the indicate uh indicate the beginning when Aaron was anointed and this offering was to be uh permanent ordinance. The priest was to offer twice daily. Again, we're going to see this, the anointing of A Aaron Excuse me, the priesthood in uh chapter eight. In Hebrews seven twenty-seven For it was indeed fitting that we should have a high priest, wholly innocent, unstained, separate from sinners, exalted above the heavens. Has no need like those high priests to offer sacrifice daily first for his own sin? Excuse me The sins of the people, since he did this once for all when he offered up himself. So believers live, think about it, we live in grace of God, trusting in the finished work of Christ as a substitute and redeemer for our souls, but like the Old Testament priests, we must humble ourselves and seek dependence on God's leading grace daily. They this offering um was offered daily. So the priests have to offer for themselves. And Christ doesn't have to do that, right? He's not, he's holy. He didn't have to offer for himself his life, his body, okay, his sacrifice. He's the perfect land. He he doesn't have to offer this for himself. The priests do daily. Okay? And and Again, it's kind of that that idea with us uh coming before God, praying for grace and not relying on ourselves. Um I was telling I think I was talking to Mike Jarvis. I was listening to something Swindahl was teaching on uh Titus and um You know, we're talking about um priests, uh actually men in the ministry, and um you know how how difficult It is. Um he was talk he was uh relating a a letter uh that a a pastor had written to uh I think it was Kent Hughes, I guess Uh anyway, Swindle obviously was friend with him and and and knew him. And the pastor was saying, you know, it's so hard, he goes, Oh Uh most of my friends who were in ministry aren't in ministry anymore. Um you know, it's uh we all started off so well and most of them, a lot of them are fallen, they're out of the ministry And and it some summarizing all this. Ken Hughes wrote back and he goes, Yeah, when when we graduated from school we were all going to glorify God. We were all going to do it all to the glory of God And he goes, Yeah, most of uh a lot of my friends and all are out of the ministry. And a lot of them it was for, you know, misconduct and uh a lot of them were uh it was a sexual thing. They were, you know, adulterous things or he goes What we didn't get was we don't need we the we said we were going to glorify God. He goes, the ones of it that have lasted, he goes, we found grace. He goes, but don't know grace He said, you know what it is if we get if we kind of white knuckle it, that's what they talk about in uh recovery When when when guys are going through recovery, men and women are going through recovery and they're white knuckling it, they're trying to do it on their own. They're not helping looking out for a higher power W this is what we need to be doing daily. Things in recovery to call one day at a time. I'd uh I'd say re I'd look at recovery, it looks like discipleship to me to be honest with you It's the same kind of a thing. It it's discipleship. It's one day at a time. It's being dependent on God. Um And I I think that's what the the priests were doing this daily. They had to go daily, twice a day. Morning and evening they were doing this. That's my two cents on that. Purification offering. This is about the same material that was covered in chapter four. Here it clarifies which of the purification offer offerings may be eaten by the priest. If it's a sin offering for the priest, the whole con or the whole congregation And the blood is used to purify the altar, the incense in the holy place, and the whole offering is completely burned up. Verse 27 it is said that if anyone touches the flesh of the sacrifice, they are consecrated. Again, the see the best way to see this seems to be a warning. It's a separation for the lay people. who is not consecrated to the Lord, not to touch the flesh, for it is most holy. In verses 27-29, instruction is given if the blood of the sacrifice should touch a other object. If the object can be washed off, it should be cleansed. In the case of a porous pot, it should be destroyed. The separation from the clean, the unclean, the holy, and the common is seen in these instructions. Touching the most holy flesh and the cleansing of the object are not uh that are not part of the purification ritual. Again, it's the light that's poured out. It's supposed to s you know it's separate. And he's trying to show that through all this I'm sure there's a practical aspect of the blood and contamination and all that as well, but again, the the representation here is that this is the blood Uh it it it cleanses uh the altar and the things that are supposed to be cleansed by it, but the other things uh they're not to be touched by this. They're they're they're they're separate from it So Raw says that the handling of the blood, the cleansing of the objects that came into contact with the blood, demonstrate the holiness of the blood and the acceptance of the offering by God. The the plea excuse me. The priestly ritual here includes both demonstrating the sanctity of the blood and communicating God's acceptance of the offering for the giv forgiveness of sins. And that's a direct quote from him. Reparation offerings 7, 1 through 10. Somebody want to read that for us? Chapter 7, verse 1 through 10. Good. This is the law of the guilt offering. It is most holy. In the place where they kill the burnt offering, they shall kill the guilt offering, and its blood shall be thrown against the sides of the altar. And all its fat shall be offered, the fat tail, the fat that covers the entrails, the two kidneys with the fat that is on the end of the loins, and the long lobe of the liver liver that he shall remove with the kidneys. The priest shall burn the money offer as a fruit offering to the Lord. It is a guilt offering. Every male among the priests may eat of it. It shall be eaten in a holy place. It is most holy. The guilt offering is just like the sin offering. There is one law for them. The priest who makes atonement with it shall have it, and the priest who offers any man's burnt offerings offering shall have for himself the skin of the burnt offering that he has offered. And every grain offering baked in the oven, and all that is prepared on a hand for a griddle shall belong to the priest who offers it, and every grain offering, mixed with oil or dry, shall be shared equally among all the sons of Aaron. Thank you. Uh again, um we went through this reparation before. So the guilt or reparation offering is covered chapter five. Uh here we are given some details as not mentioned previously. The guilt offering is most holy, and all the fat is to be burned by the fire. E the fat tail, if you notice that. Apparently some of those lambs had a longer, bigger tail on them and it was full of fat. So an offering to the Lord. It should be noted that this offering does not ascend as a soothing aroma to the Lord. It is payment for the penalty of sin. Excuse me. We are told that the priest is to burn the whole animal and the burnt offering, but the priest performing the ritual may keep the skin of the animal verse seven eight. The priest shall uh the priests were allowed to eat the offering, although there seems to be some difference between the cooked, verse nine, uncooked portion allowed by the priests. The point seems to be that no layman may touch what is most holy. Some of them discuss that and they go into detail Um I didn't find much there. They're not even sure about it. Seemed like one priest got it and others didn't, but again, um that's just up for debate This offering is an act of reconciliation on the part of the offender. That's important. Okay? There's enity between God and and uh and the person, right? We have the ministry of reconciliation. Christ does all that for us. But this was a uh reconciliation. There was uh a guilt there The reparation sacrifice covered offenses against God and others. This offense was uh mostly unknown unless the The guilty party was convicted or moved to make reparation for what was defrauded of God or others. The offering was important in that it demonstrated a truly repentant heart. because the guilty party had to return more uh than was defrauded from God or others. Again, this is important. I think they put this out. Oftentimes this would not have been known. This is uh we see that uh uh uh i in the previous uh explanation before. The person would feel guilty or maybe a sickness or something would come upon them, uh and they'd feel convicted. And it's repentant heart. And and that that's the essence of uh salvation, right? Faith, repentance. Uh uh it's a term uh uh uh it's a question of the heart, I would assume Just like today, some hard hearts would not have repented and and and been convicted and brought this. So uh uh I think that's an important point. I think it's the essence. Uh The peace offering, 711 through 36, this covers the different ones. The peace offering was the only offering the worshipper was allowed to eat. Some of the sacrifice was given to the priest, but the majority was turned to the worshiper. In this section, we were given the details as to who may eat what And when excuse me the significance of the peace offering was discussed in Three, this is the section that gives the details of the offering. The details surely had a significance at the time of these offerings. The details are not revealed to us in this age. So many of the modern commentators give speculation as to the meaning of these rituals, but a couple of quotes here. Calvin writes It is certain indeed that God had a reason for dealing more strictly or more indulgently. But to inquire nowadays into the things unknown which uh can do not at all to piety uh is neither right nor expedient. And Wenham kind of writes the the same thing. Modern commentators contain a fair amount of speculation about some of the rules But be assured the results are as far off as ever. Again, we we draw conclusions from these things, but we really don't know. Uh we'll see this i in in certain uh offerings uh as we move forward We have names for him, but we really don't know exactly what he was uh putting. Well as we go through this next section, you'll see what I'm talking about. In the first one now, this is a this is a peace offering. In verse uh 11 through 17, difference between a thanksgiving offering And a vow or voter or free will offering is put forth. The Hebrew word for thanksgiving, totem, Can be translated praise to confession thanksgiving. It can be praised to and both. Praises rendered in acknowledgement and abandonment. That's uh uh Brown driver of Briggs uh definition. So Wetham says this is a most uh solemn offering And it's different in two key ways. Okay, so there's different categories of peace offering is where we're going. This is called the uh uh Thanksgiving in most English translation. Uh but it but it really could be confession, right? So the first way the confession offering was to be accompanied by a cereal offering of cakes mixed with oil. and unleavened wafers coated with oil, flour mixed with cakes containing oil, and cakes of leavened bread. Okay, you'll see that in the text here, verses 12 and 13. It appears that all types of bread were to accompany the confession offering. The second difference of the peace offering is that the meat from the animal had to be eaten in one day. And all that was left over had to be burned up. Other types of peace peace offerings could be eaten on the second day also, but on the third day had to be burned up. So again, this is where somebody is is uh it's a it's a it's a peace offering. He's bringing it willingly. Uh it may be uh for uh uh a sin that he's committed and forgive uh been forgiven of. It may be uh a v a vow or something that he made and maybe God answered it. But really it's a it's a conviction of Uh it it's not really a sin offering in the in the respect, but he is acknowledging and praise and uh and praising God for forgiving him his sin. And that that's the essence of this uh confession here. So it's a little bit different. Again What makes a difference is it it's making it of a difference to the worshipper. He's recognizing this is different. He has to bring all these different breads And you notice he even brought leaven bread, but I thought was interesting. Um no one really touches that, but I mean the one bread does have yeast in it But these are all obviously that wasn't put on the altar at all. The uh no leaven uh uh is burnt on the altar Uh oh, Leon Levin Fred. But he would he recognized, okay And we'll we'll look at this and I'll mention this, but the meal had to be eaten in one day. Most of these meals, because of the quantities of meat, wasn't eaten by one person. I they tended to be what they think are communal meals. Uh there were several people, family members, friends, whatever, they would eat this meal. Okay. Uh and they had to be eating it one day Right? So that's kind of the separation there. That's we call that uh I w I would say label that Confession. Because it it's it he is thanking, but he's confessing, like you said, it's it's in praise. Praise is rendered and acknowledged it and abandonment of sin. So that That was the gist of that. So in verses 19 through 21, if the flesh of the peace offering came into contact with anything unclean, the flesh of the animal must not be eaten The warning for anyone who is unclean not to eat the flesh of the peace offering is severe The flesh of the peace offering belongs to the Lord, and anyone who eats it in an unclean state will be cut off from his people. So Wednesday, he says, this is divine judgment because others would not be aware of it, of all who are unclean. He also says this probably means death uh for the one who is unclean. Maybe, maybe not, we're not sure. It's not stated, so So many believe that the eating of the flesh by the worshipper or offering the sacrifice would eat the meal with family and close friends. This is a communal meal of celebrating what God has done. This seems to follow the pattern of the Passover meal, uh uh in which the lamb was slaughtered and roasted and eaten by the family, if the family was too small to eat the whole lamb. Uh they were inviting neighbors, right? Exodus uh 12, 3 through 4. Said it were two days to eat most of the flesh. Uh uh me eat most of the flesh of the animal and uh what remained in both cases whether it was one day or two had to be burned up. Same as with the uh Passover meal So, you know, it's a pattern there. So the types of uncleanness are are detailed in Leviticus. We'll get to that in these chapters, chapter 11, 12 to 15, 22. Most of them, you know, you do broad categories. They they deal with uh contact with dead, diseased people, unclean animals, and that's just some of the ways you could be defiled Uh in Leviticus three the peace offering was said to re tribul uh be related to the Lord's Supper Peace offering was to be eaten and shared with others as a communal meal. The worshipers offered the sacrif uh offering the sacrifice was to confess or proclaim what was being delivered What he was being delivered from or how God had blessed him. The same thing with the Lord's Supper. Again, we're to confess our sins and remember what Christ did for us in salvation Uh so we see the similarities there. So last one but uh well but um So the fat and the blood, right? The person who eats the fat of the animal, an ox, a sheep, or a goat It is sacrificed to the Lord shall be cut off. The fat of the sacrificial animal belongs to the Lord So we talked about this. The fat probably represents the best uh and it die uh excuse me the fat from a beast uh that dies or is torn by another animal may be used for uh lighting, polish, some other household uses. So it could be used. Um uh but this is not fat that's uh uh offered okay that's that's the difference These animals are not acceptable for sacrifice to the Lord. The flesh of these animals may be eaten, but the person who eats it is unclean and must wash afterwards We'll see that in Leviticus 11, 39-40. And he could eat it, but this was an unclean animal. It couldn't be brought for sacrifice The command that eat the blood pertains to animals and the the person who eats the blood of an animal will be cut off from uh his people. Again, this seems to be the Lord's retribution for the person who eats the blood because uh others would not be aware of what had happened in many cases So, you know, outside the camp or whatever or whatever uh just on his own, no one would really know this. So the Lord is the one who's gonna judge this The fat was considered to be the best part of the animals, uh, owed to God. Christ was the best of the flock, perfect lamb of God who died in our place. Christ's blood was shed for the sins of the world. In Leviticus 1711, we read this before, but it's so good to remember. We read For the life of the flesh is in the blood. And I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls. For it is the blood by reason of the light that makes atonement. Again, that was the whole picture. An innocent life had to die for their sins. That was it. They couldn't pay it on their own. So the priest portion here will uh the anointed priest receives something from every sacrifice brought to the layman. The priest was to s receive the the breath in the right leg from the peace offering. The breath is called the dedication or wave offering, and it is said to be moved from side to side. The lay is called a contribution. Verse 34, it was known as a heave offering, and according to tradition is said to be uh an up and down uh movement of the leg. So Miller believes that this contribution is the first stage of giving anything to God Commentators have various interpretations. Lenin says that we can't be certain. Again, Scripture does not define these two rights. Um you would read about that. There was a wave offering, right? And a heave offering. But we really don't know what they represented to those people at that time. There's certainly a lot of speculation about it, but there's also a lot of disagreement on on some of the meaning. So Um I'm sure it meant something. Uh you know, that's kind of what Calvin said. He said probably meant something to the people during the day, but we we just don't know So I'm going to leave it at that. The worshipper is to honor God with his sacrifices, and he is obligated to receive the wages from the sacrifices Uh for they would remember the priests weren't given land, right? But w uh they were uh they were to receive their payment from the fr uh faith of the uh worship Let me try and read it. Paul says that the support and giving of those who were of faith to work for the spreading of the gospel and those who minister the Word of God So the priests were had no land. This was their payment. Their food, their livelihood. They could keep uh the skins a lot of times, even on certain burnt offerings. Uh I'm sure that was a uh a means of trade for them. Um if you remember some of the reparation offerings, they were even allowed to bring money uh for that, uh shekels, uh a weight of gold, whatever that uh was determined. So this is how they made their livelihood. Um We see in in uh New Testament, right? The the man of God, the one who's uh distributing the word is worthy of his wages. So uh, you know, we're s we're in support uh These men. Um it's a full-time job. You could say it's uh a law of more than a full-time job Not a forty hour week. So the summary is just this. The word of the Lord uh This is the law of the offerings, the word given to Moses at Mount Sinai in the wilderness. The setting is the is a reminder of the covenant of the law of God, and this is just to establish it uh these covenants with the people. Um you know, the other thing is Remember these people are just as secular as the rest of the world. They were influenced by their forefathers' culture. They were in Egypt. They were inf influenced by all of that God is is this is the early stages. He's training, he's gonna try and make these people a separate, right? A holy nation uh throughout all these laws and sacrifices, uh it's going to be a spiritual discipline, if you will. Uh that's really what w the what we've laid down so far. Any any thoughts, any questions? This one just I think next week uh there's a lot more uh imagery in the consecration With this, it's just kind of a recapitulation of what we studied. But remember, the burn the one thing, the burn offering was offered daily, morning and evening. It's perpetual. Uh we see the other sacrifices really follow the burn offering. So it's kind of a foundational Right? The whole thing it the whole thing completely goes up. Nobody shares in it The whole animal is completely burned up. It's up in smoke, so we shall we say. Because that's what OLA really means. It ascended, right? It's going up in smoke Uh yeah, curious what I was thinking was even if we might not know all of the nuances of every individual offering The whole of it serves the purpose of a reminder of sins. Right? Hebrews ten Eleven says and every priest stands daily at his service offering repeatedly the same sacrifices. So that's plural, not singular. Right. Which can never take away sin. And uh so whatever the individual reasons are for each of those different screen offerings and and whatnot, uh it was certainly a reminder to them of their desperate need Right. Yeah. And but then The positive side, right? God provided all the sacrifices so that we could approach him. He's a good God, isn't he? He's not just a a me you know, he wants us to come close. And he provides a way I mean, it's both. And and we forget, you know. Um I think it brought me more into vision, you know, God's grace. God was graceful. With all these sacrifices, it was all grace. He's gone, yes, yes, you're a sinner, I'm holy, you're not, you're I'm clean, you're unclean But here's the way to approach me. I'll I'm providing a way. Yeah. Any other thoughts, questions? Yeah. So the verses that say uh if you do this you'll be cut off from the people, like uh if you eat the blood you'll be cut off from the people. Uh are you saying uh being cut off is that like I read you what Wanham said. Wanham said he thought it was death. But that's what he thought. It doesn't say. We don't really know. I don't know. Were they put out of the camp? They were put out of the camp. It was almost like death Uh, I don't know. And and and that's the problem with a lot of these things. He doesn't really say specifically You know. What happened? I mean they're out in the wilderness. They had a ma they weren't gonna hang outside the camp for very long if somebody wasn't supporting them. They had no water God would provide the water with the rock, the manna. Well what were they gonna you know, I don't know. Again, that's I'm just speculating there. I don't know Yeah, we d we just don't know. Spiritual death, maybe, you know. Yes. Any other thoughts? It's it's uh I hope it's been enlightening, but I hope you're reading the law, looking at s the notes, thinking through, looking at other things even. Um But yeah, uh it it's like Gabe was saying, it it it certainly is uh opening my eyes to the holiness of God and and what It certainly gives me a better appreciation for all the aspects that Christ did and and he did this all and more. He paid it all. It's you know but that all is kind of breaking down some of that all for us in this book. And that it's been a I've appreciated that.