Yeah there you go. So again, I d I know this is rudimentary, but I Uh let's let's let's look beyond. What is the narrative? Uh what is God uh showing us uh throughout throughout this um Right, so he he created us in the image of God, created male and female, right? And uh So God speaks with man. He created an environment especially suited for them. So God is speaking to him at this time. God has created an environment form for man. You know, we just have to think of the of the uh uh ramifications of all this. Come on in. I say he's trained him and really w one of the things one of the themes we want to look out at um Uh throughout this this study. Man is the mediator, right? Adam was the mediator for all this. Okay? And that's a term we want to follow throughout the study. So God is is Adams he is going to be the mediator f uh between God and and man. And obviously he's we're going to have a problem because he's not going to do such a good job. So man's a climax of creation. We see that in 131. All that God made was very good. Man was the last one created. And and man has created uh You know, when we say the image, right, we're talking not just bodily, we're talking spiritual, we're talking the natural and and the moral likeness. So the spiritual likeness is uh uh that would be a regenerated person right after the fall. I mean think of that blessing that we have. We again we take a lot of this for granted. We now get to communicate with God through the Spirit. Right, so Adam uh was God's mediator on earth. Uh uh you can see the the quote there. Somebody want to read that, uh Psalm 8, 6-8. You make there in right there in your notes, yeah. You make him to rule over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the sea, the birds of the heavens and of the fish of the sea. Whatever passes through the path of the sea. And you know, look at uh the uh again we're gonna go through this. Look at Genesis 2. Open your Bibles, your aps, whatever you want. Genesis 2. Verse 15. Then the Lord took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to cultivate it and to keep it. Okay, so he's got a responsibility. Again, we're the caretakers, we're the mediator for God, we're taking care of this. Uh we forget that. We think it's just for us, right? Everything's for me. Uh the Lord God commanded him, saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but the tree Of knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat for it, for in that day, you eat from it, you will surely die Again, Adam is the mediator. E' not even there yet. He's getting the command. He's going to have to communicate this to Eve, right? It i i it's a responsibility. Uh there's anything lacking we we see today, it's uh people just taking responsibility. Uh We have a responsibility to God. Um so we go to the temptation I'm not going to spend a lot of time with this. I know uh talking to the the preaching to the choir here. So you know the fall. You know they they were tempted. You know, the serpent was tempting, he was the uh Satan was working through the serpent. He was going to tempt Eve. He goes to Eve. Right? Eve was deceived. Adam was not deceived, was he? You look at uh 1 Timothy, what is it, 215? Eve was deceived. Adam knew what he was doing. But he fell. But here's the theme. The again, what we're doing is we're we're for those of you who came in late, we're trying we're this is just We're just trying to take the themes. How do we end up we want to study Leviticus? Well how do we end up there? It did you know we just didn't plop down all of a sudden God didn't just give the roles This was the progression of God working through the sea, through the man, and we need to follow that because really you're going to see this in Leviticus And we need to see it in the context. If we're not thinking this way, we're looking at Leviticus, it's like being in the in the forest. We have no idea where we are. Sometimes we get lost. Uh w we don't even know what forest we're at. So we're trying to trying to get the the picture, the context for this. So, you guys, I assume most of you know this. Uh if not, uh Genesis 3. 15, Adam and Eve, uh They eat, they they they break God's commands. Uh Adam was told, we and Eve obviously knew because she has a conversation with the serpent. She's tempted with the three classic temptations, lust of the eyes, lust of the flesh, boastful pride of life. He appeals to all three. It's a foundation. Same story over and over again They fall God is seeking after the man. This is this is we forget God is close, he's he's he's imminent, he's uh He seems far off sometimes, but he's there. He's close. We need to reach out to him. But here's the key. Verse 15. After uh God shows up, he curses the the serpent. Uh he asks the man, neither neither uh Adam nor Eve are willing to admit what they did Eve was Eve says, I was tricked, I was fooled. Adam says, uh, that woman you gave me, nobody takes responsibility. Right? It's the human nature. We don't want to take responsibility. You know, for growth, when you think about it, we laugh, but for growth Uh and this is what I'm going to be talking about all the time, is why I'm doing Leviticus. Because Leviticus is I'm jumping ahead. It's sanctification. That's what that's where we're going with this. That's where where God's doing with these people. And that's what we're that's the threat I w I want to show you. No one takes responsibility. And if if we're going to grow, what's the first thing we we do as Christians? We say, you know, uh the first thing they always say, uh, I'm a sinner. You're taking responsibility. You finally say, Yeah, I get it. I'm not good. I need I need help. Uh But as we're even as we're saved, isn't that w the thing we always have to go back to? Well are you willing to look at yourself, yourself, not somebody, you know where we're good at I I could see y'all sin. It's not your sin I wouldn't need to worry about. It's mine. Look at yourself. Take responsibility. What do you see? Are you willing to shed the light on that thing that you're holding on to? Whatever it is So God condemns them, he he he starts to condemn the serpent, and he tells them, he goes 15. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise you on the head, you shall bruise him on the heel. Again, I assume most of you know this verse. It's uh God is talking, really, we believe. Theologically, he's talking beyond the serpent, right? He's talking to Satan. Satan's the one who's who's really empowering, driving the serpent to tempt Eve. It's a spiritual force. And that's what this book's about, isn't it, right? The Bible. It's telling us this is what's going on behind the scenes. God is here. But there's also a spirit of the world. So this is the promise. There's a promise here. And you're going to see that promise. It's very vague, but you're gonna see the people realize there is this promise. They're looking, okay, yeah, I think even E, but we'll definitely see it when when uh Noah is born, that his father uh recognizes his promise. So you know so we see the promise. The promises of a future Seed, a savior. They're looking for a son. They're looking for a man. Someone who's going to redeem them. Someone who's going to take away this curse Okay? This is a promise. This is a si and you know when we talk about seed And light, these themes that that run through the scripture. This is the seed. And in Genesis, right, we turn the page. Um well let me just mention a couple of things Uh so Adam and Eve are cursed, childbirth. If you're not familiar with all this, you need to read chapter three, I assume you are. Uh Adam's gonna be cursed, the ground work is gonna be difficult. He's gonna have to cultivate, but it's not gonna be pleasurable. Um When we get to heaven we're gonna have work to do. We're not gonna sit I don't think we're gonna sit around and get bored. God's gonna have things for us to do, but it's gonna be pleasurable. So uh his ground's gonna be cursed. But then you notice uh the couple of of just hints, right? He God clothes these naked couple, right? They they're ashamed, right? He clothes them with skins. God doesn't give us any great detail, but we're assuming, right, those animals had to die to give up their skins. We also look at at uh chapter uh four when we uh and we we see the first uh uh we see them uh bringing their sacrifice, right? Chapter 4, verse 1. Now the man had relations with his wife Eve, and she conceived and gave Cain. uh uh gave birth to Cain and she said, I have gotten a man child with the help of the Lord. So you can see the relationship is still, you know uh they recognize w what the Lord is doing. Uh we we tend to think uh we uh Got the child. We don't really say the Lord gave us the child some sometimes. Sometimes we just we move beyond that. Again, she gave birth to another son, Abel. And Abel was a keeper of flocks But Cain was a till of the ground. So it came about verse 3, in the course of time the Cain brought an offering to the Lord from the fruit of the ground. Abel in his part brought firstlings of the flock and of their fat portions, and the Lord had regard for Abel and for his offering. We know it sounds like a a uh a bird sacrifice. It's not mentioned. There's no clear mention of it. But he brings the animal and he brings the fat portions So it seems like he's sacrificing. Uh again, uh we have to draw conclusions. I believe with a lot of commentators that obviously God must have told him what sacrifice he wanted brought. He had no he uh God had no uh No favor with Cain's offering. And I think it was more. Uh uh but you know, y uh uh Cain, but for for Cain and for his offering He had no regard, so Cain became very angry and his countenance fell. I think it was more than just his attitude, but uh, you know I don't know who could be wrong. I I think he he didn't bring the proper offering. I think God told him what to bring It's funny they both showed up. They they obviously knew. I mean did they just know intuitively? Again, this is this is what we have to speculate. But none the nonetheless we see this scene where they're they're worshiping God, they know what to bring to God, and w we're we're looking at a God who's holy Um they obviously need a sacrifice or an offering, right, because of sin. Sin has come in the world. They we are they're disobedient because of Adam. This is that thread that uh uh we have to follow through So as we look through this Uh I'm gonna kinda skip up, but if you follow through with Genesis, you read it before, then the you see the two lines. You see the line of Cain. Okay. And um and in verse um verse twenty five of uh chapter four So Adam had relations with his wife again, and she gave birth to a son, and named him Seth. For she said, God has appointed me another offspring in the place of Abel, for Cain killed him. To Seth, to him also a son was born, and he called his name Enoch. Then men began to call upon the name of the Lord. And you're going to see this played out. You see the genealogies. And remember back in 315, the seed of the of the serpent And the seed of the woman. They're going to be an enmity. And you kind of have these two s two lines uh battling with one another. Right? You have the the line of of Cain and you have the line of Seth. But really, when we get to uh Noah and and uh by that time virtually everybody. Sin is just, you see it, it's engulfed in the world, right? But you do see this battle between these two lines, these two seeds. Some some people will will make uh uh more to do with this, uh have a theology, these two lines, if you look at so many commentators on Genesis uh as something you you can look at. But again, it it God doesn't spell everything out clearly, so um aga you're gonna see different theologies on this. So Genesis five verse twenty eight Lamach lived one hundred and eighty-two years and became the father of a son Now he called his name Noah, saying, This one will give us rest from our work and from the toil of our hands, arising from the ground, which the Lord has cursed. It seems as though this was passed down. They obviously the people back in that three fifteen The seed of the woman, the seed of the serpent, they were looking for a deliverer It's vague. Some people uh uh again say uh you could see it in back in um Genesis four, but it's clear here. that he is there looking for someone to take this curse away. Remember, people lived a tremendously long time during this time. And if you ever do the genealogies you see the overlap where Adam is alive for most of uh this history up to uh the flood of of Noah. He he hasn't died that much before. And if you if you take some of the ones that were born before and you overlap them with them, it's you had a direct communication with one another. A lot of these people would have been around to be able to talk to Adam. Remember, this is this they can uh They can see each other, talk to each other. It's interesting when you when you think through that. But they're looking for someone to take away this curse. They know So this is kind of the gospel. This is this is the good news. Uh it's vague, is it not? It's a it's think about what we do. We try and one of the things we have to consider is we're taking trying to see through the eyes of the original hearers and these people what they would have known, what part of the gospel they would have known uh without us taking back the other side of the cross and really all these centuries beyond the cross we have a tremendous amount of theology uh from uh the early church up till now that they didn't have. They w they weren't aware of. So they were obviously looking for this this uh one to redeem 'em. They were looking for a man. Not they wasn't wasn't looking for God, they were looking for a man. Um so this idea w was was was planted in there. So it came about when uh man began to multiply, and this is in chapter six, uh the sons of God, so the daughters of men were beautiful, and they took wives for themselves whomever they chose. This is much debated. Um there's two two thoughts. Some of 'em think the sons of God uh definitely refers to angels. Um y you do see that in Job. Uh he talks about the sons of God, uh and it's it's Derek's referring to angels. Were angels actually cohabitating and and taking these women and having children or was it just the spiritual thing where uh the other the other people would say that uh you deal with the line of Cain and the line of Seth and and they're corrupting uh the the lines. They're the they're in intermarrying or whatever and that they're going the way of of Cain. Um you can you can wrestle with that yourself. But uh nonetheless This corruption is coming, whether it's from uh direct demonic uh uh if you if you go that way, fallen angels, having children, or whether it's just um uh a spiritual thing where th they're they're they're taking the wickedness of Cain. And and You know, we we we if you're familiar with this, you you've seen the wickedness of man. And that's what God says here, right? That uh the wickedness was just uh uh Verse 6. The Lord was sorry that he made man on the earth, and he was grieved in his heart. The Lord said, I will blot out man whom I've created from the face of the earth uh uh from man to animals to creeping things to birds of the sky, for I am sorry that I have made them. But Noah found favor with the Lord. Noah's walking with the Lord. Well read this nine through twelve. Somebody read Genesis six, nine through twelve. These are the records of the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his time. Noah walked with God. Noah became the father of three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Now the earth was corrupt in the sight of God, and the earth was filled with violence. God looked on the earth and behold it was corrupt. Mm-hmm. For all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth. Mm-hmm. So yeah, I mean you can see the even regardless of the lines, I mean it was just it was totally wicked. Um we're kind of witnessing that today. I mean you can see what happens when you turn your back on God. Now men become really foolish and really uh blind I'm amazed at what we're doing now when I consider uh the a era I grew up in. Um I'm sure there were a lot of unsaved people going to churches, but at least we used to recognize the Ten Commandments and the uh to do good to one another, uh it's just I'm just amazed But it's what happens uh uh when we get blinded like that. Uh we we do get blinded when we turn our backs on God and we just ig ignore God So Noah is going to become the next mediator Right? He's gonna have he and his family are gonna be taken, but Noah is going to be the next media mediator. And it's it's again, this is what this is really where we're going with Israel. Israel was going to be the next mediator. And God is moving towards that. But he's working what I what I want us to see and remember is that God's working differently in in each of these ways Right? Uh we're gonna see it progress. He's gonna flood the earth, right? He's gonna wipe it all out Noah was a preacher of righteousness. We see that in the New Testament. 2 Peter 2. 5. Um he was preaching. I mean, just by building the ark. It was on dry land, no rain had appeared, and people had to be asking, what in the world are you doing? Um he was preaching. I assume he was telling them uh about the coming doom, those who who came to ask People did not listen though. They were eating and drinking and uh going along as usual and then the flood came. So The covenant, uh let's see, what page are we on? I got different page numbers. Let's look at that real quick. God's gonna deal with people in a different way. He's gonna have a He's gonna have a covenant. We're gonna have government. You're gonna be looking at uh really chapter nine for this, right? Excuse me. So the Lord destroyed the earth, right? He provided safety for Noah. God always has grace. There is cursing and judgment. He's got grace for those that uh uh the ark was certainly big enough. I'm sure other people could have gotten on board, but right? Nobody wanted So he establishes his covenant with Noah, giving the man the uh principle to uh to rule over God's kingdom again. Uh the first command is God is there to populate the earth Right? Uh let's see. We're at chapter nine. Why don't we read chapter nine verse eight? Mm through eighteen. Uh then uh I'll s I'll start reading. Somebody pick up the other read the other half. Then God spoke to Noah and his sons with him, saying, Now behold, I myself do establish my covenant with you and with your descendants after you. And with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, every beast of the earth, with you. of all that comes out of the ark, even every beast of the earth. I established my covenant with you and f and all flesh, and never again to cut be cut off by the water of the flood Neither shall there again be a flood to destroy the earth. God said, this is the sign of the covenant which I am making between me and you and every living creature that is with you for all successive generations. Somebody read 13 through 17 I set my brow in the cloud, my bow in the clouds, and it shall be for a sign of a covenant between me and the earth. It shall come about when I bring The cloud over the earth, and the bow shall be seen in the cloud, and I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh And never again shall the water become a flood to destroy all flesh. When the bow is in the clouds, then I will look upon it to remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on earth. And God said to Noah, this is the sign of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. It's an everlasting covenant. God makes a covenant. This is not conditional. The covenant we're going to look at in Leviticus is conditional. If you do this, then you get this. God does bless us according to whether we obey Him or not. But This is in other words he is not going to flood the earth. He is going to provide and protect. He is uh those who uh worship and obey him are obviously going to get more of a blessing. But the point is this covenant is an everlasting covenant And we'll we'll see that uh you see that throughout uh the promises, particularly uh as the prophets come. Uh there's an everlasting covenant. But there are conditional ones. A conditional one will be in Leviticus. God has also given animals. Man can now eat animals For food, but they shall not eat the blood. God has also given them government, right? If any man he he he tells the n uh Noah if life is precious, if anyone uh kills another man that may that man forfeits his own life But it's by government. This is a new thing. This is not this is a new way that God is dealing. He's changing uh his method here So we have really uh the basis of of government. It's not to be uh someone's life's not to be taken in uh uh revenge or a vengeful thing. It's supposed to be done uh uh you know, uh kind of judiciously so to speak. But this is this is something new. God is dealing with with uh man in a different way. Yes. Yes. Where's the government aspect? I know in Romans it says that, so obviously you're right. sort of execution in the hand of government. But where is that, Jen? And that well that and again, this is where uh you take this and you uh it's an interpretation uh uh just like the interpretation a lot of us make when uh the animals were skinned. Uh with animal skin. So we we it's nowhere Is it written that uh God killed the animals, but they gave up their skins? And then this again with the sacrifices And that's why these are much debated. But he puts out, if you remember, Cain was not, did not forfeit his life, the first murder. We have later about the men who are bragging. Cain killed somebody and he goes, I've killed several people. Uh I can't remember who it was um um but uh it's uh the descendants it gets worse. So people are not b uh recognized or they're not responsible for being murdered. Uh the other way to hold somebody responsible, you'd have to do it in in a uh even if a society let's not call it government. You know, we we d might make it too too defined But a group uh of uh a clan would would uh wanna take vengeance uh we saw how uh Jacob's sons took oh you know, killed uh the tribes for breaking dying with their daughter and that was that was vengeance. It wasn't uh so you know uh government then would be a clan, would be a family And that's what you have, right? The tribes. When they go down to Egypt, that's what you have. You have a tribe. You have the tribe of uh Jacob, seventy something strong. So Uh I'm that's where I'm uh drawing government from. Thank you. So God's working differently with this. Yeah, and again, it uh we talk about it being uh uh everlasting covenant and um Genesis 99, I just want to read you one more thing that uh uh I wanted to uh emphasize God's making the covenant, Genesis 9. 9. Then God spoke to Noah, to his sons, with him, saying, Now behold, I myself Do establish my covenant with you and with your descendants after you. Uh he makes it emphatic. It's uh uh uh uh I kind of a thing. Uh we translate it myself, but um God is making it. God is establishing it Uh again, and uh this is uh one of the themes that always comes to my mind. We're going to talk about, and I need to get into this, we're going to talk about the Abrahamic covenant, because things are really going to change the way God deals with things. And why do we do that? Because NL just bring out the point there. Let's stop off real quick. Everybody know the story in Genesis 11, Tower of Babel? Anybody not know it? Uh uh I need you all to participate. Um if you don't know it, say so Look at what you got going on in Tower Battle. It's the same same thing. We've had the flood. You had a family, all these stories had to come out, just like we talked about in Genesis. The people were alive. The stories had to come out about the flood. Uh we see that in in uh st uh flood stories all over the world. They're they're different, but they all have a flood story. So obviously this this was passed down But look what man's doing. And in Tower of Babel, there was it a ziggurite? I don't know, but uh it was in the land of Shinar. Put that out in the notes Shinar uh in the in Bible oftentimes is referring to Babylon. Even if it's not Babylon, they know it's m uh the archaeologists, the historians say it's Mesopotamia, which is that region. They're in the east. They've gone to Mesopotamia. Look at they want to build a tower. They want to build a name for themselves. It's the same story. It's sin. It's it's our pride. Uh we we're we don't want to use God. We want to do it our way. We're redefining again. And in the midst of all of this, God is going to go, okay, this is my plan. He's going to turn the page in Genesis 12. This is a major shift. Somebody read Genesis twelve one through three. Now the Lord said that you said one through three? Yes. Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you, and I will make of you a great nation And I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Again, we're picking up that theme of they're looking for the blessing. They're looking for uh you know something to uh alleviate this sin problem. And So he he promises them a land. He says he i i it's not fleshed out uh here, but it it will be uh uh later it it'll come uh much closer about uh the land if you uh will look at that. But he he also told he says he's going to make them a great nation. Now we all know that uh Abram doesn't have any children yet. He's about 75. It's still gonna be a long process. So he's promised him a nation. He's gonna bless him. But he and this is this is the uh essence of it. I will bless those who bless you. And the one who curses you, I will curse you. And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. Now Fast forward uh cause the time we know in in uh Galatians Paul kind of explains this He goes, he wasn't talking about Abraham's seed is in plural, he says. He was talking about singular seed. He's looking for the Messiah to come. It's going to come through this line But even us who are blessed, we are not blessed For myself. And I have to remind myself of this. And we are blessed to be a blessing. We're mediators. Abram was a mediator. Noah was a mediator. He's just between we're we're a light, it's for God. It's not for our blessing. He's blessed. Those who bless you, I will bless. Those who curse you, I will curse. Yes. Uh the quick question. Yes. Uh the thoughts that you just the thing that you just said. And um something else that you said earlier, how in The blessings that are recorded in Leviticus are conditional. Or or the covenant in uh Leviticus is Conditional. The only reason I want to do this is because a lot of you know all this, but I want us to be thinking of How did they get to Leviticus? I just don't want to plop this in Leviticus. I want us to see the progression. What is God doing? Because it's so easy for me to think, okay, what does this mean for me? What does this mean for me? I I need to be thinking, what can I what I'm a conduit These people are kind to us. What do we do for God? That is my best blessing. And I need to give that in my head and my heart. Instead of just me taking it. So go ahead. Right. And I think that that kind of like answers it. Um, you know, you said that we're not blessed for ourselves or blessed for God. We're also seeing some Leviticus that it If we obey God that God blesses us and is it like as God blesses us, we just continue to be some Amen. And it's the beautiful thing is it just keeps spinning and spinning and spinning and grows and grows and grows. Instead of getting on the cycle of I do prison ministry and I think these guys are on a cycle ban once they start with the drugs, alcohol, whatever takes them down the path, it just goes like this, they can't get off. But the beauty of it is there's a positive one We can do the positive one. Adam could have chose from the tree of life, but would he choose the tree of death? Yes. Um I just had another quick time. Go. Okay. I I want participation because again, well especially when we get to Leviticus, if we don't apply this stuff, there's yeah, go ahead. Um my qu my question is um so I love that your your wanting to walk us through God's Plan of Redemption. Right. And as we are kind of having this overview of God's plan of redemption through the end that he has used throughout this time. You mentioned Pinoa as a mediator and then you mentioned that we are in a way mediators. But the verse that came to mind is um first in the Yes. That says for there is one God and one mediator also between God and man, the man is Christ Jesus. Read that nice and loud. Because then that's that's exactly where I want to go. That's the home run. Okay. Let me read it again. Yeah, we should yell it out. Um First Peter I'm sorry, Peter. First T. First Timothy two five, right? There there's one God and one mediator also between God and man in name of Christ Jesus. Um and so and so I think my my question is just for clarification, are you are you trying to define a mediator in a different sense or when you refer to like for example Noah as he's one of the men that God used in his redemptive plan? So I do through but that and that was God's plan. Yes. Unfortunately, we know so much. They didn't see clearly. But men were the mediators. Adam was, had a job. He was to take care of land, he was to cultivate it. Uh he knew those the the law, one law to abend, not be from that tree. He's the mediator And the the reason I like what you said is maybe where I want to get to, but there is one God And one man also between God and man. The man Christ Jesus. And that and I want to spark on that for a minute because We know Jesus is 100% God, 100% man, but I want us to think, and this is what I Jesus is a hundred percent man, and he lived a perfect sinless life The problem is we combine it with Jesus. Go, well, you know, he's Jesus and he's God, man. I can never do that. No, I want us to not forget about him, his deity, but he was 100% man and lived a perfect life. I assume in heaven we'll be able to do that. We're gonna be sinless. Do you get your question answered? We're gonna be sinless? This is what man was created for. And this is what we're going to be restored to. And Jesus wouldn't, and it's just something to contemplate. But Jesus wouldn't live his earthly life Well he gave up his his his attributes uh um Plump these two, right? Uh And I I'll know I'm off on a tangent, but it's such a huge thing. He he pretty much uh and this is a theological thing, whether he used any of his own powers. But he was full of the Holy Spirit of baptism. And I think theologically, this is my point, and I could be wrong. I think he lived his earthly life From the power of the Holy Spirit, not his own. And so he was obedient. Don't get me wrong, he didn't he's not he's not he can't get rid of his deity. He is deity. But I believe that he he he did things through the power of the Holy Spirit Okay? Father, Son, Holy Spirit, Trinity, right? I believe you did the things through the Holy Spirit Because then if you look at it all throughout John especially, I don't come here to do my will, do the Father's will. I'm doing, and he's he's being obedient. Which is what he gives us, right? He gives us the Spirit, gives us the example, we're able to follow that example because he did it too. Right. And in Romans it says we can fulfill the law Uh, in Romans 8. Not all the time, but there are times when we can fulfill the law. The only reason we could do that is because of all these barons. And it's there is no other discussion. And it says if you walk in the spirit, you can fulfill the law. Well we do it all the time now, but there are periods where we can go through where we're actually living according to the spirit, where we're actually fulfilling the law in those aspects. Yeah, don't get me wrong, you turn around, we can fall again. I I get it. But and that's the point I wanted to make. See, God is trying all along this was God's plan To have a redeemed sinless man. Did he know we're going to fall? Yay, of course he did. But see, this is some of the things we're going to wrestle with when we go through this. And this is why We're going to look at some theology because it this is this Leviticus is ground zero for the gospel of theology. It really is But we'll have to you will have to think about why these sacrifices? Why the particular ones? What are they pointing to? Well we're gonna have to define words. Uh we'll use atonement in chapter one of of um Leviticus, burn offering. But atonement is an English word. We're gonna have to look at the Hebrew. What did that word mean? So, yeah, we're going to get into this. But again, it's not theology, it's not all this for theology's sake. It's for application. 'Cause as God has given us this depth of this knowledge in this Bible and the the more we can get to it, y i it's God. God says, Yeah, that's right, this is who I am. You start to grasp atonement, you're starting to get who I am. That's why I want to do it. Because I want to I don't want to be what I started out to be. Uh I think as Christians we can be baby Christians for our whole life. You see people that don't in the secular world that don't grow up, I think Christians can do the same thing. I think some people can be a little bit further alone than they were, but not all. So I'm working out my salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works and has spoken to will to do for his good. Both sides. Two both sides Uh let's see. What do we got time for? I think we just need to look at that covenant a little bit. I think. I I think I might Let's skip forward. So, alright, so we know the story. Abram, right? Becomes Abraham. Right, we know the story. He has uh Isaac He finally gets blessed with this one sign. By the way, what does Abraham and Sarah do? Didn't they go and make their own planet? You know, why don't you take that maid of yours and uh fame of mine and we can have a child as maid, right? It's so easy to go off to go off the uh plant Uh so uh fast forward, we have uh Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, right? We always follow it through the line, right? Because there was Jacob and Esau, but we we follow the seed through uh uh Jacob. Jacob has uh we have a child that uh twelve sons. They're 70. They go down to Egypt. God takes them down to Egypt. Remember the story of Judah? God needs to get them out of that land. We are affected by the culture. Right, Judah goes and marries this uh this uh foreign woman and uh You know, God's gotta take them out. He takes them down to Egypt, puts them in the land of Goshen, which is they have kind of their own their own area. He he he takes them from a big tribe family to a nation Now he's bringing them out. Right? So uh let's see, Exodus 19, and we'll stop there They they've come out. He did all the plays. He really defeated what he did with with all those plays. Every one of them. There's nice charts you can look at and study Bibles. All the gods of Egypt he defeated. Right? He darkens the sun. That's that puts Ra in a bad position I thought Ra was in charge that he was the sun god. So he he defeats all these guys, brings them out. Let's just read five and six a little close. Somebody read Exodus 19 verses 5 and 6. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my commandments. You shall be my treasured possession among all the peoples, for all the earth is mine, and she shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel. He's gonna make him a kingdom, right? Kingdom of priest? What's a priest? But you think Captain What's a priest? Okay, yeah, yeah. Um if you ask what is it? Yeah. Okay. Um I believe that it's a rule in which they're reserved setup Heart for the Lord to serve him. Right, right. With a praise daily big intercession. And so and we're using that theme. What is it if he's making intercession? Let's go. They're gonna remediate again. He's a mediator. Man, aren't you tired of that? But you know that's what he but and we have who's our mediator? We have one mediator. But we the but they are the mediator. And he's think about it W the reason I'm doing this because this is the psyche of the people. They realize they're gonna have a priest, they're gonna have the whole thing. And they know that they can't go into the holy holy, right? They can't go into the holy place. And the priest does it for 'em. The priest after they sacrifice the priest puts it on the altar for them. They need their mediator. And God's I mean God's showing that We need a priest, don't we? Well you're showing the inability for anybody but Christ to be the mediator. Right? It wasn't Lamac, it wasn't Noah, it wasn't Aaron, it it it was None of these people worked, right? They always ended up failing or falling or all of the above. Right. Only Christ. Right. Right. And again, we know that, but um How far did they were they looking? How much of a picture were they seeing? The picture was there, but I just want, let's be fair to them. It was opaque It was. It without and you know, of course, without uh God uh all right, so let's let me just pray real quick.