So I'm gonna do because uh last week even those that we're here, nobody's here, but even last week, uh I kind of rushed through um uh Leviticus uh four. And really there's a debate. Um but I th I there's uh I take Leviticus four one Through five thirteen as um as a unit Uh it talks about guilt in there, but really um th this is called in the English the sin offering, but really it's uh Um w what a discern was is uh through the commentators and all, this is really a purification Uh the the simple word uh is uh kata and it it and it's um it's used frequently five hundred plus times But it is primarily just translated since. But there is another aspect to it And it ha it's used at times for to purify, to cleanse. And I think that's what we have here, because the offering uh Uh yes it is taking care of sin, but as we said, these sacrifices You kinda have an atonement, you have a cleansing, you have uh uh uh you know a a salvation aspect to it But there are different aspects of say atonement. So there but there is a there are different aspects, and that's what The commentators and and the uh uh academics have been showing me that it's sh all these different sacrifices are showing different aspects of of ultimately what Christ did for us, when he atoned for us, uh when he when he uh Became our substitutionary atonement. And there's a lot that's involved there, and that's what we're trying to look at. And this one we're looking at cleansing. And the idea, um, really We are unclean. When we sin, we bring an uncleanness to it. And and I'm s and again, I'm just trying to give you a big picture because this is what we looked at, the notes uh or or on um hopebook if you look under files for levit Leviticus um you'll see the notes Uh but um so let me read some of the definitions here. Um So this is uh brown driver brace. This is uh the kind of the standard Hebrew lexicon. Um So in in Leviticus 4, 24 through 25, the victim was brought into the tent of meeting, the hand of the uh offer laid on his head, it was slaughtered by the offer The priest took some of the blood, put it on the horns of the altar, the burnt offering, and the rest of the blood was poured out at the base of it. Now they put in here, cover over, or cleanse, and I think that's that's really the real meaning there, or cleanse the altar from the sin defiling it. Theological Word Book of the Old Testament, uh Katah, it says when it's used in a religious sense, the majority in the PL, and this is a form of Hebrew, it comes in uh eight or nine different uh forms. Uh that's part of the fun to learn that language. Denotes a cleansing or purifying ceremony during which sin is done away with. The following verses are example of Qatar being used for cleansing and purifying. So next Moses slaughtered it and took the blood with his finger, put some of it around the horns of the altar, and purified the altar. Then he poured out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar and consecrated it to make atonement for it. So he cleansed. The word there to purify is kata. Okay, so he's using it in a sense for cleansing, for for purifying. Uh in Leviticus 1452 Uh he shall thus cleanse the house with the blood of the bird and with the running water, along with the live birds and the cedar wood and and with the hiss up and with the scarlet string. So again, it's cleanse. That's the word to top. And and the the context there, it's a uh leper's house Uh David in his Psalm fifty one, his confession, um uh when he sinned against uh uh we you know had adulterous relations with Bathsheba and did away with her husband. Purify me with hyssop and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow Again, purify it's katam. So and I think uh d that's the essence here. It's purifying. And Yeah. Leviticus 1531. Thus ye shall keep the sons of Israel separated from their uncleanness. so they will not die in the uncleanness by defiling my tabernacle that is among them. And that's the point We talked about this last week, but you know, uh I again we uh it is a lot we kind of rushed through it. That sin defiled the tabernacle. And if you remember the the different sins, when the priest sinned, he had to go into the holy place and put the blood on the uh uh altar of incense. Okay? He also sprinkled blood before the veil, right? The holy of holies, where the Ark of the uh covenant is. His sin, even if it was uh inadvertent or you know he he w really wasn't aware of it, he still defiled the tabernacle. And that's the thing we don't really get. I don't really get this. Uh uh the uncleanness of our sin and how we defile it. Uh Y you see in the Old Testament, you know, talk about the uh uh the Canaanites and all, they defiled the Lamb with their sin And th that's kind of the idea here. And again, it's an aspect that um all this atonement uh we're cleansed, right? Um Uh 1 John uh was it 1 7? Uh and the blood of Jesus cleanses us from all unrighteousness. You know, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to cleanse us again it's that defilement and the is the the Hebrew the Israelites they knew this uncle think about all these things that we're gonna go through and their uncleanness, their uncleanness. It's a concept we we don't really get. We think of our sins, okay, my sins are forgiven, then we're done with it. But there's a cleansing involved And that's the aspect that he's looking at he's here. And Christ cleansed us from all unrighteousness. It's it's it's huge. Um there's so many things that uh take for granted. So uh again just to run through this So in um 4, 3 through 12, so the anointed priest, again, he had to go in and and cleanse the holy place. So you have what you have here is different um sacrifices, but also uh more of a gravity or a more of a defiling of the sanctuary um by certain persons. Here these are consecrated people, remember that, right? The the priests were consecrated so they could go into the holy place. The common people, they get to the outside. They don't they don't get to go into the holy place, right? The the mediator, the priest, has to go in for them. So when they defile, they defile the sanctuary to a a different level. And you see that if you go through and you look There was a bowl for more precious animal. The bull was completely, uh it was a burnt offering, it was completely burned up. And they also took the bull outside the camp after they they put the blood on there, on the altar. Uh the blood went up for a a uh soothing aroma to the Lord, or the uh fat, excuse me. And they took the animal outside the camp and burned it. It's almost that kind of that idea like the scapegoat. Remember the scapegoat, which we're going to get to? You've heard you've heard that story before. The scapegoat goes away, right? He takes the sin out. And that's what that's what uh is kind of the picture here Um and so that procedure is done for the priest and the next section, 13 through 21, a whole congregation sins. And that's i i it's debatable because they use these different names that are um uh very similar. Assembly and congregation. They're kind of inter interchangeable, so there's there was some debate about what are they pointing to. Most of them agree the congregation as a whole sinned and that again required that same sacrifice. A bull, going in and clean the holy place The bowl, same procedure, and it was totally burned outside the camp. Uh sin offering for a leader. Okay, uh this wasn't as as critical or as what it didn't defile as much, so they just cleanse the altar that's outside uh uh you know in the court of the tabernacle. Right? Everybody have a picture of the tabernacle? You go in the tent Right in the doorway uh and uh the altars there, that's a excuse me, the burnt offering, the burnt altar. Uh there's a labor there. You go inside the whole there's a tent with this covered and you go inside the holy place and the holy of holies, right? So this is outside uh in in the courtyard. So he's cleansing that. Uh and then it goes down to the common people. And so you see that the preciousness uh or the cost for the sacrifice um is is accordingly And it's it's it's there's two things going on. Number one, uh the common people couldn't afford it, uh and number two, the sin does not affect the tabernacle or God's holy place to the same degree. And and we talk about this and I don't I don't want to beat on this, but you know, we talk about the um major uh uh commentator, the major uh leader in the Christian community that just fell recently It has a broader effect in say i if if you or I were to fall. It it I mean He's a leader. He's he he affects more people and I I think there's a a a more gravity to you know that's why you know how many times do we see pastors that fall and how it affects God it it it sullies God's name in a in a way that uh a smaller individual, a lesser individual in the church air uh arena would do So uh it's kind of applicable even today. So it goes through and over in um I'll finish up with this. Over in in um 5, 1 through 13, it there's a guilt there, and that's what we're that's what we're gonna get into um uh the the word uh we're going to get into for this week for this this type of sacrifice but the if you look the sacrifices are Um again, a um it's a it's a it's a it's a different name. The sacrifices are a sin offering or a purification offering and um and one that makes like an atonement. So Even the poor person could bring even just green two EPAs, I think it is, whatever, two measures of green So even the common person. This is a mandatory thing. They need to be purified. Because the they they will defile the the uh uh God's sanctuary, his presence. And it has to be it's not like uh the peace offering we looked at. The peace offering, if you remember, could be um That that was really if somebody felt uh blessed, they could bring a peace offering, and a peace offering really uh uh was just a way of worshiping and recognizing what God had done for them already. Um there were times the peace offering was mandatory, but oftentimes it was brought uh by people just because they wanted to praise and worship God for what he had already done for them. Salvation Cleansing, that kind of thing. So, any questions on that? I have a question that is a little bit further where I talked about the burnt offering and the sin offering. So that yeah um and that was I guess with the doves. But exactly. But my my question is is okay the sin offering is for sin. What was the burnt offering re representing? Well, uh burnt offering is um uh really the basic uh substitutionary idea of atonement It was the first very first sacrifice in Leviticus 1, if you bring a burnt offering. And here's the thing. Uh we kinda we kind of talked about this before. Um Atonement And this is I may even uh set this up wrong because they kind of overlap or I I um Let me see if I can. So atonement really is is it substitutes, right? It's substitutionary It's bad, isn't it? Even with my new laptop. I know with it. So atonement really Even for these animals, it's it's it's a substitute, right? The animal doesn't do it make us sinless. It's it's it's the idea that I I my faith says I deserve to die. And that animal dying in my place. And obviously the ultimate substitute is pointing towards Jesus Christ, the man. Instead of an animal, a man, a sinless man is going to die. Um so then it kinda so then we move to this next concept now again. Propatiation is just a big word we have. The God is satisfied. He accepts That substitute. If he doesn't accept it, it's not gonna do any good. He it appeases God, right? Uh we see it in in little verses like uh the uh aroma when they burn the fat, it's a soothing aroma to the Lord, it pleases the Lord So this substitute has to be in order God has to accept it. And we got this big word propitiation. And again, it just means he he it's satisfied. It it uh uh it takes care of this. That was my thought. What was your question again so I get back on the train? Well that was just uh the um uh with the the sin offering for sin with the burnt offering was what was the purpose of the birth offering. And see, and that's the thing, and that's how they all overlap. Because we call it a sin offering But really, like I said, in English it says sin, and that's what the word katam means. But I as I showed you, it can also mean to cleanse. Right? And so We have atonement, we have substitutionary atonement, be it uh an animal or Christ is our substitute. We deserve to die because we sin. The wages of sin is death. The animal died. It's not our sacrifice. We bring a sacrifice, but the animals are one who gets sacrificed, right? Christ is the one who got sacrificed We have this propitiation and uh so God is satisfied with it and then we have all these other And this again theologically is probably wrong, but then you have uh like you have you'll come down, you have uh redemption, right? Uh forgiveness, right? Uh justification They are really the result, if you will. God does all this for this, for us. But it was his atonement for our sin that brought us all of this He had he died, he paid it all. So that atonement That substitute. And what these different sacrifices are pointing out are different aspects, really, of the atonement. He's cleansing us. He's purifying us. He brings us peace. We have peace with God, right? We were enemies with God. Uh all these aspects are coming. But it's from that substitute. And it's something It's not something we did. It's grace. It was a gift to us, right? I don't know if it's helpful, but Exodus provides me a good I was actually doing some work this week and I think my question was just study the Old and New Testament definitions of forgiveness, atonement, redemption, reconciliation, propitiation. I want to get them unjumbled in my head. Right. Exodus twelve, Exodus twenty, and Exodus thirty-two help me do that. Exodus twelve is the atonement It's it's the the sacrifice of the lamb, the the passing over of God's wrath as a result of the covering of the blood. So there's There's a lot involved in that, right? God's wrath was poured out. He is just the propitiation aspect. The relationship can be s restored because he satisfied his wrath by pouring it out once Somebody other than me, the substitute part. Right. In Exodus 20, and he gives them the law, which is amazing. There's already been restoration that's happened, right? God has come. He says, now you're my people. Atonement has happened You're my people, here is my standard for relationship with me. Right. Go back just to Hare. You're right. He gave a he he made a covenant Remember that with the new set? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So he made a covenant and then the law was this is what it'll take to have a covenant with me. Uh well we screwed that up in Exodus 32, right? Well we did it. We did the whole rest of it, right? We screwed that up. We became unclean in that process, right? And there's that whole cycle in Leviticus of uncleanness. And even here in four and five, where's my Bible? Exodus four and five. I got five or six books open. There's the unintentional sins, there's biological sins of uncleanness, woman's monthly cycle, birth, uh all that stuff. So there's the uncleanness that comes and comes And the uncleanness requires purification. Right. And so the distinction I think there is, well, I would argue there is that atonement has happened. God has said, here I am, and here's my standard. Exodus ends with, Moses can't enter the temple because he can't be in the presence of the Lord, because he remains unclean, and God is holy. He's separate. And then you move into Leviticus and you find out how do we How do we overcome, how does God overcome the hurdle of his holiness and our uncleanness? And we get all of these sacrifices, of which the purification one, it well is exactly what you've been saying in this, right? So we need to repeat that. But um that's a the structure of Exodus helps me with the structure of these levitical sacrifices. And you know, I'm glad you said that because it was a point that that um Uh you said it and I want to emphasize it and kind of make it. Exactly what you're talking about. God was up on the mountain, God comes down the tabernacle God approached the people. Leviticus is the people approaching God. And that is the point. Good job. And and then stress that. Think about that. He gives if you want to come close to me, this is how you do it. You can't just come how you this is who I am. Either come my way or not at all And and our nature is that, well, you know, that that rule seems a little much, or I'm gonna do with this, you know, it's whatever it is, it's so Are we getting anywhere close to where you're going? Because you can see all these, we're in a we're in a Grand Central Station and we've got all these lines coming in and it's hard to just pull one. It's all coming it all comes together. And when you say atonement, these are aspects, all these these um sacrifices are aspects of atonement. And that's what the commentators have have shown me. And and the other thing is the definition of the words English does not do it. When I just write it in English, I didn't get any of this. But I had to see what what was the meaning behind uh some of these. Just one more comment. Even the order of them is so so wonderful, right? The the atonement comes first. God's work to sovereignly save people. weren't working for it, lost in bondage, no freedom, when you see soteriology, right? God's salvific work right there in the tone. It's the he's right. That's the basic the whole burnt offering. Look at it that way. It's the whole burnt offering, it's the foundation kind of atonement. But then covenant, right? God enters into covenant. Two Tribute. Tribute. The next one is right. The next one. And there's no atonement in there. But there is a there is kind of a propitiation because he's satisfied. It's a pleading aroma. So there's that there's this satisfaction of propitiation But what they're bringing in into is a tribute and they're recognizing this king as the covenant king And we talk about that because these covenants were just common in in in this era. Yeah, you make a covenant with a king or or a warlord. If he took over your tribe, he paid tribute to that guy, you he was he was the boss. Well God is making the same exactly the same kind of covenant they made in the secular world, but he he is obviously you're making a covenant with the the king of creation And then in covenant, right? There was always a suzerainty treaty, right? There was always, if you do these things and pay me tribute, here are the blessings. I will bless you. And most kings even So even then the secular ordain provided something for the people, they didn't And that's the third one, peace. That's the peace offering, right? So that's the third offering we have. Right. And then this fourth one is what happens when we do do the wrong thing? And there's two parts to that, right? Purification and reparation, which is Chapter four up through chapter five and then five and six, right? So it's just great how those stack up the way you lined them up in the previous weeks. Right. Yeah, and and don't get me wrong. It's a purification for sin. So I mean you know, God uses that word It's not an accident. You know. Uh it has kind of it has and that's that's the difficulty with understanding this. Trust me, there's sometimes I'm wrestling with this and think it's I know what these guys are saying, I agree with it, but I'm not quite sure if I had the straight. Yes. So I had the same question he did. Um I just want to make sure that I understand the answer So we see burnt offerings in chapter 1 of Leviticus, sin offerings in chapter 4 of Leviticus, and burnt offerings were attribute to the Lord, demonstrating the devotion, our devotion to us Over submission to them and then sin offerings were to atone for the unintentional sins of the people. So have that ready. The the the uh the purification? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Although um yeah. This is so hard, but I think it's so important because I it as it reflects into the New Testament, it becomes so important. What we are before Christ saves us, that's one thing. And then Christ does this sovereign work, right? This monergistic work to save us. That is most like this word atonement. And I'm narrowly defining one thing. Right? That's atonement. Right. And then we in this Christian life, the entirety of the New Testament is written largely to Christians to call them to a standard of conduct, to a relationship with the Lord that is pleasing to him and glorifying to him. So that's this New Testament. So we're saved in Christ. Our sins are atoned for, the propitiation has occurred, redemption has been accomplished, forgiveness, final forgiveness, has been offered. But now what? And these last two sacrifices are most like the now what? We are unclean because we live in a cursed world. We have a cursed biology. in a cursed nature. Matter is cursed. Not to be too theoretical there, but that's just what it is, right? That's what happened in Eden. So what do we do living in a cursed biology and cursed world? We need a Purification. We need a consistent ritual by which we see that we have that need and we keep returning to the Lord. We keep going back to where he's at. We keep reorienting ourselves accordingly And we keep offering a sacrifice that's pleasing to the Lord, which is our obedience. Right? And that's that's most like the last one with the reparation. Lord, let me go, let me go Um leave your alt leave your your offering at the altar and go in peace with your brother. What is that? That's God sending me your need You need to be doing your best to be like me in all the world, to owe no man anything and to offer peace and forgiveness to all man. to make reconciliation, to care for the orphan and the widow. Right? So I I just think the separation of those atonement from that purification and then us understanding Don't be glib about what we have. Right. There there are, in fact, examples of how we should live in the New Testament Christian age in these last two. And we need to be diligent about Mm-hmm. Sorry. No. Yeah. No, absolutely. And and look, I've confessed this to you guys before. Um I'm leading this, but I'm a facilitator. I'm a learner in this too, to be honest with you. in my education with going to Bible college, even in seminary, uh, I didn't really park on Leviticus. And uh a lot of this, I I I'm a learner like you. But he's right. And and to me, a big one for me was really the concept of uncleanness. um how I take that, you know, I it it just kinda opened my eyes again, l like Scott was emphasizing. Well we sin we're we're unclean to God. We don't really get I don't really get that concept. But and It's not to beat ourselves up as much as to motivate us to you know you could to look at it positively, to motivate us to realize You know, to have that concept in my mind. Well, you know, when I go astray, you know, I I'm unclean before God. Um He can't abide with that. I asked it another clarifying question. Yeah. So when I was reading, there's like a chart in my Bible about the different offerings And it it said the burnt was voluntary and the sin was mandatory and the only uh I just I tried to look up why that was and it seemed like there's this in verse three of chapter one. There's this Hebrew term Ratson, which in this like the semantic domain of it is like it means goodwill, favor, acceptance, or it like expresses the will of a person. So in in like The modern translation is not the King James, like it says, If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall offer it, a male without defect. He shall offer it at the doorway of the tent of meetings that he may be accepted before the Lord. But I think the King James is like of his own will he should offer it. And so I don't know if you looked into that at all. Like it how do you think that I did and this is a difficult thing to to put together. Um uh a lot of the sacrifices uh we talked about this uh or on the burnt offering is first. Oh right, right. And then the other sacrifices were put on top of that. And there's a kind of a picture there too. Uh so the burn the burnt offering, the the basic atonement has already been done. It's not so much uh and uh a lot of the the burnt offering was a daily thing They they did this. And so when you brought your other offerings, they were placing it on top of the burnt offering. So there's that picture too. I was going to do a chart and I looked at the chart that the one one commentator had and I didn't agree with all aspects of it because he he differs in his interpretation of of the guys I've quoted the most, um uh Ross and uh uh Wenham. These are the two commentaries I think that take and get the essence of these different sacrifices. So yeah, that's the problem with these sharks. Yeah And the the one I have is it we I was gonna uh reduplicate and look at in the Bible knowledge commentary, but he I he I don't agree with his interpretation with some of them, so each art's gonna be different. D did your chart say the the burnt offering in Leviticus I was not there? It's not. It was required morning, evening. Uh it was required at specific festivals. He's talking about the individual So he's going out through the S4. Yeah. Uh what what what section? Oh no, I was talking about chapter one. Okay. Confused then. Because they were required morning and evening at the festival times. So that's compulsory, not voluntary. See in that's why that's why I decided to charge. And that's how this g get putting all this together. It's it's a puzzle. But look at it as uh again The burnt offering is pointing to the the substitutionary, ultimate atonement of Jesus Christ. These other sacrifices are aspects of it. And if you and again, these other sacrifices uh the they uh uh will were often they were placed on top of the uh burnt offer. It was first, so real quick. Yeah. This gets repeated in Leviticus the burn offerings personal in Leviticus I and priestly in Leviticus Is that correct? Well the what happens is now when you go to to six and you start to get into the pre, you're looking at remember. Big category again. This was the common person bringing these offerings. In the Victoria. 125 Oh, six. Now we look at what the and the problem is he also gives more detail than he didn't give in one through five. Now you're looking now you in in six uh well the middle of the chapter really um now you're looking at six uh fifth eighteen no uh six eight. And 6A now the priest. So now you're looking at what the priest does. Wow. Like It's Jewish law, you gotta be a lawyer. My son's a lawyer. Is there a s is there actually a distinction between a firm offering and a yellow offering, or is that just like an English thing in the Bible? Because like in chapter six it's like talking about the guilt offering and then the chart had it broken into a whole different category. See, that's why the ch you gotta be careful of the chart. Lo and again, if you want to go back, look at the animal, look at the procedures. Okay, the animal's different. Uh the today we're gonna be looking at a male goat, okay, uh not a female, and there's only little subtleties. Sure. And so that just adds to the to the the but the words again Without getting too lost. And I'm next week I'll have now that we've been through one, two, five, I'm gonna make up a little brief uh summary of all five of the um sacrifices that we've been through So that you can go we can remember what was the word, the Hebrew word to explain that sacrifice, you know, just kind of the nuts and bolts of it. So we go bam bam bam bam bam and remember them Okay. So I can. Okay? So yeah, yeah, and that's what you have to look at. Remember we m we talked about that. And and today Uh wow, look at this, man. Whoa. Today we're we're dealing with another new word. So the guilt offering. And if you look, I have slash uh reparation. Um because if you look through this whole chapter, what are they doing? You're either paying a tribute to God Or you're restoring 'cause 'cause and in an aspect uh that we don't understand, when we uh taking the Lord's uh name in vain when when we we we basically uh make his name uh of you know uh unclean or or disrep disrepute. Um We owe God there's a payment that's due for God. And that's kind of the the uh the gist of this whole sacrifice here Uh let's look at it. Look at your notes. Um the word used for guilt reparation offering in five fourteen through six seven is Asham. The definition of this word in the noun form is number one, offense, trespass, fault. Number two, guilt. Three, compensation. This offering seems to have been confined to offenses against God or man that could be estimated and so covered by compensation. The ordinary trespass offering was a ram, together with restitution and a penalty of a fifth of its value. As Jacob Milgram writes, Though the guilt is the root meaning of the Hebrew word translated guilt offering, a shamb, it does not convey the distinctive function of the sacrifice. Since guilt is a prerequisite also of the purification sin offering Right? The sense of the word as it is applied to this offering is more accurately expressed by the name Reparation Offering. For in every case, its purpose is to discharge liability for material damage or loss either to God or to man. So if you don't get anything, get that. Try to always upload up front where this the gist of these sacrifices is going. And again, um uh without knowing the Hebrew word, we don't really we don't really get that. Yes, again, this word asham essentially means uh offense, trespass, fault, guilt. That that's its primary meaning, but it's used in these other senses as well. So Wenham affirms the translation of Hashem as reparation and recognizes the confusion with purification offering in Leviticus 5. 7. Why don't we uh hmm let me just read that there. Uh there's a section in numbers if we get to, I think would would help. So in 5. 7, um but if he cannot afford a lamb, then he shall bring the Lord his guilt offering for that which he has sinned. Two turtle doves or two young pigeons, one for a sin offering, the other for a burnt offering. Alright, so the term for guilt uh offering would be better translated Uh compensation. Now did I gee I think I put in your notes I updated it. Did I give the ESV translation there? Yeah. Somebody want to read that. But if he cannot afford a lamb and he shall bring to the Lord as his compensation for the sin that he has committed, two turtles in it. So you see the difference between I read you New American Standard, do you see what the ESV said? Instead of guilt offering, yes What? He brings a compensation, right? Well now what is it? Uh sin offerings and break offerings. Okay. Compensation is he's trans he's they've translated that this word, a sham, compensation. So you can see the the the gist of it and and that's that is because as you see through here what's going to happen uh as if you uh Defraud somebody, I'm gonna cause I'm paraphrasing, we're out of time. If you defraud somebody, uh if you found something and you didn't try and find the rightful owner, you just kept it for yourself. Um i if uh and it's and again I'm paraphrasing, if the person felt guilty He could he could he number one if you did it to a person they had to restore the person property first. Then he could bring his uh reparation for his guilt offering. So if he did it to the Lord, obviously he brought it to the Lord. But uh not only did he have to restore Uh like if he defrauded the money and he held let's say he held back a deposit, never paid the guy, or that kind of thing. He had to pay back the deposit money plus a fifth, right? In in Exodus, if a thief got caught, he had to pay back double. Now I think that's a difference there. People say, well, why is there a difference? And I think it's because This person came forward. The thief got caught, it says in Exodus. Then he had to pay it back. It didn't sound like he was giving it off So, you know, God kind of maybe rewarded it and he also maybe maybe made it easier for the person who felt guilty to come forward, confess, which is a big part of this. He had to confess it. And remember that, as we're going through these um sacrifices, this is a public thing. Uh right? If somebody from the camp is bringing this animal for a purification or whatever, they're bringing it to the 10 meeting. It's public. Um so, you know, keep that in it doesn't you know, it is kind of one of those nuances that you need to think through. Um somebody's admitting guilt more or less and they're doing it publicly. And that's a hard thing to do. And and in particular here, I think uh this is kind of brought out in a subtle way So you have to think about it. They had to confess. They had to say, yes, I did it. And and that's big. That's what God wants God knows we're going to sin. I mean I'm throwing it in the New Testament application now. But he wants us to say, yes, I was wrong. I agree, right? If we confess our sins, right? If we agree, yes, I did sin. Then he cleanses us from all unrighteousness. What other major point do I want to get here? I kind of go through some of the nuts and bolts for the next couple of pages. Yes. Um company better understand so the guilt offering. I I so I look at number six twelve, I understand that it's out to compensate for the time of law service that was promised to go to that idea around um reparation essentially Right. I I guess I'm just having a hard time understanding that indirect connection to God. So like the quote the quote that you provided here by Jacob Milgram is for in every case its purpose is to discharge I understand the man part. Can you help me understand Wow, what what is he what is he what is that saying in regards to reparations to God? Oh and and then specifically he's saying for material damage or lost in every case is what Jacob Milburn was saying. And so I'm just and so I understand numbers six twelve to compensate for the time of lost service as promised to God I guess I'm just trying to to further understand that connection. Um I I know what you're getting at and I'm trying to figure out how best to articulate it Because it is and it and and what is uh the damage um you know, I mean w w what's it worth? Well how much do we pay it? Well, you know, number one, it's it's a it's a male uh goat. But the idea is is that when we sin against God, um if you take If I sin because really in the example, if I sin against you and I and I uh take your money in one form or another What what did what did uh God say to David when what did David confess in Psalm 51? He says that right in Psalm 51, he sinned against Bathsheba, he killed Uriah, and he goes Lord, I have sinned. I've sinned against you. Because when you trespass, I trespass We're all God's people. We're made in God's image. I am trespassing God ultimately. So it's kind of a twofold thing But if you let's say uh the examples would be um and I list this in the notes, you can look at it Uh I think I quoted Lindsay in this uh from Bible Knowledge commentary. He was talking about well what are some of the the holy things you could if you eat uh maybe some of the sacrificed meat that that uh Perhaps you shouldn't have. Remember the priest couldn't eat it. Um maybe you didn't pay a tithe uh to God. Those tithes are required. Uh you didn't uh you didn't bring uh uh an offering for purification when you sin. These are all like penalties against God. So are you kind of saying like tie it back to A covenant. So so not so much just looking at it like, okay, there's a material recompense made to God, but we're also kind of say take a step back. We'll get it more as that covenant Right. Relationship in which Yeah. And and even more, you are profaning God's name. Because they are you're right, covenant, they are a kingdom of priests, a holy nation, there to represent To do that, the priest is a mediator. They are being mediators to the world of God's name, and they are making God's name Uh they're they're profaning it. Uh uh Ezekiel talks about that. Um he says, uh I'm gonna bring you back He says he goes, um Ezekiel thirty six Therefore, says the Lord, this is Ezekiel thirty-six, twenty-two, therefore, says the Lord uh to the house of Israel. Thus says the Lord God, it is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I'm about to act, but for my holy name which you have profaned among the nations. And there's a debt for that. And that's what, it's not so much how much do we owe God, it's the fact that we owe him. We have profaned his name. Thank you. And that's about as specific as I could get. I mean, what surprise? Whatever. I'm one of these I'm one of these gray guys. I mean some of you guys I know are concrete sequential engineers. I'm not. It wasn't my gift The idea is that I profaned his name, but do I really get that? Because that's the thing we f we fly over. Israel profaned his name. He's going to restore them in Ezekiel. I mean Ezekiel's writ writing when they're in captivity. at this point. They're in Babylon. The uh he's already destroyed them, destroyed the city and everything else, carried them off into captivity. He he's telling them here, I'm gonna restore you And if you remember 37 is dry bone, so he's going to bring them back a life. But they have they have harmed God. Uh uh we as Christians, um It's a big responsibility. It's a it's a it's this is a hard life, is it not? Yes indeed. We're supposed to be bringing glory to his name. Uh So does that answer? I think in part it I think it's a good start and I messed that up into some more It is. It's one of those concepts. But but think about it. When we defraud somebody else, w and that's what David said in that Psalm fifty one. We are harming God. We are sinning against God. We don't really get that concept. Yeah, I always thought it was weird to It says, I sinned against you only. You only. And he and really I what he really meant ultimately, all of this is about you It's about God. And that's our problem. This is why substitutionary atonement. God did it. We did not do anything but the atonement. There's nothing we do. He did it all. It's a gift. It's not about me. I can say that. I'll go and live like it's about me. And it's har that's a concept we don't get. And that's what the yeah, that's when he says, What do you mean he sinned against God only? For Uriah died. What about him? Uh you know, he but he's God's You know, we get that. She has the you know, Katie's got a little baby, but really that's God's baby that she gets to take care of, right? It's a concept. It's har it's hard to grasp. There's not much more. Any other quick questions? Read through these notes and please bring them back. I'll put it up on the the computer because I'm not going to print it again. But read through these notes Uh I've tried to take the thoughts of uh these learned men and uh kind of Boil it down for us, uh, you know, without making you read through all the commentaries Um but you know, I I want to recognize it's these these godly men who who trained me. Any questions? Um we got a few minutes Any thoughts on this? And again, what I'll try and do is um I will do it We're we're we've we've got through the uh uh when we finish this finish up five, we'll be done with the uh sacrifices from the common man. You and I, in a way, if we're in Israel, this is what this would have been our part. And then we turn the corner, you say, well, we're talking about the same sacrifices. Now we're going to look at it from what is the priest's responsibility? And you're going to see some more detail uh i in the um you know what some of the sacrifices that they didn't give in one through five. Well, let's pray for our service.