Okay, let's uh open at a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, um uh just bless this time today, Lord. Uh use us as a Conduit, let us look into your word. Let's do uh consider uh some of the ramifications before we we dig in. Uh do it as kind of a first level Again, help us to uh just kind of think through and and even ask questions of the passage. Uh Father, we thank you so much for the blessing of the holiday season and uh Lord recognizing um uh the gift uh when when you sent your son down, Lord, uh to be born, uh born as an infant, Lord, uh it's uh It's it's uh so amazing to us who you whose eyes you've opened, Lord, who believe and and recognize uh the the depth of uh and and the completeness of your salvation. So Lord, let us look back in this. What I see now is kind of a foundation, Lord, for uh redemption right here. You explain, Lord. uh how much we need redemption, uh what state we're in, and Lord, uh your provision for it. then and and ultimately, Lord, would it pointed for uh forward to your son. So Lord, just let us consider that today. Let us um meditate and and think uh uh deeply into your word. It's in your name I pray. Amen. So you see what I gave you, not much. I gave you a little outline for today. We're gonna go over real quick and finish up chapter fifteen that we started. Um Really I I think if we get the gist of it, you w y it's not like we need to read through the the chapter. And my my goal of today is To kind of read through the chapter 16 and just start. I want to do an overview. This is the crux of the whole thing, isn't it? It's the atonement, the day of atonement. Um and to me it just it just kinda I this whole Leviticus experience is just open for me. Um uh just so much. How much we need redemption, the things we're being redeemed from, the things that Christ did, everything that we're we've studied up to this point Christ has paid for all of this. And and really when to me, God is revealing, this is the stuff you need to be saved from Uh this whole world system. Uh we are immersed in a system that that's not holy, that's not godless. God knows that. He he created it. He knew that people were gonna fall. I've made uh uh He knew Adam and Eve, it was his plan. And really, we he also knew that the earth was going to be destroyed. I mean, there's going to be new heavens and new earth. Guy Gods of the Alpha and the Mega, beginning and the last. He knows The i it's his plan. This was always a temporary situation and it just helped me really see that. It also helped me see the the depth of what people are saved from. And that's what we're going to finish up. We're we're looking at um Fifteen is is really the um it's the sex organs of the man and the woman, uh emissions from the man and emissions from the woman. And they are uh natural uh sex. uh uh is in here. Uh God tells us to right, to uh be fruitful and multiply. It's a natural thing and yet it's not holy. the the uh bodily fluids. It y y it's n it's not holy. And it just kinda points out that this is we are in this situation And it it's not like we've done something. This is uh uh what we've been placed in. It's a it makes me realize this is what I need to be saved from. Uh you know, heaven is going to be it's it's the whole glorification. Uh and uh I hope it's it's done this to you, um that you've seen that you know really how uh far uh off uh this life uh material situation is from from God. It's it's a temporary thing. That's the other thing I want well, and I I'll get into that when we get into 16. So we went over this before. Here's the outline for 15. And we're just going to go through this quickly just to finish it up. Because there's a couple of things one in particular I really want uh to sh to New Testament to show the the uh dramatic change So we got male discharge, right, and you see female discharge. They're kind of in parallel. And this is uh Uh Wenham and the other ones have explained this is a chiastic thing. It's A, B, B, A, right? And he does this to kind of show the unity between uh the sexes in this So you got male discharge, you got long-term, is the first section, verses 2 to 12, uh cleansed by sacrifice, you have transient. uh uh sexual intercourse or or any type of mission. Uh this it's not, you know, uh a d uh No disease. Uh you then you have the female discharge and you notice it's the parallel, okay? It's the transient is mentioned first, you know, menstrual cycles Intercourse. Things that uh don't need a sacrifice that are just cleansed by time and washing Right, and then it goes long term. You know, if there is uh uh a bleeding uh that's uh that goes beyond the normal period, right, something uh i i it's a disease or a sickness, what have you, but It's uncleanness. And so, but there's a unity there. And we read this last week, but I want to re review it again. It's a chiastic form, and he goes, this is a quote from Wenham He says, form and content here complement each other to express the idea that God created man in his own image, male and female. He created them. Genesis 1. 27 The unity and interdependence of the sexes finds its most profound expression in the acts of sexual intercourse And very fittingly, this is uh discussed in 18, the midpoint of this literary structure. So it is a s it is something that God uh ha has you know, created, ordained, and and and it it is uh uh he tells us to be fruitful and multiply. And yet in his presence in the holiness of God, okay Uh they they are not they cannot approach his present. They can't approach the sanctuary until after they've waited till evening and washed, then they can go back. So uh even even this is just um and and you know when you think about it you know Solomon wrote, right, God put eternity in our heart. All these things, again, we don't know what was on their hearts and their minds for those who believed during this period. But i it ha it you know, if you if you did believe it had to point towards a future. You had to be looking for something better. And I think uh the sacrifices do that. Again, not with near the clarity that we have, right? But even unbelievers uh with all the inf all this this word, it without belief, it it's still meaningless. So we you know keep that in mind. God opens the eyes, God opens the hearts. So let's see, the other thing I wanted to again, this is another quote, very similar, it's in kind of the same context, but this is what Wenham writes, and I like this. I thought he expresses this idea really well. It is most appropriate device to implore these particular laws, focusing as they do, on the unity of mankind in two sexes form and content here complement each other to express the idea that God created man in his own image, male and female, and created him. um uh uh uh Genesis 127. The unity and interdependence of the sexes finds its profound expression in the acts of sexual intercourse And very fittingly is discussed in in verse 18, the midpoint of the structure, right? So I kind of repeated it. But I I liked what he said. It it is true Uh God gave us these things. Procreation, we kind of in a loose sense, right, we per participate In a very loose sense, right? Because, you know, Psalm 139 tells us, I formed you in the in in the womb, in the inner parts, right? Ga in Psalm 139 explains that, that God, there are no accidental children. God formed them in the womb. Um and this is this is critical, especially for for, you know, uh uh the people who understand this who don't have they come from some come from really rough backgrounds and they probably think, you know uh God created you. You're not an accident. It it's huge. So it is and again, this is parallels, right? We're not gonna go through this. Regular discharges for females, uh chronic discharges for for females. The only thing I want to say is, remember, these people when they were like this, they were they were they were not to be touched. They were to isolate. They didn't have to go outside the camp But they had to isolate. They were kind of contagious. And to go to this whole thing, if you read through the the chapter fifteen, you know, if a woman does this and you know Her clothes are unclean, somebody touches something she sat on, etc. etc. And I only want to point that out because when you think about this, uh let's go to Mark 525 I may still you guys know this well, but um I think it it helps us think through this incident, right? Uh let's read um Mark five twenty five. Uh where's the end of it? Um I guess three thirty seven. We volunteered a re Mark 525 through 37. And there was a woman who had a discharge of blood for twelve years and who had suffered much under many physicians and had spent all that she had and was no better but rather grew worse. She had heard the reports about Jesus and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment, for she said, if I touch even his garments, I'll be made well. And immediately a flow of blood dried up and she felt in her blood that she would feel it was a disease. And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone out from him, immediately turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched my garments? And his disciples said to him, You see the crowds pressing around you, and yet you say to trust me? And he looked around to see who had done it. But the woman Knowing what had happened to her came in fear and trembling and fell down before him and told him the whole truth. And he said to her, daughter, your faith has made you wealthy Go in peace and be healed of your disease. While he was still speaking, there came from the rule of seven. You said through thirty-seven, right? Yes. While he was still speaking, there came from the rulerless house subject. Yeah, no, we can stop there, uh, 'cause I really wanted to read the story about her. Yeah, sorry about that. Yeah. Now think about this in the context, Old Testament. These these people were still in that Old Testament economy, right? The law and everything else Why think about why would she have been so afraid? Lots of reasons. Huh? Lots of reasons. Okay, well let's talk about some like from the Old Testament context. She probably was somewhere she shouldn't have been Because she was because of her food. Exactly. Not only with Jesus, but the people around her wouldn't have been happy about this either, right? If they knew, you're not supposed to tell you, you know, now what now they're unclean. What else is neat about this? What is Jesus? Jesus, what happened to Jesus? Did he become unclean No, he healed her. And he healed her Remember, and then we've been talking about this, remember, from chapter 11, 12, 13, 14, all these different things. We talked about foods, we talked about childbirth Uh leprosy, and remember we said leprosy, it could be any kind of a skin disease. It was really uh uh just that. It could be from a burn that that turned uh yet, you know, uh got infected. Right? Into skin disease. So leprosy with a broad turf And I assume it c obviously they would could to be talking about leprosy proper. Uh but were any of those people healed? They got healed by they if they were c really contagious they had to go outside the camp. So I mean, you know Again, it was always pointing to God. God in the flesh could heal this person. This is something new, totally different. And you think about what she did, she had a lot of fate, didn't he? She goes, She buy only touches garment. Uh huge fate. I was impressed by that. And this is an important thing. Thus you shall keep the people of Israel separate from their uncleanness. Lest they die in their uncleanness by defiling my tabernacle that is in their midst. Again, this is a theme we've kind of been covering the whole time. So Yeah, I guess to us, look, it was it points to uh glorification when we when we go uh to the New Jerusalem, to the heavenly tabernacle, right? There isn't. There's not going to be any uncleanness. There can't be. There won't be any sin, right And you know, this is what he's telling us. To me, uh the big picture I'm getting from this w when I keep going over Leviticus is that this is the human condition is really what he's saying. All these laws are telling me. This is the human condition you're in. If you're trying to work your way out of this, it's ridiculo you know. And really, isn't that kind of what we do We do it by work somehow. Any questions on any of that Like I said with some of the others, what we're gonna do, we're gonna go over um 16, we're just gonna redo it. Well, we may spend two, three weeks on this. Because I'm thinking Yeah, first we need we need to look at this uh and think about it from a big picture before we start getting into the weed. Second we'll we'll kind of look at some of the details. But third I think we kind of If we go with atonement, what's the next thing you want to say? Well what is you know what is atonement in the New Testament? Um really the the word atonement is not used in the New Testament. It's just a a term we use to cover what Christ did. And theologically So we'll just do like an overview, but I think if we don't, it'll kinda like it kind of begs the question, okay, so this was Old Testament, what's the New Testament atonement? Um and really what happens is when you look at atonement in a in a theology, they'll list, you know, uh, and we'll get into this, you know, forgiveness justification, right? Redemption. So what just remember all the all the things we've been building on, all these different sacrifices, right? Um The burnt offering, uh the uh meal or dedication offering, uh the purification, they call it the sin offering. A lot of times it's that word used for it, is purifying Cleansing? Well that's the other thing. Cleansing. You're unclean. Clean. It's such a huge Old Testament issue. We don't think I don't we don't really think about this in the New Testament. I d I didn't. It's the you know, it's a big it's a theme though, isn't it? And we're gonna see that in in this i in chapter sixteen, the atonement. Any thoughts, any questions? You with me? Everybody asleep? It's tiring having these holiday things. We got war well Laura got war now. My s my son and his daughter in law and They were like, you know, young and they wanted to do all this, you know, we're like nonstop and it's kind of like, well, we're not twenty anymore. All right, so let's let's uh so I'm wonder I gave you an outline just to give you something. It's just uh it's um I didn't I don't think it has the uh it's it's um uh Alan Ross is is uh I didn't uh put the footnote in there, but that's who it is. Um it's it's kind of a paraphrase of his outline. I so let's let's start with uh sixteen. Leviticus sixteen Now the Lord spoke to Moses after the death of his two sons, after the two sons of Aaron, when they had approached the presence of the Lord and died The Lord said to Moses, Tell your brother Aaron, that he shall not enter at any time into the holy place inside the veil, before the mercy seat, which is uh on the ark. And he or he will die. For I will appear in the cloud over the mercy seat. Okay, let's let's just start with that. I'm just gonna kinda highlight this couple things that we should be looking for Uh number one, Mercy seat. We're probably gonna have to define that. That that's a late uh it's really a theological kind of a thing. Uh it makes sense But it's not it doesn't say mercy seat. This is uh a form of kafar, which is um, you know, substitute or uh you know uh the the atonement is is is defined with that. But it's really substitute, this is a word of it, it's really place of atonement place of sacrifice, place of of offering. Um the other thing that that's in here is uh Do you notice how he says right here? And remember we talked about that, right? Chapter 10. Remember, Nadab and Abihu. And they went in. And there was a lot of speculation. We'll we'll s kind of see this. Remember what they did? They took in uh the incense and and and the uh uh fire pot with the uh uh uh uh coals from the altar that we and there was speculation that they get the coals um from another place other than the altar, did they use different incense? And it's funny the commentators don't really agree on that, but it seems like well to me And it this is just me. It seemed like they he they went in and they weren't commanded to go in. And but it never said when what Naedab and Abaihu did. Did they go into the holy of holy Why were they they car carrying the fire pan in there? And that ca and uh but you can see the uh this is what has to be done. It everything is in order. Uh Uh okay, so it calls a Mercy Seat. Why did they why do you think they came up with that name Mercy Seat? What what is the image you think the theologians were were thinking about? Mercy Seat God's presence in there, right? So wonderful Everybody need coffee? You know is that isn't the mercy seat The lid? Yeah. Right. It's a name that they use. You see and my Bible, right? And it's and it's on the mercy seat, on the lid of the Uh thank you the Arkansas that they would sprinkle the blood if I receive mercy. Right. So I I assume he's calling it a mercy seat. Almost like it's okay, this is God's presence, this is his throne, right? He's taking a presidency. I don't know why they call it a mercy seat. I uh you know. But again. But if it remember, think about covenant Right? Remember we had the covenant in Exodus nineteen. And we said it's very similar to a covenant that would have been a Middle Eastern thing. You make a covenant oftentimes with a king or some ruler over you You don't go and see the king anytime you want, do you? You think of Esther, remember Esther? Remember her big deal was? She's Mordecai says, go see the king, and she's going You just don't do that. I could lose my life. If he's in a bad mood, the king tells you he wants to see you. You don't tell the king Uh and here we have a special time. This is what God says. This is the way you approach this is the way you approach me. I'm holy. He says, uh uh it let's read verse two again The Lord said to Moses, tell your brother Aaron, that he shall enter any that he shall not enter any time in the holy place inside the veil before the mercy seat and then m mine has a a note it says propitiatory. Again, that's again another uh but anyway, say place of atonement. Let's let's let's use that. And we'll we'll get into some of the weeds on this when we go through it. Uh uh Mercy seat on the Ark. Or he will die, will appear in a cloud over the mercy seat. Verse 3, Aaron shall enter the holy place with this. with a bull for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. He shall put on the holy linen tunic And the linen undergarments he shall next uh shall be next to his body, and he shall be girded with the linen sash and attire, with linen turban These are holy garments. Then he shall bathe his body and put uh put them on. So he's got to be, there's this whole thing about being cleansed again He uses a a separate special set of garments. garments. Probably a nice really nice thread, but uh he doesn't use the the garments he uses when he's uh mediating uh to the people. He uses garments uh just for this. These are holy garments. Again, there's that cleanliness thing. Five, he shall take some of the congreg uh he shall take from the congregation of the sons of Israel two male goats for a sin offering, a ram, for a burnt offering. Then Aaron shall offer the bull, the sin offering which is for himself, that he may make atonement for himself and for his household So you can see that first thing he's gotta do is he's gotta offer something for himself. He can't he before he does any of this, he's gotta he's gotta he's gotta and we see this in Hebrews He has to offer cleansing for himself, right? The bull. And we assume it it's also for for the priest. It's uh it later it says it's for his household. So he's got you know, he can't even approach this. Again, it's this this cleanness, uncleanness thing. And and while we're going through this, I mean, these are this is all material. Right? I mean it's he's actually got blood. He's a bull's actually being killed. But is that what's really satisfying God in all of this? What is is I guess what I'm pointing out to it's just a it's it's a manifestation Right? On a physical thing, but it it it's pointing to a spiritual reality, is it not? I mean, where's the real change happening? Why why is God appeased by this? Well th I mean you know to r and I I know it seems obvious, but sometimes we have to stop and think because sometimes we make the the this just so mechanical Well, were they saved by the blood of bulls and goats? Uh the whole world wasn't s wasn't saved by the blood of Christ, right? Uh it It is a reality. It is something that that uh Christ uh did pay. Uh but it but the r the reality really is spiritual, is it not? Let me think about it. Uh God is spirit. And again, it points back to that theme I kept going over in my mind. This is just a material This material w world we live in, the reality really behind it all is the spiritual aspect, is it not? Our souls Right what what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world or loses a soul? You know, it it just helps you take it out of here. It's like I guess what it does, it's like this world means less and less to us when we realize I I mean th there is a reality we we need to be doing you know while we're here. There there are physical, actual things we can do. spiracy minded, but really isn't that the essence all this is pointing to? What are what are we doing spiritually? What are we storing up in heaven? Again, it just I I this is my thinking I don't know if you're tracking with this or not, but you know, this world means less and the more God opens our eyes, the more we see this world means less and less. Yeah. following all the laws of purification and laws of sacrifice in order to enter the holy place for the holy of holies. All of that obedience wasn't necessarily an end unto itself in purification. For like atonement, but the faith and like God said if we do these things we will not die when we walk into that room. That faith is the Kind of the spiritual end goal that all of these laws are pointing to. Absolutely. We all know this, right? I'm second tired of it. Don't bring me your sacrifices. I'm tired of your your festivals, your new moons. Why? What? He established it, right? So he wasn't like, oh I made a mistake, maybe I shouldn't have done that. Why? It's because they were just going through the motions. Yeah, it's it's not effective, right? Yeah. And you know, it's one of those things. It's hard to it's like, well, I don't wanna just be it's d you know, I hate to it's not one of these let go and let God things Right. I don't mean to totally minimize the uh our material beings. That's the way God created us and there's things we should be doing for sure. Uh but yeah, the essence of it is relationships. I mean, we we even know that or uh the secular world even knows that. You know, some relationships are just surface phony relationships and they know it and the people are sick and tired of it too. Uh a real relationship is is kinda when you get down and and you know, you're you're vulnerable with somebody else and they're vulnerable with you. You know, you move off the surface down to yeah, the the faith, the belief, the knowledge. God gives God gives us knowledge. It's not like it's just, oh, I just believe. No, we believe in in what he's revealing to us. But I'll get off of that tangent. I I that's just to me, it's just this is what God has taken me down to a to a new level and just kinda sharing with you. Um Let's see, we're gonna finish off. Let's let's just read six again. Then Aaron shall offer the bowl for the sin offering, which is for himself that he may make atonement for himself and for his household. And I assume with his household he's talking in general, you're gonna see a summary of this in the end. He's gonna make atonement for The tabernacle, he's going to make atonement for the priest, and he's going to make atonement for the people. We're going to see that in in the conclusion of this chapter. So I assume it's his household he means uh he's probably talking uh uh general household, uh i it not only his immediate household but I mean all all he's related to all the Levites, right? Um he shall uh take uh two goats, present them before the Lord in the doorway of the tent of meeting And shall cast lots for the two goats, uh one lot for the Lord, the other lot for the scapegoat is another one uh to deal with. Any of your Bibles have any uh thing uh uh Notes in there for scapegoat. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Mm-hmm. That's one of 'em. The name is Azazel and they don't really know what this means. A hundred percent. It's one of those words. I believe it's only used here in Leviticus. And um the Hebrews the Jewish scholars Yeah and Yeah, is it? Yeah. They and we'll get into that a little bit out in the weeds 'cause there's some interesting things, some of 'em uh uh uh one of the one of them is it points towards a person, uh almost like a demon, you know, kinda where you get the demon goat, you know, I guess that's where Uh but even Kyle kind of leans that way. He's a s he's ki I I see he's kind of a spiritual writer. I told you about Kyle and Billlich, but Um he doesn't take it as uh it's a sacrifice for the demon. He sees it more as a placing the sin on the demon. But whatever, this this goat Again, what do they do with the goat? Well we're getting a little bit ahead of myself, but what are they gonna do with the goat? They're gonna place their hands on it, right? Again, this I mean You know, I I chid around with people all the time when they say they're sex, you know, they'll go, Heel I shouldn't do that, but you know, isn't that kind of what he's doing? You know He's putting his hands on the goat, is is something transferring out into that goat? Right? It's a spiritual thing. It's pointing towards, you know, your removal of sin. Do you believe that? Yeah? Yes. Faith is required and in a tremendous way. You know, faith uh of obedience to even believe that this is something that uh could atone for your sins eventually safe that uh you can transfer or uh confess You know, the sin of your people on the scapegoat and God would even accept it. Right. Uh and then the sacrifice on the Mercy C as well. That God has the option to accept it or not requires that A lot of faith. Right. And let's fli but he did give 'em huge manifestations along the way, right? Obviously w you know, you know the I'm not gonna go through it all, but you know when he came out of Egypt, there was all those manifestations when he when they were on Sinai with the mountain Things were lighting up, the mound was shaking, uh Nadab and Abahu, uh, when when they died, fire came out When he when they when they finished the tabernacle, the glory appeared in the tabernacle. It gave them real manifestations, but you're right. It's still, yeah. And that's why I keep saying that. Out of people in the Old Testament get saved the same way they do in the New Testament. Faith Now they didn't have the obviously the revelation that we have, but they had the revelation they did have. Okay, they had a different manifestation that we don't, uh uh right, with the the physical uh You know, seeing the sea part and things like that and and uh but it still takes faith. Yeah, and it wasn't enough, right? I was gonna say I was like Oh if I saw the Red Sea part, man, that would really get me but the s the Israelites, they they not only saw it, they walked across and then what did they do when they got to the other side and started worshipping a golden calf? I'm like immediately. Right. Right. David's on the right memory is just as short as it's. Yes it is. Yes it is. Yeah. He we're forget we're forgetful. Yeah, we all are. Yeah. And that's that's why we you've gotta be in the Word. Mm-hmm. You ever go through periods where you kinda got off of it for a bit or something and you notice it? Even for some of us, it could be a shorter period than than others. But you know, I notice it. I need to get fed with this word because the world we are I see the world. It's like being immersed in water. We are totally enveloped in this world. Right? We are. It's the system. The only way we get out of this system is through with through Christ's revelation, his light, and and but we can fall right back into it with with the flesh. If you just neglect it for a while. Yeah, we're forgetful. Very forgetful. Same thing with Christ. I mean think about what It's almost a mighty python, you know what I mean? It's it's almost a joke. They go, Well, show us a miracle. And do you if you look back in the context, they he just did one. No, show me another one It just it just doesn't unless God and that's the other thing that we really need to take away. Uh And I'll get to this at the end of the chapter because uh he really to me he kinda emphasizes a couple of uh phrases that kind of talk about this whole thing you opened up with the state. Um i uh it's getting ourselves off our eyes of ourselves And that takes grace because that's the other thing. We are wired we come into this world selfish That's our state. God knows it. He cursed us. We fallen. We're selfish. To do otherwise, though, it's just like faith You c you really can't. You can you can get better at it. Some people are better at it than others, but really to go for the kind of selflessness that God wants You can only do that by grace. There's no way. I mean look at Elijah, right? After he was on the the mountain and Fire came down and everything else. He goes out in the wilderness, right? Leaves his his uh servant behind. He's all by himself When he when God shows up and talks to him, he's like, I did this and I'm the only one left. Aye ay. Look at it. Look at the thing is I don't know, I d didn't count. I'd say there's three, four, five eyes. I don't know in there. You know you know, Godfather was saying, Yeah, didn't I help you uh burn up that altar? I was there too, you know. I got what do you tell him? He says, No, I got was it five? Ten thousand? How many? Seven thousand. Whatever, thank you. Seven thousand guys that didn't bow the knee. You're not the only one. Okay. What about six? Well then? Five? I repeat it every day to God. Don't tell them a liza. Seven sounds sounds biblical, complete number. Yeah, I think that's a good thing. But you know, it's it's this I think. Um same thing. Yeah, you're right, it's faith. And it's a gift. So again it's not just uh let go, let God. Okay, this the we're looking at this. This is intentional. We're looking at God's word And and if you had been here through the whole time you kept going through this and it's kinda like the same story almost over and over again And it's we're immersed in this, you know, these are all the things that are not holy is what we've been learning. Um so let's let's uh Aaron shall offer a goat. Um Uh which is uh uh on which the lot uh fell to the Lord. Okay, so that let's let me read it again. Aaron shall cast lots, two goats One lot for the Lord, the other lot for the scapegoat. So really the one lot is for the Lord, right? To appease him. It's going to be sacrificed The other lot takes away the sin of the people. That's what's being cast out of that camp. Yeah. But the goat on which the lot uh for the scapegoat excuse me fell shall be presented alive before the uh before the Lord, to make atonement upon it, and send it into the wilderness as a scapegoat Then Aaron shall offer a bull of the sin offering which is for himself, verse eleven, and make atonement for himself and for his household, and he shall slaughter the bull of the sin offering which is for himself. He shall take a fire panful of coals of fire from upon the altar before the Lord, and two handfuls of finely ground sweet incense and bring it inside the veil. And this is see, this is uh kind of why it seems to me that Nadab Mabiah, you remember, that's what they did. They brought the fire pan, they brought the incense But if you think back and I'm looking back, I didn't see anywhere where this was this in in Leviticus, in Exodus it was described, but in Leviticus I didn't see anywhere this was commanded when they took that in It wasn't until here where he's telling them, This is what you shall do in this procedure. And that's why it kind of makes me wonder, well I mean I w I could see he'd be Silly enough to do something like that. Wow, I'm a priest that's been sanctified. Let's take the fire pan. I can't wait to see what's behind that. Right? Not thinking? I don't know. Just speculation. We don't know. He shall put incense on the fire before the Lord. That the cloud of incense may cover the mercy sea that is on the ark of the testimony, otherwise he will die. Here's another thing is is that this is uh little something we can wrestle with is uh W what is it doing? Is is is this fire pan clouding it so that Aaron can't see the mercy seat and protecting himself from it? That's one of the positions a lot of them take. Uh some say, okay, but what do you need to do the w w what is the fire pan, what is what is on the incense uh uh altar? Wha what why w Okay, you're in the uh Holy of Holies, right? You got the candlestick, the show bread, table of showbread. But you have that that table of incense. What does that table of incense represent? Well w what is really there? What is that for? What'd you say? The ascension of the prayer. Prayers, exactly. It's to that's they take the prayers in, that and that's You see that in Revelation, uh uh uh and the prayers go up. Uh uh they talked about that in the in the throne room in in uh Revelation. It's the prayers, the prayers of the saints It's the prayers of of the believers, it's the prayers of the camps. Remember the the the priest is a mediator. He has to take the prayers in. Where do our prayers go to? Yeah, the throne room of grace. Christ is in there. The priest is in the throne room for us. Moreover, he shall take some of the blood of the bull and sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy seat, uh, on each side, also in front of the mercy seat, and he shall sprinkle some of the blood with the finger seven times Um did I skip a did I skip thirteen? No? Yeah. No. So again, he's cleansing this thing. Okay, this is all for cleansing. And again, putting blood on something doesn't seem like cleansing dust, does it? That thing's gotta get clean So that you know obviously we're again you gotta is this it's pointing towards a spiritual aspect. Gotta be, right? Look beyond the physical Then he shall slaughter the goat, uh the sin offering which is uh for the people, bring his blood inside, the veil, uh, and to do uh And to do with his blood as he did with the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat and in front of the mercy seat. Because of the impurities of the sons of Israel and because of the transgressions in regard to all their sins, and thus he shall do for the tent of meeting uh which abides with them in the midst of their impurities. Again, we see that sin this is the he's cleansing, the first thing he's doing is he's cleansing the temple. Okay, and the sins Uh again, metaphorically, okay, all this is being brought to the uh before God. God's Again, present. Think of remember this is a different economy. God's presence in this economy is manifested. He he he is he's manifesting his glory, his his presence in this tabernacle. amongst these people. You remember later you see in some of the uh uh Ezekiel, things like that, right, the glory of the Lord departed out of the tabernacle. He left Yeah. Yep. Poo poo poo poo. Nanny show where where did I finish it up? Then he shall slaughter the goat into the sin offering which is for the people, and bring his blood inside the veil to do the blood as he did the blood. The bull read the The sprinkle on it on the mercy seat in front of the seed, they shall make atonement in the holy place because of the purities of the sons of Israel, because of their transgressions in regard to all their sins, and thus he shall uh due for the tent of meaning which abides uh in their midst for the impurity. When he goes in to make atonement in the holy place, no one shall be in the tent of meeting until he comes out. that he may make atonement for himself and for his household and for all the assembly of Israel. Then he should go out to the altar that is before the Lord and make atonement for it, and shall Take some of the blood of the bull and and the blood of the goat and put it on the horn to the altar on all sides So now so he's he's gone in, he's done the the holy of holies, he's he's done the the holy place. Now he's gonna go back out and he's gonna do the the altar that the people Sacrifice all. And he's gonna cleanse that With his finger how shall he shall sprinkle some of the blood on it seven times and cleanse it uh from the impurities of the sons of Israel. Verse twenty. When he finishes atoning for the holy place in the tent of meeting, And the altar, he shall offer the live goats. Okay, so that's the third step, right Then Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of the live goat, confess over it all the iniquities of the sons of Israel, all their transgressions in regard to all their sins and he shall lay them on the head of the goat, and send it away into the wilderness by the hand of the man who stands in readiness. The goat shall bear on itself all their iniquities to a solitary land and he shall release the goat in the wilderness. I know there's some controversy. They talk about numbers. Um That there are sacrifices. It seems clear here. These are sacrifices for all their iniquities, all their defilement. This is and I don't know because I am not I'll be honest with you, I'm not that much I mean I'm weak with Old Testament, I haven't been in it for a while, I've been in the New Testament, I'm just tired And reading through the Bible probably helped me again this year because, you know, we you s we're forgetful. I haven't been through it. Um, you know, teaching or studying uh uh in a while. I've done some of the profits and things like that, but that's that's way beyond this. Um were the people outside the camp? It seems to me it says all. Y you know how some people were outside the camp? And I'm wondering now again, it's it's it's what Ethan was talking about faith obviously what really works. But was his atonement adequate for some of these people outside the camp to come in? Now if they're unclean No, they do have to be healed. But say they've had a trespass of some type. I don't know. But it says all their sins. Yeah. One of the people I had to stay outside the camp with Joshua was Cathica, the prostitute. Rehab. Rehab. She was a had the when she came to live there, she lived outside the camp where she was a progenitor of Jesus. Mm-hmm. Right, right The symbolism is so strong here. Can you just imagine this whole process going, you know, executed throughout? Uh the the sacrificing of the animal. Like we just read sacrificing. But the priest says that place two hands on the animal and then kill it. Uh like blood would have been spraying any everywhere. Uh Doug books says it's in a this one would be a lot. This one lit. The other one, yeah. But even with the scapegoat, you confess all the sins of your people. specifically. Recounting like, oh Peter he he killed this person in anger. Right. And that's an emotional assault. And the whole thing is Right. There's an object lesson every single year. Right. I was just wondering how long the failed How long what? Serious. Really won't as he stood with the hand on that all the sins of all the people. I realize you've got to to categorize it to each of that it would have taken forever. It would have taken a while. So that may that would have been quite quite the day. Right. Right. Yeah, and if you really meant it, you'd be serious, right? Because again, they did have the manifestation. They know what happens when God's not happy with they have made never to bayou And other people are cut off outside the camp. Mm-hmm. He had to change his clothes, said he'll tell me. Yeah. And the symbolism of uh sprinkling of the blood on the atonement cover. Right. Um God's law represented as the Ten Commandments within the Ark of the Covenant. Right. Demanding justice for the sin. the blood sprinkled on top is where uh justice is met by mercy. God so chose. So the mercy seat is That's why I'm not sure. Yeah, no, well yeah, and that's yeah, theologically you see how they got there, but it is a theological definition The the literal and that's why it's uh it is helpful. It's not to throw you off and say, Oh, you know, this is all wrong, but you do need to know i it helps to know what were Well w well how is that word used again in their time if we're trying to place ourselves back to them? Uh uh mercy seat is is uh In comparison to them is a relatively new term. Uh but yeah. Yeah yeah, it it to to to have that all taken care of Yeah. And if you believed it for sure. It still must have been a great encouragement to them. This is their first experience of worshiping God as a nation. Right. Right. And the laws have have to be obeyed. Just think. If somebody said to you, All your sins can be forgiven. I know. I know. I mean it is huge. I know And and they had an action. And they had and that's part of the neat thing about this. They had more of a uh physical immediate idea of sin that we do. Sin I'm not a sinner, I'm not that bad. You know? Whereas they had it was much more I mean, you're already gone through all these things. And they realized that they couldn't go before God in that situation. Yeah, they had a much more uh Th they were much more grounded in reality, what was clean and what was unclean. Sin. And it just the whole thing out. It helped me even going back to this. I mean, I've said this a dozen times, but I mean I'm safe. I'm good. I do feel confident I'm going to heaven. That can make me slack. I'm in. I got it. Pray? And and remember a lot of these um Okay, they were unclean. They could move to clean. Clean was common. But if they wanted to go to the sanctuary, they had to be sanct. sanctify, right? And that's what we need to remember. Okay. Yeah, I'm in, I'm good. But now, okay, sanctification. How close do we want to get to the throne room of God? How close do we want to to uh be there? I I think there must I think there is uh it it feels like it to me, so you know how feelings can be. When I'm l you know, when I'm holy, when I'm living right. I mean, you know, you go through periods where you're ups and downs and then, you know, uh whatever sin comes in, anger, uh judging people, whatever it is, I don't care. Could be something worse. But the point is it kinda yeah, you feel the distance. You feel the uh the fellowship And and I believe that that's what you know, so sanctification. They were being sanctified in the Old Testament. We need to keep that in mind in the New Testament. Don't be satisfied, well man, I'm good, I'm saved Um that's that's game's job. You gotta deal with some people. Come on guys, let's go. Uh it's a patient thing. I mean I'd you know, anybody deals with it if you witness or anything else. It's kinda like you want to grab 'em and pull 'em in. It just won't work. So sanctification Let's finish up we'll read this real quick. Um Aaron shall come to tenamine, take off his linen garments, put em all when he went to the holy place. I'm reading this quickly and shall leave them there. He shall bathe his body with water and his place and put on his clothes, come forth, uh offer his burnt offering and the burnt offering of the people, make atonement for himself and for the people Then he shall offer up the smoke of the fat, the sin offer uh sin offering on the altar. And again, sin offering oftentimes really means and w we'll look at it. What is sin offering? We said, it's just kinda Uh uh we looked at the other offering, it's purification. It could be cleansing. Okay? It really has this gist. And if you look uh at what the do what happens, the result you'll see it. Uh The one who releases the goat of the scapegoat shall wash his clothes and bathe his body with water, then afterwards he shall come to the camp. But the bull of the sin offering, the goat of the sin offering, whose blood was brought in the Make atonement and the holy place shall be taken outside the camp and they shall burn their hides, their flesh, and refuge in the fire. Then the one who burns shall wash his clothes, bathe his body with water, and afterwards he he shall uh uh come into the camp. So there's this cleansing. Remember, pern offering, really the only thing that goes on the altar in the sanctuary is the fat the fact goes up as a pleasing Roman to the Lord. The rest of the animal, a burnt offering, Olah, is completely consumed. We see that as Christ. Christ on the cross. Um that's Christ. He's doing the work for us. We believe in that, but it's his work. He's given himself completely. Burnt offering, sacrifice. His sacrificial offering for salvation. He's he's uh obtaining appeasement with God. And so he can justify us by that. But ri it's it's it's the burnt offering, it's a complete thing. And the other offerings you look, it's there's a participation in a way. The meal offering is a dedication offering really where they're dedicating themselves again to the covenant and to God. Uh the peace offering they get to share it. They the meat goes to the uh Sorry, it's not on that list. The peace offering goes, you know, uh the the priest takes it. Remember it becomes most holy when the priest takes it and sacrifices, but then he gives a portion back to the people They it's fellowship. They they they realize they're participating in this holy thing with God. So let me finish with this. This is important. This shall be a permanent statue for you, verse 29, the seventh month, the tenth day of the month, uh humble your souls, you shall humble your souls And do and not do any work, uh whether native, aliens, sojourners, uh among you. For it is on this day that atonement shall be made for you to cleanse you. Again, you see, it's a cleansing thing. We're cleansed. We come we're dirty with sin before a holy God. It's a cleansing. It's You will be clean from all your sins before the Lord. Again, it is all. It is to be a Sabbath, a solemn rest For you that you may humble your souls. It is a permanent statue. Again, you can see it. It's faith. Humility. Got to finish up. Humbling. You know, without fa without faith. You're just not. It's that pride thing. Humility is the beginning of salvation for sure. When you're done with yourself and you're saying, I need a savior, I need this atonement for my sins. Uh I'll finish this up and we'll quit Uh so the priest who is anointed and ordained to serve as priest in his father's place shall make atonement. He shall uh thus put uh linen garments and the holy garments And make atonement for the Holy Sanctuary, and he shall make atonement for the tent of meeting. Here it is. And make atonement for the Holy Sanctuary. He shall make atonement for the tent of meeting, for the altar, he shall make atonement for the priest and for the people in the assembly Now you have this permanent statute to make atonement for the sons of Israel for all their sins once every year. And just as the Lord commanded Moses, so he did. You can see he cleansed everything. I mean this is a complete thing. Yeah, she so what it you know We'll get into some of the weeds of it, but I think we also need to to just kind of wrestle with a little bit. We talk about this atonement theologically again it's not used in the New Testament it's the theological word they use but here is a here this is the foundation of all of this. This is a gospel This is what Christ did. Christ fulfilled all this, all this, this sin, all these problems, Christ took care of. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time. Thank you for your word. Thank you for your salvation. Thank you for this atonement. Thank you for Christ's work. It's complete. It's finished. Lord, we will be glorified one day. We will be totally clean in heaven. There will be no sin Not for our sakes, for e for our but for our sakes for relationships. You cannot abide with sin. There will be no sin in heaven. That's not who you are And that's what you're showing these people here. That's what you're showing us that Christ does for us. It's future, Lord. We're saved, we're being sanctified, and we will be glorified, Lord. It's in your name we pray. Amen.