So we have to finish. We're on the weeks or the feast. Uh we went through um the first two. Uh in the spring. So we got one more spring feast and it's uh Pentecost. And obviously this means uh a whole lot to us Because Pentecost is the beginning of what of the church, right? The new covenant, the Holy Spirit being poured out on on people, believers. uh i the Holy Spirit sealed us so a goddess is huge. Um uh I you know as I looked at this and and I and again I've dug into this a little bit. This is still an overview with these kinds of things. I mean, it isn't like you you can't go down further, but um Uh excuse me. Some of the uh uh there wasn't a a whole lot of of text that the commentaries were writing on on these particular events for the Jewish population. I'm I'm not sure how profound it was to them, but here's what I've uh uh give given you overview of uh Summary of. After the completion of the first fruits of the barley har harvest, fifty days later, right Pentecost First fruits of the wheat harvest were to be brought to the sanctuary as a holy convocation to the Lord. So fifty days later, after um the s the uh uh first fruits, the uh the uh of barley, now they're bringing in the first fruits of the the wheat crop, the the spring crops. And um So they they were to come back and uh the Israelites were to bring the loaves of bread made with wheat. The Feast of Wheats is seen as a reminder of giving the law at Sinai. Uh just because um uh again uh that covenant was made and uh all these feasts are are in whatever p uh uh specific As a general thing, you're recognizing God is the provider of all this stuff. Uh remember, they're giving us at Sinai But really a lot of this projects forward to when they're going to be in the land, right? They're they're eating manna right now, they're wandering in the desert Uh so again think of all the future things. The people have to assume, oh, we are gonna go into the land. Oh, he is gonna give us some land, he is gonna provide this. This is all future really. When when you I I'm just trying to get a a mindset of of of uh what they would have had to have seen. And of course to really have all that you have to have a faith, a belief, a trust that God is gonna do what he says he's gonna do. So the emphasis of this feast was to remember God provisions and from that provision the farmers were to leave the corners of their field for the needy I guess we should kind of read through that text. Um we got a lot to cover today. I don't want to take too much time, but um Let's read 15 through 22, Genesis 23, 15 to 22. I'll start it off You shall also count for yourselves from the day after the Sabbath, from the day when you brought the sheaf of the wave offering. There shall be seven complete Sabbaths. You shall count 50 days to the day of the seventh Sabbath. Then you shall present a new grain offering to the Lord. You shall bring in from your dwelling places two loaves of bread for a wave offering. made with two tenth of an ephah, they shall be of fine flour baked with leaven as first fruits to the Lord. Along with the bread you shall present seven one year old male lambs without defect. and a bull of the herd and two rams. They are to be a burnt offering to the Lord, with their grain offering, their drink offerings an offering by fire of a soothing aroma to the Lord. Somebody want to read uh nineteen through twenty twenty one Actually go no twenty-two. And you shall offer one male goat for a sin offering and two male lambs a year old as a sacrifice of peace offerings. And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the first fruits as a wave offering before the Lord with the two lamps. They shall be holy to the Lord for the priest. And you shall make a proclamation on the same day. You shall hold a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work. It is a statute forever in all your dwelling places throughout your generations. And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field right up to its edge, nor shall you gather the gleamings after your harvest. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner. I am the Lord your God. uh he's thinking about the poor. We have to think about people. And um uh again, th there's a lot of themes we're just gonna repeat over and over and over again t throughout these different feats because they are kind of the same things, but Uh you know, you believe in God, you know, recognize uh he's got people. You have to recognize the people as made in the image of God. There are people that are less fortunate If you really love me, and we see this in the New Testament, but he's even there, now he's pointing. You know, I care about these people. You don't need to repeat to leave the corners and all for them. This this was a huge thing. And you s you'll see, you know, uh Those of you familiar with uh the New Testament or the Old Testament, like Isaiah and all that, he's always talking about ta you didn't take care of the poor and the widow You know, because that kind of it kind of sums it up. Love the Lord your God with all your heart. Love your neighbor as yourself, right? These are the two commandments. And really I think you see this in these kind of things. The other thing that we're going to again and again and again, God is the provider. That's these holy convocations, not do any work Take everything off your plate. We're going to see that over and over again, right? That's what the Sabbath was about. And the rest is a physical rest, but it's really Stop all the busyness. This is the time to focus on you, Lord. Your relationship with the Lord Obviously, I mean that that's obviously uh something for us too. Or, you know, to pray. Pray without ceasing, to focus on the Lord. Life is busy, life is difficult, there's all kinds of things in here. Rest in the Lord. That's what that rest actually was was pointing to. It's it's uh You're resting in God's completion. You're resting in God's provision. You're resting in God's control and sovereignty of everything. So the answer to the thieves was to remember God's provision and the provision of the farmers to leave the corners of the fields for the knee, right? Uh this was a feast, uh this was a more elaborate feast, the feast of unleavened bread, and many animals were sacrificed and the people were to provide a sin Or purification, and we talked about that, sin and purify it's uh sin, but it it looked like a purification, you're cleansing things, your life in the in the sanctuary Some rabbis believe that this is the day Moses received the law, and thus uh commemoration of the law was emphasized uh at this feast. Another difference, excuse me, at this feast are the loaves of bread and the yeast prescribed to make them Yeast, we always never bring yeast. You never put yeast on the fire. And again, these loaves were not put on the altar fire The loaves of bread were not burned with the fire as no yeast was permitted to be burned with fire. We saw that in the law. How what that typifies, I mean people have have taken it in different directions. Um I I'm not really going there because uh again it just it's it seems like um It's a lot of speculation, but you know, it it could be the human some people say, well, maybe it's a humanity of Jesus or you know, but again, theologically that's correct, but you know, uh Was were was this pointing to this and w certainly would the people s recognize this? Um I don't know So the typology, so what does this mean? Typology in the New Testament. What is this? To us, uh the type is seen in Acts 2, right? Day of Pentecost, Acts 2, what happens, right? All these fairy comes. All these spheres comes, the fire comes down and whatever and memorized a kind of a visical vi uh visible a and uh there was a great rushing sound and noise So there's these signs, right? Something great. This is a beginning of the new covenant. This is a radical change. This is really kind of the this is the end of the wall. There's still sacrifices in the temple, right, for hmmm Forty years, maybe a little less. But still, the temple's still there, but this is the end of the law. The the Holy Spirit has now come on these people So the type of scene in Acts 2, day of Pentecost, the day Moses was given the law, the Holy Spirit, indwelt believers in Jesus Christ. Again, that's what the rabbis say. We don't know if this was the day that Moses received the law or not on this Pentecost. This was a promise of the new covenant. Somebody let's read these passages real quick. Somebody get Jeremiah 31, 31 through 34 Somebody else get Ezekiel thirty-six, twenty-four through thirty-two. Um And then First Corinthians twelve thirteen Somebody wanna volunteer to read uh Jeremiah thirty-one through thirty-four? Okay. Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Israel. I'd like to kind of which I made with hair flowers in the day I took them up here to bring it out of a little bit of easy. My covenant which they broke, although I was trust unto them, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days declares the Lord, I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And and you know, the see the law and that's you can see there is a connection there. The rabbi thought, okay, you know, this is the people get the law and you'll see this through some of the others. The law is on the heart And and the law will be within them. And I and I think the ear some I think this is a scene that the uh early bel early Israelites might have s could have seen. Uh uh but the law was was gonna be within them. Uh a again, somebody uh Ezekiel thirty six Twenty-six, I think D twenty-seven will suffice. At least uh twenty-six and twenty-seven is what you said. Um Yeah. 2627. And I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statute. Hm. Yeah, I mean, you know We see this in in uh Romans 6. You know, we've been crucified with Christ, we were baptized into his death. And that's what Ezekiel is saying here. He's going to put a new spirit within us Okay? That's what happens w with this new covenant and the Holy Spirit. But He's going to give us a new Spirit. Again, Romans 6, we've been baptized uh with Jesus until his death. Uh right? We're no longer slaves to sin. We now have the freedom to choose what's right. Uh it's huge. Uh first Corinthians twelve thirteen Okay. For in one spirit, we were all baptized into one body. Jews are Greeks, slaves are free, and all were made infraith of one spirit. 'Cause they talk about the baptism of the spirit and this is this is really the deck that tells you what it is. Uh you know, the the charismatic movement, they like to push the spirit, just focus on the spirit, but Really, I mean if you look at John, John tells you, I mean, the Spirit's gonna bring forth well Christ, he goes, Well w he's gonna bring forth Jesus, he's gonna reveal Jesus. He says that in in J John, um but we are baptized into we're immersed into this body. It's a spiritual thing, I know, but um And th it's so neat because look at what he breaks down. Jews are Greeks, slaves are free. I mean he's talking about ethnic, he's talking about uh social status. We're all made one in Christ. Any questions, any thoughts, comments before we move on? So now we move to the fall feast. Um so the feast of trumpets. The Feast of Tropics began in the seventh month Tishri of the first uh day or the first of the month. This is called a memorial of blowing. It never really says trumpets. I did not uh inundate you with the Hebrew on this one, but it doesn't say trumpet. It's it's uh it's a blowing, it's a blast Um so th there's this you know, these different things with this and and he he you know, the point is is we'll we'll see this. I I I it um We'll look at some verses I think that they really give us a uh the essence of of w uh where he's going with this trumpet blast, this blowing. How does he use this kind of As a symbol as a metaphor throughout scripture. And uh I got some some text it I think So um, you know, we can talk about this is called a memorial blowing of trumpets, and it was a time of Sabbath rest. The Day of Atonement and the Feast of Booth uh would have also been included in this calling as all three these holy convocations occurred in the month of Tishri. So, yeah, it just you will see this, but okay, so the first in the month is the calling, right? It's trumpets. And um w we'll explain a little bit well what that is. On the tenth is the Day of Atonement, right? Ten days later. Five days after that is the feast of booth. So you can see this colony of people uh would have stayed, especially if you're coming from a long distance, they would have been here for these these three festivals. Uh, let's see. Uh blah bay read on yeah I guess. The text does not state uh what instrument is used, whether it's a shofar or a ram's horn, which is probably what a shofar was, or a trumpet Numbers 101 through 10 describes a silver trumpet. Or, you know, if you look at that, you'll see the the um uh defining making this out of silver and banging it into like a horn shape at the end. But if you look at the rest of the verses, it tells what these this trumpet boot will be used to call call the war, we'd be calling to uh uh gather the people for a com uh hopeful convocation, uh you know, just the different ranges of this The sound of the trumpet we used to call the people to approach the mountain at Sinai and came to symbolize the voice of God. That's in Exodus 16 to uh nineteen, okay? Uh nineteen first sixteen and nineteen uh um sorry. Uh and of course this is when Uh uh they th they were make God was making a covenant with the people, as you recall. We've we've been over that several times. Um The trumpet glass was used to some of the people that approach the tabernacle, numbers 10, 1 through 10. Again, it lists the different callings in there. This piece is called a memorial. It came at the end of the harvest season. So one of the Hebrew words in there is this is a memorial. The people were to reflect or remember the covenant blessings God had bestowed on them throughout the year. It was a time to renew their covenant vow and seek God's blessing for the new year. And and I'll read on because this will kind of explain um what they're really what they're remembering. The calling is viewed as an awakening of the people to a time of spiritual reflection on the Lord, as they rejoice and rest in having brought the harvest. This was a time for the people to repent, to be pardoned from their sins, and to be restored to fellowship with God. This was a time of complete rest to offer sacrifices to the Lord. Verse 25. The burden of work, the concerns of life were to be turned over to the Lord as the worship and focus. The Lord is provisioned. The details of the offerings of the feast are presented. And Numbers 29, 1 through 6 tells what the sacrifices were and everything. Remember this is again we've we've kind of been through the Day of Atoma, we've been through all these sacrifices. Now he's reminded him, he's telling the people These are the times or the seasons all throughout this chapter 23 that you will come back to Whatever area at that time was going to be the tabernacle or the place of of where the priests were were had the altar and they were making the sacrifices. It was a pilgrimage Then a conclusion of typology. The blowing of the shofar was associated with the voice of God. We see this in Exodus 196 and 9. where the people are called to the mountain and heard God speak to Moses. This is the only place where it's not just a blowing. He actu the ac the word there in si in these two verses is shofar. So we know there's a ram's horn there. Again, and it's just for some people love the specifics and the detail. Again, the the point is, and you saw in numbers, uh as they moved forward, there was going to be a s uh silver instrument. Okay, whether you call it a trumpet or not, it was going to be a trumpet-like instrument The blowing of the shofar is associated with the voice of God, we see this with Exodus 19, 6 and 9, where the people are called to the mountain and heard God speak to Moses. The sound of the trumpet was used for calling Israel to battle, and spiritually was presented as God calling his people to himself. So here's here's some different um verses. Uh this is a sample. Uh uh tried to get some uh uh different points of view here, but this this is uh in the book of Revelation We read the glorified Christ had a voice like a trumpet. And Revelation 1, verse 10. I was in the spirit on the Lord's day, I heard behind me a loud voice, the sound of a trumpet. And if you're The mayor, just to put your mind in, this is John is seeing the glorified Christ, and uh he's he's going to tell him what to write, okay? Uh uh and He he's viewed in here and and his voice is the sound of a trumpet. And this would have gone with the Old Testament Hebrew people who thought of The trumpet being the voice of God they wouldn't if we would have had that association or um So prophetically, Scripture uh says that God will cause people who have been scattered among nations, and he will call them back to the land with the sound of a trumpet This is in Isaiah 27, 13. It will come about also in that day that a great trumpet will be blown. And those who are perishing in the land of Assyria, who are scattered in the land of Egypt, will come and worship the Lord in the holy mountain at Jerusalem. So again, this trumpet call is going to bring these people back. The sound of a trumpet warns of a great destruction. And judgment of the land, Joel 2. 1. And and forward, if you look at kind of Joel through that chapter uh the second chapter describes a time when God will judge the people. Blow a trumpet in Zion and say, excuse me. Sound an alarm on my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord is coming. Surely it is near. Now the day of the Lord is a motif that runs through the, you'll see it to use several times. It's judgment And uh good it's it's it's judgment, but it's uh Israel sees it in several places where it's gonna be judgment on them. as well. And there's and also w we'll see, um God is also going to judge the Gentile nations as uh too that that came against his land. But God is going to judge the people and they this This was the same theme throughout. They they knew this. Um, you know, Isaiah, Jeremiah, um uh Zechariah certainly. The sound uh the sound of the trumpet of the Lord defends Israel Uh and Zechariah writes about this, but he also writes too that two-thirds of Israel in Zechariah, he he this is all prophetic in Zechariah's future He's talking about two thirds of the people will be cut off. Uh it's so yeah, the tribulation, uh the way uh we see it, uh as a a future event, uh uh literal future event, Israel is is going to go through a tremendous persecution before the redemption The sound of the trumpet of the Lord defends Israel. Then the Lord will appear over them, and his arrow will go forth like lightning. And the Lord God will blow the trumpet and will march in the storm winds of the south. The Lord of hosts will defend them, and they will devour and trample on the sling stones And they will drink and be boisterous as with wine. And they will be filled with the sa uh sacrificial basin, drenched with the uh uh like the corners of the altar. What Zachariah is saying here in this in the context of this is the the nations are gathered against him. He's it's kind of the tribulation period. He's describing and he's going to empower the people to stand against it at the at the kind of the eleventh hour, shall we say. Uh and this is this is what he's saying in this prophecy here. This is a uh this trumpet that is going to uh uh it's gonna raise the people up. They they're gonna defend themselves even in the midst of the of the slaughter. So there will be a remnant. The sound of the trouble will be heard at the end end of the age when the Lord returns to the earth to judge the people and call the saints to himself. This is Matthew 2430 through 31. And then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn. And they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky. with power and great great glory. And he will send forth his angels with a great trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds. From one end of the sky to the other. So this is the calling of the elect uh at the end of the age. The Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky. Where's that from? Anybody know? What is that uh allusion to? Yeah, kind of a sum of it part of a direct question. What book has that, The Son of Man Coming on the Clouds? Anybody know? Isn't it Revelation? Daniel seven? Right. Here we know. Yeah, it's uh Daniel wrote about this. And the New Testament talks about that, Son of Man, Son of Man. That's a common name for Jesus used for himself in the Gospels. The Feast of Trumpets is called Rosh Hashanah, which means the beginning of the new year. This fell on the first day of the seventh month and was the beginning of the civil new year for the Hebrews. The first ten days before Yom Kippur, or Day of Atonement, was a time of repentance. This is Israel's high holy days in which, and I've got this. underlying so to speak, which in which tradition, and we put that out, it's tradition, this is not scripture. Among the people say that God writes the words, deeds, and thoughts of a person in the book of life. Rome wow, I forgot the S. Hmm. Paul. Paul Sunday. Uh 6928 is the he talks about the the uh the book of life God opens a book of life and Rosh Hashanah and if your good deeds outnumber your sinful deeds and your name is written uh your name is written in the book of life for another year. During the ten days of Rosh Hashanah, the people can repent for their sins and increase their chances of being written in the Book of Light. That's what the Hebrews have thought and I assume they're still thinking this. Because, you know, and it it works, isn't it? And, you know, when you think about it, that's such a common, how many religions have works? Just about all of them, right? Um the Muslims, right? They're they have to do uh I think they do exactly the same thing. If their good deeds out outweigh their other ones Or they they talked them into blowing themselves up and they said, Oh, then you get a free pass into God for being a martyr. And the mother goes with them. Is that right? That's what they believe So it works, it always works, isn't it? Um uh yeah. Um So we see that with them. But it was obviously and I think even back then I think this was a time for repentance because it was leading up to the Day of Atonement And um really John the Baptist came and he was baptizing people and and most people know about this. The Pharisees came out but when I teach baptism classes there's one line in there I used to tend to gloss over, uh, and I think a lot of us do, is that John was baptizing the people and they were coming to him and they were confessing their sins This was radical, and that's probably what the Jews were saying. What are they doing on that there? It doesn't make sense to John. Who are the guys in charge? Who is John? What's all this about? But r and it's always the same thing. It's it's that's the beginning of salvation, isn't it? Is I got a problem, I'm I'm a sinner, I'm not right with God, um If you don't see that, you're working your way. You know you're going to do more works than bad than bad works. So we can never do good deeds to ensure our salvation, only believing in Jesus, our Savior. Uh can one enter the kingdom of God? Those who put their faith and trust in the Lord Jesus have their names written in the book of life. We probably ought to look. Well somebody read get Revelation. This is a land book. Read just read Revelation 2127. But nothing unclean will ever enter in or anyone who does what is testable, but only those who are written in the land of the flight. Right. And then you know, twenty eighteen is um Uh when it's a uh uh white throne judgment and and everybody's judged, the books are open. There's a book of life and uh and uh the book of your deeds. And uh See, even the Jews kind of got this. They had this book of life. It was in their testament, and they were thinking, you know, my deeds, everything, you know, God knows what we did, right? But if your if your name is not written in the book of life you were thrown into the eternal fire. Um that's the only way. Your gaze would would never get you out And of course he t he says in twenty-one he calls it the Lamb's Book of Life. He puts that um descriptor on there. And we we uh Pastor Gabe just uh went through this a little while ago. Jesus has authority to judge. Jesus is going to be the judge. And um we knew the judge. Good thing, huh? Good thing. What a blessing Alright, Day of Atonement. Um, so here we are in the tenth, right? In this section of scripture, the preparation for the atonement is emphasis of the details of the atonement is given in chapter 16. So this is really kind of the preparation for it. In other words, so we've we've got uh the trunk of coal, uh they've been there. Um There was um people were to consider uh the their uh uh standing before God and and and and leading up to this. This was the the atonement. Remember we talked about this Uh we said that all the sins were forgiven on on this. And there was some debate about that with with different scriptures that seem like they contradict it. But it says all sins several times in the in that description there. Um so people outside the camp, remember when somebody got put outside the camp, uh uh this this day would have uh w I'm assuming had their heart repented, had they the the uh Day of Atonement they they would have been cleansed, they could have come back inside the camp, uh me right with God. So The time and disposition of worshipers during the atonement, the people were to approach God in a repentant, afflicted, or humble manner. Uh and these are the words that they use. You can you can look at humble. The word there is is kind of afflicted. I think I talk about it later. Uh but it it's it's it's uh it's a It's a deep thing. It's not just a shallow thing. It's uh the word affliction, uh it it's not always used in like a spiritual sense. It it's it's used sometimes to afflict somebody. to really put 'em under. And so the the essence of it is is is this is a this is a true humility. It's a true conviction. It's not you know a oh yeah you know I sinned I'm I'm gonna get my get out of jail free card here with the Day of Atonement. So they had to come in this this this state, right? Um some um 51 17 through 19, right? A lot of us are familiar with this. It's David, right? He sinned against you and you only have I sinned, he talks about. Uh the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart you will not despise. He says prior to this, um You know, you know sacrifices and offerings you you don't desire, a a broken spirit and a contrite heart is what you're looking for. Uh and isn't that what they said in Isaiah 1? He goes, I don't want your sacrifices, your new moon's offerings and And all this, he goes, uh, wash yourself, be cleansed, you know, take care of the widow and the poor. I mean, you you're you're bringing the sacrifices, but you're not bringing a repentant heart God, I mean we can you're not gonna you know don't try and trick God, right? And then what we're doing when we go through the motions? Um We're making God a magic box, really. I do the right things and say the right words and and God will will No, He's looking for our heart. It's our character. David recognized that God was more interested in the disposition of the person than used to sacrifice and offerings. And that's verse 27, 29, 32. I don't want to take time to read through the whole thing, but let's just go ahead and read those verses. I'll read 27, somebody read 29, 32. On exactly the tenth day of the seventh month is the day of atonement It shall be a holy convocation for you, and you shall humble your souls and present an offering by fire to the Lord. Somebody read 29. If there is any person who will not humble himself on this day, he shall be cut off from his people. And thirty-two It shall be to you a Sabbath of solemn rest, and you shall afflict yourselves. On the ninth day of the month, beginning at evening, from evening to evening, shall you keep your Sabbath And uh ESV, right? Is that what you just read from? Yeah, and you see how they use afflicted, and that's probably really uh the standard definition you see when you look the word up. But in other words, it's it's it's you know, it's this um again, this serious, uh heartfelt, you know, repentance to God. There's a a little note down below in my word says shut asked. I'm sorry? Um there's a note in my which says which is really disgusting Yeah, c well, and it could be part of that, yeah. And and and um it's again that's that affliction, it's going without, it's it's um Now looking at the play, you know that's what kind of fasting is. And and you would see this used this term used a lot of times when it was when somebody was fasting. But again, remember this this term could also be used of afflicting somebody else too. So it's it's a you have to it's a context thing Uh but yeah, it's a deep thing. And and and while we're on it, that is what fasting about. Fasting is not, again, just fasting. You're supposed the idea is to empty yourself before you go into that prayer. Uh to eliminate a holy convocation uh convo convocation uh of sabbath rest, same thing. Take let the world melt away, focus on y you, your heart, your relationship to God. Uh that's what all this is. It's it's different terminologies as for the essence of that It it certainly we can think about that today is you know, we go into worship, we talk about this in worship. Uh we listen to worship songs. It it's our heart, it's it's our emotions, it's it's um it it you know, that's worship, right? And it can take a lot of different forms. But it's true of emotions, connections with God. So three times these verses, uh the proper attitude of worship, uh the worshiper when approaching God on the Day of Atonement It said to be an affliction, a humbling state. Uh if a person does not approach uh this day in a humble attitude, he's to be cut off from his people. Verse 29, we read that. It is to be a day of complete rest. They may focus on God, an attitude of hum humble adoration. So there is no forgiveness of sins without the shedding of blood or the septs of Substitutionary blood azita without the shedding of substitutionary blood of the atonement. Um Throughout Leviticus, we read there is no remission of sins without the shedding of blood. That's in um we went over that several times. That's uh Leviticus 17, 11. Um Without the shedding of blood, the remission of sins, what Hebrew says. The emphasis here is on the disposition of the heart uh of the worshipper as he approaches the sacrifices of his atonement. The forgiveness of sins uh for the New Testament believer has is uh has been completed by Christ Once for the sins of all who would believe in a substitutionary atoning death, right? The principle for the New Testament believer is a renewal as well in that we are to confess our sins and turn from our old ways daily. Uh that in first John passage, right? If we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with him You know, if we walk in the darkness, we lie, we don't practice the truth. God is faithful who will uh uh uh to forgive us our sins, if we confess our sins, to forgive us, cleanse us from all unrighteousness. uh again it's that hard it's it's really recognizing again which is what Leviticus has done for us and and for the people is to show their state and the separation of of the human, natural state even, from the holiness of God. Never mind our action states which which is a another layer altogether. We saw that, remember, with childbirth and with uh even uh sexual relations with God calls for, this would separate them from God until they were cleansed. And it's just uh, you know, again, uh God is holy. The people are to cease from their labors and rest in God. This was to be a complete rest ceasing from daily life or work and chores. God wants his people to focus on uh uh and rest on his work and provision And again, think about it. So many times we take things for granted. If we're not careful, we give ourselves kudos. I liked what the ma uh missionary said the uh uh Friday night. He was talking about, you know, I was always humbling himself because he wanted to walk, he knew God was opening these doors. He was just being an instrument for those open doors. And you know, and really it's like, Lord, Lord, Lord, you know, you have to keep opening the doors. I need to make sure My pride's not getting in here. The temptation, desires, and stress of life keep us from meditating and depending on God. uh for our sustenance. Uh God gave us the feast times and a worship as a rest in his creation. Day of the Toma was the most solemn day for the Jews, the sins of the people were taken away by a substitutionary sacrifice. So they saw that picture of prayer and complete cleansing of the temple, even the holy thing. We see they saw that in those sacrifices. Remember, they were cleansing the temple. Their sins were forgiven. Uh the priest went in for the prayer. They saw all those aspects. Remember he came out. Sometimes we need to review that and and see what he said in all this. There was a lot of data in there But they saw that picture and it was a substitute. So they may not have seen Christ in 2020 vision, but they saw a substitute was needed. They couldn't do it themselves. That was the clear picture even then. Conclusion. Day of Atonement for the givenness of sin pointed to Christ and his substitutionary atonement on the cross. Hebrews 9. 12, and not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, he entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption At the death of Christ, the veil of the Holy of Holies was torn, showing us that Christ, our high priest, has opened the way for us to enter into the presence of God. We must enter the presence of God in a humble attitude and confession of sins. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, 1 John So and again, um I didn't list it here, but you know, even Peter says, well, you know Your relationship with your wife can humble, uh can um humble, it can prevent, it can uh hinder your prayers Right to God. He says that in in First Peter. You can see that throughout. God was a right heart heart attitude with us when we come to prayer. So and that's why we do that when we do communion. It's like, okay, this is a time. Think. Confess. Lord, I need, you know, where where what sins are in your life? Even sins we don't even know about. It's just a time to remember that. And uh thank you Lord for cleansing me. Yes. Um In all these like different fees, uh at the end, like toward the end, um it's your feet and uh give a statute forever and throughout your generations and all your following places like over and over again. Probably spoke on this before but maybe I didn't hear it. Like how do we um how do we take that nowadays? Well uh again um We're in a new covenant. And Paul tells us about the law. We are no under up we are no longer under the law The law was a tutor. The law wouldn't save. The law was to reveal, as we've seen here, man, we are separate from God. I need this this this atoning sacrifice. We don't have sacrifices anymore, do we? Because we just read it. Christ is our sacrifice. He entered in there uh okay? Uh And not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood. He entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. Uh yeah, and that and that and that's why if when you're reading and you want to think of the um uh the gospels and and how that was a kind of an opening. This was a ra this was the end of the law. We'll talk about a radical transformation for the people Day of Pentecost, the temple is still in operation and will be for I don't know close to forty years, right? Depends on when, you know, you you date Christ's death. Well but it was in the it was in the thirties, right? Uh temples it didn't destroy until seventy AD This is radical. This is a whole new way. And y um you see that in the New Testament. Uh in baptism I I teach I spend a good time on chapter 10, which is when Cornelius was saved Peter goes to Cornelius and you you most of you remember that. The the uh the sheep comes down with all these unclean animals. He says, Peter, eat I've never eaten that before. Uh you know, he's a Jew. And then he realizes, see, if you know the story, Cornelius was having a vision at the same time, he's going to go to a Gentile's house. He tells them when he gets there, you know, it's unlawful for Jews to enter a Gentile house. Cornelius gets saved, and Peter goes, wow, you know, because they spoke in tongues. And he goes, wow, they got the spirit as we did. And if you look in chapter 11, the Jews call Peter in there. He goes, we heard you went to a bunch of Gentile house. What's up for that? And you have to tell them the whole story again And the people in Jerusalem go, oh, so the Gentiles are going to be saved too. This was here I'm Peter Cornelius story, I'm not sure when it is. I'd say it's ten years after the resurrection of Christ. Okay, for so Yeah, Gentiles didn't just come right in and and but this was radical. They didn't understand this. So so let me just finish. The law. We're not under the law anymore. And that's the that's the difficulty when you read the scripture We you could use terms that people don't like dispensation or progressive revelation. God was dealing with people differently in different epochs, different times. I mean, for because really the law didn't come in until uh I mean what 400 plus years after Abram. Hey Gary, maybe just a short way to summarize all of what you've been saying is to say that because we're looking at the Mosaic Covenant The stipulations of the covenant are enforced as long as the covenant is active. Right. Because the covenant is nullified not nullified, it's it's fulfilled in Christ. And thus brought to nothing. Now the stipulations are no longer in use. Yeah, thank you. And he says that in Hebrews, right? A covenant's in effect till the person dies The only struggle I have with that statement is not the accuracy of the words, a hundred percent. It's that the ceremony itself, the covenant restrictions themselves, right? Fulfilled, satisfied, no longer necessary. But the type, the the The typology that we're learning here is teaching us about God. It's teaching us about Him calling us from our sins. And redeeming us without any merit of our own after he brings us out of Egypt. He gives us, breaks his law on our hearts. He calls us to remembrance. He demands that we walk in that discipleship. I mean, all those things by the same under a new well, not the same, magnified under the new covenant. Right. Even the you know, little Jewish Right. The the horn was taken off the ram and hollowed out. It took the the breath of the Spirit through the hollowed out ram to call people to God. What a great picture of of the Spirit in Christ. As a type, as you know, as a symbol. Mm-hmm. I guess I just I get nervous when we start going Leviticus, right? So the conditions of the covenant not necessary. We don't have to Right. The idea of being called back to Christ on a continual basis, weekly, annually To be remembering, to be broken in our spirits, to be craving after the goodness of God, to live in the light. I mean you used so many great verses earlier Right, all those things. I just I hope we don't lose that when we fulfill the covenant and we won't test it. Well and we we've had this discussion many times, you and I, and we we agree I got saved. But now we need to progress forward in sanctification. The only way you do that. And Paul says this. He uses it in many different ways. Pray without ceasing. Okay? That's connection with God. You don't have to show us not just once a week. He talking about our daily life. Those that were saved in the Old Testament had something written on their heart. What revelation they had, we don't know. But they had enough revelation. They believed and trusted in God. It and that the yeah. Um uh Paul says in Galatians, he commands us, he goes, the f before the fruit of the Spirit he says Walk according to the Spirit. Walk in the Spirit. And you will not carry out the desires of the flesh. Because the flesh and the spirit are warring against each other. And then he goes on to talk about the fruit of the Spirit, which is a result of exactly what you're talking about. So yeah, it's Yeah. I would stop there because it's one of these things. It's nothing huge, I know. But I like what Gabe said. Gabe is right. He he articulated it. It was the covenant was God Christ died and now we have a new covenant. That old covenant was was fulfilled in his death Yeah. Uh all the questions that I had was um so there are like some quote unquote Christian denominations I will like take um some of these uh these practices that were there in the Old Testament and try to apply today but In order maybe to try and preserve the typology that we were speaking of, uh I'm curious if like in the early church through church history there's like a way in which it's been done appropriately. Does that make sense Like acting it out in some way? Huh? Like acting it out? Yeah, like acting it out so that don't go off on like the wrong side either way. We are going to be um super legalistic about how we keep this we're trying to bring in this into this new covenant with intervene then in a way that like that negates Christ's work and also you don't want to just throw it out and throw on what we understand about You know, can I just say one thing? Uh Gabe looked like he buy a zombie one to add to that. We we were c close to the time. Don't we well look at doing our overview and going through some of church history is really enlightening because We uh you know a lot of us are saying well they got it right in early church. They were learning a lot of theology that we did we stand on their shoulders from the things that they fought out Um this eschatology really didn't really wasn't uh heavily focused on until about two or three hundred years ago. Oh, they were worrying about the person of Christ and and uh of church and a lot of these other doctrines The what I'm gonna I guess what I'm saying is this revelation or this theology that we have was progressive and you if you do a little church history you can see how they were grappling with these these ideas. A and they were learning too. They they didn't get it all right and me we don't have it all right. I had a professor who said, you know, uh well we have to finish on this. Um In Revelation there's silence in heaven, and they always used to say, you know what that silence is? That's when the theologians get their their theology right. Let me just can I let me just do this and we'll go. I just want to um so the f uh uh booze. I I'm just gonna do the conclusion. You can read through the notes Uh the Feast of Booth, this was the last one. And I just want to give you So the the immediate emphasis of this feast was the thanksgiving, the recognition of God's people, of God's forbidden things. And again, we we repeat that over and over again Um let me see what I want to give you in the time I have left. Some of these things Look at the notes, because I'm not going to have time. But in in John 7 and 8, Jesus is doing that ministry in the feast of Booth. And he says, I'm the light of the world. And then when during the feast of Booth, the Israelites used to carry around torches and they light these creepy lanterns. And they and according to historians, apparently the city used to glow and these great big they had reflecting things on there and the city would like glow. And Jesus said during this time, He said, I'm the light of the world. We'll see that, right? On the light of life. And also, there's a really neat thing, and I'll read it in the notes. I got this from somebody else. It's not you need to read my notes I was just reporting what somebody else did. And and John um he also talks about, you know, come and drink, because water is a big thing. The Jews used to go down during the Feast of Booth and they had these parades and they'd go one of them would go down, they'd they'd get the uh reeds and all And the the priest would go down, the people would follow 'em, and another group would go down, the priest would go down to the pull of silo and get water out of there, put it in this beautiful picture, come back, pour it on the altar, they would sing the hull, and it was this You can almost hear it almost like this progression, right? To the this is water from the pool of silom. At the end of that of that um feast there was a a Sabbath that followed it. Jesus heals the blind man. Remember how mad they were in chapter 9? And where did he tell them to go get his eyes cleaned? He told him to go to the pool silo and he washed his eyes and they couldn't stand it They say, who is this guy? Here he deals a blind man. They got the feast of boost. They talk about this water of life. Jesus sends this guy down the pull silo and they can't see it. Crippies