So I've got a couple of uh again I mentioned this before. Uh The goal is this will be the last quarter, so we we're talking today and uh four more weeks to finish all these chapters. But uh I I There's no way I want to continue this. I I this is the first time I taught it. I I couldn't see taking this for three quarters. It seemed like a lot. We we're and The lesson we'll have today we're going to kind of consider where we are in the movement of this book because we are transitioning. We've gone from um Right, the uh the sacrifices and and uh ha uh how Israel's approach God, the holiness of God, um the separation uh we see with sin. Now we're now we're in kind of what they call the moral section. But really think of it as it's the behavioral section, right? Now how should we behave? And and really when you think about it, it's what we have. We would uh s chapter seventeen will finish up today. We started last week. But it really we it was a transition. Okay, it was uh we moved from the ritual, okay then he W really it was uh it's about the sacrifices. Bring the sacrifices to me Really the the uh again we'll we'll get into this, but it was like you don't sacrifice in the fields It wasn't that they shouldn't kill the animals in the field if they hunted, uh uh but uh there was an issue with that with the blood, but really it was to bring the sacrifices to me We know, and we talked about this a little bit, we'll we'll look at this, I just a general thing of idolatry. Uh it can take many forms. Back then they were actually Worshiping or had a and we know their history, uh tendency to worship false gods and to make up gods Uh we know from the New Testament, really, when you worship idols, you're really worshiping demons, the demons behind the idols, the thoughts that uh that go into our mind. So so that's the transition. Um So I guess there's a couple of things that that um we uh we'll probably spend some more time on. So we're gonna try and We're gonna have to cover multiple chapters at a time. But even like in chapter 18 we move into Uh well we'll talk about the theology and think through uh w what he's doing, but we don't need to go over all the specific things of it and I'm a su I'm sure most of you don't. I mean it's it's uh sexual practices. Um uh w what are the boundaries for that? Uh so we can look at it from the big picture, but again, and that's what we're gonna see with a lot of these when we get into idols and and all these Uh we agree with most of this, right? I mean th there's there's not really a thing. But again, in their context, this is what the nations were doing and in fact with the sexual practice I'm The sexual practices he he he uh prohibits during this time, they've always been there practically from the beginning, right? We've seen it all and and they're with us today, are they not? Uh so really um uh th that's kind of my ramble, my preamble here. We're going to have to kind of fly by through some of these chapters. We're not going to be able to do with all the details, but again, most of them are are we agree with their common sense Also, one one quick note, just while thinking about it, we take these for granted, but we see in our society how lost people can get. We could be the same. That's all I have to be reminded of. I could be doing the same thing too. God, you know, you have to have a faith in God and and to f to follow his precepts If you abandon God, which which you see every society is doing and what our kind of society is doing, what happens? You you come up with all these crazy it you end up with chaos So that's that's uh uh segue into this. We're gonna pick up uh chapter 17. We're gonna finish this briefly, quickly And uh we're gonna get into eighteen. Uh I had Jeff, um he he also I printed the outline And uh uh some of the issues with just the beginning of nineteen uh I could have you look at before we we uh come back next week. Uh it's got some interesting things to it So in verse, let's pick it up in verse 10 through 14 of chapter 17. And I just want to read Here's the main issue in chapter 17, verse 7. They shall no longer sacrifice their sacrifices to the goat demons. And and you could just put goat, okay? Uh but whatever, they were sacrificing to whatever this goat represented, which they played the harlot. So he's telling you. He's playing the harlot, right? And he says in in the beginning of this chapter, right? Bring your sacrifices to the altar, even if it's a peace offering. So we said that because the with the peace offering peace offering, the worshiper gets the meat back, okay, and then they can share in the meat. But he wants the blood, he wants the sacrifice to the Lord. And so they're playing the harlot. They sh uh they shall be a permanent statue for them throughout the generations. That is the real issue here So let's pick it up in ten. Any man of the house of Israel or from the aliens who sojourns among you, it's so he now he's moving into eating the blood, eats any blood. I will set my face against this person who eats the blood, and will cut him off from the among the people. And then the eleven For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls. For it is the blood by reason of life that makes atonement. So and we talk about this blood and um it's interesting if you look at nineteen uh Let's let's deal with with what I have here and then I'll I'll I'll bring that up. So my the comments that I have from the um uh Different uh commentators are uh again uh prohibition against eating blood, verse eleven, for the life is in the flesh is in the blood. I've given it to you for uh on the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement by the light. So the Hebrew word for life is soul, nephesh. Talked about this briefly last week. Soul, living being, life. Person, self, desire, appetite, emotions, passions. The Greek is equivalent. It's suke. uh uh which is really again it it has the range of meaning, right? It could be physical life, breath uh life, natural life, one's life on earth, soul, inner self, purpose, heart, desire. It's it's one of these words you have to take in context. Is he talking of He could just say nepesh, it could just be your life, you're alive. Or it could be the inner person, right? So I think the essence is in in this is is is the life. I mean you're sacrificing this. We talked about this. When one sacrifices It's the substitution, right? Which is what we call the the atonement or whatever. So when they're sacrificing this animal, that animal, the life of that animal, is taking the place of of of our life, uh or whoever w would uh be offering it, right? It's a substitute. I deserve to die for my sins, this animal is my substitute. And ultimately Christ is is is what it was pointing to. The person is going to be a body. Christ is going to be the substitute. Well it's a life is what those what he's saying even in this text. The blood is the essence of life and kind of represents a soul. Um so God appointed blood on the altar as containing the soul this is what Kyle writes uh uh the soul of the animal to be the medium or of expiation for the souls of men and therefore prohibited It's being used as food. Accordingly, it was not the blood as such, but the blood is the vehicle of the soul which possessed expiation virtue Because the animal soul was offered to God upon the altar as a substitute for human soul. Hence every bleeding sacrifice had an expiatory force, which without Being an expiatory sacrifice in strict sense of the word. Peace offering, the animal dies But it's really a peace offering. It's a worship. It's it's uh uh so w and we went through all that with the different sacrifices It's kind of the range of meaning w w why he had different sacrifices and what aspects it represented. It it's uh it's a worship and it but it even so you recognize To worship God I need to be holy. Uh and this animal was was uh involved with that. So Yeah. And and that's what they say. W and w w we kind of got into that. It's it's so hard to differentiate the sacrifices. The meanings ha have a a Uh the different sacrifices have a a slight meaning, but again what he's saying here, every one of them in their own way had uh a kind of an atonement and e exp expiation aspect to it. Expiation some it it cleanses us, right? It's it's to take away my sin Propatiation is to satisfy God, it's for God. Any questions, any thoughts up to this point? The blood of the animal is its basic meaning of the life in the animal. For this reason, the blood must be eaten out of respect for the life of the animal. or honoring of life. To make atonement literally means to pay a ransom. The blood of the animal pays the penalty for the sin. of the man by sacrificing the life of the animal for the life of the man. That's uh Warnham's uh paraphrase of of what he wrote No man, whether Israelite or foreign, living among the nations, shall eat the blood of animal, whether it is an animal for sacrifice or hunted for food. So this is in recognition and honor of the life given by God of all creatures. In verse 14 is uh restated that the life of the blood and whoever eats the blood will be cut off. To be cut off meant that God sees and judges the actions of men, and he will bring retribution to those who disobey. We see we've seen that cut off, cut off, cut off. And Winham really I probably should have maybe written some on this uh ru what he wrote It's a big thing. It it was and what what he writes is this is in the mind of the Hebrew Okay, I'll be cut off from God. So in other words, God the what it does is it kind of puts them mentally, God is my judge. Yes, you had the priest, you had all the the uh well you you're your your neighbors, your family, right, are watching what you do. But what he's what he's with this cut off aspect always was is kind of God sees what we do. God will be the judge. Because oftentimes and and we we saw this before, there are some things where people don't know. Uh they may be somebody sacrificed out in the uh field and nobody knew about it. What he's saying with this idea of cut off, this is Wenham's uh thinking, you know, God sees, God knows, and God will judge. And that's the whole point. uh whether he was going to take their life immediately, whether they got sick, whether you know, whatever. But that was the essence of of this cut-off concept. So, and you we've we've seen this and we're going to continue to see this phrase. You'll be you'll be cut off from the people. You'll be cut, you know, God will cut off. Lastly, the prohibition of eating an animal that has died as natural causes was killed by another animal This assumes that the animal was was a clean animal that was allowed to be eaten by the Lord's command. If the person were to eat such an animal, he must wash his clothes, bathe his body and remain unclean until evening. If he does not wash and bathe, he shall uh bear his guilt. The Lord sees and will judge. So just to finish up, right? We talked about not eating the blood and and um Kevin was in there last week and he was saying right at the end of the class, he goes, Yeah, and here we have the Lord's Supper and Gabe will be getting into this about eating the blood. Eat my blood, eat my flesh, right? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man, drink the blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on the flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day, right? So Christ is and I I I Did not r write on this a whole bunch, but it's referring to the atonement, his substitutionary atonement death, and to speak of the It's really to eat his flesh and uh drink uh drink his blood, right? It's the faith that's accepting that, it's it's taking this kind of in. Uh it we're depending on this Uh, then that's what it is. It's faith in him, acceptance of his death for our salvation. Let's go to 18 Um I this is uh the uh so it's God's design for uh uh sexual unions, really, is is is what he's talking about here. Um this is um Ross's outline. Uh I didn't copy the verbatim, but it's it's his thought. This is this is his. If you look, you got three sections here, right? Um Lord's commands uh uh not to practice sexual conduct as the pagans uh in order to uh uh Enjoy full life is the intro. So under that you have uh Israel is the sovereign king, the Lord your God. Uh and you'll see this in a second. This it's it's interesting uh how this outline works out. Um uh Israel is not to walk in the customs of the Egyptians nor the Canaanites Israel must perform judgments of the Lord and keep the statutes uh that he may live. So that's the first section. It's a kind of the intro. And in really this this big section from uh 186 to 23, uh he must not practice uh sexual relations as the pagans nor worship uh idle Moloch So a A, you've got forbidden uh uh men were forbidden to have sexual relations with close relatives either by blood or marriage We'll go through a whole list of that. Uh the prohibition for uh unnatur unnatural sexual unions uh and the worship of uh false god Moloch. Uh In that last section, so Israel is commanded not to defile themselves with the practices of the nations before them, or they will be spewed out of the land, as the Canaanites. Canaanites defile the land with their practices and will be uh punished and removed from the land. Uh if Israel defile the land uh in the same way they will also be removed from the land. Uh the Lord your God. And if you look at that Uh we'll talk about some ideas of this. Um I guess we ought to read through the chapter. Because I'm not we're not gonna go through every one of this, then we'll look at kind of the uh uh Really, uh some of the thought and uh and the uh theology of this. So I'll start reading. Let's uh take turns going around. Um I'll read I don't know, read four or five verses, whatever you feel comfortable with. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, I am the Lord your God. I'm going to repeat this uh in the notes, but this is some such a Hebrew thing. It's called inclusio or bracketing, however you want to call it That's what he says in the beginning and he ends with, I am the Lord your God. The Hebrew likes to do that. I mean, this is the whole this is the point, and he'll repeat this through throughout So you verse three, you shall uh not do what is done in the land of Egypt where uh you live. Nor shall ye do what is done in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing you. Ye shall walk ye shall not walk in the statute. You are to perform my judgments and keep my statutes, so live in accordance with them. I am the Lord your God. So ye shall ke so you shall keep my statutes and my judgments, by which a man may live if he does Does them. I am the Lord. Somebody want to pick up in six? I don't know, read about five verses. None of you shall approach any one of his close relatives to uncover his nakedness. I am the Lord. You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, which is the nakedness of your mother. She is your mother, and you shall not uncover the nakedness You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife. It is your father's nakedness. You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, your father's daughter, or your mother's daughter, whether brought up in the family or in another home You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter or of your daughter's daughter, for their nakedness is your own nakedness. You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife's daughter Brought up in your father's family, since she is your sister. You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister, she is your father's relative. You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, for she is your mother's relative. You shall not enjoy the nakedness of your father's brother. That is, you shall not approach his wife. She is your aunt. You shall not enjoy the nakedness of your daughter-in-law. She is your son's wife. You shall not uncover her nakedness. You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife. It is your brother's nakedness. You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman uh and her of her daughter and you shall not take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover her nakedness. They are relatives, it is depravity So you pick up an eighteen. And you shall not take a woman as a rival. Uh yeah. And you shall not take a woman as a rival wife to her sister, uncovering her nakedness while her sister is still alive. You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness while she is in her menstrual uncleanness And you shall not lie sexually with your neighbor's wife, and so make yourself unfame with her. You shall not give any of your children to offer them to Moloch, and so profane the name of your God. I am the Lord You shall not lie with a male as with a woman. It is an abomination. You shall not lie with any animal, and so make yourself unseen with it, neither shall any woman give herself to an animal to lie with it. It is perversion And somebody wanna pick up verse 24. Uncle by all your nations. Over all this, the nations I am driving out before you have become unclean. And the land became unclaimed, so that I punished this iniquity and the land. For meet it out of his inhabitants. For you shall keep my studies and my rules and do none of these abominations, either the native or the stranger, whose remote among you. So the people of the land who are before you give all these abortions so that the land became yes, the land for me you have when you say as it formed out the nations that go before you. For everyone who does any of these abominations, the persons who do them shall be cut off from among all their people. So keep my child never to practice any of these abominable customs that were practiced before you And never to make yourselves clean by death. I am the Lord. Thank you. So again, um Let's look at some of the ideas uh for what is this chapter? Where is he So in chapter 17, the message to the nation shifted from uh commands concerning official worship to private religion and morality. Chapter 17 Dealt with uh uh idolatrous worship, while chapter 18 focused on the moral issue of sexual unions. Chapter 18 gives specific prohibitions for sexual unions that are not in accord with God's creation designs. The liter literary form of this text can be seen as a speech, a polemic And as a uh covenant in which uh the suzerain, the Lord uh your God, gives the law and blessing for the obedience and curses, uh curses for disobedience So as a polemic, the Israelites are told seven times not to do as was done in Egypt, nor to do what is done in Canaan. So you get that in verse 3, 24, 26, 27, 29, 30. The phrase, I am the Lord, or I am the Lord your God, the complete phrase, is repeated six times. in this chapter. 2, 4, 5, 6, 21, and 30. Israel is to be distinct A distinct and holy nation, separated from the pagan nations, and both their worship, chapter 17, and their sexual conduct, as stated in chapter 18. So this message follows the pattern of the Suzaran covenant by the law. Six times the phrase, I am the Lord, is used, right? Sa we just talked of that. Um, four, five, six, twenty-one, thirty In 1803, you have the historical record where God brought them out from the land of Egypt And 1804, the covenant stipulation, the nation is to perform the Lord's judgment and keep his statutes. In 1805, the blessing is stated that they may live. So the bulk of the text is a list of sexual practices that people are to abstain from. uh in order to uh avoid the curse of God. This covenant treaty was given in the uh to inform the people of their responsibility to their sovereign god sovereign, the Lord God. So what he's saying is there in 183 you've got uh again a covenant we talked about this, okay? uh uh the covenant relationship. Even their covenant is with the Lord God, but this is a typical kind of a covenant thing. It could have been a king. The covenant the king either conquered 'em or delivered 'em from something. God brought them out of the land this is what this sovereign, your s your suzerain, your covenant God did for you. He brought you out of the land of Egypt. He he he uh redeemed you Uh right? And then uh 184 is the covenant stipulations, right? Uh the is to keep the judgment and statutes, okay? I am your covenant God. I am your suzerain. Whatever. These are the walls. You will do this. If you don't do this, there will be consequences. And of course in in the this case they're making it with the living God, there'll be curses, right? And then in in 185, there is a blessing. Oftentimes uh the conquering king does something for him. It might be protection or whatever. God says you will have life. So, you know, again, think about where we are with this narrative, right? We went from Exodus nineteen, where they made the covenant with God. Right? The uh Um Oh God. He he made the covenant with God and um God was going to provide for them, but they had to follow the statutes, right? And then they made all the implements and they prepared the tabernacle. God was going to uh come and establish his presence with them. So he was on the mountain, he came down to the tabernacle. They went we went through the worship How the proper way to approach God, this is the way you have to approach God. Right? And we went through all the sacrifices. And now we're moving into the moral, the behavioral side of all this. And 17 is kind of a bridge. And I I like what um Well, let me read what what Ross wrote. Ross writes in in Leviticus 17. 8 uh uh Leviticus 1718 demonstrate a practical sequence. If the Israelites did not preserve the sanctity of their sacrifices for the Lord, but began to sacrifice other gods, verse 17, then they would begin to live as the pagans. And I tacked on there and practice their behaviors. So God's moral laws come from His nature and are reflected in creation. To live in rebellion against the uh creator of life is to choose death and destruction. So modern cultures embrace uh uh embraces many of these practices to the point of promoting them as sophisticated lifestyle Christians are often approached the issue by a desire to be loving and accepting. We should recognize a person practice of such behaviors as one who is created in the image of God. Well, we should not condone this type of behavior. This passage teaches that this type of behavior violates God's creation order and is harmful for human relationships. The point is, when you think about it, the transition in 17 was he he gets back to it. Don't worship idols. That was really kind of the key head thing Don't be sacrificing to these other idols. And when you do, what happens when you pull the barrier down? you will start to, you know, you break down the barriers, you start to live like the world. We saw that, we see that in our own society. Those of us at any age to us, I mean, you you just can't believe the transitions. Um so many things get broken down I don't know, you know, I've thought about this many times. I don't know how many a lot more people went to church. I don't know how what percentage of those were saved. I almost wonder if it was always the remnant But at least we lived according to the moral law. People basically knew even if they stole it was wrong, if they if they had an adulterous relationship, at least they recognized it was wrong etc, etc. But as you break down those barriers and and you s we see this uh uh then um Even in this time, right, in Israel's history. As they went into the land and they broke down and they got away and they started worshiping other idols, did they not? They they once the idols came, they never completely got rid of all of 'em. They always had some part that they kept. It was the high places or And it w you go astray. And I and I and I think that's I think that's kind of the point here and it's it's kind of what he's showing us. Uh You go out into the world, you're gonna live like the world. You will. The barriers get broken down. We saw that in our society First it was a big thing the the uh you know, people were were There was peer pressure about homosexuality. And then they ca then they started coming out. And then they s you know, then they moved to marriage, which we never thought would happen. And it did stop there, and then we downwards deal with this gender thing. We get lost without God If we have if I have any common sense at all, and trust me, I know what I lived like for 40 years without God It's amazing, you know, you can move down these steps. You go you g you go further and further. It's God that they bring this back into common sense. And that and that's what the warnings are true and for the New Testament believer as well. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor covenants. New covetous nor drunkards or w nor revilers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God It's interesting too when you think about this, you ever notice uh to me the sexual thing always seems to kind of be front-loaded. It seems like man Yeah, it's a it's uh it's a powerful thing. It seems like man seems to always go in that direction. Just my thinking I mean in Romans 1 he says, look, they did not worship God. What'd he turn them over to? A depraved mind, and they they they turned them over to sexual perversion Uh God will give them over. Um but none of these Well we'll see the kingdom of God. There is a warning for people who embrace and practice the pagan standard of sexual conduct. in the new covenant. There is a warning for the church not to accept the attitude or the practices of society that are contrary to God's law. God has created the boundaries for sexual intimacy. And his creation is good for relationships, and to rebel from the created order brings disharmony and chaos. And this paraphrased a lot of what um uh Ross and the others were thinking. It brings disharmony to relationships. The uh to go outside of this and all of these things we just read a list through, and of course Well, I uh I can look at you guys and I know everybody agrees with this. We we know from God putting in our hearts not to have uh sexual relations with close relations because God put it on our hearts to do this. But obviously these are practices. But it leads to It's you know the this uh the world wants to tell us, you know, it's okay, you're not hurting anybody, you're doing it it blows up relationships Well yeah we see how difficult relationships are. Without God, they're almost impossible. The real relationships are almost impossible And when you don't do it according to his manner, it blows up relationships. I mean these do y we can look at these people and say, Oh, you know, they're Yeah. My my cousin just sent me a Christmas card. He got there late and one of her sons And I know it was driving her nuts because I know she fought against it. He's there with his partner and they're engaged or whatever Uh, she's a believer, I'm I'm I'm sure of that. And um I know we weren't that close. I know she kinda fought it and I I understand there was a riff. I guess she kinda I mean ha you know, you accept it or what I you know, well well you but you know, you have I guess uh the difficulty is you have to accept the person. They're made in the image of God, but you can't condone the relationship, right? You just can't. I mean, what's the alternative for these people? These people, uh we just read it in First Corinthians six. They're not going to inherit the kingdom of God. Um but it blows up relationships and it and it leads to chaos Um yeah. So just to affirm that point, sometimes people point to Leviticus eighteen here And say the Bible contradicts itself because while saying while laying forth these moral rules, laws, uh there's plenty of examples of biblical people uh who violate those laws. Um like for example, how uh Jacob married Rachel and Leah, right? Uh two sisters or others who were polygamous and whatnot. And uh so people look at that and they say, look, the Bible contradicts itself, you know, whatever. Well that's not true because number one, the Bible never affirms uh those uh or or condones those relationships. Obviously race and leah was not Jacob's plan, that was that happened by deception. Right. But furthermore, as w you're pointing out, it always shows the Bible always shows the destructive uh and conflict that arises in those situations. Um and you know the Lord still uses that like with Rachel and Leah and their two main servants and how that produced the twelve tribes of Israel. So God used that chaos and disharmony. But at the same time it was chaos and disharmony. You know, um and then when you one thing about reading reading that uh Joseph story kind of at at a setting, uh and going through all that with uh uh going through that narrative um uh e well even before that if you look Leah your heart breaks for Leah I mean she felt unloved, as it's mentioned several times. Look at the rivalry between the children within the family. Look at what David did uh with all this. Uh it just it blows up relationships And you y every one of those people, like you said, if you if you read a narrative, it's in there. God doesn't say This blows up the relationship. You have to read it and and and see it. But in each case there was all kinds of problems. Yeah, it's we like to simplify things and say, yeah, you because really what we want to do is we want to do whatever w we we want to make the roles. We want to say what's acceptable to God. But it won't. It doesn't work. It won't work. Well it One of the chaos that uh we have, I mean, um I was thinking in in our society. Yeah, not only did we it kind of star it's been going on for quite a while when you think about it, uh uh fifties and the sixties and the stuff that they were playing, they were always kinda pushing the envelope on s you know, sexual things. And it just kinda it just follows a path that goes down. And then we've gotten so it's it's hard to even keep u people accountable for any type of law at all. I mean, what is this thing about people being able to steal less than a thousand? If you stayed under a thousand dollars, you're gonna walk out of the store with the stuff Mm-hmm. And we act like, oh that's a that was not a benefit for the person doing it either, was it? That was trash in their life. They just didn't know it. Is that uh yeah. There's so many things we do. We try and make people's lives better, but uh there isn't you just Part of it is you just have to be accountable to God. You and uh it's to d we've turned the corner. Mell's been saying all along, you have to be obedient. Well this is kind of what this is. This is b the behavior part. We gotta be Obedient to God's plan. Um Yeah. That's my rambling. Any any thoughts on this? Because we can go over each one of these things. Is there any any particular part uh Um when I look at the um bus twenty two It says you shall not lie with the nail as you see women. Yeah. And then when I go down to um the second stage of your art mind The bottom they say there is a warning for the church not to accept the attitude of the trackings of society that are contrary to God's law. God has created the language for sexual intimacy and all that. Mm-hmm. So can you speak to this? And uh uh what's going on now, you juicy, um church and Some people put it to okay. It has to do with love, you know, you're supposed to love people um the way that they are. But clearly it's waiting right here that we can stay. So I wanted to see if you can just There are so many ways to think about that. The one that comes to my mind, and I know Gay can will has probably a lot on his, but first thing that comes to my mind is it's that's not loving That to begin with that's a lie. Oh sorry going to the prayer service, the bishop. Yeah. Heck is it our country? Right. Right Yeah. Uh but it's not loving because are those people going to inherit the kingdom of God? What it what if is it that and again that's we we've been given this this understanding, faith and belief. We see eternity. We are We are eternal beings now. And we see we we go from here absent from the body, present with the Lord We see eternity. They, even if they're quote, happy or enjoying life, this is all they get. They go into eternal separation from life. punishment. It's not loving. That's like saying I mean, you know, uh I've used I've heard the analogy, somebody has cancer, it's like, well, don't worry about that. That's a that's okay. You'll you know, you'll get over it. You do you want to deny it or do you want to face it? Um That was my that's my big point. I gave you anything a thought that you were thinking of? I mean what because that's what we get. We're w we we're redo there we're redefining what God says They uh anybody says that does not believe God, number one. Okay? You have anything with John Matt or Yeah, I mean I think the common view is that this is the Old Testament, you know that was that was back then. Of course the God of the New Testament isn't judging. He's a loving God. And you know the that uh idea of homosexuality being wrong, that's an Old Testament idea, it's not wrong anymore. So th th there's a reinterpretation that takes place. So number one, there's a desire to love by virtue of acceptance, but more than that there's a a quick movement from acceptance to celebrations and affirmation that this is actually a good thing. Right. That you're living this way, that you feel this way. Um and so it's a complete rejection of the consistent teaching of Scripture, start and finish. Uh I think one of one of the things that is nobody to keep in mind is this law against homosexuality and all the other sexual morals. is not a law that God exclusively gave to Israel and limited and kept within the bounds of the nation of Israel. Clearly, as it says here, he held the nations accountable to these rules, to his creation design. Right. And that's why they were being judged. I I don't think we can say, oh, that's those rules rules were just for Israel. Plus you got the rest of scripture that continues to affirm biblical morality and sexuality. But yeah, there's It's not so much a matter of balancing love the sin or hate the sin, love the sinner. It's uh putting everything in proportion to say yes we're all sinners you know, if and maybe maybe there are those even in our own church who struggle with same-sex attraction. Maybe there's those who come who are who would identify themselves as homosexuals. We have to learn to um communicate and speak in ways that uh affirm the fact that we're all sinners and um Uh there there's no sin in our life that should become our identity the way that this one has in society. Society. And uh and so it's it's only good and right for us to identify sin for what it is, because only then can we experience that cleansing and watching that first Corinthians Six nine to eleven talks about. Right. Um 'cause he said and that's the beauty of who and you you guys probably Uh he turns the corner and he goes, but you when after he condemns them on uh the you know, neither idolaters, homosexuals, blah blah blah, but whatever, he goes, but You were washed, you were cleansed. Such were some of you, is what he says. God wants to restore people. Uh and and uh it's not so much it when when you go there are people that uh wrestle with this But it's when you go over and say and justify it and promote it and and st and want people to uh y then you've gone the whole way, right? Uh verse eleven, such were some of you, but you were washed, but you were sanctified But you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit. And then he says, do not uh subject your body, right? Your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. Don't subject it He was also they were also um having extra marital relationships. There were he says in that in that chapter, uh don't uh Uh don't have sex with a prostitute. Well in that list of first Corinthians nine, you know, it's not just sexual sin. Right. Uh thieves, drunkards, uh swindlers. Right. Adulterers, yeah. One of the poems of The Church of the Past is how it has singled out or yeah, singled out sexual sin in particular homosexuality as a category of its own. Right. And it lost the humility of first six nine to say so we're some of us. Right. Um and so it it created such a pharisaical or thank you that we're not like them attitude in the church. Right. That in some ways, you know the the Pendulum swung so far the other side, we you know we got love. Right. Um so we don't want to go either extreme, obviously we want to go right with scripture, just have the humility to say Those who struggle with that sin, those who engage in that sin, they're sinners just like I am. And we all need the grace of God. We need to be truthful about sin so that we can look to the solution, Lord Jesus Christ. I and uh I don't know if any of you have heard of uh Rosaria Butterfield. She was uh a woman that came out of it. Uh uh And she talks about it. She was uh meeting with a pastor. A pastor had invited her for dinner. And um uh she wanted to meet with this pastor because she was writing a book at this time. She was a a uh uh lesbian and she was an outspoken person. She was a tenured professor I'm not sure what university it was up in uh uh it was up by uh Rochester or whatever. Um anyway, shadow When they first met with the the pastor, they obviously knew what sides they were on because they were opposing each other. And uh he said, look I ex he said he accepted me as a person, but he said, I don't condone I don't condone what you're doing. And so he stated it up front. And she she said it was a really she goes, I can deal with that. And the thing though was though he did accept her as a person. And and so they had a relationship even though they were on opposite side. And the other thing he said was to her, it this is an unusual situation, but she was going to do it because she wanted to write on Why do the Christians why are they still against our behavior? Basically what, you know, and and basically say the Christians were wrong. She was gonna prove them wrong. And he says, uh, because I want you to read this this Bible. And you know, turns out she was a reader. She's a woo she was that was her She's a professor and anyway, Bible changed her life over a course of a few years. It took a while But the point of it was he accepted her as a person. But he said up front, no, I don't we don't agree, we don't condone what you're doing What you're doing is wrong. And I think it's hard to have. Uh but I think that's a balance you have to have. There are there are people. And I guess my point is, look, I know when I lived the way I lived before, I mean I knew some people that were Further. You know what I mean? That's what happens when you're in that realm. And and I saw aspects of those people that they weren't You can see the image of God in one aspect or another. But they were doing some crazy stuff. And I mean, I you know, it's like, okay, I'm I'm living I'm not living God here, but I'm not going it's too far. But you see that and you you can see how uh Well I think we I think we take too much credit for for if I'm doing right, it's because the grace of God's working in me. It's his spirit working in me. We know a before and after, do we not? It's amazing what you can do. And when when you get into those circles It's like well they yeah they break down the barriers and I think that's what we do in society. We keep breaking down the barriers And y you know, your you keeps getting put and put and put in front of your face and you go, well, you know, and so the church goes, Well, we should love these people Yeah you should but you can't accept them. I mean to accept what they're doing. What they're doing is wrong. You need a love, yeah Yes, please. I I I'm here six years now from New York and I've gone to other churches. and speak up to everybody of the church. I I I agree with what you say. Also Israel obviously. But they are pastors that preach these things and people sit down and they listen to it. I personally was there. I couldn't deal with it. Oh I know. So I had to leave. Yeah. Because it was not true to me. Right. And the your your people that Smart prayer edife, they sit and they listen and they pray the pastor. So tell me what's wrong with that church I think God is g really gonna come down. I would not wanna be there on judgment day w uh Somebody leaves what is what did Jesus say, man, anybody leaves my children away? Uh be'd be better to have a millstone tied around their neck and thrown into the sea Why do they preach it? They're preaching the world. They're it's blasphemy. For me, I like this church because the pastor preaches the word. He really preaches the word. And I have not here that look back at it, even that's when it was like, oh my God, the same thing that he's saying, I have not swear So in my heart I vote. Amen. Well that's and that's the beauty. That's the spirit. And that's what I'm that's what I've been saying. It's that spirit inside of me that's going, this is wrong. I got saved in an unsaved church and I was like, I can't listen to these guys. I was a baby Christian And it was like, what in the world are they talking about? I mean knew they were wrong. Uh Rosaria said w another thing that was interesting and and if you go on to YouTube She has an interview with uh focus on the family. Uh you should hear this woman is she's sharp She's she's profound. She's a thinker. Where does blasphemy come from? comes from the church. Doesn't doesn't come from outside the church. Blasphemy comes from the church where you got these preachers in there saying things that are wrong. Yeah. When the Jewish law is extended in a fixed L society, we don't have a politician that doesn't swear That didn't happen a few years ago. We don't have oh I know. This cousin's gotta go. It makes you sound like a six like a sixth grader They didn't swear in Obama's administration. Right. It only happens since then. Right. Well, they may not Well, I mean not the more on the TV, but I have no doubt that would make the society more for Yeah I agree, but they I I don't think they swore, I know what they did, but it making it public doesn't help help any plus it ri hurts our kids Yeah. Well they it's because because it makes you think that it's e acceptable now. If the president says it I can say it. Yeah. Yeah. It's a terrible terrible situation. The language is awful. It is. I you know, um we there there's just some of the we've been watching some of these British TV shows and Oh they were always bad in terms of British Really? Yes. Oh. Well most of them the ones a lot of ones we watched uh th that's one of the things they didn't have so much. But they you know And they're dropping the F bomb all the time. And I'm thinking, can people really talk like that? And if they do, You sound like t I don't know about you, but it's like it just brings my opinion of somebody d that's like that that is not intelligence, okay? When you start coughing control your speech, you can't control much. Yes. So what do we do in our church? Like if I know somebody here and you know they're practicing these behaviors and Like did we say something to him? Did we talk to him? Like what do you do? You know, what do you do? If you if you know 'em Establish the relationship. Okay. Uh you know But yeah, you if you and once you have that relationship then you can s then you're you're you're you're you're much more able or allowable to speak into their life. Say look. You don't want to be doing this. This is not God doesn't like this. This is not good. Because the thing of it is, is that we'll end with this, but My son was going to it going to a church and they were this church was going to these gay rallies and they had a bullhorn thinking, oh my goodness Like you're gonna win hearts and minds that way, right? You're going into something uh that they want to affirm themselves to and here you are with a bullhorn. You look like a You may end up taking a great big stick and saying, Come on and get your whack and yeah. Yeah, I was talking with Dave Doyle, and then one of the things he says, one of the churches he's gone to is um They're Arminians. A lot of them are Arminians. Yeah, the Baptists, you know, they they they don't really believe in in election, predestination. And he goes one thing about the Arminians is th they tend to w they're trying to convince and win people to Christ. Because they you know, maybe that's not right, but they they're using more gung ho. Unfortunately when we get to be you know, predestination if you're really Calvinistic. We we we don't seem to have the same f fervor about it. Relationships God's going to choose who we can. And I would say to Karen's question, the focus is the gospel. Yes, they're a sinner, yes, their behavior is a sinner. The focus is the gospel. Who is Jesus Christ? What has he done? Uh and the the issue they need to do is believe in Christ first and then after that comes a recognition of the patrons for their life. Right. Um obviously need to recognize the Right. Right. Right. Right. And then that very quickly leads to you know, looking at your life and how Christ needed to pay your sin and what is that sin that you can repent of. I would focus on those. Yeah but if you know yeah They need a friend. Yeah, they th and then then yeah, then you can speak into the light.