So we need to do a quick review of uh chapter one. There's some things we didn't finish that were huge. Um uh What I've discovered in my study, uh uh the commentators I'm using pretty much do this topical. And I was talking we were talk having a conversation yesterday, uh What I've found is really uh there are key words in here um that really need to be defined. Because as we look through especially chapter two, I mean it's how to bake bread But there's there's more to it than that. And and as I s uh as I said, we want to see how do people see this from from the original audience. What were the the Israelites seeing as they were given these commands? And a lot of times it has to do with defining words And so sometimes it may seem like we're um harping or being overly technical maybe on some of these words, but we have to really kind of discern What did the words mean to them in that in that language? Uh I I said this last time. Scholars that are look you know that do what we call they don't do dictionaries, they call them lexicons, they're really shorter definitions. What they're really looking for is the essence. What What was the terminology during that day? Um to give you an example, I mean we we have words that change, right? I hate to use this, but um uh the word gay. Uh you know, forty years ago, whatever, or or maybe even less, it meant something totally different. Uh words change over time. Remember these languages are old. We are looking at a Hebrew that was written what 1400 BC? Moses didn't start writing this down until then So that's why we need to do this. What were the people hearing? And we'll see that really today. So that's uh my little prelude rambling there. So we're looking at uh chapter one, uh we're really looking at uh atonement, right? It's a burnt offering And it's it's it's an atonement and even that just order is atonement. The essence of the word um is substitute. It's Kaphar or Kapar depends on it it can be uh pronounced either way, depends on on how the the Hebrew is written. And I and I went through a long uh saying here that um uh kafar, kafar kof it's probably kafar in this first uh example uh It's atonement to make reconciliation, to purge. In this form, it is kapur, it's ransom, gift, secure. So and that's what the people would have thought, okay? So w w we talk about uh uh throw out that word atonement, they would have They wouldn't use the word atonement. That's English, right? They're using ransom gift. And and it's again, we're going to go back, we're going to look at some of the context of this. Because it opened my eyes to a to, you know, another level of of what God was trying to do through all this So we we talk about that. And it's a substitute. If nothing else. What are the mechanics? They bought an animal if they could afford it, and and trust me, the majority did not, obviously. They slit they s The worshipper, the person out for the sacrifice, kill the animal. Okay Think of the word picture. Think of the the scene. I mean, they're killing this innocent animal. Think of the Passover. Remember the Passover? Um They had to bring the lamb inside the house for a number of days, like four days or something, if memory serves me correct Damn, you identify, you know a little lamb, a little a little any animal is cute usually, right? Even pigs, little piglets are cute. But you identify with that, and then you're gonna have to kill it. The it's the identification, right? That's what makes this whole uh of system work. It's not the uh the blood or and we're gonna look at that a little bit. Uh i it's not like it's a magic thing. Oh, if I just sprinkle this blood on something, I'm going to be fine, right? No, it's the identification with that. Something innocent had to die for you It's substitutionary atonement. But they wouldn't have used those words, right? They would have identified with this. This innocent animal had something had to die for them. And it it so what it's impacting. My sin caused something to die for me So think of it in those terms. We throw out these uh theological terms, and I maybe you don't, but Yeah, I he I have to associate it with sometimes a simple meaning. You know what I mean? It can be deep propitiation. It can be deep atonement. I mean whole books are written on atonement Uh but the point is, let's let's look at what is the big picture for that uh person. They weren't gonna be dealing with a theological thing. They were to realize This innocent animal had to die for me because I am breaking God's law. I'm sinning. Um so I went we went through all that. Uh bah ba ba. Really Where we kind of finish. Let me see what we see. Uh I Leviticus 169 kind of talks about the uh excuse me the whole procedure here the worshiping dismembering the animals uh but here's one point And you know it's funny when you deal with uh uh commentaries uh Exegetical commentaries, what they're trying to do is they're trying to use the science of hermeneutics and everything else and draw from that text what it means. Now so what they do is they stay in that text. They're not going off to other Well, you know, other texts to really define it. They do, but primarily their their discipline is to draw the meaning from the text. And so sometimes it gets real technical and scientific and it kind of sucks the life out of the whole thing. You know what I mean? But They are doing a service to us because they're trying to define the word uh technically as it was, as these people during that time and uh and not look at it from say uh like we do this side of the cross looking back to uh a sacrifice back then we know that Jesus Christ uh was the ultimate sacrifice, right? And even Ross, one of the commentators I looked at, said the people back then probably did not, they may not even seen the Messiah w as a as a substitute. Maybe they were looking for an ultimate substitute because they had to do this over and over, but in general they probably weren't. But they did recognize if nothing else that something innocent had to die from me. And that's the important part Because really that's a conviction, isn't it? God, me uh throughout all history you had to see you were a sinner before you could really seek salvation. Right? Isn't that the gospel we say now? We have to tell somebody, you know, you're a sinner. But here's the good news. We have to tell them the bad news and the good news. So uh but Kyle was a uh remember the separation. Um The worshipper killed the animal, skinned it, cut it off, did a all the mechan did a lot of the mechanical things. But the separation, remember I was beating on you about there's a mediator, the priests of the mediator, right? The priests were sanctified. They took the pieces and put it on the fire. They maintained the fire. That there and again it's a word picture. The people would would see that. The fire i it it's this holy thing. The people would see the fire And the the the smoke that went up it was a pleasing aroma to the Lord, right? He was saying, yes, I accept this, but but see the separation The worshiper, the individual, doesn't get to do that. He needs a mediator. He needs a consecrated person. There's some notes right there Uh we this is we're doing a review for chapter one. We're we're we're we'll get into chapter two. Most of them don't see the fire. I mean be again, remember the text itself is not telling us a lot of these definitions. It's not saying, oh, the fire represents uh this or uh the blood represents this. Uh i the blood is kind of defined in a Leviticus but so And and exegetical commentary isn't going to jump on and say, oh, the fire represents such and such. Carl does. He he's he's um he's a he's a How should I say? He's talented. He's he's an intellectual. He is he is uh a lot of people Kyle and Dillich they did a whole commentary in the Old Testament, a series And they're well respected, scholarly. Uh he he was um Hebrew, so he so he knows the languages. And he's an older one. I I like sometimes I like looking back. Uh he wrote mm probably mid eighteen hundreds. So you you see different s perspectives over the ages. What Kyle sees is fire, uh the uh uh Uh let's see, let me read it. Use the fire as representing the purification of the Holy Spirit. Acts 2, 3, and 4. Right? Acts two, three, and four, you got uh the early church, the beginning of the church really, right? And tongues of fire come down and and settle on their shoulders. He see he he sees the um Typology really is that. It's pointing to that. The burning of the flesh on the altar represents the purification of man's sin, resulting in justification. And justification. What is justification? Just to get I like to uh I wish you guys are engaged in this. I don't want to just go up here and ramble. Justification What would you say it is? Simple, just I mean make it basic. Seems to take a legal term to say that you were declared righteous. Righteous. I call it righteous. You're righteous, right? And right people do right, but you you are declared righteous. So you're right with God. And sanctification is its um its root word is really hagias, hagiasmas, it's it's separation, it's holiness Sanctification is you're being separated. You're being separated from sin. You're being separated from the world. So uh with uh so it's resulting in justification and sanctification, without which reconciliation Right? They're being reconciled. We'll we' our our relationship with God is we got a problem, right? These people, the same way, they had a problem. They had to bring an animal The Romans tells us what? We were enemies to God. Again, this stuff is radical. And think about it, these this was radical Back then, uh real faith in God is always radical. The world we are in a fallen world There's a lot of religion out there and people are close, but really the uh we need to keep that in mind. There's a big separation there. God is holy Let's see. Reconciliate. So I've probably messed you up because I keep stopping. So let me try it again. Cal views the fire is representing the purification by the Holy Spirit. Acts 2, 3, and 4. The burning of the flesh on the altar represented the purification of man's sin, resulting in justification and sanctification, without which reconciliation uh with God and life in God is not possible. Only the priest had been consecrated and sanctified by God can attend to the burning of the flesh on the altar And and so think about this. These people don't maybe don't get to all these theological terms, but they're seeing this. They know that altar is off limits to me It's holy. And that's the picture. So we kinda let's see, I think I kind of stopped there. Let's look at the blood. Chapter 2. The blood, they they took the blood, right, the the priest did When he when he slipped the throat, the the priest caught the blood and sprinkled it right on the altar. You remember that? And he took the blood, sprinkled it all around the altar. And uh we were talking about this a little bit last week and and um that's kind of where I made the comment, you know, like if if the Roman officers had touched Jesus' blood, would they be saved? And everybody kind of laughed. They said, Well, no. And so then that's the point. Look at L I think we let's just read Leviticus seventeen eleven Because I think this explains it uh this one verse uh explains this this quite well. When you get there, if somebody want to volunteer to read uh Leviticus 17, 11. For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it for you on the altar to make atonement for your souls. For it is the blood that makes atonement by the life. He's uh I mean he explains it right there, doesn't he? It's the blood again, it's uh uh it when there no one's I don't think of being cleansed by blood, do you? Or get blood on me, I think I need to get cleansed It's a again, it's a word picture. Don't forget that. Uh it's not um some magical thing They uh it against a worm picture to to or you know, an example uh uh this fell it's the light that thing died And he's reminding you of of its death uh for your sin as a sprinkle is on on the altar Uh the life. It's not the blood, it's the life is in the blood. The blood is the uh again the picture of the life Make sense? Everybody's quiet this morning. I need somebody to push back, do something. Everybody out there, right? But to me these these really help and and again it's hard but um Uh Dr. Heater always used to say, he says, you really don't know the scriptures until you know kind of the historical setting and the background to it. And that takes that's It's enough to do that. That's a big that's a lot of work. You know, y 'cause the sources aren't easy to find and some of it's really technical and it's but i you really don't. We you know What what was the picture God was giving to these people? It was it was a specific thing. Uh and as we progress Revelation, God's word, progresses. Look at the knowledge that comes forward. Think about what they knew as compared to what we knew. And I just just kind of keep that in in your mind as as you're reading scripture. Yes. There's a interesting I I'm not sure why, but I've been stuck. reading a lot lately about um early analogies to scriptural themes in non-Jewish cultures. Akkadian, Sumerian, Babylonian, all the rest of it. And people are always using the fact that there are similar There are parallels in their religious structures or their flood narratives or whatever it is. And they're like, oh see, there are parallels in their holder But when you think about the fact that those are real world events, the flood. Right. When you think about the sacrifice sacrificial system instituted in the garden and that all of the first families and the first men and women would have been aware of those and how that filtered out It provides an interesting context for Leviticus, not as a parallel, but as an extension of the very truths that everybody on the planet knew Sumerians, Babylonians, Akkadians worked those. They came up with mythologies about gods, or Greek and Roman things, right? Mm-hmm. Fecal gods that demanded obedience and sacrifice and chose whether or not they would reward that at all, let alone with persistence, right? One day they rewarded it and the next day they were upset about some intestinal problem and cursed you. Right. God established a parallel sacrificial system, if you will. He established the initial one, but you get this statement, right? And then he was faithful. He was faithful to the spring of the bus. He was faithful to the promise. He was patient and consistent and constantly drawing people back And we get to this time and you talk about not understanding it and it's interesting to me, we actually know less in this case. We don't have the settled oral history of the garden and those early families. We don't have that settled convic settled conviction that There's something wrong with us and we need to atone for it. And so when we look at the blood and we look at the atonement, we embrace it because it's in the scriptures and the Lord works in our hearts to understand it. But it's very foreign to us Because we we don't have it as a part of our identity, I guess is what I'll say. So it's just you said interact and I was just going through that. Uh let me tell you right now, God bless you for saying that because you just you're segueing right into what I w I wanted to do. How about let's make it covered. We'll negotiate What is this land to me? It's nothing. It's only what, you know. Ripped Abraham off. No, but what he said, I hope you heard what he said, because that's exactly what I want to point out when we get to chapter two. All of this, yes, God was taking exactly what he said. All of this was common. These people would have understood sacrifice. They would have understood what we're going to get into uh with the next chapter of covenant and these these uh But I'm getting ahead. That's exactly uh the point. Um I don't want to jump ahead to two. Let me just finish. Sorry. No, no. But that's exactly right. And and Again, that's why I talk about that's why I'm beaten on on this definition of words. God's not going to use some theological holy word that the people don't understand. He's communicating So yes, they would have used a word that would have been maybe applied to another system. But w sometimes we get this holy thing, oh, it's a biblical word, it's a holy but now he's communicating with the the words and the economy of what the people would have lived in. Otherwise they wouldn't have understood. Remember, most of these people were probably illiterate Uh so uh and they w it doesn't mean they're stupid, but it just means th uh they w they weren't gonna have the the theology and all the stuff that we're unpacking and and putting in now. Remember, all of us stuff that we had came over these centuries. And uh uh don't underestimate the theology we have from the time of Christ till now. A lot of men uh the things that we assume other men wrestled with and and gave us a foundation for. And that's the point I want to make. Yes, these people would have understood sacrifice and they would have understood covenant which is where we're gonna go. And covenant's really important. Uh let's see. Let me just read this quote and um when you go back to consider everybody knows Philippians 2, 5 through 9. I'm not going to read it now just because of time. But remember who was the uh the ultimate? These are this was a dedication. These pieces was not uh let me read this. In the sin offering uh uh uh expiation which is cleansing fancy word for it cleansing uh uh uh uh kind of it's the atonement process The sinner is brought into the greatest prominence. That's the sin offering, right? And the burnt offering, which we did in chapter one This falls into the background behind the idea of self-surrender of a man to God for the sanctification, setting apart the holiness, right, all of his members through the grace of God. And lastly, the peace offering culminated in the peace of living communion with the Lord. And I I'll have a chart. Uh um anybody has um uh there's a good two volume uh Old and New Testament commentary called Bible Knowledge Commentary. Um the it's by different authors. Uh it's it's a good one source thing. It's like anything. Some uh uh other authors are better than others on the on the topic. But it's it's uh it's good. It's it's uh there's a lot of information in there, a lot of charts Anyway, Lindsay, which I looked at, he has a nice chart of all the different uh sacrifices and categorizes them. Uh but I'm not going to get into that. You can look at it. It takes a while. It's a lot. If your mind can put all that stuff together and and work it out. But there are different categories. And these I just mentioned Right? Uh well except for the sin offering, but uh this qu what we call the meal offering, which we're gonna get into, uh the burnt offering and um I guess the the peace offering. Are th they they're they're not really um they they're more uh dedication. Uh it's of this uh and uh uh maybe I'm maybe I'll just have to explain it later It's more of like he said here, it's it's the dedication for sanctification. It's a self-surrender That was the overall idea of this. It's the identification of it. There is atonement there. And and like they say, really, just about every um Every one of these sacrifices in some level or another. And this is why it's hard to categorize them. Has a bit of uh you know atonement, propitiation involved in it. It's it's it's very hard to to separate everything out. So that's chapter one. The notes, if you register for the class, they're online if you don't have them Um hopefully the recordings are turning out and uh they're on sermon audio. So let's segue. Chapter two. Now we just work from the notes Uh we don't forget. So let's read uh chapter two Uh why don't we uh some of these you get you guys away, get you uh involved in this. Somebody read um Chapter two, verses one through three, and uh somebody can pick it up in four through ten. Any volunteers? I'll be one of three. Okay. When anyone brings a grain offering as an offering to the Lord, his offering shall be in vine flowers. He shall pour furrow sheep and put on it. And bring it to Aaron's sons, the priests, and ye shall take from it a handful of the fine flower and oil, with all its grand incest. And the priest shall burn this as a memorial portion on the altar, a food offering for the pleasing aroma to the Lord. But the rest of the grain offering shall be for Aaron and his sons. It is a most holy part of the Lord's food offerings. Okay, somebody want to read uh four through ten? All right. Now when you bring an offering of a grain offering. Baked in an oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, or unleavened wafers spread with oil. If your offering is a grain offering made on the griddle, it shall be of fine flour, unleavened, mixed with oil. You shall break it into bits and pour oil on it, it is a grain offering. Now if your offering is the grain offering made in a pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. When you bring in the grain offering which is made of these things to the Lord, it shall be presented to the priest, and he shall bring it to the altar. The priest shall then take up from the grain offering its memorial portion, and shall offer it up in smoke on the altar as an offering by fire of a soothing aroma to the Lord. The remainder of the grain offering belongs to Aaron and his sons, a thing most holy of the offerings to the Lord by fire. No grain offering which you uh bring to the Lord shall be made with leaven. For you shall not offer it up in smoke uh up in smoke any leaven or any honey as an offering by fire to the Lord. As an offering of the first fruits you shall bring them to the Lord, but they shall not ascend for a soothing aroma on the altar. Every grain offering of yours, moreover, you shall season with salt, so that the salt of the covenant of your God shall not be lacking from your grain offering. With all your offerings you shall offer salt. Also, it will uh also if you bring the grain offering of early ripened things to the Lord, you shall bring fresh uh heads of the grain roasted with fire, gifts of new growth of the grain, offering of the early ripened things. You shall then put oil on it and lay incense on it. It is a grain offering. The priest shall offer up in smoke the memorial portion part of the grits uh of the oil uh believe me let me draw that again parts of its grits with the oil and all of its incense as an offering by fire to the Lord. So really you kinda get that uh it it looks like uh a thing on how to bake bread and There are a couple of uh little nuggets in there. He says something about uh the salt of the covenant. Um there is a separation there, you shall not put any leaven on it So the first part of these notes, um I really just go through the nuts and bolts. Uh all all it is is just kind of uh uh in in a summary form kind of going through the procedures. So if you look at the section uh where I've got the verse there, we'll we'll pick up from there. 2-1. Now anyone who presents a grain offering as an offering to the Lord, his offering shall be a fine flower, and he shall pour oil on it and for uh put frankincense on it. Everybody there? So the serial offerings has uh little meaning until we determine the the meaning of the Hebrew word. The grain there is The word is is minka. So the Hebrew word for uh offering is korbin. So what he's saying is uh it's a mink minkah korbin. Uh BD uh this is Brown Driver and Briggs. I always just uh you you've seen it before. I I um had this Footnote in the bottom so you can see what it is. The definition of minka is a gift. It is a gift, tribute, or offering. Uh so the word is used in non-religious ways, which is uh uh what um Scott was referring to is that uh this this would have been a familiar term to these people. So it's used in a non-religious way when a subject or vassal state paid tribute to a conquering kingdom Uh this is referred to as a uh suzerain or vassal covenant. Uh suzerain is just it it's the king, it's the lord, it's uh uh and think about it, okay, think about their history. As uh Scott was saying, look, look of all the history we have way before this is fourteen uh 50, let's just say 1450. I'm not gonna argue with a date, but it's when the Exodus came out, okay, the writing of this Yeah, a lot of history before that, right? Egyptian, Mesopotamia, uh all these other empires, these This suitz and vassal thing was common. These covenants were common. And Uh I put a foot in the uh down uh uh it's later, but uh it's in your page. A guy named Russ Meat uh has a nice article on it. I've looked at some of his other things. I'm not so crazy about, but it's nice and concise and and he uh he talks about this suzerain uh vassal kind of a thing and what it means for The Hebrews, Moses, for now. So think about this. They would this uh uh and also think Even smaller than states, you had clans, right? Uh Amram was probably considered a king to a lot of the the local clans. He had a lot of money. He had people working for him. He had livestock. Okay? That's a powerful guy. And you make covenants with these kind of peoples. Remember, they were in the land, they were having troubles, the land was crowded, uh, you you had different tribes uh coming in Uh so these kind of of of covenants and vassal things w would have been common. What does that have to do with us? Uh everything. And I'm gonna tie it in. Go back again. Let's look at Exodus 19. Uh we're just gonna just real quick just so you get the setting. Because it had everything to do with this word minka So, right, they're at Mount Sinai, right? In the third month, after the sons of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, right? They're in Mount Sinai. Where are we in Leviticus? Mount Sinai. Okay? They're getting the law. Believe it or not, Leviticus is kind of narrative. It doesn't seem like it, but It is. It's telling us what Moses got and what he was telling the people. Uh uh So uh Skipping to verse five. Now if uh uh nineteen five. Now if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant Then you shall be my own possession among all the peoples for all the earth is mine. And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests, a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the sons of Israel. Okay, so he this is the initial thing. He's telling them Uh uh You shall be to me. Look at chapter twenty, right? Ten commandments. Then God spoke all these words. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. This is kind of what a vassal does. He either protects you or may he may be like when Israel uh sinned Uh the the initial stages, Babylon came and they were paying tribute to Babylon before they destruct destroyed them, right? Uh the first wave they were paying tribute to them This is the one you have to pay tribute to. Now think about these when you make these kind of arrangements, what does that king think if you go and start making deals with the king of Egypt. How's he gonna deal with that? Even even me may come and say I may have to come and crush these guys. I gotta show them who's the boss. Think of the mindset of the people. This is what they're seeing in a covenant vassal thing. This was common to them. This has been going on for centuries. thousands of years even, uh but uh you know, this is this was and also think uh uh really because this is why like Nick kind of points out Guy wrote that article. It think of it as is as they're trans and not necessarily a a state or like like Egypt, an empire or or Babylon Maybe there are clans the amongst this area. It's it's clans are families, right? They're basically, you know, that's my cousin Joe, or you know what I mean? You're family, you're ethnically the same, you know, but there's this bonding thing there. Uh covenants, like a marriage covenant, would bind the families This this is big. You know, this is big. Who are your people? You know, what what's your nation? You remember when uh just to kind of show you how the remember when uh Uh God told Abraham, he goes, I'm I'm going to give you all this land in Genesis 15. He's going to take over the Garishites, the Hittites, the all theites, right? He names the clans. They're people groups. And they're then they they could be like a little kingdom, a little nation, but they're clans. Think think of it in that way. So uh this is Again, we're going to relate all this because God has a family here, doesn't he? It's a people group. But he's also the sovereign king, right? Why is he the king? He goes, I'm the one who brought you out of Egypt. This is what I did for you. I'm the powerful one Of course, this is a lot different, though, isn't it? You shall make yourself no idols, right? You shall worship. And what's he say? You shall love the God, love God with all your heart, right? I don't think other kings, right? It's based on the same kind of principle, but yes, this is radically different. He you're you're to love this God. It's a relationship. But he is sovereign. You you have to remember both and and and the we forget that, the people forgot that. Right? Chapter twenty four twenty four Then he said to Moses, Come up to the Lord, you, Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and the seventy elders. Of Israel and you shall worship uh uh and you shall worship at a distance. Moses alone went up Verse 4, Moses wrote down all the words of the Lord. So the Lord is giving him all this information. From chapter 20 Okay, right? The decalolog ten commandments. Verse 7. He took the book of the covenant. And uh we this uh let's say we think the book of the covenant is. It's these uh 20, 21, 22, 23. He wrote all these words down. He took the book of the covenant, read it to hearing of the people. Uh and they said, All the Lord has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient. So I just wanted to set that picture. Quick question. Yes, please. That is uh uh Deuteronomy We uh we are trying to put it in the uh perspective of time frame. So When he said the Book of the Covenant, what he read to him, it had to be what happened because we are in narrative, we are in a time frame. So now they think the Book of the Covenant is what he just heard from God. Because he wrote it down. Remember, we are moving through narrative. It does have a a sequence to it. So speaking of that, right? Yeah. Um this is how I understand it I could be wrong, so please correct. No, sorry. I'm looking for clarity on this. Um Exodus is like it's It's a book with a very long timeline, right? From when Moses was a child up until um I don't remember exactly where it is, but people of Israel have left Egypt and they're in the wilderness. for a long time. At what point is uh Leviticus rate somewhere in there, right? Well see yeah but see the uh w then that's why I tried to give you that. Yeah, I'm glad you uh Back in 19, right? Three months. 191 and the third month after the sons of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt. Okay. Fast forward to Exodus. Um So Moses gets that. He he wrote that book of the covenant, what he just received from God for those to why it was up on the mount They go through, God, Moses goes back up, and he's gone a long time, right? What's God telling them? God's telling them how to make the tabernacle, all this detail The Ark of the Covenant. You tell them what the priest should wear, right? All their uniforms and and all this holiness. What are the people doing while he's up there? They're making a golden gas. And coming it didn't last very long, did it? Right? And so they sinned, right? You know the story? God says, look, don't don't send me up there without you. God says, okay. He's not going to slay all the people, but uh a lot of the people were uh did they'd go through a j uh a judgment, did they not? I'm just paraphrasing uh What do they do then? What do they do the rest of Exodus? They build they they they they bless the peop the workers. He the God gifted them with the Holy Spirit, those who were talented, to build the ark, to build the tabernacle, to do all the the linens, to do all the uh uh uniforms, everything for the priest. And uh Exodus 34. And the cloud, and so the t the the tabernacle of he erected the court all around the tabernacle, verse 33 Exodus 40 33. Over in the tabernacle of the altar hung the veil uh uh for the gate uh gateway to the court, then Moses finished the work Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled on it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. It's completed. That's where you are with Leviticus. That's where you s you you you're there at Mount Sinai. You're still there. You haven't left And but the tabernacle is complete. The priests are ready to begin. And now he's going to explain in various layers these sacrifices. We're gonna repeat them again. It's gonna seem redundant because then he's gonna go through these sacrifices and what the priests do. You have a question? Yes, so I just clarify now that the tabernacle is built and like you know, the cloud of God is in there at certain times and then it comes up when they want to travel. Is is the law being given to them in the tabernacle or is is he just recounting what God gave him when he was up on a mountain the second time? Oh blah blah blah blah blah. Well or is it not clear? Let me get my brain thinking. I haven't r read through all of the uh Torah in a while and uh I'm doing it out of context, but what he recited to um the Book of the Covenant is reciting what he's seeing up to this point. And is Moses gonna get more? Yeah, I mean because uh number one, you're gonna number the people. Right? He's numbering the fighting men. Uh y you're gonna get m more laws all throughout. What are there? Six hundred and somebody said six hundred and fifteen, I've heard There's six hundred plus commandments from the time they came out, right? Uh Exodus. uh through Deuteronomy. So yeah, you're gonna it's gonna continue. And he's and he's gonna get more specific on on some of them. And that's why I say it's it's progressive. But he's given them there now the foundation Uh uh and what we're parking on is what do these sacrifices w what were they what was God trying to show these people And again, a lot of this is repetitive. It's there are sinners. There's a substitutionary atonement. These are the uh foundations for everything Um that they have a mediator. There are different Moses was a mediator, but the priests are are set up as mediators. They're they're they're recognizing God's holiness. This is what he's going to put out there. I am holy. You are separate. And a lot of these disciplines, I A lot of the outward disciplines are to get us to think biblically. God wants a biblical people, a separate people. During this time. They are going to be a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. And we know what happens without faith. What do they do? Well we know the story. They go in, they do virtually everything and some more of what all the existing s uh uh tribes did. They're gonna have child sacrifices and everything else Does does that answer the question? No? Kind of. I mean yes. The revelation is going to continue even after Leviticus, yes. I think I have the same question that he had, which is like is correct me if I'm wrong, like is Moses remembering and like writing down the the words of the Lord that he has. Absolutely and that that's why that's so important. Don't don't go f don't miss that. But I think that um at least from what I can tell um uh some like bits of Leviticus even in the beginning right says the Lord called Moses and spoke to him from the tenth of meaning which is Already been uh which is part of the tabernacle that just finished being constructed in everybody. And and they're starting the uh Chapter 24, verse 4. Moses wrote down all the words of the Lord. That's big, because remember, what is the first thing You know, the the skeptics talk about, well we're not sure who wrote who wrote uh the the Torah, the first five uh books of the Bible, right? Moses wrote it down. We believe it. Right? And you so remember you that you've you've got scripture now. Before it was word of mouth, right? Wow, we're not even gonna Hark on chapter two. How long is this class gonna last? Pretty sure you're the administrator of the Sunday classes. We can be here as long as you want. But I this is what I want. Let's let's talk a good. I just I just had a big picture clarification. Um question. So we were at Leviticus 2. 1 and you kind of broke down that verse a little bit with explaining how Mingta is that um brain offer. And then you also kind of help us understand the offerings as an offering, as carbon. And so then you took us to Exodus 19 and from there you've kind of been helping us. I just want to understand if the the reason for connecting these two books is Because you were getting into the covenant, right? And so is it to is it to help us be that again because communication that you bet you and um stab were talking about it's a language in which they kind of were familiar with and so is it that you're taking us back so that we're able to see that God was not just giving the walls, but that behind it was that relationship. So you can get back that to see that relationship between I am God and you are my people. Is that correct? Like is that the basic Did you hear that? So and she's right, what happened is we got up on a lot of rabbit trails, but if we don't understand the concepts it we're just gonna go right by it. What she said was What is the relationship for this minka as to why I went back to the covenant? Because Minka is basically a covenant word. They were bringing Uh i i it's a it's a it's an offering, it's a dedication to a sovereign. It is we say uh Now when anyone brings a grain offering. Now get into this The only reason they say grain offering is from the context, because that's it throughout this whole book what are they offering, or this this chapter, excuse me. They're offering wheat and flour and grains, right? There's no animals there. But what is what does the word minka mean? Gift? Tribute. It's a tribute. And the people would have understood that. They would they that's the problem. We're reading brain offering. We're reading the English translation. But it would have been they're bringing a tribute offering to the Lord. This is a covenant relationship kind of a thing. You bring a tribute to the king. When another sovereign took over another one, they wanted them to pay tribute. This, we want your money. God wants tribute. But then when you think about that, when you think about again, what what would another king do if you went and made a relationship With another king, you got we got war. We got war is brewing. Right? Uh Israel did that. You remember Jesus uh uh the Bible, the prophets called uh Israel the harlot who makes who makes uh who goes out to everybody. What he was talking was, I am the sovereign king You keep going to Egypt, you keep making these pacts with all these other people, you're not trusting your king. That's what he was saying with all that. And these people would have understood this Man, we just scratched the service and chapter two rubber without a ton. But this isn't this If you don't get anything else in this chapter though, what the reason I spent so much time is, because that's what these people, if they were if their eyes were open, if they were paying attention, if their hearts were right This is what they would have known. And this meal thing, yes, this meal thing The meal's not. It's I am I am bringing my dedication, my tribute to my king Yes. I just love where you're going with this and the continuity that it has. I just think you can see it so clearly in in Exodus as it moves into Leviticus. Exodus in Deuteronomy as it moves into Leviticus. There's a wandering people. Yep. The Lord comes to them and gives them them his name, which is sentence one of the suzerainty treaty. Great king. Right. Right? He gives them his name. Who who should I say sends me Moses says? And he says, Tell them Yahweh, you are God. So right there you start teeing it up. And then like you said, the decalogue, which is perfectly in that suzerainty treaty form and it includes historical prologue, the blessings of the king, stipulations, exclusive loyalty, detailed obligations. It includes Sanctions and continuity. And where does Exodus end? I came to you, I gave you the decalogue, I'm in your presence, I'm with your blessings. The cloud covered the tenth meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled up right now close to you where the Lord filled the tabernacle and then Exodus 40, 34, 50s. And then 35 of the And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the clouds set upon it and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. There was this insuperable problem of our sins that despite all of this, we could only get so close. And then you move right into Leviticus where we suddenly are able Through a priest, we are suddenly able to enter the Holy of Holies. And then through Christ, we ourselves are able to enter Right? And the sacrifices were the foreshadowing, right? Clearly you made that point so well last week, were the foreshadowing of what Christ did, but he's showing us. What the whole continuity of calling us and loving us and conquering us and making covenant with us and his tested, his steadfast love with us And how that has to be accomplished and then he accomplished it because we never could have to see it. Exactly. Right. So I'm I just fantastic. I'm excited to how you're teeing this up. There's so much and that's a problem. There's so much there And the he showed the people, uh I keep saying word picture, but it's it's it's He showed them in a ritual, in a demonstration, these ideas. That's how he's communicating to them. They see the idea. Rem again, we're we're just bowed out, but you you we've got to remember what they did see They saw all the plagues in Egypt. They watched the hand of God. They saw the ultimate one were the Passover. And they their firstborn weren't killed, but all the firstborn, even of livestock, died in Egypt. They pass through the sea. Okay, they know they're seeing the power and the awesomeness of this God. And now they see this glory in the manifestation again in this tent. Uh i it's just So they know they're approaching a holy God. And I was I started this with this this class and I was saying I am so blessed. God is so good to me. And life is relatively easy. I forget the holy, I forget the fear of God. And sometimes you need that picture, you know, like Isaiah being taken up and he's going, Man, I am ruined, right? Or John in in uh Revelation, right, when he sees the glorified Christ. You fall on your feet, you know, you fall down like a dead man. Uh God is holy. He's so much separate than us. And yet he He wants to bring us into relationship, but he is holy. That's the point. He goes, Yeah, I want a relationship, but You want to do it on your terms. I know you're a sinner. You can't help it. But I am holy. And it's nothing personal. This is who I am. I am not unholy. You need to come to me holy. Right? Um be there from you know right? Be holy for the Lord your God is holy, right? See first Peter repeats that. That's that's the that's the issue here. But I want you to see this is to me the main point of this whole chapter. We'll get to some of the other stuff. But this when they heard it forget grain offering, put in their tribute. When anyone presents a tribute offering as an offering to the Lord, And of course, that's his Yahweh name, that's his covenant name, his relational name. His offering shall be a fine flour and pour it and put frankincense on it So we'll we'll look at some of those details, right? But the but that's the thing. This is a tribute and they should have known that. This is their king. But look, just like today, right? You see what you saw. We read uh Malachi 1. 8, they start bringing them lame animals and Uh it's it's it's our human nature, right? Without grace we don't see this. Um I don't think there's much point in going on. I only have five minutes. Does anybody have any questions? Um I tell you what though, we do need to pray for Jeff Lipko is recovering from hernia surgery and uh Anthony Tyson was at the uh uh picnic yesterday and he was he and I did a we were we did a lot of the uh with Aaron and some others we did the uh grilling And Nancy goes, Man, I'm gonna get on that basketball court. Well, um we don't know. Aday looked at him, but he he he thinks he he definitely injured his Achilles heel I can't run, so I don't have to worry about doing that stuff anymore. The body's just, but anyway, pray for him. Pray it in uh you know chilly heal is hard to heal from I think I I beat the point, but I I really do. Keep that in mind, this covenant relationship, keep in mind this vassal king thing that these people would have been aware of. Um uh uh you know, the and keep uh and that this minka is then uh it it's a dedication, it's a such a tribute that's so important. 'Cause then and then the rest of it kinda makes sense. But without it it's just like okay, give some there's another one more thing too and I'll p uh it's in here, but uh Scott said it, holy of holies. This is, it's uh in uh in ours it's translated most holy, but it's the same thing. It's uh Kodash, Kodash. It's a re repetition. And it could be translated Holy of Holies, which is where the Ark of the Covenant was. But an another neat concept to to think about this week is that the grain offering they gave these priests They they uh priests were allowed to keep a lot of it, but some of it they put on the fire and it went up in the smoke. It pleased God, we'll see that. But it was also called most holy And none of the commentators make anything about it, but I wonder would that would there be any identification to that individual? This is holy holy and there's the holy of holies. Could it be some kind of identification where they they identify with that uh most holy place where the atonement's made. Well anyway.