So uh next week we'll come I'll um pray for me. I'll try and have a s summary like a bullet because we've actually been through quite a bit. And the the even for me to look back and and be and be reminded of uh Where we've been and and and w w w we're looking at all these different sacrifices and we're we're trying to, you know, flesh out the essence of what was he pointing to? Why are they different sacrifices? Um in this one, a lot, you know, the some of the older commentators and a lot of them uh just make it as it's a sin offering. It's basically, you know, the propitiation, expiation, it's cleansing, uh sin. But um Ross and Wenham, which is which is the two primary ones I'm looking at, um see this really as as They call it purification. But it's not really and this is where it kind of gets com um Mixed up. Um if you look at it uh uh and uh and what I'm trying to express now is what I was wrestling with. I I I I saw their logic. I thought, yes, it is a pure they're purifying things. But then when I go back and I look at the words, it is used for sin. It's a sin offering, sin offering. But it has We're I we're gonna have to really define it by um how this word can be used. It can be used for cleansing, uh the word for sin in this this uh But it's also look at what what uh it's the detail. The detail in scripture we tend to forget, we read so fast and we don't think about it. What were they doing You know, what was the evidence in the passage? They're they're clean they're putting blood on the altars. And that's kind of how we how this is being defined, how it's being fleshed out. So that was all that rambling, which is kind of tell you what I was wrestling with. Yes, I agree with them, but then sometimes when I look at the text, I go, Well s you know, are are we pushing a point here? Because sometimes uh these conclusions are a little bit remote. You know, it's kind of like sometimes you get into theology you're going, well, how did he get that? And and that's always the case, right? Because The scripture is the theology, right? And that's where we're getting all this these ideas from. The base is, what does the word say? So that was my wrestle this week. So page one. God is holy and cannot abide in the presence of people or things that are defiled or have sinned in an unintentional way. We live in a fallen world and bodies that become unclean by acts of the individual, or simply by the nature of our being God has provided grace as a means to cleanse those things, and people have become well pleased with those things, people have become uh unclean in the presence of God. And uh in order for man to maintain fellowship with God, that which has become defiled in his sight must be cleansed. And this is the thing I think that really helped me. It's it's uh I don't think of myself as being unclean and undefiled. And I want this is what we're going to try and flesh out the uh uh it's not so much the act of sin and we'll get to this, but it's the result of sin. And and we forget that. We go, oh I'm forgiven, you know, I'm done, I'm moving on. uh but it has an effect and and um I think that's what God has shown us back here in the law. The law in ancient Israel clearly revealed that the sins of any kind angered God. Deprived him of his due, defiled his sanctuary, and thus put a barrier between the guilty and God And that's uh from Ross. I used Ross in the front end of this and um Wenham I really leaned on in the in the back end because he did a really good job, especially with the uh New Testament Because we live in a fallen world, people have become unclean through no fault of their own. The effects of sin were just as serious as the acts of sin in the presence of God. Disease, death, and contamination defiled the person and made the uh uh made the holy tabernacle unclean. By God's grace, people were provided with the different sacrifices to atone for their sins and to cleanse their impurities. The word for sin is kata. It is a common word for sin. It's used hundreds of times, 500 plus. It is sometimes used in the meaning to cleanse. BDB, which is Brown Driver Briggs, following the definition given for Leviticus 4, 24, 25. The victim was brought to the tenth of meeting and the hands of the offerer laid on his head. Did I get that right? The victim was brought into the tent of meeting. The hands of the offer were laid on its head, and it was slaughtered by the offer. The priest took some of the blood, put it on the horns of the altar of the burnt o the burnt offering, and the rest of the blood was poured out at the base of it. To cover over sins. Now that's BDB's, that's brown driver Briggs, that's kind of their definition of atonement. Cover over. We talked about that. It doesn't look like that's the correct. It's it's really um or cleanse, and they got it right there. Or cleanse the altar of sin, defiling it. So here's the thing. In the theological word book, the Old Testament, the word kata, when it's used in religious sense, the majority of the PL forms And it's one of these languages, this is one of these uh conjugations, I guess you call it. I mean, this is what makes Hebrew and Greek kind of different because it's got all it takes a base word, it's got all these different forms. And it's the same word, but they use it in these different forms with different meanings. Denotes a cleansing or purifying ceremony during which sin is done away with. The following verses are examples of Katah being used as cleansing or purifying. So, next Moses slaughtered it and took the blood with his finger and put some of it around the horns of the altar, and purified, I have it underlined, that's Katah, the altar Then he poured the rest of the blood at the base of the altar, consecrated it to make atonement for sin. To make atonement for it, excuse me. He shall thus cleanse the house with the blood of the bird and with the r uh excuse me, the running waltz Hmm, I don't know why I have troubles with that. He shall thus cleanse the house with the blood of the bird and with the running water along with the live live bird. and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop and with the scarlet string. That's Leviticus uh 1452. Cleanse there is the used, uh I guess that is for the uh leper's house. But again, that's katah, cleanse. Purify me with hyssop, I shall be clean, wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Uh it's David obviously. Uh which is conviction for a sin And he's purified. Again, it's katah. So Raul sees a sin offering, katah offering, uh being brought for two conditions: the cleansing for inadvertent sins and uh uh significant physical impurities. You know, if you had a skin disease or any things like this, and we'll see this later, uh, you know, I say it in the notes, chapter uh twelve through fifteen, right? That defiled the sanctuary. But it's no fault of their own. A woman in childbirth had to be purified before, you know, she could come back to the sanctuary. So Ross sees a sign of Qatar being brought two conditions, cleansing for inadvertent sins and uh uh significant physical impurities. Leviticus 12-15 details the physical security, while Leviticus IV deals with the sins. The sacrifice dealt with uh the impure by declaring them clean. But if she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take two turtle doves and two young pigeons The one for a burnt offering, the other for a sin offering. And the priest shall atone for her, and she will be clean. That's Leviticus 12, 8. Alright, so when the worshipper brought a sin offering for his inadvertent sin, he was declared forgiven by the priest. The verse I have is actually for uh uh the whole community sinning. Uh but if you see it's in four twenty uh six, thirty-one, thirty-five, and as we go through that, even in um Chapter five, uh, really it's it's uh this whole theme really continues from four chapter four through uh Leviticus 5. 13. They're different uh uh they see this really as a purification or the the quote sin offering. And as we see there, even people bring uh flour in chapter five, uh, they're cleansed So, or they're forgiven for their sins, really. That's the essence. And that was my dilemma, because you talk about, well, it's for atonement, it's forgiveness of sins. How is it purification? And that's what we're going to try and uh decipher here. The people were purified from their defilements, whether it was from inadvertent sins or defilement of the body apart from sinning. Leviticus 1531 gives a reason for cleansing. Thus ye shall keep the sons of Israel separated from the uh from their uncleanness so that they will not die in their uncleanness by their defiling my tabernacle that is among them. Leviticus 16, 16, this is the law for atonement. is a description of atonement for the defilement of the temple because of the uncleanness of the people. And here is a quote. He shall make atonement for the holy place because of the impurities of the sons of Israel, and because of their transgression in regard to all their sins. And they shall do for the tent of meeting which abides with them in the midst of their impurities. So they're making atonement for the holy place. So you see what the you can see uh where this is going. In other words, if their sin Your sin is forgiven, but the the uh we're bringing our sin and and defiling God's sanctuary. And that's the thing that I we don't really get. That I didn't get really until I was looking at this. Uh Yes. And that's what kind of your uh missing area. We talked about the burnt offering, sacrifice number one in Leviticus. And the burnt offering Uh even uh w with the uh the way that the the writers of uh or the commentators of Ross and and Werner provided, it's it wasn't so much For the sin of the people, it was really them recognizing a substitutionary atonement. And that's what Christ did on the cross. Christ on the cross gave us, he he really, the propitiation was between him and God. He was an acceptable sacrifice for God, which is what we need. And here's where again, this is why we um So many of us we think well did the blood, did the ritual, you know, that didn't clean them, right? It was faith in the substitutionary atonement, just like it is today The blood of Jesus really points to his life. It's when when you're push putting that blood out there, it's really pointing to The life was poured out. It died for us. And so when we talk about atonement, to them, the essence is the acceptable Substitutionary atonement that God accepts on our behalf. And how do we get there? It's the same, and you just can't beat this enough. Abraham believed in God and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. It's all its faith Because these people went through the the rituals, we saw that. We saw it uh in the wilderness they didn't have faith. We saw uh all the way through their history. Us just be electric have faith. But they have to believe in what God has provided. It's not so much, oh, I've done this thing. Now it's kind of like you were not providing it. It was provided for us. And it's all and it's that's I I think that's how we get the confusion. It's kind of like atonement is God's atonement for us, right? It's grace We're saved by grace, right? Through faith. And it's the same principle. It's God's grace, it's his provision. And really, Old Testament, New Testament, the problem is we don't accept the provision, right? And we can't, unless God opens our hearts and our eyes to believe this. Does anyone answer your question? Yes and no. But I understand more clearly what you're trying to say about atonement, but I was trying to ask the difference between atonement and forgiveness, but how do they fit together? Like are they I understand atonement. So you're just saying that's forgiveness, it's the same thing or is there a difference? Yeah, that's a good question. I'm not sure how to split that. Other than We're not forgiven. We're forgiven because of that substitutionary atonement. We're forgiven if we believe that we actually needed that substitutionary atonement And let's face it, what what is the the barrier that uh the primary sin, they say it all the time, pride, right? It's there's always this emptying. They they ruh commentators really put it put it this out put this out with all of the sacrifices. It's an emptying. It's um it's a humbleness. Uh it's it's something other than us that's doing this. And it's always pride. Unless God opened our eyes, there's no way we we would have accepted this sacrifice. We could. And so Don't. It's grace back in the Old Testament. All these sacrifices were grace. It's God's provision to bring people back to Himself, right? And we want to control the action. Right from the garden, it was number one. You can be like God. That looks pretty good. I control the action. I get the And it's so ingrained in us that we can't even see it. Even what uh I mean the uh even pride will you know, as we're saved, it's still there, lurk lurking in there. There's still that control issue we have. I mean it's so hard to lay it all down. Yes. Well yeah. When you when you say that a that atonement is is uh my seeking a gift for God. I'm giving I'm offering this to you God because I'm sorry and in order to atone for my sins. And then forgiveness is what God does at the end when He when He forgives us for for for for our sin through the blood of the Lord Jesus. Well you you see and that's that I'm gonna put one little one little thing in there because and that's where this kind of gets technical. You say you my offering Um really what you're doing is let's let's let's w get kind of get technical. I'm bringing this Offering because you told me to, and I'm recognizing that you will honor this. It's not really my offering. I'm just being obedient to what you said Uh you're right, there is that that sacrifice on your part, it's gonna cost you something. Maybe I'm splitting hairs there, yes. So here's how I would think of it. Forgiveness is the sending away of sin. That's what the word forgive means. It's the sending away of sin. Sin is the barrier between us and God. In order for us to be reconciled to God, that sin has to be sent away. Atonement is the m the means by which sin can be sent away. Can God still be just? Because if God just sent our way our sin away and that was it, he would be unjust. But atonement uh is how God uh deals with the penalty of sins and ensures that his wrath is satisfied, that's what propitiation means, but propitiation is. And atonement is like two types of point. So that our sin is actually dealt with, therefore God sends our sin away in forgiveness. Right. And so whether we are in the Old Testament, whether the people offer the sacrifice of atonement or obviously in Christ God Himself offered the sacrifice of atonement. That that cancels out sin because it is dealt with according to God's standard of justice, and then he forgives, he sends the sins away. Sins are in a way and therefore we should be reconciled. I see that as an assurance at one with God He gave the sacrifice and this is the ashur that was expected. I'm a sense of our shoes. Amen. So Ro all right, so Romans through Jews has to come. Reddement three um t uh pick it up in twenty three. Uh uh he says look All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. Whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. Propitiation is what Satisfaction of Christ. So Christ's death satisfied God the Father. Satisfy us. Okay, he's being put up there as the Lamb of God, the propitiation for all of mankind. And God accepted it This is this is apart from us now. I mean key this is what God the Son did for God the Father, perfect obedience So it displayed publicly a propitiation in his blood through faith. We have to believe in that. This was to demonstrate his righteousness because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed. Those in the Old Testament who were just bringing bulls and goats, etc. , right? Still their faith was in God and God honored that and he says, Well I'm going to pay for this and uh and here's what he says. He says, For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time So that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in him. So again, he's the propitiation. He we are justified because we believe in him, and he's the justifier for us So again, uh it's not what we do. Again, what uh we we keep saying this all the time, we don't bring anything. Uh so Yeah, uh we're all seeing the same thing. Yeah. Yeah. Does that bring it up? Yes. Yeah, just clarifying things. Yeah. Thank you, Gabe. Boy, we're gonna have a hard time getting through this one. Uh bah bah ba. So I'm gonna pick it up where I'm not sure what page you are. I have mine on uh large copy, so Right after the quote from Leviticus 8. 15, Ross makes a point that sin and its effect defile God's sanctuary. People who enter the tabernacle in an unclean state are in danger of losing their life. Roth quotes Milgram, who says, Someone guilty of sin needed forgiveness, not so much because of the act, but because of the consequences of the sin Uh but but because of the consequences of of the sin, they defile the sanctuary. And that I think that's the the essence of these commentators, what they're saying is, yes, you're being forgiven for sin. But we what we don't realize is, yes, you okay, I sinned, you you cleanse me for that. You've forgiven me for that. But they're saying, look, God has to cleanse his sanctuary because the effect of your sin has brought defilement to it. And that that's the essence of uh what is to get from from uh this particular sacrifice. Yeah, uh they are forgiven for their sins But they're also there i if you notice they're going to cleanse the sanctuary, they're going to cleanse the altars So the blood of the sacrif uh sacrifice uh the blood uh excuse me The blood in this sacrifice, uh sacrificial offering is applied to different parts of the sanctuary and not to the individual. These are cases where the blood is smeared on the outer altar and the priest eats some of the meat of the sacrifice. 430 doesn't mention it, but 426, Leviticus 426, it's it's um you're talking with the priest now And that's what we're going to do. You're going to see this in layers. This this these early chapters are written for the people in general. Then we're going to talk about how the priests carry out this these rituals, these sacrifices. And you're going to get some more details when we get there So there are cases where the blood of bulls is taken into the holy place and smeared on the altar of incense. and the flesh of the animals completely burned outside the camp. Ross says, the difference is in the degree of impurity that the rituals purge The first taking care of minimal in incursions of impurity, but the latter representing higher degrees of impurity, such as the sins of a priest or the congregation. It means the congregation as a whole. Either form of the ritual provides cleansing or forgiveness for the guilt. But the cleansing came with the purification of the sanctuary, those that are sanctified, separated, and the sanctuary. So the offering of the anointed priest, this is in 4, 3 through 12. The term anointed priest is uncertain, but most commentators see this as the high priest. Uh the phrase bringing uh guilt on the people points out the gravity of the high priest's sin. His sin not only affects the standing uh before God, but also brings guilt on the whole nation. Some see the sin of the high priest as only those who are uh only those that occur while he is performing his duties, officiating the temple. When Wenham argues that this sin uh by the high priest uh in private or officiating in the temple would bring guilt on the people So uh let's just read that real quick. Um bah ba Uh w can I get some readers? Uh uh Levit Leviticus four. Uh somebody wanna read me four one through Um six one through what? Uh four one through verse six And the Lord spoke to Moses saying, Speak to the people of Israel, saying, if anyone sins unintentionally in any of the Lord's commandments about things not to be done and does any of them. If it is if it is the anointed priest who sins, thus bringing yoke on the people Then he shall offer for the sin that he has committed, a bolt from the herd without blemish to the Lord as a sin offering He shall bring the bull to the entrance of the tent of meeting before the Lord, and lay his hand on the head of the bull, and kill the bull before the Lord, and the anointed priest shall take some of the blood of the bull And bring it into the tenth meeting, and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle part of the blood seven times before the Lord, in front of the veil of the sanctuary. Does somebody want to pick up and read from seven to verse twelve through verse twelve? And the priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of fragrant incense before the Lord that is in the tent of meeting. And all the rest of the blood of the bull shall he shall pour out at the base of the altar a burnt offering, says that's the entrance of the tent of meeting. And all the fat of the full of the sin offering, he shall remove from it the fat that covers the entrals, and all the fat that is on the entrals and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the long lobe with the liver, that you shall remove with the kidneys, just as these are taken from the ox of the sacrifice for the peace offering and the priest shall burn them on the altar for an offering. But the skin of the bull and its flesh, with its head, its legs, its entrels, and its stung, all the rest of the bull, he shall carry outside the camp to a clean place, to the ashkeep. And shall burn it up on the fire of wood. On the ash sheep it shall be burned up. So we can see and you look at some of the detail, okay. So we went to the intervail, uh we'll talk about this. Um also uh it's a bowl. It's it's uh expensive, it's uh uh uh wo uh just costly uh sacrifice. Uh the priest, the high priest did this, okay? We're gonna look at some of these things. So as you read down to this to think of to some of these details of the differences for the sacrifices. This passage has interpreted problems and and um Defining a difference between congregation and assembly. Uh agreement among the commentators is that uh it's a whole congregation and the elders who represent the people are mediators through whom the sacrifice for the people will be presented. Um the the problem is the two words are interchangeable and and um The people have a hard time. It's just w sometimes they use congregation, but and he th thought, well is this the the leaders uh of uh the congregation and the assembly as a whole people These two words are interchangeable, so uh but the problem is is that you have the elders uh and and so I uh most of them settle on. This is the whole congregation, the people sinned in some way. Um uh so the people were unaware of the sin, but they became known. Um Uh but it became known in the assembly uh uh so that what they were offering. Uh uh for they were so they offered a bull for a sin offering. The elders, uh, who presumably uh who presumably present uh represent each of the uh tribes were uh to lay hands uh on the head of the bull. Uh the high priest is to take the blood of the bull and sprinkle it before the veil, the holy place, the smear, the the horns of the altar. Um the fat of the bull is burned on the altar and the remainder is outside the camp. So he's this is the same uh sacrifice you have for the whole congregation, you have this for the priest. And the idea is is that This is costly, but uh uh we kind of talked about this. Sin uh for certain people, uh especially people in in a position of uh authority in the church or anything else, it has more repercussions. And we see this in the Old Testament. The sin spread that they had to go into the inner sanctuary Okay, when we get the common people, all they're gonna be doing is uh again, say l put that mental picture. Right, you have the sanctuary, you have the the uh burnt offering altar, which is out it's in the court, right? You go to the inner uh sanctuary, you have the altar of incense, right Behind that's a veil, a holy of holies, that had to be cleansed. When we look at the common people, you're out Purifying the burnt altar. So uh that and the animals become uh less costly. So uh the gist of this w uh uh and I think they're right, uh uh what they're saying is is that this this sin affects the people. Uh we talked about this a little bit, you know, with the uh Man Who Fell, we um um Steve Law Lawson um It affects a lot of people when somebody is a leader like that. It doesn't just affect them. They're sin the files. And I and I think uh there might be a reach, but uh to me it looks like the application. And that's what's happening here. These remember now the the priests are consecrated. They were actually cleaned with the blood. That's what allowed them to go into the holy place. Again. Throughout this, and um I'm getting ahead of myself, but I don't think there's any way I'm gonna get through all these nudes. The people were never cleansed. They always cleansed the altar. Even the priests. If the priests weren't cleansed during the sacrifice, they were cleansing the altar. It's defiling God's sanctuary. Sin, that's what uh what what we read earlier. Sin has an effect. We sin, but that sin has an effect on things. And that's what was the cleansing, the the effect of sin. So the the weightiness of the uh congregation sin, and this is the the next section which uh uh after um This is 13 through like 21. This is where the congregation, they do the exact same ceremony, pretty much, that uh was done with the high priest. Okay, the high priest goes in, and the blood or the uh animal is totally burnt like a burnt offering, but it's outside the camp. And it's kind of what Gate was alluding to when he said about forgiveness. They're taking away the sin. It's burnt. The sin offering is burnt. It's taken away. It's outside the camp. And uh if we get to it, Hebrews makes a reference to that, right? Cross uh Christ was uh killed outside the camp. Outs outside the uh Outside the gate is what they say. So um again, I'm rambling, I hope I'm making sense, but Get the issue, get the the gist of this. It's the effect of sin. It's the uncleanness, which uh I don't really think about today When you think about people's sins today, think about what they're doing. And then take it back to this Leviticus thing and they're thinking, man, the enemy is really leading us into these things to defile ourselves, isn't he? He knows what he's doing, he's keeping you know, all this and these world systems. It's like, oh, it's okay, we break down the barriers and look at where we are We've been breaking down these barriers in our society for years. We just weren't really paying attention. And now it's come to this, we're going, wow, how do we get here? This started way back, didn't it? We if you look over our history of this country, we we can look back. Uh we w we broke those barriers down. And now that we're here, we're going, wow, we didn't think we'd end up this far. But it's true and and we're defiling. We're defiling our country. Isn't that what God said? The people defiled the land So it has broader aspects. So the sin offering for a leader. Let's read that real quick. 22 through 26. When a leader sends unintentionally and does what is forbidden in any of the commands of the Lord of God, he is guilty When he was made aware of the sin he committed, he must bring as his offering a male goat without defect. He is to lay his hand on the goat's head and slaughter it at the place where a burnt offering is slaughtered for the Lord is a sin offering. And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar for an offering, and pour out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar. He shall burn all the fat on the altar as he burned the fat of the falship offering. In this way the priest will make atonement for the man's sin, and he will be forgiven. Let's see. Okay, I'm just gonna read you, you don't have to turn there, but 626 The priest who offers it for a sin shall eat it. It shall be eaten in the holy place in the court of the tenth of the meeting. Okay? So this is the detail that you're not getting in chapter four, but you're gonna get it when you when you look at the priest. See they they didn't not only did they W look at the difference here, and this is this is the essence of what they're we're trying to show. Okay. The priest does it, not the high priest. Now you don't have a high priest officiating this Uh you've got a a a priest. It he's consecrated, but still it's a priest. Uh you don't burn all the it's a it's a lesser animal. You don't go into the Holy of Holies, you you cleanse the uh altar, the burnt altar, which is out in in the court, uh, and all the meat's not eaten. As a matter of fact, uh the priest And 626 get to keep the and eat the meat. And they eat it in the holy place. It's it's holy. And I uh uh again the c what what um Uh the commentators that I read that uh um not all of them, like I said, if you read Dillage or some of the other ones, even um Uh, Lindsay, I read Bible co uh knowledge commentary and his was written in um seventies, I think that might have come out But he w he just had this whole sacrifice of just cleansing, propitia prop uh propitiation, almost expiation for sin. But I think what God is trying to show us is another layer of different aspects of atonement. You know, God uh when Christ saved us, I mean there's all these different aspects of his salvation. I do. With with grace, it's just so easy. All my sins are paid for. Christ paid for on the cross. And I'm kind of done with it. And and um as I read this, it's like, man It brings me down to another level. Look at what he did for me. I was totally unclean. Didn't know it, right? Um And I think it's important to realize that God is holy. I'm so s you know, I don't want to make make it like I I gotta work my way and be clean or God does it for me, but but to realize this It helps me with my walk. I mean I'm thinking, okay, um takes it to a new level. Um give you an example real quick, you know, when I I uh Mm. My testimony is I didn't come to faith till I was forty. Uh I was doing worldly things and just trying not to do it so much that I got totally trash, but I was definitely imbibing on purpose. So when y uh somebody like myself, and uh you see this with uh other people that uh come to faith late Okay, the first layer you get rid of is you stop doing all that. And then you start to see it's like anything, you start to see other layers Uh, you know, I'm really kind of a angry person. I'm not really that patient. And you know, so it's it's kind of that same thing. You you realize God is much holier and it's like a new level it takes you to. Uh and the reason for me to do this because uh Man, when I wrestled I wrestled with this one because of of the different things I was going back and forth with. Is this a cleansing? Is this just uh si you know, a sin uh forgiveness of sins and and It just it was a sweet time with God. That's all I can say. Uh it was difficult and and yet it was a blessing. So And I think that's what we're seeing here in all these different levels. And also there is another practical level to it. God is also making this available to everybody. Uh and I want to say that because if we you know if we get to five, which I doubt we will, but if you look The last wand um all he has to bring is grain. Uh fine flour. He I guess he he does it has to be fine flour. But the commentators say, I mean, it's would have been something even somebody who was uh gleaning from a field, right, where the what the farmer left over would have been able to pay for this, and that's the point Because this is a mandatory uh uh sacrifice. If you are convicted, you need to do this The peace offering was really voluntary and that was almost at the uh which you didn't you some of you didn't come in It was a worship thing. It was like, man, I'm blessed by God. And I f you know, it was actually a joyful thing. Uh the peace offering offering is in chapter three, right? And while you're there, I'll tell you the other thing, the second one, the grain offering, uh for those of you who weren't here, was really uh a tribute and it was Again, what we talk about, they're at Sinai while they're getting all this um all these rules and regulations and all the sacrifices. And at Sinai, when it was three months after they came out of Egypt, it's what it says right there in chapter 19, they make a covenant. And this was uh a typical covenant that they would have understood. You would have made it with the kings, with clans. And what they were recognizing is is this is their king, this is their sovereign. And they made this covenant And the the what they call the grain offering is really a tribute, and that's what you would have done to the vassal. A vassal would have come to whatever the ruling party was and paid tribute to them. And what it was is they're recognizing, this is my king. I made a covenant with them They're recognizing it. And of course it again, it's the same thing. You have to have faith to do that. You may say, ah, you know, what's this guy? I ain't seen him in a while, right? And we saw the complaining of the people as they got out there. We don't have any meat. It's e it's easy for us to forget. Let's get off. Let's look at some of the sin offerings for the common people. See then the head the uh header there four twenty-seven Now if anyone of the common people, verse twenty-seven, sins unintentionally in doing any of the things which the Lord has commanded not to be done, and becomes guilty If his sin which he has committed is made known to him, then he shall bring an offering, a goat, a female, without defect, for the sin which is committed. And he shall Let me stop right there because I know I'm running out of time. Verse 28. If the sin, if you notice all this, if the sin which he has committed is made known to him Um convicted, right? A lot of times they did these were unintentional sins Uh a lot of time they weren't known. It's like, oh but they were convicted, right? Um That think about it's important. We kind of gloss over the commentators really didn't deal with this much, you know. It's it's uh uh Because God's word doesn't really unpack it and save it. But to me, I mean it's it's it's that thing where God works in your heart, right? If we harden our hearts, which is why I gave one of the reasons I've tell the example, right? When I sinned, I knew uh well before I was saved, I knew the major things I was doing with sin. Right? I said, eh, it's not right. But there were the minor things that I didn't realize were sin. I had no idea. I didn't even know it. And that's what example For example? Well like I said, um anger. Okay. Was it an I really had more anger than I realized? Um Yeah, I was amicable on one aspect, but there I what I realized, what it what God revealed to me is he there's a lot more anger in there than than uh I realized And it would manifest itself. But you know how those mean things were kind of blind to, right? I was. Uh so yeah, uh it it yeah, it kind of reveals. But these people were convicted. And I wonder, you know, it's like any group Right? We have a church. We realize that a lot of people that are in that sanctuary aren't saved. They're there, but they're not saved. I would assume in this camp you had a lot of people took a while that were convicted. Some of them probably weren't even convicted. Wouldn't I s I'm guessing I'm out there on my own. None of the commentators touch this, but I I'm assuming that Uh life's not that different. So they're convicted and that's what brings them forth. Okay Uh you and then if you look at that and you go read back through it, you'll see the same thing repeated. They they were convicted of the sin So he shall lay his hand on the head of the offering, slay it, uh the sin offering. The priest shall take some of the blood, the finger, put it on the horns of the altar, the rest of the With the blood he shall pour out the altar, and he shall remove all the fat just as uh uh just as the fat removed from the sacrifice of the peace offering And the priest shall offer it up in smoke on the altar, a soothing aroma. Thus the priest shall make atonement for him, and he will be forgiven. Again, we see that all throughout there. That's also, they made atonement, he shall be forgiven. You'll see that at the end of each of these courses. And that's what I was wrestling with. Is this a cleansing? What is this? How can they prove this is a purifying thing? And I think they've done it with the examples that I've given you uh in the text, uh, how how the people defile the sanctuary with their sin So it's case it's and I say it's both. Is that theologically correct? I put uh my title a sin offering and a purification offering. Um I kind of see it as both. Because he does forgive the sin. And what he's saying and what uh they're saying is yes, he He gave you the sin, but look at the consequences of your sin. We gotta clean the the sanctuary. Okay? You defile this land Again, it it's that cleanness, uncleanness. I I don't the Hebrews mind thought of this. Uh and as we read through this text we see it all the time, clean and unclean, clean and unclean. And again, I just think of unforgiven. I want to the time you have left Let's the uh under the headline the cleansing of the sin offering in the New Testament, uh this I I paraphrase, I'll be honest with you, because I don't want to uh uh but I paraphrased uh one of them. He did a uh great job with the uh Applying this, okay, so how does all this Leviticus apply it to us now today And really, if you look, we look to it, we have large quotes from Leviticus, because the Bible tells us, it gives us a description there. So Leviticus 4 and 5, we've seen the blood of the sin offering is used to purify the tabernacle in order to maintain God's presence, right, among the people. Throughout the Old Testament, many things are cleansed and consecrated by the foregai by blood. Hebrews 9. 22 reads, According to the law, one may almost say all things are cleansed with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sin. In the New Testament is the blood of Christ that cleanses a sinner from defilement. 1 Peter 1:2 He and this is what he writes to the elect, right? According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, by the sanctifying work of the Spirit, to obey Christ. and to be sprinkle and be sprinkled with his blood. May grace and peace be yours in foolish met measure. So we see the sprinkling of the blood. He sees uh uh referring right back to Old Testament. Um First John uh one seven, we are told uh how to walk by faith is a fellowship with God But if we walk in the light, as he himself is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Again It helps me to see what I was cleansed from. Leviticus has really kind of opened my eyes again to the uncleanness I have. Revelation 7. 14 reveals a scene in heaven where the cleansing of the blood of Jesus, right? I said to him, These are the ones who have come out of the great tribulation, that they have washed their robes and made uh and made white made them white with the blood of the Lamb, right? Revelation seven fourteen. So the contrast between the Old Testament and the New uh the Old Covenant and the New is is is plain. The law provided For the cleansing of the tabernacle so the presence of God could abide with the people. In the new covenant, Jesus cleanses the worshipper himself. And it's huge. It's kind of what we saw, you know, in the other sacrifices Um we saw the movement of God. God was up on the mountain, he came down to the tabernacle Uh right, we see him manifest uh himself in the body of Jesus, God uh presence on earth with us And as it ascends, the church uh uh becomes, we have the Spirit of God, we have Christ in us. Um They were the blood there was really cleansing the tabernacle so the people could enter and be present with God. And yet we are cleansed, right, from the inside. The blood of Jesus cleanses us Uh Hebrews will we've got a good passage for that. Um Let's see. We've got time. Hebrews 9, 12 through 14. And not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood. He entered the holy place, once for all, having obtained eternal redemption, for the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer. sprinkling those who have been defiled, sanctified for the cleansing of the flesh. How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit, offered himself without blemish, to God Cleanse your conscience from dead works so that we serve the living God. So we see the outer one is cleansing the flesh It allowed them to approach God. Now I don't know how far to take this theologically, but I always wrestled with this before and even with My thought was, I'm out of my own, I'm not crude to any commentators, but I believe unsaved people came in. to the to the court. And I think the flesh allowed that God to approach them. Uh we see in a r you know, like anything, the remnant was actually saved, who actually had faith This is charryism. We would see if he runs but now uh Only true believers are cleansed, right? Cleansed of the conscience. But this is what we have. God has cleansed our conscience God is as cleanses from the inside. We are changed. We are a new person, a new creation. And I've always wrestled with this, but uh and and just just just a thought. We're not going to tackle this today, but you know you look at well the Holy Spirit came upon people in the Old Testament uh uh in the new covenant he said uh the spirit is upon you, I think it's in John fourteen, but will be in you. Uh what is that difference? It's it's uh uh I suspect the old uh people became a new man, David and those who had faith, but um just something to wrestle with. I don't see many people really uh given a clear definition of what the difference is, but there is a difference. Uh we are sealed with the Holy Spirit. That that's uh that's due covenant the uh Dispensation or error or age, whatever you want to call it Hebrews 10, 19 through 22. Therefore, since we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way which he inaugurated for us through the veil. That is his flesh And since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith having our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water Do you notice that though? We now uh we can enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus. We're cleansed to go in there We have the high priest inside. We could he's in the the the true tabernacle right now, right? Uh the one, uh Hebrew says the one on the earth was a shadow of the true tabernacle. This is the Jesus is now in the true tabernacle Interesting thought too, uh, those of us who believe in progressive revelation, you could call this dispensationalist. Um, the high priest on the Day of Atonement went into the tabernacle, right? He cleansed it. He went into the Holy of Holies We go we get to go into that holy of holies through the blood of Jesus, right? It says our prayers, right? We we go to that tabernacle In the Old Testament economy, the priest came out. Jesus hadn't come out yet, has he? He's gonna return. So he's in there, but he's gonna he's gonna rule and reign when he comes back. So just an interesting thought. Uh we're waiting for Christ to come out of the tabernacle And and as things are going we're can't wait. Yes. Um so I thought we were the tabernacles. We are. We are. So I just was wondering what you mean what you meant by that And can he add it as tabernacle since we are his captacle in the church? Right Right. We are. But um our king is now ruling on earth and he we're waiting for him to come back and rule. Yet even on earth, before we believe in a thousand-year reign, literal thousand-year, are that's our doctrine in this church We believe in a literal thousand-year reign on Earth. And think about it, the governmentalism. There's going to be nice, clear governmental rules. There'll be centers on earth as as the people populate, but there's gonna be a nice clear governmental role. Let me finish with this. Um uh Hebrews thirteen, ten through sixteen. It's a long longer Passage, but uh look, we have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat. For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin are burned outside the camp. Therefore, Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood Suffered outside the gate. So let us go out to him outside the camp bearing his reproach, for here we do not have a lasting city. But we are seeking the city which is to come. Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that give thanks to his name And do not neglect doing good and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is pleased. And that's kind of our marching orders, right? Let us share, let us um uh offer these gifts. Uh we're given a great light We can see how dark the world is. Pray for opportunities. God brings people into your life who comes. And you'd be surprised. You can still get people into spiritual conversations. It's it's i I don't think the the world is quite as divided as uh news media points them out to be. The confrontations we see with everything. A lot of times 101 people are more open. We have that light. We have the light to show them the way home This is definitely not our home. Uh people aren't considering they're not thinking. They're they're not considering the end. They're not considering what happens when they die. Nothing Uh we're just kind of focused on the here and now. So that's our prayer. It's our sacrifice. Uh God brings people into your lives. It's typically uh It's relational. Do it in a relational way. If they fight back, then there's not one got brought into your life to hear the gospel necessarily