This is a tough topic. This is a big topic. It just gets, you know, like one of those things you look at, it gets bigger and bigger Um you know, a couple of things. You know, this is a spiritual thing we're looking at. Um So keep that in mind. Um we're looking at concrete uh sacrifices and and uh symbolism, but they they point to something else, right? They they point to a spiritual aspect Um so this I thought the I'm gonna have to review part of what we did last week. We're gonna the notes are not as long, but we'll we're looking at some sc we'll look at some scripture passages. I'm sure it will take us some time. Uh so I'll start reading. Um uh would people just jump in. Um uh I don't know, read si whatever verses. Uh Um until you you know, in other words, when you see a paragraph break, that's a good stop. Now the Lord spoke to the two sons of um excuse me. Now the Lord spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, that uh when they approached the presence of the Lord and died. The Lord said to Moses, Tell your brother Aaron that he shall not enter at any time into the holy place inside the veil, before the mercy seat, which is the ark of the w uh excuse me. Which is the ark, or w or he will die. For I will appear in a cloud over the mercy seat. Aaron shall enter the holy place um with this, with a bull for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. He shall put on a holy tunic, and the linen undergarments shall be next to his body, and he shall be girded with the linen sash. and attired with the linen turban. These are holy garments. Then he shall bathe his body in water and put them on. He shall take the uh from the con the congregation of the sons of Israel two male goats for a sin offering and one for a uh uh w excuse me sin offering and one ram for a burnt offering. Then Aaron shall offer the bull for the sin offering which is for himself, that he may make atonement for himself and for his household. He shall take two goats and present them before the Lord at the doorway of the tent of meeting. Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats, one lot for the Lord, the other for the scapegoat. Then Aaron shall offer uh excuse me. Then Aaron shall offer the goat on which the life for the Lord fell and make it a sin offering. But the goat on which uh The lot for the scapegoat fell shall be uh presented alive before the Lord to make atonement upon it, to send it into the wilderness as a scapegoat. Somebody want to pick up in verse 11 Aaron shall present the bull as a sin offering for himself and shall make atonement for himself and for his house. He shall kill the bull as a sin offering for himself. He shall take a censer full of coals of fire from the altar before the Lord, and two handfuls of sweet incense beaten small, and he shall bring it inside the veil, and put the incense on the fire before the Lord. That the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is over the testimony, so that he does not die. And he shall take some of the blood of the foal and sprinkle it with his finger on the front of the mercy seat. on the east side and in front of the Mercy C T he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times. So then read read through nineteen. That's the next paragraph break. Right. Then he shall kill the goat of the sin offering that is for the people, and bring its blood inside the veil, and do with its blood as he did with the blood of the bull, sprinkling it over the mercy seat and in front of the mercy seat Thus he shall make atonement for the holy place, because of the uncleanness of the people of Israel, and because of their transgressions, all their sins. And so he shall not try that again. And so he shall do for the tent of meeting. Which dwells with them in the midst of their uncleanness. There's a verse for you. No one may be in the tent of meeting from the time he enters to make atonement in the holy place until he comes out and has made atonement for himself and for his house and for all the assembly of Israel. Then he shall go out to the altar that is before the Lord and make atonement for it, and shall take some of the blood of the bull and some of the blood of the goat, and put it on the horns of the altar all around. And he shall sprinkle some blue blood on it with his fingers seven times, and cleanse it, and consecrate it from the uncleanness of the people of Israel. Some of you pick up verse 20. When he finishes atoning for the holy place and the tenth of meeting and the altar, he shall offer the live goat. Then Aaron shall lay both of his hands on the head of the live goat. And confess over it all the iniquities of the sons of Israel and all of their transgressions in regard to all of their sins. And he shall lay them on the head of the goat and send it away into the wilderness by the hand of the man who stands in readiness And the goat shall bear on himself all their iniquities to a solitary land, and he shall release the goat in the wilderness. Then Aaron shall come into the tent of me and shall take off the linen garments that he put all in when he went into the holy place and shall leave them there. And he shall bathe his body in water, in a holy place, and put on his garments, and come out and alter his burnt offering, and the burnt offering of the people, and make atonement for himself and for the people. And the fat of the sin offering he shall burn on the altar. And he who and he who lets the goat go to Azebel shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterwards he may come into the camp. And the bull for the sin offering and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy place. shall be carried outside the camp. Their skin and their flesh and their guns shall be burned up with fire. And he who burns them shall wash his clothes clothes, and bathe his body in water. Afterward he may come And it shall be it a statute to you forever that in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict yourselves and shall do no work, neither to the native For the stranger who sojourns among you. For on this day shall atonement be made for you to cleanse you. You shall be clean before the Lord from all your sins It is a Sabbath, solemn rest for you, and you shall accept yourselves. It is a statute forever. And the priest who is anointed And consecrated as priest in his father's place, shall make atonement wearing the holy linen garments. He shall make atonement for the holy sanctuary, and he shall make atonement for the temple meeting. For the altar, he shall make a towit for the priests and for all the people of the center. And this shall be a statute forever for you. That atonement may be made for the people of Israel once every year because of all their sins. And Aaron did as the Lord command his sins. Thank you. Carl, yeah, I mean did you notice the thing some of the things that just jumped out of me? Cleanness and purities and you know You you saw that come up over and over again. Uh he talked about um You know, uh atonement. Atonement uh uh was a a word that we saw in there. Make atonement for him, to make atonement for him What I want to do is I want to because I know some of you weren't here last week, but even though of us that were here, just to kind of review some of these definitions. So we're gonna kind of this is the first part. We're gonna I'm gonna review it, kind of move through it qu quickly, and then we're gonna build on it. Um there's some Some deep aspects are that uh are really dis discerned from this. Um so anyway, uh first off the definition of uh Helesterion is a Greek word. Septuagint is a Greek for atonement. And that's why we're looking at this definition. So Helesterion, with the focus on the means by which the sins are forgiven, having atoning power Bringing about reconciliation. Now this is a thing that kind of hit on me this week that I learned. So what is reconciliation? What does that involve? We admit our faults and try to make it Right. Who with what? Whoever. With whoever. It's relationship This is the thing I I want to get. There's some big there's some we're gonna get into some weeds and some stuff, but I don't want you to to get too lost in the big picture The real reconciliation we're doing here is with who? God. God, right. But it's but i it is a relationship. Just keep that in mind. Sometimes you know Um I think we uh I do. Sometimes we make this also theological. It is a relationship. And we it just like we have relationships with each other This is a relationship obviously on a higher standard and a you know other than. But it's a relationship. So the similarities we see Right? If we harm each other's feelings here, just how much more God's okay? It is a relationship. God is a jealous God, right? He says, Look, I'm a jealous God. It's so I wanna I'm putting that in there now because uh when I get into some of the weeds with this, especially with this gate uh skate uh or as is L. I like uh uh Chester's translation. Some of the newer translations put that word in there 'cause it really isn't You know, scapegoat is, again, another one of those coined words. It's kind of like mercy seat. We'll look at that in a second. But anyway Bringing about reconciliation substantially to heli uh hellisterion Uh means um let me get my eyes focus here. It means forgiveness, right? Romans three twenty-five. Uh metonymy, you know, one thing for another, you know, like the throne could be the king, right? It's that's what he's talking about with metonym with a focus on the place where sins are forgiven by means of the blood from an atoning sacrifice placed there Place of forgiveness, place where God forgives sins, often translated mercy seat. And that's the point. Regardless of what this is, and and Um and I wrestle with this and uh it's not a huge issue, but it it it is somewhat that you know, sometimes my mind gets into the details. 'Cause th they'll often call this the throne of God, but I I'm not so sure Uh God calls it the throne of God. Um it's definitely where his presence is. He he's in the clouds, his presence is there. Uh does God make his throne there? I I I don't know if he ever defines it that that specific, but he his presence is there. What did you say is holy century? What's that? What do you say is holy century? I'm sorry. Yeah, anywhere God is is holy. It's holy ground, right? And uh remember when uh he first appeared to Moses in a burning bush, he says, Take your sandals off, this is holy ground Uh the same way and that's why m I want you to look at big pictures. Sometimes you look at such detail because I think we're trying to take something spiritual, something inanimate and make it concrete. So We can comprehend it. But okay, well we can't fully comprehend these concepts, so we have to make it bigger. Jesus said, the kingdom of God is amongst you. Why Remember when he showed up, he said, the kingdom of God. Repent for the kingdom of God Because the king is here. That's when the king is, that's that's where the kingdom of God is. Okay, so But yet he wasn't going to set up his kingdom during their first uh advent, was he, their first appearing, right? So I just want you to keep these kind of concepts broad, okay, uh uh what they're pointing to. Uh so this atoning sacrifice is pla it's a place where in the presence of God, because we're gonna look at that. This happened once a year, and I'll have it in my notes, but I want to repeat it up front. The real forgiveness of sins was this day But it had to be taken into the presence of God. Right? The other days all the other sacrifices were in the out maybe the outside of the altar, maybe sometimes they went into the holy place But they're in the holies of holies where the presence of God is once a year. And this is where all sins, we'll see that. It's in the text. All sins are forgiven Verse thirty. For it is on this day atonement shall be made for you to cleanse you. Cleansing, impurities, it's it's just all throughout here. You will be clean from all your sins, all your sins before the Lord. Cleansings. Remember, they they have uh uh defiled the sanctuary. The they're cleansing the sanctuaries first. Okay? Uh big picture again, right? Aaron goes in, he takes the blood of the bull, right? He's cleansing uh the sanctuary for the priest and for his family He takes the the next stage, he's going to take the goat in, right? The goats he's going to clean the the uh sanctuary for the people. Okay, because their sins Defile it. Okay? Again, we're talking about something that's not concrete. It's a concept. But it it before God, their sins are defiling I know we can't really just we can't fully comprehend it. It's a spiritual concept that he's relating to us. But that's what they're doing And then he's going to deal with the sins of the people themselves. Okay, so you you see what he's doing. First thing he's doing is purifying, he's cleansing the temple. We saw that with the other uh sacrifices when we went through those. Do I fully comprehend it? No, but this is what God's Word says. So and again, you see this in other scriptures. Those people have defiled the land. Right? Same concept. You know, uh when they went r into when they're gonna go conquer the land. We know that, right? So if you remember what he told um uh Abraham when when he made that covenant, he goes, their sin is not yet complete. Uh, this is in uh Genesis fifteen when he mak when he does the covenant. Four hundred and thirty years he gave 'em. Well they defiled that land for four hundred and thirty years with all the stuff that they're doing. Uh We are defiling the United States, are we not? But it's, you know, remember, God, God knew this. This was the plan. He knew people were gonna fall. And he also knew that this earth was only going to be temporary. Right? Second Peter uh three, three, uh sorry, chapter three Where he says he's gonna b he uh this uh the heavens and the earth are gonna be destroyed by fire. Well he must he knew uh God knew the beginning and the end. This whole system, this whole Time we're in now was always planned to be temporary. And I think we need to have that concept in mind. It helps me, like, don't hold on to this world. This is this is gonna be burned up. Right. And uh you know, we all know that, but every time I get a new layer, a new understanding, it's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like you're right, this is Well he's preparing a people for his kingdom. His kingdom is in eternity. It's not here. So concerning the mercy seat, uh Harris writes uh uh caparet, mercy seat. This noun is 27 times always referred to the golden cover the sacred chest in the inner shrine of the tabernacle or temple. It was from above the mercy seat that God promised to meet with men The word, however, is not related to mercy, and of course it is not a seat. The word is derived from the root to atone, kafar. We looked at that Okay, it's the same root word. It's it's Kabar. Um i it could be Kapar a lot of times when there's no Anyway, it can be pr this this second consonant can be pr pronounced either way. Uh make atonement, make reconciliation, purge. That that's the the meaning of kafar Um the the Greek equivalent, the Septuagint, is usually Helesteron. Okay, place or object of propitiation. A word which is applied to Christ in Romans 3. 25. The translation, mercy seat, does not sufficiently express the fact that the lid of the ark was the place where the blood was sprinkled on the Day of Atonement. Place of atonement would perhaps be more expressive. And that's uh Harris and in the theological words, the old theological word book. So in verses three to five, Moses told that Aaron should enter the holy place and preparation he must follow the coming of the presence of God. Aaron is to have a bull for purification and a ram for a burnt offering. He is to wash his whole body. We we read through that. It's just gonna kind of move you forward here. And ver in in in the section, and we talked about this last week, six through ten is kind of a uh preview of what he's gonna do. But if you I think um because in verse eleven he says, okay, then Aaron shall offer the bull okay, because then it's like, okay, now this is uh These are going to be the steps. But he gives us some information on the uh the two goats, right Uh one is gonna be uh kill uh and um uh blood and it's gonna be an o an offering, uh sacrifice to God. The other is gonna be alive, but if you look it's also gonna be for an atonement. Verse 10, but the goat on which the lot of the scapegoat fell presented a lie before the Lord to make atonement upon it. Well look at that. There there's gonna be oh I'm gonna read you an article uh from uh Kyle that's that's gonna describe this. But it both of these make atonement. Okay? So we need to keep that that kind of concept in in mind. Even the live goat. So, as a uh let's see. So Azazel, what we call scapegoat in in a lot of versions, right? It is described in the theological word book. The Old Testament is followed. The actual use of the meaning of this word in Leviticus 16 is at best uncertain. It's one of those words. I I d don't believe it's used outside of Leviticus. However, regardless of the uh precise meaning, the c the significant dimension is removal the sins of the nation by the imposition of them on the goat. The passage excuse me In this passage, sin seems to be uh hypos hypostatic. In other words Take something inanimate and make it animate, right? It's like placing the hands on the head of the goat, right? But Right what's transfers. It's spiritual, right? I mean Or that is a sin. You follow me? Again, you can see these concepts are are big. But they do express something, okay? And remember it's in relationship to God. This is the way He wants you to see. And it's and again, think about it. These people are their eyes are being open. They're getting this first revelation of atonement. The rest of the world does not know this. If we try and explain what Christ did and some of the things he did, right, without their eyes being open, they're not we know. They don't get it, right? It's a blank thing. It is a spiritual dimension. I mean, we see this all the time in the New Testament. I don't know why we should make it so I mean write uh uh John chapter 4, the woman at the well He goes, one day you're not going to be worshiping here at Mount Gerizim nor in Jerusalem. You're going to worship God in spirit and in truth. The truth is the revelation he gives us about it, but it is spirit. God is spirit, and he must be worshipped in spirit and truth. So again, let's uh it's a reality that we have to grapple with. No, there's no way we're going to fully comprehend this, just like some other so many other theological concepts. The Trinity A any so many aspects of God. We can see, because we're made in the image of God, aspects that we can comprehend, but we can't fully comprehend it, can we? No. We never will. Where we will were finite. So there's imposition, uh, it's place uh hypostatized or whatever, however it's pronounced, and therefore readily transferable to the goat. Indeed, verses twenty-one and twenty-two state that this goat is to bear away the sin of the people. Such a rich ritual would illustrate vividly a physical removal removal of defilement from the camp to a solitary place where it would no longer infest the nation. Now a parallel, we remember we looked at the uh ritual for the leper, right? A parallel of the scapegoat can be seen the ritual for a recovered leper. Two birds were selected. One was killed and both the leper and the living bird were to be touched with his blood. Then the living bird was released. This bird carried away the evil, the leprosy itself, into the open field, and then the leper was pronounced clean. Again, evil is a concept. I mean w we're tempted by the devil. Does the devil come down here physically? Spiritually, maybe, I don't know, but even even our temptation, is it not through a spiritual means? Is it not a communication? Does the does does the enemy put thoughts in her mind sometimes? I mean does God put thoughts in her minds? Does he? Does God talk to the unsaved? I believe so. Yes. Yeah. Roman Romans Romans. Right? Yeah. And uh it this is a concept, you know, a lot of times uh we uh this is one of the things we talk about to the men in in the jail and say, look, a lot of you guys don't know God, but he's been talking to you I say, you ever have your conscience kind of convictuous on this? Yeah. God puts that law inside our hearts. Excuse me. So, you know, it's okay not to fully comprehend this, but yet we can we can comprehend a concept or an aspect of it, right? It's in God's Word. Uh this is uh Brown Driver Briggs, uh their definition Azazel Entire removal of sin, of guilt from a sacred place into the desert, on the back of a goat, symbolically of entire forgiveness. In verse 16 we read, but the goat on which the lot fell for Azazel, chapter Presented a lie before the Lord to make atonement over it, that it may be sent away into the wilderness to Azazel. Okay, that's ESV Look at what ASV does. ASV is uh the uh original uh it's the American Standard Version, early I think it was nineteen oh one Predecessor New American Standard. This is the first translation. But the goat on which uh the light fell for Azazel shall be set aside before Jehovah to make atonement for him, to send him away for Azazel into the wilderness. So you can see one has a location, Azazel is a place. The other is um for Azazel. So Kyle takes a position that Azazel is a person when he writes. The words One life for Jehovah and one for Azazel require unconditionally that Azazel should be regarded as a personal being in opposition to Jehovah. So what he's saying is just that, one for Jehovah, one for Azazel. He's saying it's they're they're in opposition to each other. It's it's a personification We have not to think, however, of any hum uh of any uh demon whatever who seduces men to wickedness. in the form of an evil spirit as a fallen angel Azazel is representing as doing in the Jewish writings So, and this is what a lot of commentators will say, you know, they n they're aware of this. Uh in the Book of Enoch, which is the Apocrypha, non-biblical writings uh the this book of Enoch i is talking about Azazel is demon and you know uh that so uh but but uh Kyle says no But the devil himself, uh he looks at this as the father of lies, the the the God of this world, if you would. The spirit in Ephesians chapter 2, the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. He's talking about the enemy. Right? The the book of Eva is a Apocrypha? It's a it's apocrypha, extra biblical, they're not inspired Okay, these were Jewish writings. The Jews never recognized this as inspired writing. They never put it in their Bible. Um the Catholics kind of Jerome translated this and what I've been told, I don't know, I haven't verified it myself, but Jerome was reluctant to do this. And of course once he translated it, then what they did, they put it. There are there are some Bibles, the Oxfords um revised standard or whatever I think incl includes the Apocrypha in the Bible. Um that would be supposed to be Jubilee. Yeah, and there's some good stuff in there. Uh Maccabees has some good history in there. It talks about uh the time of Antigus Epiphanes and the the revolt. Yeah. It's not inspired, but you know, I mean we read uh uninspired stuff all the time. Just don't it's not the word of God. Uh it is by Jewish writers though, so who were influenced by the Word of God. So you s you know again. The the goat, the bearer of Israel's sins, was sent into the wilderness to be completely cut off, never to return. And we looked at this last time. I I don't want to spend the time because I don't think I have it. But Isaiah, right? I'll paraphrase it. We know Isaiah 53. He bore our sins. Right? Our transgressions. He took all that. Um it I don't Be careful about calling this a type. Jesus is a type of of scapegoat. But uh this is a picture though. Christ did bear those sins and and the at least it keeps this broad that scapegoat was spiritually uh a picture of that goat carrying away their sins. He bore their sins. They confessed their sins That's big, that's big, big, big. You know, when they went out to John the Baptist, the Pharisees, why you know, why y'all going out to John the Baptist? But if you look, the people that went out there, if you look in the uh descriptions of it, they were confessing their sins That's the beginning of re that's repentance, right? You gotta know you got a problem before you look for a savior, right? Because it's always that. You gotta be convicted They had they were confessing their sins uh uh on this g on this goat Um the pa powin and go Then we get into the details. I kind of gave you an overview. Think of, again, it is a stage, right? He goes into uh uh the tabernacle. He goes with the blood of the bull, right? That's for the priest. Okay? He he's gone in there, he goes into the Holy of Holies. It it looks like he comes back out, right? He slaughters the uh ram, and then he goes back in. Uh he takes the incense. We're going to look at that. I think that's that's important too. Um so uh as far as the incense, right, he takes the uh blah blah blah blah um Uh he in verse twelve, he shall take a fire pan full of coals of fire upon the altar before the Lord, two handfuls of finely ground sweet incense and bring it inside the veil Most of the modern commentators say this, that the uh the cloud covers the ark of incense to prevent the priest from seeing the glory of God Uh uh Kyle sees this as incense as symbolic of prayers. Prayers of the people. Because that that's what the incense, the altar of incense was that. You were taking the prayers of the people in and presenting them before God. Uh those of you are in Revelation, we saw that. The altar of incense, the prayers of the saints, and then he cast down the coals down on the earth, and it's judgment right, uh, to the earth. But it's the prayers of the saints, it's the prayers of the people. The prayers go up in in uh the incense to to God So he sees this as the Ark of the Covenant with a cloud of incense was symbolically covering the glory of God with the prayers of the people. This is to appease the Lord that the priest might be able to offer the blood of the bull before him. All the preparations are acts of humility and dependence before the Almighty God. The point is whether it it w regardless of whether it covered the glory so he could couldn't look on to the glory of the God I think ye I think the prayers, I think is an important aspect because it is that. Okay? Because really, what is God looking for? He's looking for the relationship again. If we don't believe, if we're not praying to him, if we're not really seeking him, this is all for naught, is it not? Did it save we'll we'll we'll hit it again. Did it save those people back in this economy, back in this time and space? Did it save them if they didn't really believe in all this? Yes, no, maybe so? I mean they can just do all this. Um I mean ceremonial love and everything. Just the rituals, do it just to do it. Um but we we really don't love God. They don't want good, they just want the blessings or yeah, they do so they don't have faith. Let's give 'em let's give 'em the benefit of the doubt here. I mean, uh It wasn't me who believed in God. God opened my heart and I'm going, oh, this is true. Right? I the faith was the gift from God. Um I mean, yeah, we do this all the time. I mean thought just came to my mind uh back in the back in the day when long before I was saved, we were with some friends of mine and uh w we we were living like the devil, okay, it was long before my salvation and uh uh one of 'em said um he took the Lord's name in vain, he goes, Ooh and he and he kinda apologized for that. My one brother who was Mm was with me, uh with us in this group. He laughed and he goes, You don't believe in God and he goes, Well, just in case So we kinda know there's a God, but we want to get it. Yeah, I mean, isn't that kind of what people could do back then Well, you know, he said to bring the sacrifice. I saw his glory come down. This guy is real, this God, whoever he is, I don't know who he is, but You know, I th I I'm gonna go ahead and bring that sacrifice just in case. Go ahead. There's people that really believe that what God said was true here. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah, okay. We and I s I and and I s I think I misspoke last week. Some b I think you were asking me was there were the uh faith uh Could they lose their salvation? I don't know. Was that the question you asked? I think I might have answered Yes, I believe their sal one somebody believes, because again, how did they believe in the Old Testament? God gave them the faith. It was a gift. Okay? Yeah, I believe they're eternally secure. The question that was in my mind, and this is one of these these theological and most people don't even address it in in uh theology books. I was talking with with Dave Doyle and and and was their was their salvation complete Because remember we saw in Romans, right? Uh uh Romans three talks about, you know, uh uh it's kind of uh layout there Exactly. So was their salvation complete? And some will argue it wasn't based on like uh What is it, Luke 16, where the rich man in Lazarus? Lazarus. The people were where? Where was where was Lazarus? He was in Sheol. Abraham's bosom, right? Uh this is the this is a sidebar, this is vague. But it's kinda like, well it wasn't complete because Christ is still alive at this time. When we Second Corinthians, right, to spark your mind. Absent from the body and what? Absolutely. Present with the Lord. So I mean I don't know. Well were they it w you know do were they waiting for c were they in Sheol kind of a holding place? Now Sheol, remember Lazarus was on the good side. Remember, uh the rich man said, Abraham, tell Lazarus, give you some water. I'm dying of thirst down here. And he goes there's a gulf between the two of us. So these uh their salvation, their I isn't it in Hebrew then Hebrews then I think that they were looking for the Old Testament states were looking for words for the cross and asking the testament were Right. Right. But they could have the assurance and the belief of God that things were for Lucifer. I think so. Because it says so here. Okay. Right. And and I look at I look at uh David, right, in Psalm fifty-one. He didn't say, Return the salvation to me. He says, Return the joy of my salvation. Well you know I mean and we can be the same way, we're saved, but look if if if you're sinning and you're convicted and some people are like you can start to doubt Because you're you're separated from God. And we talked more angry and brought this up because we're forgetful. We are. We have to be in the word. Daily. Really? We have to be praying to God daily. Mobile by mo I mean, you know how fast it is to get knocked off the path. We've all been there. Wow, we're how'd I end up over here? It happens quick and then, you know, God convicts us to give we're we're blessed. We get back on the path. I think also one of the issue is like we really don't uh discuss the The role of the Holy Spirit even uh during the Old Testament, even in this time, the Holy Spirit is the one is happy. Yeah, yeah. Sure. The spirit you know God is one. Uh you you you you look at it in the New Testament, you you see it all the time. You see it in Romans Um eight where he talks about um uh if I don't have uh if you anyone Let me get it right. I haven't I don't have I haven't used it so I I don't wanna Romans eight nine. However, you are not in the flesh. You're talking about the The Spirit, right? If we walk according to Spirit, we can fulfill the requirements of the law, verse 4. However, you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit. We think that's the Holy Spirit. Can you give by? You're in the spirit, if indeed the spirit of God. I think this is God the Father Dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, I think you got the Trinity there. He says it in John, right? Um, you know, uh you know, we my father and I will come and make our abode with you. Uh we have the Trinity, right? Uh yeah, I think the spirit is definitely the work. Remember Elijah and Moses were in the presence of God when he spoke to Jesus in the transit. Right Yeah. Alright, so I want to get through the that's really uh pretty much where I finish up and this is where we're gonna pick up. I I stopped there How are we doing on time? So really Ross and others stressed the purging of the tabernacle because of the sin of the people as they brought their sacrifices. uh to the burnt altar. Yeah, remember when they're bringing these sacrifices they're coming confessing their sins and and uh it seems like the the picture here is that they're polluting Uh the this polluted the whole of the tabernacle and this was the main emphasis on the Day of Atonement. Ross also stresses that the sins, excuse me, the people might also be dealt with As is the cause of the pollution of the tabernacle. So again, the Day of Atonement's used. He's he's cleansing the tabernacle, but he's also taking care of the the sins of the people, the source of the problem, right? uh our sins uh pollute this. Uh verse sixteen and uncertainty as to whether the altar of incense is sprinkled with blood as well as a place of atonement. If you notice in that passage You go back and reread it, there's no mention of the uh altar of incense. Okay? But uh Kyle thinks there is, and look, Exodus 30, I have the quote here for you And it it's in the context, so God didn't take out the whole context of it, but he's talking about the altar of incense when he says Aaron shall make atonement on his horns once a year with the blood of the sin offering of atonement. He shall make atonement for it uh um in the uh year Excuse me, for it once in uh the year, throughout the generations, it is most holy to the Lord. So it seems as though, just a small point And yet it really doesn't show up in this particular passage. I don't know why. And and we're not even sure, so uh I really want to get it's the the part of it when we go through with the functions, you can see what he's doing with the cleansing Hey, but I really want to get to something, um uh That that I found really helpful is that uh so after cleansing the ter uh tabernacle, this is in verses uh six twenty through twenty-two After cleansing the tabernacle, Aaron was to bring the live goat to the burnt altar and place both hands on the head of the animal, confess the sins of the people. A ram excuse me A man was to take the goat out of the wilderness and leave it there. The land to which the animal was to be taken is called This is the the description of it, the wilderness. It's uh uh Gezera. So BDB defines it this way, Brown Driver Briggs. Um unto a land of separation, of the goat for Azazel, a solitary land, cut off, from whence it could not readily find its way back Uh the two goats were identical as possible, and the live goat uh was not to be regarded as merely a sin bearer but as a sin offering, same as the goat sac uh the as the uh goat sacrificed for the burnt offering The goat was to expiate the sin of the people as a sacrifice. Goat was to expiate the sins of the people. In other words, the both of these are are are a cleansing, a taking away of the sin of the people. Uh the one is confessed over to. And this is where I picked up with Kyle Again, I want to see I want you to see this in re in kind of relationship as much as Like like Enoch had, like this goat is a personification of that one demon who who spreads evil to all the people. Once you see it as a concept, uh again, uh the really the concept is For us to know God, to be obedient to God, to come into relationship with God, to honor God. But the uh and we'll get into this if by a time, think of the other concept, the world. We have a relationship with the world. And that's what we need to see. And I think that's what the big picture is here with this with this goat. And I think this is what Kyle's going to point out. I want to tell you that So we don't look at this and try and make it like this is the devil and we're putting the thing on the devil and we're sending the devil out to the No Uh think of this as a concept. It's it's a relationship. It's uh uh who who are we being obedient to, who are we honoring? Uh Yeah, I'll talk a little bit more about that in a second, especially with the scriptures. By both excuse me. By both, and he's talking about both the goats. This is what Kyle writes. Israel was delivered from all sins and transgressions, but the one upon which the lot for the Jehovah fell It was so with regard to Jehovah, by the other upon which the lot for Azazel fell with regard to Azazel. With regard to Jehovah, or in relation to Jehovah, the sins were wiped away by the sacrifice of the goat. the sprinkling of the blood, setting forth their forgiveness, and the burning of the animal um and the burning of the animal, uh the blotting uh of them out. So in other words We we understand that, we see that. We sacrifice the one goat, they sprinkle the blood. We're familiar with it with that aspect of it. It's the scapegoat, the other goat. the Azazel that that we really is a different concept for us. The sprinkling of the blood, setting forth their forgiveness and the burning of the animal and the blotting them out. With this, the separation of the congregation from Jehovah because the sin was removed. Right? The living fellowship with God restored. But Israel had also been brought uh been brought by its sins into a distinct relationship to Azazel, the head of the evil spirits. And it was necessary that this should be brought to an end. If reconciliation with God was to be perfectly secured, this complete deliverance from sin and its author was symbolized by the leaning away the goat which had been laden with the sins into the desert. The goat was to take back the sins which God had forgiven to his congregation into the desert to Azazel, the father of all sin. On the other hand, as a proof that his evil influences upon men would be of no avail in the case of those who had received expiation from God And on the other hand, as a proof to the congregation also that those who were laden with sin could not remain in the kingdom of God. but would be banished to the abode of evil spirits unless they were redeemed there therefrom. So look at Couple of passages. Um uh Ephesians uh two, right? And I don't think, you know, we again We get much more revelation in the progressive side of it than they got Sorry, sorry, just real quick, are you supporting Kyle's contention that Azazel is a personality Is is a personality. Yes, in the sense that yeah, Kyle sees him as a head. Oh evil. Not as we're putting this on the scapegoat, not that we're putting this on Satan here physically and he's taking this away into the desert But yes, he who is the who is the uh well look at this, who is the author of evil? Uh We talked about this last week in Genesis when uh Cain sinned. He said, uh God told him, he goes, look, your countenance will be lifted up, you do what's right. If not Sin is crouching at the door and its desire is for you. We see it's personified. The problem is we can't quantify it totally. We we know that that uh the devil is is the uh the author of of sin. Uh that he uh Jesus tells him in John 8, he goes, you know, why don't you guys recognize this? He goes, because you are of your father the devil. And I and I again th that's why I said we need to look at this as concept. Because um We're looking at Satan as the author of of of evil I know. Trust me, I wrestle but this too. I'm just gonna make one here. Is God answering the question, who may dwell in the midst of me, who is a consuming fire? Right And and we are having our attention drawn to the extremity of our sin And the desperateness of our need to have a substitution, a sacrifice, an expiation, a propitiation, and it's only I mean fill in whatever word you want there. Right. Right. To confuse the issue with a third personality, I'll argue, is very dangerous. To have a holy God And I have a sinful heart. And Leviticus sixteen is creating a bridge where I could never do that. God in his grace is creating a means through a symbol of Christ for that to introduce a third personality in figure or in form is dangerous. I don't think Kyle is I think it's understanding it's not it's not. Kyle got it from Enoch. And Enoch is apocryphal and not inspired. He he actually said it's it's not if you look at that quote he says it's not as the Jewish writers said of Enoch. Because they they assume that Azazel is one of the demons. And these Kyle would say, well, this could be whatever. I don't think it I don't think it has still symbolic. in the c in the sense of you have Jehovah and you have in opposition to Jehovah some entity, whether it's the desire of the heart, whether it's whatever acting through the evil influences of the world, which Satan is defined as the prince of the powers of this world. Right. So this is just a personification in concept of whatever that is, and they're sending out the sins of the nation into that area too. So we're and when he when the picture of wilderness, he says wilderness, but the adjective that he uses with there is it's it's a totally desolate place. It's supposed to be like loneliness away from it's dead. There's nothing there to sustain life. Now oh can I say something? I mean all of this are just symbolic isn't it? All of this are just symbolic of what's to come, the good things to come which is furish So it's like I'm thinking of Romans three twenty-three where like this, like if you are saved like the way you suscit death and death you go to hell. But you know, the the give of God is eternal life. So so so what I'm seeing here is like like what you say here. Uh all those the Did not get saved to Christ, uh, sacrifice are going to hell. Like this one. But those you know, by God's grace were I wanna say elect or same are you know they have the grace of God and they are not going to hell. I mean I mean I was just trying to simplify what it what's written in This is style thing. Because these are just symbolism anyway. It's just symbolic of symbols, all these ceremonial laws are just shadows they have no substance because the true substance is in the Prophet Christ. So I don't so I you know I don't have any problem with this Well and here's the point I wanted to make in Ephesians. And you were dead in your trespasses and in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world according to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. And I think that's what Kyle is pointing to. This is the evil. This is uh there is a spirit. This is not the Holy Spirit he's talking about I think what you're saying is everybody, you know, when you're born you are transgressing your sinful, you are dead in your sins. Yeah So let me just read this and unfortunately we'll have to end we can we can we can pick this up and I don't want to again. Uh I think I think what it did did for me is showed that we have we have a relationship. With God. But when I'm when I'm worldly, though the yeah, it's it's it's my desires, my flesh, and and these are the things I'm tempted with. Well we cannot have any relationship with God if we are in sin. Oh hold on. But it but I I Here's the thing. It is a relationship. It's a relationship apart from God. God says I'm a jealous God. And uh I'll just read this. We we can kick this around next week. I'm not uh totally wedded to this, I mean don't get me wrong, but I see it as a concept of of of uh really two relationships. Uh James four, verse three Um he's talking about yeah you ask and do not receive because you asked with wrong motives. So that you spend uh your it on your pleasures. You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility towards God Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. I see that as two relationships. You're friends with the world. That's a relationship. Or you're friends or right? You're but you're a host you're you're an enemy to God when when we're when there's aspects of us that are like that. Or do you or do you not think that the scriptures speak to no purpose? He jealously desires the spirit which he has made to dwell in us. God is a jealous God. He wants all of us. And I line with this, but a and we can regroup and k kick this around next week. I didn't just do much in my heart. I just w I just wanna It's just because the relationship was broken with sin and there's really nothing we can do. God has to do the work so that there can be a relationship between man and God. It is him it is his work that will bring relationships back between man and son. I agree. And again, uh uh I if if he knew the man was gonna fall, if he knew that this world was temporary, if he knew all that, he places in an environment that he and he's he's informing these people there uh the state of this environment. We we we read through all that. Chow birth, foods. uh skin diseases. All this does not is not holy, can't go into the presence of God. He's informing them you are in a place That it's not healthy, is that it's not holy and Once you realize that, then you'll look for the solution is God. The only way we can get out of here is through God. And it's amazing. If we will examine our lives, and w we as Christians even do this. We don't take care of the things we can control. We try to control other people, and we don't recognize the thing that God has authority over Our situations may be bad, but this is a situation we're in. How do we respond to it? And if you look, those three things, we mess them up. It's a relationship. who we are and what and what we need. But most people we can't see this. God's opened our eyes to see this. He's also, I I believe he's opened in their eyes that there is uh I mean Adam and Eve were tempted. Who tempted them?