Well, we get the end. I can't do this, man. They have to remind me. So anyway, what do we get with this uncleanness? You know, it's it's again, what is it what how God is holy. He's so holy. So Louis so Lubitic plan is just a reference to all the ways you could be originally up to hold um it's uh yeah Yes. Yes. And yeah. We will look at that. So one of them writes uh Old Testament saints uh brought petition, they vowed to uh God with a peace offering. The Christian would make uh the communion service, uh rededication of his life to keep God's command. The bread and the wine remind us of uh You're good. Uh the bread and the wine, um, let's see, blah blah blah blah blah blah remind us of our salvation was purchased through Jesus Christ. We are sure a continued blessing. We look forward to our hope when he comes. Look at Titus. We've got time. Turn to Titus 2. Two pick it up in two eleven. I've been talking a lot. Somebody want to read 2. 11 through 14. The grace of God is appearing, bringing salvation for all people. Training us to renounce on godliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age, waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. And that's what he was remembering, that's what he was doing. Jesus Christ, we we've done it in a new level. That's what he did with Israel. Right? They were going to be a separate people. They were going to be a kingdom of priests, a holy nation Uh but you know look, I mean uh who gave himself, verse fourteen, for us to redeem us from every lawless deed, to purify for himself. A people for his own possession, zealous for good deeds. And and again, keep that in mind. Uh it's uh very s That's what he was doing with the old the Old Testament saint, yes. Um I don't know if this applies, but I am very conscious as believers and Bible believing people, we're almost callous about our sins. Oh yeah. Which the Lord forgive us You know, we were recently on a ship and they have a service on a Sunday and the pastor reads not the pastor, the captain of the ship reads the service and it's an Anglican service And as we were confessing our sins, I thought, yeah, Lord, we take we just are very casual about a s a small lie, uh being nasty to somebody and forgetting all sorts of things. And we just say, God forgive us. We're just callous. I know. And I think that if you had the sacrifice and were really believing in God and that little animal had to die for me because of my bad behavior I think we need a little more I don't want you to be Anglican, but a little more conscious of confessing sin and especially in the Bible believing community. I agree. We're very callous of it. I agree. Did that apply to your own. Absolutely. Well when I when I started this class I told everybody, I said um the reason you know I was really gonna do Hebrews and Rob said he wanted to do Hebrews and I was I kept looking at this and everybody's going, man, you need Leviticus is such a good book and I'm telling everybody that and I'm thinking, Leviticus? I said, you know when I read it is kind of like and that so I went back and I started doing it. I said, Well Rob, you do it. I know you You're you're a great teacher. You'll do a great job with with Hebrews. And people have already had Hebrews. I knew he'd be thorough. And I said, you know The reason I really wanted to do Leviticus when I started looking at this is I was thinking the very thing you were saying, I said It's that fear of God. It's been on my mind for a couple of years. I said, you know, I've lost the fear of God. I'm so blessed. I have so much grace. So feel so safe, so secure, that it become, like you're saying, callous. It's kind of like and I think I think when we get to the beam of seed or whatever, we're gonna be looking at this stuff and it's gonna be going well I knew number one If God is holy, if I'm going to approach him, if I'm going to be close, if I want to be really close, that's that's my motivation. I need to be holy. That's who he is. I can't be coming to him with with unconfessed sin. Yeah, I'm forgiven, I'm in heaven, but that's like you know how it is. Some people you look, you think, Wow, you've been a Christian how long? Seems like you're kinda still dealing with the same things. And I look at myself and say, okay, what am I stuck with? I mean, I want to get that closeness. That's my motivation. I yeah, I think I need I think like you said, I think we need to fear of the L well you didn't say this, but the callousness. The fear of the Lord. Which is really saying he is who he is. Do you really believe that? He is holy. He's not accepting this. He's not he's saying, yeah, I pay for this, but I'm not accepting it. I paid for it. And you're trampling under it almost like a what is it, Hebrews 10 where he goes, anybody tramples underneath the blood of Christ, right? But I think he's talking to unbelievers there, but sometimes we act like unbelievers, don't we? Contrast between the uh Old Testament Peter and the Lord's Supper and New Testament is the hailing in the blood The Old Testament law strictly prohibits the drinking of blood. The New Testament, though, look at the symbolism of the wine. We are commanded to drink the Lord Jesus' blood. The Old Testament life was in the blood, therefore uh God is uh God has given that life, right, and is not to be taken. New Testament light-getting, sin encouraging power of the blood is to be drunk by the believer. And to me None of them none of them did this, but to me, I talked about this earlier. Look at the progression. Christ was on the mountain back in Sinai. He comes down to the tabernacle. Um and then I talk about he's in the person of Christ. He's getting closer and closer. And then what happens when Christ dies? He ascends. We get Christ in us. Right? That's huge. We have the Holy Spirit. Christ, God is in it. Christ is in us. John 14. Right? Uh let's see where do I pick it up? Well number one, in verse 16, I will ask the Father, he will give you another helper. That he may be with you forever. That is the spirit of truth whom the world cannot receive because it does not see him or know him, but you know him because he abides with you And will be in you, right? The Spirit, that's what happened when Pentecost, the beginning of the church. The Spirit's in us, right? He Jesus answering, he says, look, the if anyone loves me, this is verse 23, John 14, anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him uh we will come to him and we will make our abode with him. We have the Holy Spirit inside of us, right? We have the Trinity inside of us. Romans 8 says that, right? If anybody doesn't have the Spirit of God, he's none of his. If anybody doesn't have the Spirit, he says in the first part of that verse. He's none of his. If nobody has the spirit of the Father, I assume is a God, God the Father, of what he just says God I think he's referring to God the Father. And then he says, if anybody didn't have the Spirit of Christ, says it right there in that verse. It's I think it's uh Romans 8 8 and 9. We have the Trinity. I see drinking the blood. I see Jesus as kind of pointing to that. Now none of the commentators pick up on that. I'm out on my own, but um I don't think that's too much of a stretch We do have Christ in us, don't we? We have the Spirit of God in us. It's one of the things. Look at f let's look at 1 Peter 2, and then we'll finish with that. First Peter 2, 4. And coming to him as a living stone which has been rejected by man, but is choice and precious in the sight of God, but you also as living stone Or being built up as a spiritual house, a holy priesthood. This is what you were saying. We're not we're taking that sin as cavalier. We're not acting like a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For this is contained in Scripture. Behold, I lay in Zion a choice stone, a precious cornerstone and he who believes in him will not be disappointed. Uh this uh this precious value then is for you who believe, but for those who disbelieve the stone which the builders rejected became the very cornerstone. And the stone is stumbling, a block of offen, excuse me, a rock of offense. For they stumble because they are disobedient to the word. uh and to and to this doom they were also appointed. But you also are a chosen race, royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light For you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. So, I mean you can see and he says what is Peter what does Peter say earlier uh in chapter one, Behold, he he quotes uh Leviticus, right? He says, um Be holy, for I am holy. Right? But like the holy one who called you, be holy yourselves also in all your behavior, because it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. So we see uh things, the holiness, the cleansing, you know, the defilement, those things um I hope we will look at. I know I have since doing this study. Any questions? Got a couple minutes. Any thoughts? Very one passage I was thinking about in terms of application. that where there's crossover of language is Ephesians 5, 22, where Paul says, Therefore, be imitators of God and beloved children and walk in love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a sacrifice of pleasing aroma. Pleasing aroma. And that's one of the uh that's the text they use for the burnt offering. The correlation between the burnt offering, because he gave himself as a sacrifice Uh yeah. Uh it went up Christ's you know spirit. Uh everything. It was his obedience to the Father. And again, uh That's what's so neat about, and this is what I find, you know, with that focusing on the humanity of Christ. Yes, he he was the God man, but still he was a hundred percent man, and a hundred percent man was obedient Even though he was sinless, even though, you know, I don't think we can make we kind of I maybe we. I used to kind of put that over to the side. Well, you know, it's Jesus, you know But it does, doesn't it? He demonstrated. 'Cause what's he saying over and over again, you know um walk in a manner uh according to the way he walked. Um you know uh we are being conformed to the image of of Christ uh in Romans eight Right? In that passage, um yeah. It's uh the that God would have a plan to do that that he would use a man as the vehicle to do I mean, wow. This is a the angels did get that, this is a gift beyond we just can't I it's huge. Gee. Well any other comments? Well I have one more question just um so in we cited Ross Alan Ross. You see it in the footnotes there. Yeah. Um but right here where it says that the sacrifices were all kind of like concurrent, like It was like the document won't talk for an offering. Yes. On Ph T kind of like the three. Mm-hmm. Did you When you read the book, did you get like a a graph of where she was pulling that from? Where does that come from? Like how do we know that? I'm not like challenging her. No, you and that's a positive that's the thing. We're getting That is the problem. We're getting that's why we said we're getting that first layer. You're gonna if you've noticed we saw in this a lot of references to uh Leviticus 7. The details are in there. Okay. And so it and that's the that's the the dilemma you have to weigh. Do you want to just try and do it all? But then they were trying to bring it all together and then memorize all that. I thought, now my way my thinking is, the way my learning is and And my retention is I need to do it in layers. This is this is what they're telling the people. And if you look They're really, if you just read through it, right, uh without uh thinking through with the the commentators help us unpack all this Okay, they brought a sheep. They laid maybe they laid the hand on the head, I get that, the blood, the set but other than that it's kinda like, yeah, just there's nothing to it. Sure. Um so yes, all that detail will come out in Leviticus. Right, and that's what they're doing, they're drawing from that. Yeah. And it is I would imag you know when we go through and it's all builds, mm, there's gonna be a lot of pieces to it. And you know We'll see if we're memory experts or not. You know, but uh remember they repeated this over and over and over again. So Thank you. Yeah All right, guys. Uh let's pray it out. Anyone will volunteer to pray for us for a service coming up? So I ain't pray for it. Then pray for Gabe