Okay. Uh boy, I have a lot of last week we did kind of an intro. We just did okay where Where we were. How did we get to Leviticus? We did a little purview of the Bible. Um uh and and really how God what is god how is God speaking? It's kind of that progressive thing. Uh I don't want to use the word dispensation, but it r uh uh scripture and and uh is it's r uh uh the revelation is progressive. I mean you have to see that. You just can't ignore it So let's start, let's just go real quick, we're going to go over a few things. Let's look at Exodus again. We're at Sinai, Exodus 19. This will be quick because we need to I need to get into this lesson. Uh Exodus nineteen Right there they've they've come out, they they're wandering around. Um they're they're now at the mount uh mountains uh in Sinai, uh Horab, I guess, and um Right? In verses 5 and 6. Now then, if you will indeed obey my voice, keep my covenant, then you shall be my own possession among the peoples of all the earth is mine. And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests, a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the sons of Israel. He's talking to Moses. But this is the this is the message. This is the theme right now, right? He's he's we've he's Gone from Abraham, he's gone from a family. They were a large family. They go down to Egypt. He's made them a nation, and now he's got a purpose for the nation, right? They're going to be a kingdom of priests And a holy nation. Well, you gotta be holy if you're gonna be a priest. You're a mediator, you're a represent they're gonna represent God to the to the ne the surrounding nation, to the world. So this is their mission The other thing I wanted to point out as is is that um let's read some of the verses um blah blah blah blah blah blah um So he uh somebody read um let's start in verse ten. Does somebody want to volunteer to read 10 through 15? Exodus 10, 19, 10 through 15. Good carry. The Lord said to Moses, Go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their garments and be ready for the third day. For on the third day the Lord will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people And you shall set limits for the people all around, saying, Take care not to go up into the mountain or touch the edge of it. Whoever touches the mountain shall be put to death. No hand shall touch him, but he shall be stoned or shot, whether beast or man, he shall not live. When the trumpet sounds a long blast, they shall come up to the mountain. So Moses went down from the mountain to the people and consecrated the people, and they washed their garments. And he said to the people, Be ready, for the third day, do not go near a woman. So uh uh the only thing I want to get is, you know, you uh I'm just gonna kind of paraphrase it because I'm assuming I'm talking to the choir here, most of you know the Bible The mountain's smoking, it's on fire, there's lightning. I mean, it's a fearful thing. These people are trembling. Don't go near the mountain, you're gonna die. Uh we have to remember that setting. Um we have to use our imagination to get into it. And especially when we get into the sacrifices. Uh we are so far removed, I am, from the literal sacrifice, from the messiness, the bloodiness, the reality of of this, and and the awesomeness of God. These people understood, remember now, when we when we get into uh Leviticus 1, which is where we're gonna go. I'm just gonna I'm not gonna spend any more time with with setting the um contact so to speak They get it. You don't approach a God as they uh they see it. I mean glory is in the the tabernacle Um blah blah blah. Maybe we should just read this. How about Exodus uh forty, chapter forty? Uh verse 34 through 38. Now remember, Moses is up on the mountain. They've already sinned. He's had to go back to the mound twice. He's getting he got all the instructions for how to build this tabernacle Right? And all the garments for the priests, everything's in order. The detail is there. It's huge. One more thing to consider just Exodus 20 through 23 is you'll see this come up in Exodus. They calls it the the uh book of the covenant Most uh scholars believe he's talking about uh what Moses wrote down, right? Exodus uh 20, Ten Commandments, and and then the the laws up to uh verse 23. Okay, there are all these uh different sundry laws and feasts and a couple other things. But that kind of the the you'll see the testimony of the book of the covenant. Um I most of them believe he's he's referring to that. So think about it. These things were being written down. They're being recorded. It's not word of mouth now. We're we're getting scripture. And the process is starting Um verse thirty-four to thirty-eight, volunteer for that. Exodus forty. Mm-hmm. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled on it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the sons of Israel was set out. But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out until the day when it was taken up For throughout all their journeys the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and there was fire in it by night in the sight of all the house of Israel. Again, remember that this is uh they're ac uh they saw something they didn't. They get that actual picture. We have another gift. We have the Holy Spirit indwelling in us. So it but they were getting a visible manifestation. God was present. So let's get into the notes. Leviticus 1. Then the Lord called to Moses and spoke to him from the tent of meeting, saying, Uh so the Lord called. This is unusual and he he does he does this in Leviticus too, he called. Typically what we see in the scriptures is uh uh He spoke or uh he says, right? He said to Moses, he's he spoke to Moses. But he called here And uh most of the commentators and uh uh this is not a the typical way to communicate. So uh it highlights the importance of what is about to be communicated to Moses God is no longer calling from the mountain. God is manifesting Himself and His glory for all Israel to see in the midst of the camp. And to me, look at this progression. Notice the progression over the ages. Uh uh God is moving closer to his people while providing uh The revelation too. It it's the progression of revelation we get. Think about what we have on this side of the cross, a hundred year of couple uh two thousand years of theology even beyond that cross to unpack all the uh and understand this. Uh remember what these people were seeing It was I used the word before, their their view was much more opaque. It was they were looking through uh foggy glasses, the it it you know, were they actually seeing Christ, you know, uh uh obviously not, or were they even seeing a Messiah as a substitute for them? These are kind of things I want you to uh toss around your mind as we look at this. So uh what I have in the notes here. The next phase, uh his presence would be in his son. Look at John 114, I've got it in your notes. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. Right? So now God is is manifesting Himself in a person. You know, look at the think of the progression of the closeness. Uh uh before uh you know, we'll well we'll see this in uh how they approached him in the tabernacle through through um The priests, etc. The progression continues, he lives inside of the children. For what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, just as God said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. The first part is huge. This is an Old Testament quote, but that phrase there will dwell in them. It's not, it was from uh I I think it's Exodus, um I'd have to look at it again. But to dwell in them. That's the closeness, isn't it? He's moving further. Now God we have Christ in us. That's such a huge theme. When you look at that in the scriptures and um in uh you know if you look at uh Ephesians 1, we're in Christ, in heavenly places It it's it's our relationship, it's data of a sphere, it's where we are, it's a movement uh The Old Testament, Jesus said to him in John 14, he goes, Look, you uh the world can't you're gonna I'm gonna send you another paraclete, uh another helper Right? One is going to come alongside. And you know him because he is with you. And he says, and future tense, he will be in you. And that's what Christ did for us when he ascended. He had to die. Uh and not until he ascended did the Holy Spirit come down, Acts chapter two, right? This is uh uh a new way, it's it's uh a new it's a progression. It's God is working differently throughout different periods. Why? We can and the more you look into this, the more questions you should probably have. Um it's okay. Uh I think learning a lot of times begins with questions. Why this? Why that Uh these are trails you can you can uh travel down. So uh it it kind of uh the progression continues and the uh inside of the children are w uh But it also uh the final state, Revelation uh 21. 3, and I heard a loud voice uh of the throne, saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and he will dwell among them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will be among them. So we're going to move from again from a God that we talk to through the Spirit, we're going to see another visible present manifestation. So speak uh I also have another one. Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, when any man of you brings an offering to the Lord you shall bring your offering of animals from the herd of the flock. This is verse 2. So really what this is pointing out is these were to be domestic animals, not wild Sacrifice would have a cost, right, to the one offering the sacrifice. The analogy can be pushed too far, but these animals were obedient to man and not uh carnivorous, meat-eating animals If the sacrifice is appointed to Christ as the burnt offering for man, then animal sacrifice should be representative as nature. Consider the obedience of Christ to the Father in his time on earth and the sacrifice pointing to the person of Christ. We see that right in John all the time Uh I come to do the Father's will. I don't come to do my own will. Uh w well, with that in mind, wild animals would wouldn't draw a similarity to Jesus Uh uh we should also consider the value of the animal in the Old Testament economy, the sacrifice uh for someone to uh burn the animal to ashes Uh we'll we'll consider that more as we we look at the uh the male and the uh unblemished animal. But think about it, this is this is huge. It's it's it's gonna cost you something That's what sacrifice does. So is the uh if the offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall offer it, male without defect, he shall offer it at the doorway of the town of meeting. that it may be accepted to the Lord. So the Hebrew word here, Olah, is defined as a whole burnt offering, beast or fowl. is entirely consumed, goes up in the flame of the altar to God, expressing the ascent of the soul in worship. All the victim is laid on the altar except the hide, and such parts as could not be washed clean. All essentially needs to ascend. That is a quote right from uh Brown Driver Briggs. That's that's a lengthy quote for them. This is a lexicon. Typically What you get from a lexicon is uh that which is sin. So it it just takes a literal word. Uh but look at the picture here It's uh that which is in. It's a separate let me go over this again. Expressing the ascent of the soul in worship The body is is uh totally burnt. It's ashes. But you know, it's the soul is is the essence is We're going to delve into this when we look at it at atonement in a minute. The burnt offering is a picture of what God sees in Christ. Paul writes in Ephesians 5. 2. Walk in love, just as Christ also loved us and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice. to God as a fragrant aroma. So this harks back to a burnt offering. Israelites burnt offering ultimate uh excuse me God is satisfied with Israel the Israelite's burnt offering and uh is and ultimately completely satisfied with Christ's offering. So here's the image, and how much this pointed to the people at that time, I'm not sure. But it points to an ultimate sacrifice. Because they had to give their sacrifice. We see this in Hebrews over and over again, daily. And this burnt offering, it it's uh It's kind of a general offering. You uh we'll we'll describe this at the end, but um uh because there is a sin offering. And this isn't really that. So I want you to think of the identification of this and and what uh what the people are doing when they when they offer this It's primarily they're laying down themselves and being totally open to God is what they're doing. It's kind of a dedication offering. Animals from the herd refer to cattle or larger animals, and a male among the cattle is the most valuable. These animals were to be without defect, the best of the herd. A man moves away from God. When as a man moves away from God, he no longer brings the best Uh if he breaks anything at all. Notice the behavior of the Israelites uh in this is after the return from captivity for sinning against God. So it's Malachi And of course Malachi, the people have already been, this is we're towards the uh the end of Old Testament history. Uh they The northern kingdom and the southern kingdom have both been carried off. The southern kingdom, Judah, Israel, they've gone to Babylon, right? They've come back, and this is what they're doing even after that. 70-year captivity. This is the heart of man. You know, without God, this is where we go. We can't just point to people, I can't believe they did that. You know, w without faith, this is what we do. Look at what they're doing. Uh Malachi one eight. Somebody want to read that verse right there? Yeah, go ahead. So verse A of Chapter One. Yeah, Malachi one eight. When you offer blind animals as sacrifice Is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor. Will he accept you or show favor? Says the Lord of hosts. You know, I I was praying that this morning and this is what I was thinking about. God is God is is relational, and he look at it, he's got a sense of humor. Would you give that to the governor Would you give it to a king? He'd probably have your head. But you give it to me, the God of the universe. And look, this is we have to recognize this. This is this is our nature without God Yeah? Yeah it it's faith, eh? So but this is what they did, and this is after this whole litany, all this history, all the prophets. They've been carried off in in captivity. It you know, it's to me it just r uh I'm preaching now, but it just you know how you try and make it logical to somebody about the faith in God. How can you not believe in God God opened our eyes. I just have to keep reminding myself. If God didn't open my eyes, all the logic in the world wasn't going to get there. It's a miracle, isn't it? It's amazing. The offering is to be a male from the herd of the flock. This is the most valuable among the animals, having no defects. I thought I had thought about this. Laura and I are uh we love uh uh a T V series, uh BB it's uh all creatures great and small. And there's one scene in there where there uh they had uh the one family had a uh uh a bull and they they were of course the bull goes out and is there would take it to other farmers, they would be paid for the the bull. So think about this. There in this this economy Somebody's bringing a male bowl and he's gonna slaughter this and it's the blemish, it's the pick of the litter, and you're gonna you're just gonna slaughter it That's the sacrifice, you know, think about it. We I we're we're so I'm so far from an a agrarian economy, I have no idea with with a lot of these motifs. But you know, again, try and immerse yourself when you're uh s looking at this. Y God gives us that imagination. Picture kind of what it would be like to do maybe put yourself in the place when when they're offering these sacrifices So the animals that be without blemish this speaks of the perfections of Christ. Knowing that you were redeemed with pair uh not with Let me try that again. Knowing that you were not redeemed with perishable things like silver or gold from your fetal way of life, inherited from your forefathers. But with precious blood, as a lamb, unblemished, and spotless, the blood of Christ Unblemished. This is what it's pointing to. All these were like word pictures. And that's part of the theology that you have to get into when we look at Leviticus. And there in under theology, call it like types, typology. Types. What of these events was a type of Christ? And we have to be careful because we can make everything a type. It can go um uh afar. It can g we can make Uh even some godly man have taken some things. Um the hinges on the the door where some people would make a type and they would talk about the hinges on the door. We we can go uh a little bit overboard with all this stuff But what picture was God demonstrating to these people? Okay? What is this pointing to? What was the type? Unblemished. Had to be a perfect lamb So he shall lay on Leviticus 1 4, he shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering that it may be accepted for him to make atonement on his behalf. So the symbolic act of the worshipper laying his hand on the head, the animal, was a recognition of the offer that his sin deserved death. And the animal was taking his place. It was a substitution for him. The word lay in Hebrew is samak And if it doesn't mean just to touch or it means to really like lean, to just kind of lean or rest on something, uh, even support So the idea is more than just a touch, it would is the Hebrew would have seen it as a dependence or a transfer or an I to identify with this animal Right? Uh the spiritual implication is the worshiper identifies the innocent victim and a transfer of guilt of the i of the innocent to the guilty, right? And vice versa. between the animal and the worshipper. So again, it's to identify this lamb, this bull, whatever. This bird for the poor. Uh i you know, it's alive. This is this living thing. And this is gonna take their we're gonna kill it. We're gonna sacrifice it. This is why. Why is something innocent, right? The next phrase that it may be accepted for him to make atonement in on his behalf. Do you have that section on your notes? Yes. Hopefully you have it all because this is the section I wanna I want to spend time on and I've I've I have a long quote uh of taking it from a theological words uh of the old testament because i w what atonement is an English word What word were they using? Okay, this is what we have to do. We have to define our our terms. Uh and this is a big Some well this is a big I'm gonna uh separate because uh a lot of people call this uh uh to cover. So we'll let's get into this The make atonement and make rec reconciliation purge. The root of this should probably just be distinguished from Kapar uh uh to smear with pitch. Uh Kapar, ransom gift, uh secure favor The other one is kapur, used as a plural kapurum, atonement used especially in the expression of Day of Atonement. So the root kapar is used 150 times. It has been much discussed. There is an equivalent Arabic root meaning to cover or conceal. On the strength of this connection, it has been supposed that the Hebrew word means to cover over sin, thus to pure uh to pacify the deity making an atonement. And this is what Brown driver Briggs had, and you'll see a lot of old commentators, even some of the new ones still put this as a covering for sin. So it has been suggested that the Old Testament ritual symbolized the covering over a sin until it was dealt with, in fact, by the atonement of Christ. There is, however, very little evidence for this in view. The connection of the Arabic word is weak and the Hebrew root is not used to mean cover. The Hebrew verb is never used in the simple or cow stem But only the derived intensive stems. Hebrew, like Greek, is an inflective language. They take the same word and they can have it in different uh forms. And that's what he's talking about here. And so yes, it gets complicated, and that's what makes a lot of these uh uh languages so difficult, but This is what the cow is is just it's really if you look up a word it's going to be in the cow uh in in a Hebrew dictionary. But then there's these other tenses and they have different meanings. So these intensive, right? Uh but it's only derived in intensive stems These intensive stems often indicate not emphasis, but merely that the verb is derived from a noun whose meaning is more basic to the root. Kapur ransom, every Israelite was to give to the service of the sanctuary the ransom money, a half a shekel. I don't know if you have tell me when you run out of this. Huh? Oh we're out. We're out. Are you? Yes, sir. I love it. I don't know why it only well anyway. I think we have all the odd pages. Great. Egypt and God's site was given a ransom and and uh hopefully Jeff's giving the other pages so you can look at this Egypt in God's sight was given as a ransom for the restoration of Israel. The word ransom is parallel to the word redeem. There is a warning that a man a warning that a man guilty of murder must be killed. No ransom can be given in exchange for his life. Oh here we are. The word is also used in a bad sense to bribe, wrongly purchasing. So from the meaning of kapur, ransom The meaning kapar can be better understood. It means to atone by an offering, substitute. And that's what I want us to see Please look at this and if you take nothing away from all this, see it as a substitute. So, um you see the word there substitute embolden? Page four. Okay. The great majority of the uses concern a priestly ritual, sprinkling of the sacrifice of blood, thus making atonement for the worshiper. There are 49 instances of this usage in Leviticus alone, and no other meaning is their witness. The verb is always used in connection with removal of sin or defilement, except and it gives Genesis 20, Proverbs. 16, Isaiah 28, where the related meaning of a peace by a gift may be offered. It seems clear that this word aptly illustrates the theology of reconciliation in the Old Testament. The life of the sacrificial animal specifically symbolized by its blood was required in exchange for the life of the worshiper. That's it? That The life of the sacrificial animal specifically symbolized by its blood was required in exchange for the life of the worshipper. Sacrifice to the animals in the Old Testament theology was m was not merely an expression of thanks to the deity by a cattle raising people. It was a symbolic expression of the innocent life given for the guilty life. This symbolism is further clarified by the action of the worshiper and placing his hands on the head of the sacrifice and confessing his sins over the animal, which was then killed and sent out as a scapegoat Wenham, another commentator, and this was all, you see the footnote for that. This is from theological words of the Old Testament. Uh ha uh uh Harris, uh Gleason Archer, Bruce Walkie were the primarily uh the uh editors of it. They had a lot of contributors of this. It's it's uh good resource. Uh Wenham, Gordon Wenham uh follows the same defining atonement when he says Christ's sacrifice on the cross was proclaimed by Jesus, excuse me. When he said, The Son of Man came to give his life a ransom for many. He further says that Paul spoke of this in Ephesians 5 2. This is a huge verse. I'll repeat this several times. And walk in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God, a fragrant aroma. Peter also mentions that, knowing that you were redeemed with uh not not redeemed with perishable things like silver or gold from your futile way of life inherited from your forefathers, but with the precious blood as of a lamb, unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ. So again, the burnt offering in the Old Testament was a substitute. And that's what that's what these people were saying. Something had to take your place. And it it that's what Christ did. That's what it was pointing to For the believer who pointed to, let's see, uh the burnt offering in the Old Testament was a substitute for the believer who Pointed to the full and final sacrifice of Christ. Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. 1 Corinthians 15, 3 Lindsay views the word for atonement as a cleansing of sin. Lindsay says atonement or reconciliation in the Old Testament involved not only cleansing or expiation. but also propitiation for satisfying God's wrath against a sinner. Lindsay sums up Through the offen though the offense had been uh had to be exp let me try that again Though the offense had to be expiated, more significantly the sacrifice was required because of the personal relationship between God and man. and had uh God and man had been disrupted. So expiation had the effect of making propitiation, turning away divine wrath by satisfactory substitutionary sacrifice. That's a mouthful, isn't it? Expiation, it's it's cleansing. Propitiation is satisfaction, right? God is satisfied. He's a pleasing aroma. He accepts it. He has he put a provision. You know we think of Leviticus and and really from Exodus 19 and up to Deuteronomy, Numbers, we're looking at all this law, aren't we? It looks like God is like, man, if you do anything, God's gonna right? And he does. He's what he's telling us is, I am holy, I am gonna judge sin. Don't let the This is the characterism. Don't mess with me. It's true. Don't go out there And but yet he's got he's w what do we got with all the sacrifices? What do the sacrifices represent I I'd like to get uh this is I last I want to get you guys involved. What is the sacrifice? What is it in the big terms? What do you think it is So. What? It's it's forcing it. What are the sacrifices? Why is why did he provide the sacrifices? Is there's a reminder of sin and like a foreshadowing of the final sacrifice, kind of like discussed in Hebrews ten. Yeah Any others? It's grace. It's a permission. It's grace. He goes, you're gonna sin. This is the way out. They're not bringing it 'cause they're holy. It it I was one that really I was I I had more of a negative turn on the Old Testament. God, there is grace there. He just it's a lot of times we just don't I didn't think it through. It's all grace. You're what what is the wages of sin? Yeah. Here's a way out. I'm gonna give you all these sacrifices. God is graceful. And we forget that. We think of but in the Old Testament, this is but the one of the reasons I really wanted to do Leviticus was because and I've been on this theme for a while, is that I don't know about you guys, but I am I'm blessed. I feel comfortable. I feel confident. I know I'm going to heaven. But it's I so what I what I what I find myself doing is I negate the holiness of God and also that fear of God. I need I that's part of it. I need that fear of God. And well I talked about this in the chapel with the kids just the other day. What is the fear of God? Yeah. Oh recent knowledge of this. Yeah, what else? Love and obedience. Yeah. First and apprehension of his glory. Yeah. And and terror in a way. He is the God who holds all of our life, our existence in his hand. And that's Kind of where I forget. And when I when I get comfortable, when I get on that mountaintop and God's blessed me, I gotta be careful because I got it, right? And it's so hard for me and and I think it's hard for all of us is to be reminded, uh, you know, this is I need if I'm gonna I I'm on that mountaintop because I'm kinda walking in the spirit and that's what I need to continue to do. It's it's a dependence on him. And uh these people see this front and center. They see the the glory, they gotta bring this sacrifice. They are approaching this visible God who's lighting up and they know he's one. Don't touch his mountain or you're gonna die. And we forget that. We are so I am so I I do. This is why this I'm preaching to myself. This is why I really wanted to do this, because I said, you know, I've now I've been on this scene for a while. I need the fear of the Lord. It's hard. God's good. He's blessed blessed us me amazingly. So that's enough for the preaching. How does the person receive redemption in the Old Testament? Uh the book of Hebrews says, For the law, since it has o uh since it has only a shadow of the good things to come and not the very form of things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually, year by year, make perfect those who draw near And then verse 4, same thing. Hebrews 10, 4. For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Romans 3, 25, 26, right? God gives the answer. Whom God displayed uh publicly as I wonder if we should read this in a little more context. I'm gonna read this. Maybe we should look at Romans three. This this really brought up some questions in my mind. Um We should probably start. Somebody want to uh read uh starting in verse Uh twenty-one Romans three twenty-one, three through uh twenty-six But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been revealed, attested by the law and the prophets. The righteousness of God is through faith in Jesus Christ who are interviewed since there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God They are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. God presented him as an atoning sacrifice in his blood received through the through faith to demonstrate his righteousness because in his restraint God passed over the sins previously committed God presented him to illustrate his righteousness at the present time so that he would be righteous and declare righteousness. And declare righteousness the one who has faith in Jesus. Mm-hmm. And that's the thing. I have this uh uh what I have here is to use an illustration, Old Testament Saint Saints were saved on credit. New Testament saints are saved on debit. That's uh Dave Doyle holism. Where Dave got it from. Sounds like him done there But it is true, right? Uh the the New Testament saints are saved on the on debt. So Old Testament saints were saved on the future work of Christ, right? That's the credit, right? Known by God from the foundation world. New Testament saints were saved on the finished work of Christ, Christ's death, resurrection, and ascension. Right? So and and you know I I toss this around. Um and uh I was talking with Dave about this. I'm I'm going, okay Dave, uh you're the theologian. Um Were they totally saved? Um They w they weren't passed over and 'cause they said, you know, somebody you've heard this before, ha have you not? They were covered, sins were covered. I know you've heard that. Y'all have done any study at all. Right? Yes. Shake heads, go like this, no, I don't know what you're talking about. I don't say I don't God doesn't cover over sins and that always bothered me, which is what sent me on that trail to begin with. And the c the main commentators, um Ross, I looked at Alan Ross, uh Lindsay and Bible Knowledge Commentary, Wenham and uh New International Commentary Uh all of them agree that the the cover is is uh archaic. It's it's I think what they've done is they've they've found out um you know, as uh I don't know through literature or or d archaeology, I don't know how they discovered it But the the etymology of the root and that's what happens with Old Uh Testament Hebrew. You don't have a lot of sources to compare it to. In Greek, they'll compare it to classical literature and they'll go, okay, that's how you define a word. How people use it It's not a technical thing. Uh and etymology, especially in Greek, I had a Greek professor who that just put him on his edge. You never define a word by etymology, you define it by how people use it So you you that's what they go back and and see how did the classics use it? How did uh and and unfortunately with Hebrew you didn't have that, so the the and words were borrow borrowed from different languages Um but what got me on this was uh Hebrews nine Uh you don't have to turn there, but I'm going to read from Hebrews nine thirteen. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of heifer sprinkling uh those who have been defiled sanctify for the cleansing of the flesh. How much more will the blood of Christ, through the eternal Spirit, offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works. There's the difference. I, you know, and I I this is my theology. Um I could be wrong with this, but he says cleanse in both of these verses. These people's flesh was cleansed. Now think about it. I thought about this. Did everybody approach God and went into that tabernacle? Do you think they were saved in Old Testament times? I know. Do you? We know some of them, right? We know a little bit later I'm going to read this book, two guys who thought they'd play around with some fire and God said, okay, I'll show you Uh I I don't think they were. But I think their flesh was cleansed. The the difference between the New Testament is all of us that are saints We cleanse our conscience. It's our hearts, right? It's a change. The other thing I always want to point out We are told we're not talking in in in the church age we're t where saints are made up of what? Individuals We have a universal church which is all the believers. This was a nation. This is different. God's not working in a nation now, is he? In the church age, he's working an individual believer. We come together in a in assemblies in a church, but we're not a nation, are we? It's a different economy, and we have to see it that way. I think that stumbles a lot of people. How were people in the Old Testament saved? Exactly. And we lose that. We we get into the sacrifice. Was that going to save them? We have these rituals, but what are those rituals and we'll look at that? What are those rituals? It's they're pointing to something. But they're not really, it's not like, oh, let me ask you this. If if the If the if the uh executioners, and that's what they were, the the Romans weren't just random people, the guys that were at the cross. They were executioners. They were trained in this. If they took Jesus down, if they got some of their blood if some of Jesus' blood on his hands, would they be saved? No. We laugh, but see we we convolute and think this. Sometimes we make too much of these sacrifices. It's always pointing towards the heart, right? What did David say in Psalm fifty-one? 5051. 50, 51? What do you say? He goes and he sinned, right? If we don't know it, we should read it. Right? He sinned because I was conceived in sin, oh my mother. Brought forth in the scent when my mother did conceive. Dale, thank you. He's got it. And 16, for you do not delight in sacrifice. Otherwise, I would give it. You are not pleased with burnt offering. Why? The sacrifice of God or a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. It's always been by faith. And so that puts me on a plank. I mean, I guess predestination was in the Old Testament, wasn't it? Well the these people had faith. think about uh a good a good part of Israel uh and 'cause I hear people say this all the time. Well what about Israel, you know We almost get the the going to the assumption, oh, these people were all godly people, they were all saved. No. Hebrews three So i I'm not going to read you the whole thing, but he he's talking about, you know, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts, as they did in the day of the wilderness. They tried me, they tested me Right? Then they they grumbled, right? He says, Look, they were not able to enter the land. And um Let's see, 318. And to whom did he swear that he would they would not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient So we see they were not able to enter because of unbelief. It's always belief. All those miracles passing through the Red Sea It it doesn't matter. It doesn't you know, you can't it has to be by faith Let's see what I got left. I got a few. So Any questions, any thoughts? I've got some theologians in here. Anything on on atonement? Any comments? Look at Chester grinning. Chess Chester's been immersed in uh if you don't know Chester, you want to tell 'em how much You wanna tell him how much days made you rain? Um Well I do have a question though. Yeah. So we've gone through sacrifices. I would rain my sacrifice. My sins are transferred to the animal that I bring. And the priest sacrifices it. But my heart's not right. Mm-hmm. Was the purpose of that? Well, again it's always uh it's obedience to God and and he's uh you know, you look at throughout the Old Testament, he says, I'm gonna test you But he allowed her to approach him. And this is where I this is where I'll be honest with you, I'm not going there, but I see in Hebrews their flesh was cleansed. He allowed he didn't kill them. He allowed them. He allowed the high priest to go into the Holy of Holies. Okay, where The holy of holies is only holy for one reason because God said, I'm going to manifest my glory here. Right? I'm going to choose to do that. Do you allow them to go in there? So it did seem to have cleanse the flesh. This is down by pay grade. I can't take any further than that. Well and that's why I say it almost takes me to ask more questions Oh go ahead. No, the reason for me asking is because I'm kind of merging the two thoughts that you were kind of peeling the layers back on, which is as a nation A nation is taught to bring sacrifices, and this is how you please the Lord as a nation by bringing your sacrifices, and this is how I want you to sacrifice, because it's symbolic of what's to come. It's symbolic, but it is not it is not the the end or the means in in which you become saved. So I'm doing it's for the nation because if you don't have the means yet, those means will come in the future. Yet and still, even if you go through the ritual of bringing the sacrifice If you yourself aren't desiring to do anything but be culturally right or or be in line with what the laws are, you're just going for a ritual. So I'm I I think I'm just what you're saying. Exactly. And and that's why I say so now put that back together. We read Malachi one eight When you go through a ritual, what do you end up doing? You end up with Malachi 1A. You start bringing the lame and all that, yeah, you how this is costly. I don't get it. This ain't working for me And the other what else has God shown them by all these manifestations? For the blood. I don't even know if I got time to get into that Um I think we will. Oh I definitely want to read this verse because it this verse explains it itself right in the description of the book. What was he trying to show these people, even if they weren't believers? If all this precision, everything had to be so. We didn't read the details how all the details are it they get repeated. It was all in Exodus how the priest, the garments. Remember he uh who we're talking with? We talk about uh the Holy Spirit coming on them to make the garments and the the fashion and to make the uh instruments Everything had to be done. The the tabernacle, everything. What is that showing these people? What is it showing them about God? What? Orderly. Orderly Holiness. Holiness. He's separate. Think of it, yeah. We say holy, maybe we just put it in it's separate or separate. Sanctification. Saints, we are separated. That's what the word essentially means. Hagias, hagiasmas. Holiness. You're separate. And he's making the peculiar people separate from the world. The world is is totally different. I mean all this stuff is going to make them stick out if they can abide by this They're going to be a light, an example to the nations around them. The nations already know they were scared to death of them, right? The nations know what's going on God has made this manifestation uh you know Rahab the harlot. He said, man, our people are scared to death of you guys. We heard what God's doing for you. They knew And they were supposed to be a nation to be an example. This is what holiness is. We are, that I harped on this last week if you were in here, mediators Right? We are mediators. We're an example. We are reflecting. We're ambassadors for Christ. They were ambassadors for God. That rambling. Did I get did we get to where you were going? Yeah, it's I I think the the points that you're making is kind of like the what's the overall meta-narrative or the story that is the Start on the thread that goes throughout scripture where you're taking Hebrews primarily and Romans primarily and saying, well, how do I see that connection in the New Testament believer? What's God saying to the Old Testament nation of Israel and how are we seeing that drawn through scripture completely? And so that's that was just a piece of that I was trying to connect as you asked that question of Okay, well the nation obeys God as a nation. They burn their bulls, they bring their offerings, they bring their sacrifice, but all three aren't aren't really doing this because your heart is for God. So what does that mean and how does God kind of work through that that you can literally be obedient in actual action, but disobedient in your heart. And what does that even mean for a New Testament believer? I can bring a bull, God, I brought the bull, I sacrificed it. But I just kind of deal with it. See that kind that's kind of my point is that some people think I I've talked to people, well what about Israel and and and I think they're they're combining this like Wasn't that sacrifice? No. Christ died on the cross. If you don't believe, you don't have faith. You don't believe. It's a gift from God. I say the Old Testament is a gift from God We have the thing in the New Testament. What is the what is a it's it's Abraham? Abraham believed Genesis 15, 6, right Abraham believed God and was reckoned to him as righteousness. It's imputed. Reckoned, reconciled, it's a it's uh it's considered, right? That's what they were doing supposedly when they put their hand on the that animal. They were reconciling, they were identifying with that. But you can only do it through faith. No. And that's why Paul says the law was a tutor. It was to bring me to God. The law, God was saying, I am God, don't I am holy. And it Don't his heart goes, Hey, I am not. Now you're going somewhere. But he's but oh yeah I got the I did everything right. I got the pull you know, yeah you're in trouble. It's the same throughout history. And Why did God do it? I mean, there's the question. We, you know, there's certain things we don't know. But God had that plan. We have to see the progression though. Why did why did God wait a minute, what do you mean we don't know? We don't know what. Well in other words, we there's certain aspects of all of God's plan that is okay well why There's certain questions we could be asking. Why are more safe? Why why did they he knew they were going to be disobedient People say, well, what about uh that he let uh uh sin go on until we hate Noah? Why did he do that? Why didn't well you know The skeptic goes, oh man, well, uh he didn't know. It's almost like he didn't know, no right It's it's the aware of God's sovereignty and our free will to the thing that we've wrestled with It seems to be both though, right? Have I lost you? That there was like supposed to be a heart posture in this situation because it's like in Isaiah 113 he says bring your worthless offering to me no more so then it's like if there's no I would think in Isaiah to nine yeah So if there's no worth in it unless you're doing it out of like a heart of love and I don't know at all. Did they understand that the actual act was purely symbolic or is the act purely symbolic? I think it's I I and this is why I I keep going back to this. I think it's just like salvation today Wait, yeah. Einstein said a hundred years ago there's a God. People and he he didn't believe in it. But he said from science, I mean if I'm either a liar or I'm telling the truth, I said, I can't deny it. I don't like it. And he said this much. But there is a guy because he what he recognized was Time, faith, and matter at a beginning. There was nothing. Okay? It's just like faith today. You cannot unless God I'll finish with this. This is the best, this is my Um predestination thing, it says it in a verse. Um Acts sixteen. A woman named Lydia from the city of Thyratar, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshipper of God, was listening to the Lord, and he opened her heart to respond to the things. Spoken by Paul. The Lord opened her heart. Lord opened the heart. He opened the heart in the New Testament, I'm assuming he opens the heart in the Old Testament, are you? And if your heart's not open, you're not gonna hear you c we give ourselves way too much credit. That's a good point. Well we take on too little responsibility to do that. Yes. And that's why this drove me to this thing, because I'm thinking, I gotta admit I need to fear God. God is a reality. And Again, I with the abundance of grace I have, I mean, life is good for me. I'm not in a land of persecution or anything else. I know I'm going to heaven. He's blo I mean, you know what I'm say I But I tell you, I said this the first week. I'm doing this because I know that I want to get closer to God and that you have to come This is this ritual and everything else is not a throwaway. He's telling you, I am holy, I am separate from you Humble yourself, empty yourself, that's how you come to me. That's the hard thing for me to do