Uh welcome everybody. Let's uh start with some prayer Uh we got a couple things to get through. We'll see what we what we do. Um nine we just started, um so we we need to cover that. Heavenly Father, we lift up this time to you. Lord, we thank you so much for the blessing of your word. Lord, we thank you for Again, uh just opening our eyes to understand and to hear and to believe. Uh Lord, uh so much uh uh we take for granted. I take for granted, Lord. Uh we're talking in prayer, we were praying this morning. Um about uh you blessing us Lord, but Lord, you do bless us, Lord. And I asked uh for myself and uh Frothers, Lord, that that uh we would hear that small voice, that um we would uh listen. Uh oftentimes it takes me to stop and listen The world, my flesh, whatever, the devil. Um I'm hearing those voices loud and clear, Lord, but I need to stop and listen to you to to take the time to uh have that energy or that uh intentionality of uh asking for your wisdom, your grace. Uh Lord. So that's My prayer that we would do that now as we look at your word. Lord, the more I look at this, you want us to meditate on your word. Uh oftentimes w we uh even as I'm studying this, um uh there are issues in here we're like, well, exactly what does that mean? Exactly what and Lord you you don't necessarily give it to us right there. Uh if we meditate on it, if we go through the whole word of God as we look at the context, Lord, oftentimes It is revealed, Lord. So I just pray that we would take that time to read and reread and to think through this. It's in your name we pray. Amen. Um a lot of this uh I don't know about you but in a lot of this uh Leviticus uh I uh The very thing I was praying about. There's some things you're like, well Lord, couldn't you just explain that exactly what was this? And you know, uh I was talking with Spencer yesterday. We were we were running some errands. We were in the car together. And it it just seems like God kind of does that sometimes. Uh and and I'll flush this out as w especially as we we look at um chapter ten. Uh either, you know, if we if we open it up today it'll just be an overview. We'll get into it next week. But um You know, there there are questions there p specifically what happened? What did he do? Uh and I think I've always thought I learn more by asking good questions of the text than I do by saying, what does it mean? What does it mean? Because God could have told us, right? This could have been Laura, could have said, and this is what this means. But he didn't. But in a way he did. And it just seems like it's I think it's his way of drawing us drawing me in to meditate, to really go in the word. And when I do that uh it's I need a dependence on him. I I need the Holy Spirit. I need insight uh and I need to test my uh thoughts. Uh that's why it's good to go to commentaries and other things. So I might have a thought and I go, okay, let's see what uh other people think. Am I out there on my own and everybody else is going, no, I don't see that. Then maybe I better check with him. But it's to meditate on his words. We started yeah. So we I we started nine, but we we really didn't get through a lot of it. In this chapter I'm not gonna spend a lot of time. If you look at it and you've read it, I hope uh it's a recapitulation a lot about Okay, chapter 8. We had the priests. Um they were sanctified, right? God set them apart in chapter 8. He he took Aaron, his sons Okay? They went through the initiation to be sanctified as priest. And we'll really see that in in some of these later chapters. Well uh uh particularly chapter 10. Because um there's something there's there's just a point where they are a symbol but yet God even says in in in chapter ten that the priests sanctify the people and their atonement for the people. We'll have to look at that and say, what in the world is that? Uh is it just symbolically, but in the same way, God, this is the way God instituted all these things. So in chapter nine, we move from the sanctification. Now they're moving into the first actual public Sacrifices, they're ministering, they're the mediators between God and the people, and it's the institution of it Think about it as this, and I think I I write this out, but when did the church begin? What was the first when did the church when was it originally inaugurated? When did the church Pentecost. Right? And it was dramatic, right? I mean the the fulf uh fulfillment Christ had or already done uh the atonement and everything else. He ascended. The Holy Spirit came down. That was the institution of the church. It was the day one This is the institution. Think about this. This is their institution for the law, for the sacrifices, for the the the priesthood. So Uh we you know sometimes when you just look in the commentaries they're they're kind of technical and they're trying to bring out some of the the uh the differences and some of the nuances, the meanings of words and things, but you kind of lose the big picture. This is day one for the law. This is day one for the priest. Um So it's it's uh an important thing. Uh this is uh uh when I look at his outline, this is okay. This is uh I this is uh Wanham's outline So, you know, Moses commands Aaron, the congregation, to bring sacrifices, the congregation obeys. Moses commands Aaron to make atonement. Aaron obeys. Uh and then he's got a category here by offerings and sacrifices for himself and then offerings for the people. Uh fire comes down. And this was The promise from the get-go. So before we get into this, why don't we just read, let's start with reading uh Leviticus 9, 1 through 4. Volunteer anybody? Nine one for four? He does. One the eighth day. Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel, and he said to Aaron, Take for yourself a bull calf for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. both without blemish, and offer them before the Lord. And say to the people of Israel, Take a male goat for a sin offering, and a calf, and a lamb, both a year old without blemish, for a burnt offering. And an ox and a ram for a peace offer for peace offerings to sacrifice before the Lord, and a grain offering mixed with oil, for today the Lord will appear to you And there's uh again, we get this redundancy and think about this. Remember these just these people were practicing this redundancy. This They weren't going through it at the speed we were. They they on the uh uh it came about on the eighth day. Um I don't know if you know you probably heard I've heard Pastor Lee say it, but there's this thing in Hebrew, they call it a wa consecutive. And what it is is like and and now and this. And if you look at the the uh especially the first five books Each of the books usually starts with a law consecutive. It's like, and now this is what happened. It's it's a continuation, it's a narrative The this is the eight eighth day. Remember they've just been consecrated. They were in the sanctuary for seven days. They've been going through all these they're they're being sanctified. They're they're going through the sacrifices the initial day and then for seven more days. And now they come out and they're doing it all over again. Uh and I just want us to get that that picture, okay? Um Just think about uh uh what what they were doing, uh what was the context for them. But here's the thing Uh uh at the end of verse four, right? For today the Lord will appear to you. That's the promise. And it's gonna be kind of like You know, that's what we're going to flesh out, but it's kind of like the day of Pentecost, right? Why did they come down in tongues of fire and everything else? They had to make it a visible manifestation for what was actually taking place God is is going to do this. This is a promise. God is going to appear to you today. All right. So Aaron and his sons have just uh uh finished seven days of being consecrated as a priest. Now they begin their duties on the eighth day by sacrificing. This back here. There we go. Sacrificing for the sins of the priests and the sins of the people. It is noted that the elders are called as the representatives for the people. The commands come from Moses, who is a prophetic mediator between God and man. Again, Well you gotta think of this logistics. Uh um and I've talked about this several times, what congregation meant. And the commentators is there's Assembly and the Old Testament and congregation are kind of used in interchangeably, but this seems to be oftentimes the elder representatives. And it might have even included clan leaders. Uh 'cause you know that's what it I'm probably stretching the point, but Elders is is put in here. It's actually modified that. So we know that it's the the elders of at least the tribes, right? The twelve tribes Aaron and the people are obedient to the commands of God and follow his instructions on how to approach him. God calls his covenant people to come and appear before him in an act of obedient worship. The hope is a fulf excuse me, the fulfillment of the promise of the manifestation of his glory. Okay, the the the the That's what they're looking forward to. The people were commanded to bring their sacrifices to the tabernacle in order to be in the presence of God. We've gone through that before and all the rules. Now they're actually going to practice it. Remember in those first seven chapters we were really getting the commands or uh uh the commands for what would the lay people were responsible for, what they could and couldn't do And then we went to the priests what they could and couldn't do in all these sacrifices. We went to the consecration. Now we're actually doing carrying out the the uh sacrifices. The priests offer sacrifices for themselves first Then the sacrifices for the people. Read out of Hebrews, Hebrews 7. 25. For it was fitting for us to have such a high priest, holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinner, and exalted above the heavens. who does not need daily, like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins, then for the sins of the people, because this he did once for all when he offered up himself. Think of the difference. Remember? Look at how many sac they're just getting this instituted. How many sacrifices are they alre already doing? And this is, you know daily almost. It's you know your sin. We our our sin is cleansed, right, from uh confession. First John, uh You know, 1 John chapter 1. We confess our sins. The blood of Jesus cleanses us from all unrighteousness. Well, that's what they were doing with these sacrifices. They didn't have this This is made all the more dramatic because Aaron and his sons had just finished one week of consecration to the Lord and still offered sacrifices for themselves before offering sacrifices for the people. So the people approach God on the basis of a blood atonement. We've seen that before. This is a, again. Aaron now begins the ritual of public sacrifices for the nation by offering purification offering and a burnt offering for himself and then for the people. Several commentators note that Aaron offers a calf. So we see the imagery of his sin making a golden calf. He also offers a ram, which may allude to Abraham offering a ram in the place of Isaac. Aaron shows to the people that he and all need cleansing from sin, particularly when approaching God. Again, it's just kind of a glaring thing. Uh you can't make too much of this, but it it does seem uh uh coincidental, shall we say, that he's offering a cat and a rail or or a goat, uh y you know, uh which is uh you know, kind of a lose to those both those scenes. So Aaron then makes purification offering for the people. This offering was for cleansing the sanctuary because the uncleanness of the people due to sin. And remember, again, this is a we've talked about this. Okay, the first thing you do is you cleanse. You you you which enables you to approach God You haven't even this comes prior to to atonement. Next Aaron offers a burnt offering to make atonement for the sin, so that uh it was a pleasing aroma of the of their substitute would be accepted before God. Then the meal offering was presented on behalf confirmed Confirming their dedication to the sovereign King, the Lord Savior. Finally, the peace offering symbolizing the peace and fellowship of their Creator. So let's let's uh so Aaron offered all these sacrifices except the reparation sacrifice. These offerings were on behalf of the whole nation. The purpose of these sacrifices was to atone for the general sinfulness of the nation. To dedicate the whole nation to the worship of the Lord and to pray for God's blessing on his people. That's Ross quoted. The order of the sacrifice has significance as well. The purification offering was for the cleansing of the sanctuary of sin so that people may approach the Holy God. Next, the burnt offering made atonement for the sins, allowing God to accept the substitute for the penalty of their trespasses. Once accepted by God, the meal offering was an expression of their dedication to their Lord. The combination of these offerings is the peace offering where the worshipper rejoices in the peace of fellowship. in a communal meal with his Lord. And w again, I I I uh it's so important, I think, all these sacrifices, and we point to Christ uh Remember, he's done all these things for us. We just say Christ uh is our my Redeemer, Christ is my Savior Um but all these sacrifices point to uh what he did to bring us close to God. Uh we had to be purified Um, you know, it says uh you know, different things. A lot of it's funny. Uh John three, right, you must be born of the water and the spirit. And there's some question as to what the w that water is Oftentimes people say you're washed by the water, it's the word of God. But I really think it's Old Testament cleansing. Uh um It's it's really debated. You you look at the commentaries, most of them look at the word, but there there is division there. What exactly is he talking about by the must be born of the water and and the spirit? Seems is a good uh uh argument that he's hearkening back to this cleansing. You've got to be cleansed. God cleanses you and allows you to bring it's that first stage uh the spirit, um yeah. G God's atonement Think about I thought about this. We we talk about atonement. Atonement And in uh Hebrew, essentially the word there kafar means substitute. So think about this. Atonement It's our substitute. Something innocent died for us. It points towards that. Then there's that $5 word, propitiation. It's appeasement. God accepts that substitute. If he doesn't accept a substitute, right, it it's it's all for not But then I see that as a top line thing. That's atonement. And then you have the results. Then you get redemption. Then you get justification as a result of God accepting that substitute, that atoning Then substitute death, somebody dying in our place. You get uh justification, redemption Sanctification, forgiveness. These are the results of the atonement. And then you can almost do another line to how do we access that? By grace through fate. So God and this is a real debate and Gabe and I talked about this and I uh I am not so sure about uh the uh limited atonement. I mean and I s I know the arguments for it. Forget that. Let's not go down that path. Let's not go down that path. But here's the thing. Um God paid for all of this, but it's not like there is this uh, shall I say Propitiation. You know, it says uh uh God, uh Jesus is the propitiation, is our propitiation in 1 John chapter 2. And not for ours only, but also for the whole world It's not like that propitiation or that atonement is in the atonement box and somebody could come up and accidentally open the atonement box, right? Jesus Christ Himself is it's in Christ. The only way you're going to get in Christ is by grace through faith. There's no way to access God any other way. Never mind limited Thomas. Take that through that. Out of your mind. Sorry I even introduced it. But regardless It's by grace, and those are a gift from God. So again, that atonement is so critical. It's a substitute. He took our place. We we just can't uh and somebody could even uh you know could do a better job unpacking that than me or yeah, uh they certainly do. The point is you just can't W it don't gr I don't want to glide by this myself and I and we shouldn't either. It's huge You can we can't think about it enough. It's it's just it it's the beginning and and end of everything. And these animals, God on this economy was allowing these animals To take the place. But again, for it to really be applicable, what did the person who brought the sacrifice have to have? What agreement He brought the sacrifice, but how he does it makes a difference. What was that what are the ingredients that he needs The indiv faith the individual's gotta believe it. And again That animal isn't just like that a token box for him either. It can't say, well I bought the animal, I'm good. You know, I paid my money here through. You know, you can't it's it's You can't separate it. And and I point that out because this is so uh material, mechanical, so literal, but it's not It it's not the all those things that that make it work. Remember God is is if that sacrifice is acceptable it's because God accepted it, not because the priest did or not you know And it's hard it's I I I hope I'm not rambling, but it to me you you it's you w you r I really have to make my mind look beyond this. Oh I haven't done. I hope that has some uh I hope I didn't uh send you astray, but I hope I had some uh uh light to it. Uh blah blah blah The order of sacrifice is significant. We just went through that. And and again, this communal meal, we're going to look at that in um We're going to see the significance of that in uh chapter ten, verse seventeen. Alright, so the people have access to God only through their mediator, the high priest. That's the other thing that these people are being introduced to. Right? And we don't have access to God through that mediator, right? Our high priest. So this was pointing to this. Well again, uh what the people recognize, what they look forward to, we don't know And and I think also would have to do a lot of it was with their faith, right? Their eyes had to be open and they had to actually believe this Aaron offered all the required sacrifices and raised his hand and blessed the people of God. Aaron came down from the altar I guess we should read a little of this so we get the context and I'm not just um Why don't we pick it up an eight? Um, bab babum. Well let's read through it. I'll start reading you and you guys can pick up. So Aaron came near to the altar, slaughtered the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself. Aaron's son presented the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood, and summoned the horns of the altar, and he poured out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar The fat in the kidneys, the loaf, the liver, the offering. Then he offered up the smoke on the altar, just as the Lord had commanded Moses. The flesh and the skin, however, he burned with fire outside the camp. So that is the burnt offering, right? Um then he slaughtered the oh no, excuse me, that's a sin offering. Then he slaughtered the offering of uh Aaron's son, handed him the blood, and sprinkled it around the altar. They handed the burn offering to him in pieces of the head and he offered them up and smoke on the altar. He also washed the anchors, the legs, and offered them up and smoke on the altar. Somebody want to pick up in fifteen. Then he presented the people's offering and took the goat of the sin offering that was for the people and killed it and off offered it as a sin offering like the first one. And he presented the burnt offering and offered it according to the rule. And he presented the grain offering, took a handful of it, and burned it on the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning. Then he killed the ox and the ram to sacrifice the peace offerings for the people. And Aaron's sons handed him the blood, and he threw it against the sides of the altar. But the fat pieces of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers the entrails, and the kidneys and the long lobe of the liver, they put the fat pieces on the breast And he burned the fat pieces on the altar, but the breast and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave offering before the Lord, as Moses commanded Then Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people and blessed them, and he came down from the offer from the sin offering. and the burnt offering and the peace offering. And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and when they came out, they blessed the people, and the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people And fire came out from before the Lord and consumed the burnt offering and the pieces of stats on the altar, and when all the people saw it, they shouted and fell on their faces. Thank you. Okay, so you can see the you know and one of the things that uh impressed me, I don't know we have you've meditated on this, but um The the order, the ritual, the uh the conciseness, the the the uh guiding uh of all this Um you know, I th and I'm just thinking out loud here, but to me, you know, if nothing else, it seems like they y it's kind of a discipline, isn't it? You know? Uh it y'all make it too theological or anything else, but it it's just kind of a discipline. It's a it's a it's a different way of life. It's a it's an ordered way of life, it's a structured life Uh uh I think that's part of of God's training in all these these uh uh Again, only too make too much of it. But it's almost like spiritual discipline, some of the things we do. It doesn't necessarily make us holy, but it it does help us uh uh order our minds and and and If we allow it to to focus on on God and His structure and and not so much uh uh the world, the randomness But really, what our focus is here is not so much on all this this little detail, but then Aaron, verse 22, lifted up his hands towards the people and blessed them Again, that that's a big thing, right? The Aaron, it's not Moses now. We got Aaron doing it. God's showing them, okay, I've consecrated this. Aaron's there. I mean Moses is there. He's blessing this. The people are seeing. Okay, Aaron is now Th this is someone to be th this he is authority, he is in charge, he's got um it there's weight to him, uh however you want to put it. He stepped down to the altar to make sin offering and a burnt offering and a peace offering. Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting. When they came out, they blessed the people. So let me read you some of this. Aaron offered the required sacrifices, raised his hand, and blessed the people of God. Aaron came. uh came down from the altar. Then he and Moses entered into the holy place, the sanctuary. Moses and Aaron prayed for the people. And the promise, God manifesting his glory to the nation. These events were instructional for Aaron and the people. The high priest was the mediator who was to take the blood of the sacrifice into the holy place to complete the process and its intercessory work. There was no other way for the people to gain access to God except through his mediator, the high priest. If the people want a blessing from God, they must go through the mediator appointed by God. Again, it points to us. It's Christ. Christ is the way. God sent his mediator. for us to to access him. Uh uh te um and there's just no other way. There's no other gospel really. Um Moses and Aaron came out of the holy place, they blessed the people and the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people. Several of the commentators uh think that the blessing in numbers six twenty four through twenty six or something similar was given. Several of them see, I don't know, you know, it's funny, somebody s Sometimes when you it's interesting when you read commentators and the and especially when you can look at a l large range of them. Um Uh I missed the seminary library for that, just because like sometimes on a certain s a certain passage you want to see what a number of different people say. And a lot of times what you can see is Somebody said it first and everybody seems to go, Yeah, I like that. And they all use it in their commentary. You know, and we talked about that a lot when we were in school. It's like, you know uh who takes from who. It goes and you know a lot of the professors says, look, we all take them from each other, but um So anyway, the Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine on you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance on you and give you peace. Um uh this was in numbers six uh uh chapter six and I think if you look at the the context it's is why uh they think that this was if this wasn't uh uh given that that uh prayer similar to it was. Um uh it's just that you know it it's a prayer that they use to bless the people. And its priesthood, the people's faith, and God's presence assured his manifestation. So God's glory shone around the tabernacle Fire came out from before the Lord. It consumed the offering on the altar. Think about it. This is this is a vivid display. That might be too s too too small too uh uh simple of a word, but the vis vivid display of God's presence and approval that all that had been done on the part of the people and the ministry of Aaron and his sons. Remember uh or and we'll see this really in chapter ten. The connection that the people feel with the priests and the connection that they they were capable of identifying with, with their sacrifices And we remember we talked about that, that meal offering. Remember the part that the priest kept was the most holy thing, and the priest ate it Um this is I d uh uh uh and this is identification that uh a connection between the lay people and the priesthood Because remember, Aaron comes out and offers sacrifices for his sins first and then for the peoples. And again, that's another thing. These are just, they're men. And uh yeah, separated, God separated them, but I the people have to be able to identify with this. If not, you know, it's a Um bla bla bla bla. The people shouted for joy. Let's see, uh the people shouted for joy, fell on their faces. God wants worship that includes uh passion and zeal. In John 4 24 People will worship in spirit and in truth. We are to worship with our inner being moved by the realization of all that God has accomplished for the believer. And again, you do that. Um I do that, or capable of doing that when I when I'm in the Word and uh God kinda brings to my mind all that He's done and and brings to s you know, my my memory uh uh maybe a new understanding of of what he's done for me. And and again, just as uh understanding what we know um yeah it's huge. I take it for granted a lot of times, but then you know certain events will happen that can kinda wake me up to it. Um maybe I'll talk about some of that later God had shown his glory in a cloud during the day and fire at night as the nation left Egypt, right? So it wasn't like they were familiar with his glory. Moses uh uh had seen the back of God's glory as he passed by, right? And he says, right, remember that, show me your glory When the tabernacle was completed, God's glory filled the tabernacle. Moses wasn't able to enter. It's in the last verses of Exodus. Now God's glory was revealed to the people as a sign of his presence with them. His glory demonstrated his acceptance of the lay people who approached God through the offerings required of them God not only demonstrated his holiness and power in this service, he also revealed his mercy and loving kindness to those who obeyed and offered true worship. Carrie? Yes. Uh going back to the statement they shouted and fell on their faces. I guess I've always taken that as they shouted out of fear. and fell on their faces because they were freaked out. Actually the uh Lenham and and Ross they seem to take this as joy. It's like yes uh Again, if they identified with this, uh I believe had they seen it the way in in the light that God wanted them to see it It was he accepted this. He burned it up. He it was like when uh Elijah was on a mountain and fire came down Uh uh you know the people realize, oh yeah, God's in control o of this, not these They have to be so clear if they make it. Well then that's what they fell on their faces. It's both. Yeah. But I think isn't that the fear of the Lord? Yeah. When we say we fear the Lord, I'm not trembling But I there is an aspect of me that I better take him seriously, right? Because he is the Lord. But there's also a a fear, a fear is can also be uh an awe. Right? Oh, an inspiring thing. It's like But they're not a joyful people. Joy doesn't come to this group, all they do is complain And so I'm not I'm like us. Okay. So the natural the natural response is not joy Do you know what I'm saying? Yeah, but see, and then this is where they agree here. No, I agree, and this is where we get into yeah, this is this is what I was introducing at the be at the beginning. Because God doesn't God doesn't say right there they shouted, they shouted in joy, they shouted in fear And this is this is kinda what I'm saying, this is how we kind of meditate on this. I I think uh I think I think it's both. Okay. But it it doesn't mean I'm right, and it doesn't mean that even though I read Ross and Wenham and uh only mean don't Exactly. Yes. It also depends maybe on what translation you're looking at. You see NIV has it shouted uh shouted for joy. And then I think the ESV and uh KJV just have it as shouted. See, that well, I I think that they added joy there. Um so for what it's worth the uh the Hebrew word uh seems to have a uh nuance of joy exaltation So distress as well. Well then it's that's a problem. That's a problem. It's like the word uh you know they it it it's uh according to context, right? I don't know if there's a if you've ever heard the roller coaster you have been excited and afraid of that problem all at the same time. Right. And it's all coming out of you in one big yell and you're not sitting there to explain. It's just a response to the whole entire experience. I think uh So ASV has um they shouted tone of faces, ESV follows that, they shouted tone of faces. King James, they shouted, fell on her faces. Uh I don't think I have in the NIV up. But Curious you put if you put verse 23 With verse twenty-four. I know that was a novel idea. But Moses and Aaron went into the tent tentative meeting and when they came out they blessed the people and the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people. And fire came down from before the Lord. It consumed it. There's a lot to take in from the people of God there. And so when you get to an expression of what they're seeing, could there be all? And exciting and rejoicing. Absolutely. All of those things can be coming out. But I don't I I don't think there's just one Singular expression. Yes. Which is why I believe they didn't say one singular expression in that context. There is a shouting of and falling on their faces. There's a Right. There's a worship of God from fear. I mean you don't fall in when you're facing excitement, per se. Right. But you can shout for joy. So I think all those things are Just expressing what they're seeing and and responding to the Lord in that way. And the glory of the Lord will come to you. You know, so that it was an anticipation. Finally after all these things it happened. So I agree, I think it's been everything, you know Yeah. They didn't know what to do. And and think about it, he does give us both. He says they sh they shouted And they fell on their faces. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, you it's like you're saying, it wasn't just one emotion. Yeah. So I don't think having been blessed that I cowering fever. So it's it's yeah, it's all of that. happening all over 'cause it it's a little different from when Moses went up to God in the mountain, right? And then God spoke, you know, through, you know, spoke and the people heard and they were afraid because of the disobedient. They were uh it was a little different at that point Well if we and remember though, what was this and this is so important, this is what we've what were the steps that they took for this to happen And as Laura was saying, God blessed it, God did appear, God his glory show uh showed up uh and then he consumed it. So um it was an acceptance. But they had participated in that acceptance. That's the key. And that's what God wants. God doesn't want just priests, he doesn't want just pastors, he wants the pastors that he does, right? This is what's so frustrated with pastors We're sheep. He wants to lead us in a in a godly way, but um so we gotta participate. We gotta bring our sacrifices, we've got to bring the offerings, we've got to do the obedience Um just because the the uh Moses and Aaron, the priest prayed for it, uh doesn't mean that people are gonna respond in obedience, right? That's what God wants. He wants a a holy nation. And what? With the church. First Peter, he says the same thing. We're a kingdom of priests, a holy nation. And how uh Samuel talks to uh Saul in the first uh first Samuel chapter fifteen after he makes uh uh a sacrifice and things and and he was out of orders and he says um that obedience is better than sacrifice. Right. Which is seguezes into chapter ten, right? Um let me just go over a couple of these things. Um And this is just some things to think through. I just looked at uh some of their ideas on on um how does this relate to us, right? Um John, right there in his introduction, right? And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. We saw his glory. Glory is the only begotten of the from the Father, full of grace and truth. Um and I know you've probably heard this if you you guys are uh preaching to the choir, you probably heard twelve, I probably heard some pastor tell you, it w it literally means tent or tabernacle So God uh right the word dwelt literally means center tabernacle. John says we saw his glory, these words hearken back to the glory of the Lord appearing in a tabernacle. Jews during the time of John would have had uh right a uh appreciation for a fuller meaning of the statement by John. Uh uh w w we're not tabernacle oriented, we're not old law oriented. John, the other New Testament writers revealed the Messiah had come and manifest his glory among the people. Jesus the Messiah is to be the center of worship forever. So, yeah, God, the tabernacle is Christ Really? We're in, right? Christ is the head. We're in the body. The body is uh believers. We were all baptized into one body Um maybe that's carrying it too far, but uh yeah. Christ uh now because You saw what happened to the tabernacle, he let it exist for what, forty years or so after his death, and uh depending on when you date that, but 70 AD, tabernacle's done, right The similarity of the manifestation of the Lord and his first practitioners of the sacrificial system in a tabernacle and coming of the Spirit of God in a new covenant cannot be missed. Christ's disciples were obeying his commands, right? We talked about this at uh uh Pentecost. Uh they remained in Jerusalem until the Holy Spirit would fill them on the day of Pentecost, a visible and audible fire. rushing wind, entering the room, manifesting the filling of uh by the Holy Spirit. This is the beginning of the body of Christ Church, right? They're beginning the worshipers at at the tabernacle filled uh with the power and joy of the Holy Spirit, they began to witness to people. The gospel witness was to proclaim the truth that Jesus was the Son of God who came to redeem, eternal high priest. To all who would believe, and this is authenticated by the power of the Holy Spirit. So I got this quote from Wenham or a or paraphrased that uh Wenham sums off when he says All the pomp and sacrifices, the elaborate clothes of the priests, were not the ends in themselves, but only the means to the end. namely the proper worship of God. The elaborate ritual would have had no effect if the worshiper was not sincere and trusting in God alone. These rituals were also meant to be symbols for the future hope of a coming Messiah. That's pretty much what he said. I just didn't copy verbatim, but yeah, it's true. And again. What I want to do, and I thought about this, is I'd like to kind of We'll get into this next week, but I'd like to introduce it because this is such an important chapter. I wrestled with this, meditated on this, associated this with other texts. Um Commentators were so so with this. They they gave me some insight. It's funny. Um uh we'll read through it. Um Maybe we should do that now and then uh uh we'll we'll pick it up. So why don't we read through uh chapter ten? Because I want you to think about this, meditate on this, because really the the kind of discussions we had about uh uh were they joyful and and uh fearful at the same time You're going to have those discussions. What did Na Nadab and Abahu do? Um what exactly was it? Why did God um uh act so quickly? Uh again, you're we're gonna have we're gonna have to reason and think through this. It's not explicitly put out there But I think there's enough, especially when we think of other scriptures. I think we we know we we can discern the heart of it So let's read through it. Um I'll start off. I can get my eyes unblurred here Now Nadab and Abahu, the sons of Aaron, took their respective fire pans after putting fire in them Placed incense on it, offered strange fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. And the fire came out from the presence of the Lord, and consumed them. And they died before the Lord Now, let me just stop and say one thing here. This is a continuation of chapter nine, right? We're we're in this. These daggone chapter headings are good and bad. Sometimes they mess with us and they they kept they mess with the flow of of of the context of the things. So we're in a continuation here. And uh so then Moses said to Aaron, uh, it is what the Lord spoke, saying By those who come near me, I will be treated as holy, and before all the people I will be honored. So Aaron therefore kept silent Somebody want to pick up in four? Read for a bit. We'll take turns getting through this. Moses summoned Meshach and Elzephar, summoned up Aaron's uncle with him. Hoseo and said to them, come here and carry your relatives away from the front of the sanctuary to a place outside the camp. So they came forward and carried them in their tunics outside the camp, as Moses had said. Then Moses said to Aaron and his sons Eliehazar and Githamar. Do not let your hair hang loose and do not tear your clothes or else you will die and the Lord will become angry with the whole community However, your brothers, the whole house of Israel, may we go to conflagration the Lord ignited. You must not go outside of the entrance to the tent of meeting or you will die. For the Lord's anointing all is on you. So they did as Moses said. Somebody want to pick up an eight? And the Lord spoke to Aaron, saying, Drink no wine of strong drink, you or your sons with you, when you go into the tent of meeting, lest you die It should be a statute forever throughout your generations. You are to distinguish between the holy and the common and the unclean and clean, and you are to teach the people of Israel all the statutes that the Lord has spoken to them by Moses. Moses spoke to Aaron and to Eliezer and Ithamar, his surviving sons, take the grain offering that is left of the Lord's food offerings, and eat it unleavened beside the altar, for it is most holy. you shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your dew and your son's dew from the Lord's food offering, for as for so I am commanded. But the breast that is weighed and the thigh that is contributed you shall eat in a clean place. You and your sons and your daughters with you, for they are given as your due, and your sons due from the sacrifices on the peace offerings of the people of Israel. The fly that is contributed and the breast that is waived, they shall bring with the food offerings of the fat pieces to wave for a wave offering before the Lord And it shall be yours and your sons with you as due forever, as the Lord has commanded. 16. But Moses searched carefully for the goat of the sin offering, and behold, it had been burned up. So he was angry with Aaron's surviving sons, Eliezer and Ithamar, saying, Why did you not eat the sin offering at the holy place? For it is most holy. And he gave it to you to bear away the guilt of the congregation. to make atonement for them before the Lord. Behold, since the blood had not been brought inside into the sanctuary, you should certainly have eaten it in the sanctuary, just as I commanded. But Aaron spoke to Moses, Behold, this very day, they presented their sin offering and their burnt offering before the Lord When things like these happen to me, if I had eaten the sin offering, a sin offering today, would it have been good in the sight of the Lord? When Moses heard that, he seen this uh it seemed good in his sight. So a couple things. So we look at Nadab Nobahu. Uh uh maybe your uh what your thoughts are on on um Is this awful harsh treatment that God immediately kills them in this in this manner? Um the uh some of the things you want to ponder on on this week, you want to look at Strange Fire. Um uh foreign fire I don't know how your uh Bible tr translates that word. Uh before that uh which the Lord had not commanded them It's a big statement. Gotta follow it. Uh look at what um uh Aaron says to him, right? By those who come near to me, I will be treated as holy. Does anybody have sanctified in their version? ESV, right? Yeah. Okay? Uh sanctified. Um uh well take some time, wrestle with this. Look at this a different uh and before all the pe uh So they're sanctified, and before all the people will be honored. In verse 8? Um no, excuse me. Yeah, yeah, yeah, verse eight. Uh he speaks directly to Aaron. Right? He's not going to Moses. Um some think he was by himself. Oh Aaron had heard the voice of the Lord when he was in the presence of Moses. But I think this is the only time he is and I know in Leviticus that he speaks directly to Aaron. And he talks about wine and strong drink. Right, but they were also making a judgment, right? They were they were uh a distinction between uh they were to discern between the holy and the unholy, the profane the uh and the uh uh the holy and the profane, the clean and the unclean. They're also to teach uh sons of Israel the statutes, right? So then Moses discovers that they burn up, okay, well this is from chapter 9, they they burn up the peace offering. This is they weren't supposed to do that. So, okay, they have now done something to Lord They did not do something the Lord had commanded. So, you know, you gotta ask these things questions, okay? You can get deeper if you start asking the questions and weigh it out. And also look at the context of this whole thing. But verse 17, this is the word I was telling you about Why did you not eat the sin offering at the holy place? For it is most holy. He gave it to you to bear away the guilt of the congregation. He's talking to to the priests now, right? To make atonement for them before the Lord. I I don't have all the commentators I want. Um again, it's nice to have a seminary library. You can use them Goodwin had ten, fifteen commentaries on Leviticus, you can look. Kyle was the only one who really dealt with this. Um the other two didn't. What does this mean? So I I say, you know, think through it. But I and I think it goes with what I've been calling what I I call it preaching. I've been preaching at you. I think it goes to what I've been preaching at you, this identification with their sacrifice and the priest. But you know, again, does this mean the priest make atonement for him? I think you uh you gotta ask the question, even if you're gonna answer it right away. But you gotta ask it, is that what he's saying here? Uh is he is he uh the priest relieving the guilt of the people? And then uh Aaron responds, right? He responds to Moses. Um He says, I you know, I don't know, with the things that you notice how he says it happened to me? Um I think that's that's uh important too. Um again, i i it's tough to say. I think he's taking responsibility, but that's my opinion I don't think he's saying, oh man, look at what happened to me. I I you know, 'cause I'm again I could be wrong You know, but you know, if I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been good in the sight of the Lord? I mean, you know, he's thinking about the holiness of the Lord. So think through some of this stuff. We'll we'll we'll go through uh this. But the center of uh and ask yourself, okay, so if we don't know and spoiler alert, which If any of you looked at this before and heard this before, you might have heard different uh what what sin Nadab and Abihu had committed. And you and there's At least three and maybe more, uh, main ones. But but they don't know. So w is that really important? Why didn't God tell us that Um I you know think through that. So what what was it that they really why did so God obviously judged them harshly, immediately Okay? And so you have to think about some of the ramifications. We'll we'll discuss this, I'll give you this, but look. W and these growing disciple classes, my and I tell this to the teachers I don't know how um and I'm sure masters did this too. Maybe some of the theology that the Capitol had, because they had different people in there. Their gist was We want to give you tools to do interpretation. We can tell you what the theology is, and we'll tell you what our theology is. And they had a statement, but their gist was You need to get the tools to start thinking through this and unpacking this stuff. That's why we're going to make you learn these languages. And we know most of you guys are not going to be language experts But you're going to be open to it. You're going to at least we're going to open the door for Hebrew and Greek. We're going to teach you hermeneutic. You need to be doing that here. This is what we need to be doing in these churches. This is what Pastor Gabe is trying to get the sheep to do. From the pulpit. We need to be able to start discerning this stuff for ourselves. And it starts with really asking good questions. I'm telling you, you will be surprised when you do that You'll start to see things you didn't see before