So and that's m that's kinda my prayer. If if you've looked at these two chapters, um what you see is what you get. I mean there's there it's not like there's really a lot of hidden meaning in here And yet before we get into this, you know, um it's so hard. I I I have I'm trying to uh For me not to get uh bored and just, you know, okay, you have to have clean animals. We went through that already. Um Uh why do you why does he tell them this? Uh w what is the circumstances? Try and put myself in the place. What is the circumstances these people are in. Not now. What you know, what what would they remember what they were seeing? I I need to be reminded The glory of God was being manifested in in uh in the temple. They were able to see it. Um Uh we've seen the uh uh I'm thinking a nadab and a bahu, how God is is saying this is true, this I I must be approached in a proper way And again, it's not just a judgment. It's uh uh it's God's perspective, right? It's God saying, this is who I am. Okay, um nothing personal. This is the way you have to come to me. And again, I I thought of this uh um uh Throughout this study, uh uh and I and I mentioned it, but I I want to repeat it before we get started, is that, you know, we're we're gonna have glorified bodies, we're gonna be sinless. And we think of of what we get, what we get in heaven. But again, it's giving me the perspective. I have to be sinless. I have to be glorified if I'm going to be in his presence. He's doing it for himself. I mean he has to do that for us in order for us to be there in his presence. Well pour that into what these people were doing. This is a different remember, we are dealing with a different economy, a diff God's dealing with people in a different way now than he is in the church. He he um We have the Spirit dwelling inside of us. We're sealed with the Holy Spirit. Those of us who believe. We get that advantage. But they had a a W whatever whatever uh and and things that it that um I don't want to overspeak or underspeak, but God's glory was there. You had to approach him in the proper way Um just one more quick thing. You know, when we read these things, their guilt be upon 'em or or uh, you know, th those types of things. Remember God what he's saying, God is saying I see what's going on. Maybe the priest, maybe your family, maybe the camp, maybe the the community doesn't know, but I see, and that guilt is upon you. So think of that in the in the general terms. So with that, let's kind of jump in. I think what we ought to do is uh let's read um Uh Leviticus twenty-one uh one through fifteen. Um I'll start it off and then uh Uh you know does somebody volunteer and just kind of jump in and uh read the other verses. So we're gonna read uh 21, 1 through 15. Then the Lord said to Moses, Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say to them, No one shall defile himself for a dead person among his people. Except for his relatives who are nearest to him, his mother and his father, and his son and his daughter, and his brother. Uh also for his virgin sister who is near to him, because she has no husband, uh, for her he may defile himself. He shall not defile himself as a relative by marriage among the people, and so profane himself. They shall not make any baldness on their heads, nor shave off the edges of their beards, nor make any cuts in their flesh. They shall be holy to their God and not profane the name of their God, for they present the offerings by fire to the Lord uh the food of their god, so they shall be holy. Somebody want to pick up in uh verse seven They shall not take a wife, that is a whore or profane. Neither shall they take a woman put away from her husband. For he is holy unto his God, those shall sanctify him therefore, for we offer it the third of thy God. He shall be holy unto thee, for I the God, I the Lord, which sanctify you, am holy. And the daughter of any priest, if she profane herself by saying the whole She profaneth her father, she shall be burnt with fire. And e that is the high priest among his brethren upon whose head the anointing oil poured, and that is consecrated to put on the garments, shall not uncover his head or rent his toes Neither shall he go in to any dead body, or defile himself for his father, or for his mother, neither shall he go out of the sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God. For the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him. I am the Lord. And he shall take a wife in her virginity. A widow or a divorced woman or profane or a harlot shall thee shall ye not take, but ye shall take a virgin of his old people to wife That is the profane profane is seed among his people, for I the Lord do sanctify him. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto Aaron, saying, Whosoever he be of thy seed. Well I'll stop at 15. Uh uh l let's deal with that section there. So we saw uh the priest um you know as we go through the story, right? Um Uh when it comes to uh uh uh grieving and and for a dead person, there's a there are restrictions. He uh these are the anointed priests, he doesn't want them uh um uh defiling themselves with a dead person, right? And uh th they can only do it for for very close relationships. Um Uh we also see that they know he doesn't want them uh doing uh certain things to to mourn these people. So let's kinda look through the notes here So in Exodus 19, 5-6, God called the nation, Israel, to obey his covenant, and they were to be a kingdom of priests, a holy nation to the Lord their God. In this section of Scripture we see the holiness and consecration of the priest was to be of a higher standard than the common man. The priest represented the Lord and was to demonstrate his consecration by his life and obedience to the law. The priest had to meet the spiritual physical qualifications and then live according to the conduct presented in the law. The priest uh um uh excuse me the point was the priesthood was not an occupation but a life. Uh I believe Ross said that Uh I thought that was good because and and that's really the essence of this, right? Um his relationship to God and and ours, you know, we're supposed to worship God right? Then our our relationship with our wife and then the children. Uh that's what this is pointing to. Uh in Leviticus twenty one There are two major themes, the priest's conduct and funerals and marriage. How the priests are to conduct themselves when a relative dies. uh points to the deaths uh of God's eternal program or uh towards death and God's eternal program The rules for marriage of priests reveals more of what God intended for the covenant of marriage. And we're gonna kind of see this. One thing to think about when you uh think of the revelation that they have. They don't have the revelation of resurrection that we have. Uh uh it's it's it's only kind of vaguely pointed to. It's not think of the revelation we have. Uh it's specifically stated, you know, a resurrection. The commentators seem to think that that's what this is is looking at. This is kind of pointing to not to mourn as the pagans mourn uh mourn. Because, you know, again, there is a light beyond this light. The laws for the priest and the high priest concerning the dead. This is uh 1 through 6 and 10 through 12 Um there's a little um uh you one's a regular priest, one's a high priest Anyone who comes into contact with a dead person is unclean for seven days and must go through purification prescribed by the Lord. That's in Numbers 19, 11 through 22. You can read that sometime. The priest was instructed to remain away from the dead body or the ritual for the dead and even mourning for the dead. The priest was allowed to defile himself over the death of his father, mother, son, daughter, and brother. Uh actually even I think his virgin sisters would have said. Ross and Wenham assumed that the priest may defile himself for the death of his wife, for the marriage covenant says the two shall become one flesh. Uh they they're just assuming that. It's n obviously it's not in the scripture, but uh it seems uh they could be right. It seems like they're right, but we don't know. Leviticus 21. 4 is difficult to determine. It reads, He shall not defile himself as a relative by marriage among his people. Um is it strictly referring to the woman he has married or is it referring to not defiling himself of the dead relation by marriage only A Ross takes it to mean the defiling of the pre uh of the priest by coming into contact uh with a relative by marriage. In other words, if the wife's brother-in-law dies Uh uh he's not allowed to mourn or or go out from that. Um the priest shall sh uh not shave his head. Alright, so now he's talking about the the different things for mourning, right? This is coming into contact or mourning for a dead person. This is some of the things the pagans would do for this, uh as an act of mourning. Uh the priest shall not shave his head, nor shave his beard, nor cut themselves in mourning for the dead. These were all pagan practices of Canaan involved in mutilation, which he uh gave reference to which gave reference to the dead. So this is a Canaanite practice. This was kind of common amongst this Middle East. time and error and and even uh before them. Obviously they left Egypt and Egypt had a lot for the dead, right? I mean, uh uh you remember if they w went out in the wilderness and they were whining and um The one of the things that people said was, uh, uh, why did you bring us out here to kill us? Were there no tombs in Egypt? I mean the pyramids are what? They're basically a great being two So Jewish Jewish humor, I guess. In verses 10 through twelve, the laws for the high priest reveal an even higher standard. Uh I I Leviticus let's let's uh before we get into this, let's just kind of uh you don't have to, but uh Leviticus ten, number Nadab and Abahu, right Um ten, six uh, and seven Remember, they they died? I mean they got s uh consumed with fire. Then Moses said to Aaron and his sons Eliezer and Ithamar, do not uncover your heads nor tear your clothes. so that you will not die, and that he will not become wrathful against all the congregation. But your kinsmen, the whole house of Israel, shall be well uh the burning which the Lord has brought about. You shall not even go out from the doorway of the tent of the meeting, or you will die, for the Lord's anointing oil is upon you. So they did according to the word of Moses. Uh again, we don't really uh comprehend this and understand this, but this is God's law. They this consecration, this anointing oil, uh Whatever, God spiritually took this. Okay, they went through the procedure, but God obviously somehow spiritually they were anointed. They were maybe they were full of the spirit. We don't know. Uh uh but they could not go out. They the oil, the anointing was on 'em and he didn't want to profane the sanctuary or the people by by doing this. Uh so that and that's kinda that's what he's again, this is uh r this in in our in our uh Verses in 21, 10 through 12, this is kind of what he's pointing to. So they had a higher standard. This is the high priest. The anointing oil is on his head, right? The high priest had the anointing oil on his head and represented the high uh consecration of the Lord. He was closer to the Lord and it was he who would take the offering into the holy place. He was not allowed to uncover his head. nor tear his garments. He was permitted to go near he was not permitted to go near the dead body, or even mourn his father and his mother He was not to leave the tabernacle, for he had the anointing oil on his head, and was consecrated to the Lord. The high priest's obligation to the Lord took preeminence over any obligation to his family. Uh it seems harsh in a way, but um let me read on. I think I have it in the notes. Um The high priest was consecrated unto God and he was a representative of the covenant God made with the nation. God was the creator, sustainer, and restorer of life. To mourn and to weep over the dead was to do as the pagans do. Their God was the restorer of life. And for the high priest to weep and mourn as there was no hope would have made the covenant profane. It's kind of a paraphrase. Uh, I think I quoted uh Ross on that. I don't even have my notes here. I don't know what happened. My formats m w word died on me when I was in the middle of this and uh I was like, okay, it was all recovery and And then I looked this morning and so anyway, bear with me with all of this. Um Uh yeah, I I don't even have the footnotes on here, do I? Yeah. Oh There are no high the high priests the priests are not allowed to mourn externally, like you know like outside mourning, but they all they are allowed to mourn quietly because like uh you're talking about made them ahead and made up when they died. Aaron and his uh brothers, they did not do all the steering of the clos and stuff, but they did not keep the The offering in the end. Right. And we yeah, you remember you remember that. But they did not die so. And remember Moses was not happy about that. Right. And and then the then Aaron if you don't remember what she's talking about, they were supposed to eat what had been sacrificed, right? That was part of the the process And if you look in here, this and I'm glad she brought that up because it says food for God throughout this chapter. Uh and this is not a pagan thing where you know you're actually feeding God And yet there is a commonality and and that's the that's one of the things, don't miss this. Uh e like even the layman who brought the peace offering, remember, and he could take that part of the peace offer offering It was it was to uh an association of actually having a meal with God. It was that closeness that brought them there Uh and what she was talking about, if you remember in in chapter ten, and she's got a good memory, uh, they were supposed to have eat uh eaten the what was sacrificed and they didn't. They burned it all up And Moses was angry with them and then Aaron said, Well, we thought because of what happened that it it we felt like, you know, it been i i it wasn't, you know, it been profaned or whatever. And so we burned it up. And Moses said, okay That makes sense. That's not what he said in the Bible, but that's really what he was thinking. And he goes, Okay, I see your reasoning. You're not bla you're not blasting against God. You're trying to be respectful And and that's the issue here. At the end of the day, remember that. These are outward um rituals and and procedures. And what really makes it that if it um really has a spiritual significance, God has to put the spiritual significance on it, right? It's not magic I mean, uh that's what the Israelites think. You remember when and in Samuel, when they were getting beaten by the Philistines, they said, we'll take the ark out there They were trying to make it a magic thing and God goes, Yeah, I I might I I will manifest my glory over here But as if I decide to. You're not I'm not in the box. It's not uh you know, you open the box and then God comes out But really, but that's the way they were treating it. And and God, you know, if you remember the Ark got taken. And the armies got defeated. And I just wanted to say that. Yeah, it's it's um It's the essence, it's the heart at the end of the day. It's it's always by faith. And it's and um these are spiritual things and it's we can only Uh there's a certain aspect we we're not gonna comprehend. It's it's we have to it's by faith. God does this Uh let's see. In the New Testament believers uh know there is a resurrection, a life after death, and there is no longer a sting of death. First Corinthians uh fifteen fifty five, right? Uh where is you know, oh death, where's your sting, right? Um Jesus tells a man who wanted to bury his father before following him Uh let the dead bury the dead. Uh there's some debate about really what he's saying there. Um But it you know, it really seems to be th you know I think he's talking about the spiritual aspect of it. Those who don't really have faith, um, you know, um Let the dead bury the dead. Um they're spiritually dead. So um but Jesus tells the man, Go and preach the kingdom of God. That is the priority in following him. So uh the idea is that our hope is not in this life, but in the resurrected life. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brethren, about those who are asleep so that you will not grieve uh as do the rest who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus. Again, look at the revelation we have. He tells us point blank. You don't see that in the Old Testament. I mean you don't see long uh uh revelation on the resurrection. We see it in glimpses, uh but So it's it's hard to see to understand or know uh what revelation they got. Again When when when people have faith, it's hard to say what internal revelation they got. It certainly wasn't written revelation. Uh we have so much more. It's it's incredible. The priests are to demonstrate holiness in their marriage. So that's what we went through. Now you you're looking at, okay Uh w w what is it uh first we dealt with death, now we're dealing with marriage. Um uh The marriage of ordinary priests are considered first in seven through nine. They are not to take a harlot as a wife, nor are they to marry, I don't know why it's on the line, a divorced woman Uh the priest was to marry uh a woman who had been uh um excuse me. A priest was not to marry a woman who had been with a man in il in illegitimate sexual relationship. Neither was a priest allowed to marry a woman who was divorced. Wenham sees the law as focused on the woman's uh character more than on the sexual relations because the ordinary priest uh could marry a widow but not a divorced woman. And again, it's not specifically stated, but it wasn't prohibited. Well see, the high priest is not allowed to marry a divorced woman The high priest had to marry a virgin. And we we'll see as we move on. The high priest is to marry a virgin, not take a wife who is a widow, divorced, or a harlot. The standard for the high priest are higher than the ordinary priest because of the anointing and closeness to God. The high priest must marry a woman who was beyond reproach So his children would not be profane or common, unacceptable for the office of priest. Uh Ross puts an emphasis on these laws as it relates to the children and their hereditary. For if the children are not from the lit lineage of Aaron, uh then he is not to be a priest So physical defects uh render a priest uh unsuitable. But so anyway Look at verse 9. Also a daughter of any uh priest, if she profanes herself by harlotry, she profanes her father, and she shall be burned with fire. Uh there it is, yeah. Verse 9 speaks of another kind of sexual perversion in the case of the daughter or priest who becomes a harlot. She profanes her father by doing this act And she is burned with fire. Ross thinks this is it's not burning her alive but burning her after she is put to death Whoa. And by put to death you mean stoney, right? Perhaps. Again, this an a is an assumption. We don't have this specifically in Scripture, but you know it's not uh the essence here This is symbolic in that her the uh her act defile the camp and the burning of her body cleanse the camp by removing uh her remains. I I agree with the man but I we we can't be a hundred percent sure that it doesn't say specifically. But God's not it's not a question of torture. uh of the person as much as it's a cleansing. He's this w this w girl, woman has defiled her father by committing this act and and consequently doing so to file the high priest, you you now mm the camp is is unclean in a certain way. So it's really more Number one, the the heart uh this guy I think God gives uh uh uh greater consequences, shall we say. Um for greater sins. Uh and uh this is one of the things he's saying is this is not tolerable And by burning it, you you should get the message. But I also think number two, it has a a cleansing effect to it Uh and it's a it's again it's a symbolism for the people. This body would be to them it's burnt, it's done away with, it's it's no longer present. Hey Karen. Yes. It's interesting, uh there's a oh in my Bible there's a cross reference to Genesis thirty eight. 24, which is when Judah treated Tamar unknowingly as a prostitute. Right. And when he found out that she was pregnant, not knowing it was from him, he uh said, bring her up and let her be burned. Right. And so there's some at least background there in terms of a potential view Yeah. On the other hand, on in Deuteronomy twenty two, um I don't know if this is really for the priest's daughter, but um for a woman who's uh cut in adultery That's a consequence of stoning. Mm-hmm. Anyway, just pointing out that they're they're they're both mentioned in in a way that it's not It wouldn't be unheard of for the burning to be actually burning for alive. And it could be Um uh yeah. Well we don't know. And and that's the difficulty with some of this. We we can We can make connections that are theologically sound, but they're not necessarily connections that are correct. Uh yeah. I mean that that's a difficulty. And that's um yeah, I tend to follow I try to follow the commentators on this. Because I s you know, the ones that uh if you look at good commentators they look they're looking at other people. They're not just coming up with these ideas on their own, but they they are comparing, you know, uh You know, weighing against others, you know, it's um uh but nonetheless it's speculation. We we just don't have the full revelation, right? And and we need just be aware of that. I have a question. Yes. So how is a high priest determined or chosen? Oh sorry? How how is a high priest made a high priest? How are they picked? Well it's it's lineage number one Well yeah, uh I'm not sure. I don't have a I don't have a snappy descendant of Error. Right. It couldn't just be a Leviathan. No, it's lineage. Yeah, it had to be Aaron's line. But Aaron has more than one son So I assume it would be the eldest son. Um I haven't I am rusty on my Old Testament, I'll be honest with you. Okay. Um But they couldn't it would have to be before they'd married Or at least married a widow, because a high priest can't marry a widow. No. Has to be a virgin. He says that in there. Has to be a virgin Oh they get pretty good track of those things within their lineage that they would know if you're in the line to be the high pre And and you can see that later when Christ on trial they go to this particular gentleman, but his father had been high priest. They're both kinda there, but So they would know and they would already have you know. By the time Jesus came it was rather corrupted. They they were buying it. Whoever had the most money could buy it from uh who wrote Right. Well they buy it, they you know, Rome is looking for a payout like everybody else, so if they had money, Rome says Yeah, you're a good candidate. So does does an ordinary priest also have to be descendant of Aaron or just the high priest? They were the tribe of Levi. Every priest must be a Levite, but every Levite can be a priest. Moses was a was a Levite Right? His brother Aaron. The tribe of Levi. It's kinda like uh you know when you look at the uh uh You know, we uh the scepter now should not depart from Judah, right? Uh in uh Genesis fifty, right? or whenever that was. Was it 49, I can't remember. Right? When when uh uh Jacob's given the blessing, he says and one of the things he says, the scepter shall not depart from Judah But then it went down, and we see in Samuel, it went through David. It was the line of David. So you had this broad category Judah, right? Now they have to be descendants of David So it was only descendants of Paris we could have. Right. And then then what did he move to afterwards? It went down later, uh Zadok. You see that later, uh uh, in the time of the kings, uh because of corruption was in there Is there a reason why God chose Levi? 'Cause he's like the third in the line, not through not the firstborn. He didn't tell he didn't tell me. I I don't know It's usually the first word a big job of the painting. But the high priest is like the visitor, the teacher, the doctor It is. Isn't it? It is new question, yeah. Tremendous amount of layer of the Islam. Right. Okay, doesn't it have to do when they were there at the mountains And after they uh Mountain of Sinai and after um Aaron had made the um idol of gold and then the Lord was asking, you know, who is on my side to concentrated camp and the Levites came over and they had to um then you know God's discipline on the people and at that point didn't he separate the Levites Well remember who you married was determined by your parents. You didn't have a choice in the matter. We're talking about this time and age. And they knew the rules and they followed those rules. They did for a while. I mean and if you look at the uh I mean here they get t k taken off into captivity, they come back to the land You'd think they would have learned the lesson, right? They came back from Babylon. What was their what was their problem? They were marrying their foreign wives, remember? Yeah, it's uh it's our nature. But he's right, Mel's right, uh arranged marriages, um Uh just to support what Rachel said in Exodus thirty-two after the golden cap, and I believe I came over to Moses' slide. Because they were basically saying we're on the Lord's side. Moses said, Today you have been ordained for the service of the Lord, each one at a cost of his son and his brother, so that he might bestow a blessing upon you today. Which is interesting because when Judah Jacob gave his blessing to his twelfth sons at the end of Genesis, and Simeon and Levi were Not cursed, but they were recognized for their filament. So uh so we're looking for the time we're gonna have to m move it up what we got. So then we we'll I guess we can go through this kind of quickly. Uh so the marriages w we looked at. We looked at nine. The high priest uh is to marry a virgin, not to take a wife or a widow, divorce or a harlot, the standards for the high priest higher than the ordinary priest because the anointing and closest to God. The high priest must marry a woman who is beyond reproach so that the children right uh Uh so that uh the children would not be d def defiled or d or uh uh brought down uh because of this marriage Physical defects rendered a priest unsuitable for service in a tabernacle, 16-24. So if they had any defects, prevented the priest from serving in the tabernacle. The priests were sanctified and holy in order to serve God. Physical conditions had to reflect the perfection of God's creation. Disqualified priests were unable to share the priest were able to share the priest's portion of the sacrifice, but they were not allowed to serve the altar, nor to go to the holy place for sacrifices. Uh it's important that they were allowed to share in the most holy portions of the sacrifices. This is symbolic of sharing God's food or having fellowship with him. And again, this this was again was a privilege. This separated them from the people. Uh again, it's not um you know, we look at it now, it's like Yeah, ye y it's it's it has to do with perfection for wholeness. Uh again, it's not s so much a slant on the person, but you just Uh it was God's pointing out, it was like if you look at the parallel too, it is probably mentioned in notes, but I know we're we're have to pick up time here. The priest really had to kind of be perfect like the animal was perfect, right? No boils, no no uh physical abnormalities. Um And it's just it again it's pointing towards this completeness completeness, this wholeness, this uh originality of God's creation, his created order Uh uh and with sin things become out of disorder. Um and and By birth, through no fault of the child its own, but by sin things come out of disorder. And it's kind of we have this um moving away from perfection. It it's it's uh it's it's part of uh this this life, this cursed world Uh bah ba but that sharing with the fellowship it wasn't that they were um Uh I mean it kind of shows the relationship to God. I guess that's that's what brought it home to me. They could eat the most holy thing. Remember the sacrifices that went into uh you know that that went into even to the holy place or the holy of holies. They were allowed uh to share in these things. That's Uh the God's recognizing them. It's still a relationship. Um so chapter twenty-two, one through sixteen So talking about clean and unclean. Um we ought to read the text. Um Let's read through uh twenty-two real quick. Uh I'll start off. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Tell Aaron and his sons to be careful with the holy gifts of the sons of Israel. which they dedicate to me, so as not to profane my holy name, I am the Lord. Say to them, if any man among all your descendants Throughout your generation, approaches the holy gifts which the Son of Israel dedicate to the Lord while he has an uncleanness While he has an uncleanness, that person shall be cut off from before me. I am the Lord. No man of the descendants of Aaron, who is a leper, or who has a discharge, may eat of the holy gifts until he is clean. And if one touches anything made unclean by a corpse, or if a man has a seminal omission, or if a man touches any teeming things by which he is made unclean, or any man by whom he is made unclean, whatever it his uncleanness A person who touches any such shall be unclean until evening, and shall not eat of the holy gifts unless he has bathed his body in water. But when the sun sets, he will be clean, and afterwards he shall eat of the holy gift, for it is food. He shall not eat an animal which dies or is torn by beast, becoming unclean by it. I am the Lord. They shall therefore keep my charge so that they will not bear sin because of it. and die thereby because they profane it. I am the Lord who sanctifies them. So what do you want to pick up and read uh verse ten? A lay person shall not eat of a holy thing, no foreign guest of the priest or hired worker shall eat of a holy thing. But if a priest buys a slave as his property for money, the slave may eat of it, and anyone born in his house may eat of his food. If a priest's daughter marries a layman, she shall not eat of the contribution of the holy things But if a priest's daughter is widowed or divorced and has no child, and returns to her father's house, as in her youth, she may eat of her father's food, yet no layperson shall eat of it And if anyone eats of a holy thing unintentionally, he shall add the fifth of its value to it and give the holy thing to the priest. They shall not profane the holy things of the people of Israel, which they contribute to the Lord, and so cause them to bear iniquity and guilt by eating their holy things. For I am the Lord who sanctifies them. Somebody want to pick up in seventeen, read um deep whatever verses you want. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, speak to Aaron and his sons and to all the children of Israel and say to them, Whatever man of the house of Israel or of the strangers, stranger in Israel, who offers his sacrifice for any of his vows or for any of his free will offerings, which they offer to the Lord as a burnt offering You shall offer of your own free will a male without moose from the cattle, from the sheep, or from the goats. Whatever has a defect you shall not offer, for it shall not be acceptable on your behalf. And whoever offers a sacrifice of a peace offering to the Lord to fulfill his vow, or a free will offering from the cattle or the sheep, it must be perfect to be accepted. There shall be no defect in it Those that are blind or broken or maimed or have an ulcer or exome or scabs, you shall not offer to the Lord, nor make an offering by fire of them on the altar of the Lord Either a bull or a lamb that has any limb that has any limb too long or too short, you may offer as a free will offering, but for a vow it shall not be accepted. That's through verse 23 Uh somebody want to pick it up in twenty-four. You are not to present to the Lord anything that is grooves, crushed, torn, or severed testicles. You must not sacrifice them in your name. Neither you nor a foreigner want to present food to your God from any of these animals. They will not be accepted for you because They are deformed and have a defect. The Lord spoke to Moses, when an ox, sheep, or goat is born, it is to remain with its mother for seven days. From the eighth day on, it will be acceptable as an offering, a fire offering to the Lord. But you are not to smart an animal from the herd or flock on the same day as its young. When you sacrifice a thank offering to the Lord, sacrifice it so that you may be accepted. It is to be eaten on the same day. Do not let any of it remain until morning. I am the Lord. Say, okay, you are to keep my commands and do them. I am the Lord. You must not profane my holy name. I must be treated as holy among the Israelites. I am the Lord who sent you apart, the one who brought you out of the land of Egypt. To be your God, I am the Lord. D again, when you read through that, did you see kind of a parallel with the uh uh a person that's unclean and the animal that's unclean Um uh, you know, again it's it's uh uh uh it it's kind of uh a be uh view of kind of sin in the world and and it's it's uh it it's not complete, it's not whole, it's it's not as God created it. Um Uh the last section of uh scripture uh dealt with the priests who were unclean uh because of physical abnormalities, the law requires the priests uh to not eat the holy offerings in an unclean state. A priest is unclean if he has a skin disease, discharge, if he touches anything contaminated by a corpse, if he has seminal omission, if he touches teeming, swarming. things or if he touches another man who is unclean for any reason. If the uncleanness is not uh infectious or contagious uh uh or a contagious disease Uh, then he must bathe and wait until evening to be cleansed. The next God gives a law concerning uh who may share in the holy offerings. No layman or hired hand in the priest's household. But i if the priest buys a slave, he may partake. Uh the daughter of the priest who's married to a layman may not partake, but if she is divorced or a widow without children Basically she comes back to her father's house, she may partake. If a man eats a holy offering unintentionally, he must repay plus a fifth. Uh and it has to be unintentional, right? They are warned not to profane the holy gifts of the Lord and they or or they were bare their guilt Uh again, that's that idea. God sees um uh you have to be right with God Priests were uh set apart, uh sanctified to the Lord, both the priests and the layman must recognize and obey the authority and commands of the Lord. Ross writes that when the priests were set apart to serve the Lord in all aspects of the life of the community, they were essentially called to preserve the faith in all its pu uh purity and holiness. And again, I liked, I quoted that line, I like it, because it kind of gets the essence of it. Uh there again, these are all outward manifestations of what's really going on Uh do you believe God who is who he says he is? Um That's question for all ages, right? Today uh we do not follow the law on literal sacrifices or ceremonial rituals and the Old Testament law. Yeah, we come to worship uh When we come to worship, our hearts and minds need to be prepared and focused on who the Lord is. Our obedience of faith is demonstrated in our attitudes and actions as we strive to live according to God's commands. Um you know we say this, you know, do everything, you know, whether we eat or drink or whatever do, do all according to the glory of God. Um I don't know about you, but I need to be reminded of this. And um uh it's easy just to go off into the world and and and not consider 'em. Uh let's see Faith in God demonstrated, uh bring the best of the sacrifices, um animals, uh Brought for sacrifice had to be perfect without blemish or defect. They could not have broken limbs, sores, or rashes, or mutilations, or castrated uh minor blemishes were permitted and optional sacrifices, uh kind of like these these free will or or just praise kind of offerings they they could have minor blemishes. This is acceptable to God. Uh the requirements reflect the perfect holy nature of God. Man's sin required a spotless, sinless Holy Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, is the only acceptable sacrifice for our salvation. In verses twenty-six to twenty-nine, the animal had to be at least eight days old Now you get different again, this is uh opinions. Um uh Kyle sees the animal as not matured. uh uh to a self-sustained life until that age. He also thought that the uh owner wanted to bring the animal before uh any abnormality emerged, which is why they might have brought it young and You know, it may it may grow up and may have a defect and let's get 'em in there. Um we laugh, but you know, when you think about it again when when um Israel was reprimanded for this. Um was it um Malachi where where he was talking he said um uh He said, what are these offerings you bring to me? Would you bring these to uh a king or or a sovereign over you? They were bringing defective lambs. And this is after they in captivity brought back to the land, you know, and God has done this miraculous thing by bringing 'em back, but um you know, it's uh it's our nature, right Um it's also suggest suggested that the owner wanted to bring an animal right before Admin Malle emerged. Ross suggests um uh it was uh like killing the um uh uh mother and and the uh and and the uh lamb or the the the calf or the offspring of the mother. Uh Ross suggests that uh that for humanitary purposes that the owner had to wait eight days. Also the young animal was not to be sacrificed in the same day as the mother. Okay, uh excuse me. I'm kind of repeating myself there So the young animal wasn't supposed to be sacrificed with the mother, right? Kyle sees this as reflecting a relationship the creator God had established between parent and offspring And, you know, he's just saying that that's what this is pointing to. Um again. We don't know. Uh you know, how what is this w how what's this pointing to? It does seem wrong to kill the mom and and the child You know, the the the offspring of the uh the lamb or w or whatever. Um but again. I don't know. You read different commentators, you'll get you'll get different takes. I wonder if there's a veterinarian reason for that in terms of well for the child you know needs to there's provision that it needs from the mother but because of that if uh uh you know, if if the mother is killed before the child is able to, you know, suckle the the milk that the mother produces, especially for that period of time, then that could be detrimental to the mother to have the child taken away prematurely. I wonder if it could be as simple as that. Yeah. I will. Yeah. I know. And that that's the thing, yeah. There could be some really logical reasons to it, yeah. Yeah. Well well what is uh and that's the thing. Well then when we try and make it spiritual, maybe God's going, nah, I think I I don't know. We get the revelation much clearer in the New Testament. He pr he tells us a lot, uh a lot gives us a lot more revelation. Um Uh and versus twenty six to twenty nine are we read that. Um If the sacrifice was a peace offering, it it was uh to be consumed on the same day the peace offering was discussed Chapter 3 through 7, we see that over and over again through there. It is holy, it must be consumed immediately as the Lord required. The people of God shall keep the commandments. He is the Lord who sanctifies and redeems them from the land of Egypt. It it let's r kind of reread that, right? Um verse thirty-one. So you shall keep my uh commandments to do them. I am the Lord, right? That's a covenant relationship again. You shall not profane my name, but I will sanctify you among the sons of Israel. Again, God sanctifies. We talk about uh uh He sanctified then, He sanctifies now uh to grow in spiritual maturity is to be obedient, to do uh what uh God commands, but it's also to have faith. But it's God who changes us from the inside out, right? It's he sanctifies. He gives us a heart Gave me a heart to believe. And then but he continues that process. Sanctification is from the Lord. I think we can Stun, prohib of slow down or or or uh Put a monkey wrench in our sanctification by our actions? Um for sure. I mean God's not gonna bless me if I'm uh saved you know doing what I want to do and and really going against his his will but it is God who sanctifies. It is grace. It is his power I have a question because I need to go back to uh 22, 10 to 16, the laws concerning who may share the holy offerings. I was just gonna I wanna ask why did uh God did not kill David when he ate uh bread of breasts. Why God did what now? Kill David when he ate the bread of presents when he entered the center. You remember his first time well he ate the bread. Right he did it. Only for the prince of Del Vatican. Right. David is um from Judah isn't it? Right. Yeah. And Jesus talks about that right? He has, uh you guys are missing the heart of the law because again, it's not and I think that's kind of with Jesus' point Um uh you guys are missing the heart of the law. You follow all these rules, but your heart is far from me. You're not you don't have love and compassion, patience, kindness uh gentleness towards people. You have laws and rules and and they were actually putting heavy weights on people and sometimes they were downright taking advantage of them Uh and that's what God was saying. He goes, David went in and ate the holy bread and and he survived, so it isn't just f uh following the rules. They were they were uh having d issues with Jesus keep uh not keeping the Sabbath and that they kept coming up. You don't keep the Sabbath. You keep breaking these Sabbath laws and Jesus said, The Sabbath was made for man. Okay? It's it's it's the heart, it's the faith. Do you do you rest in God? Do you believe in God Um so I'm s I'm seeing that uh amid all of this ceremonial loss and everything, God is still so merciful That uh like when David was in distress he was so hungry. Right. He had mercy on him. And with Arab and his children and he When they did not eat the offerings, this did not kill Siddhampita because he had worshipped them because they were grieving and they were in distress And they were also and like you said, uh they were uh i if you remember that uh in ten Aaron was fearful that the uh uh sacrifice had been polluted by what had happened And he didn't think it was wise. He thought it was better to burn it up. He was he was using his but his heart was in the right place. He was thinking of God. And also remember David didn't take the bread on his own. He asked the priests, do you have anything uh for me to eat and also he asked for his order and they gave me the sword of the life because he had he was like anointed of the Lord and so he the priest offered him the bread. So I think that's a big I think it would have been wrong for him to go in and sit the bread. Right. Right. Right. He's anointed like because he is the future king and he is uh allowed to eat the bread. Right. Well the priest gave it to That's and that's the priest about the three should not, right? Because it's not lawful. Well think about say the y the you made a good point 'cause think about the priest went in and got the bread. Where'd he get the bread from? the in the holy place, right? The the layman was not supposed to go inside it. I'm just wondering what it's the law, you know the law is This is the law. Still David is not alone because he is not of grace. Right. God is merciful and he allowed him because He's hungry. He isn't angry. But look at the heart of the law. Why didn't that's why I asked the question when we look at this. He's got all these rules, all these commands. Why did he do it? Did he do it just so we'd follow? No, it was it's it's kind of a revelation. I am holy You know? And you're not. And you're not going to be perfect. But if you seek in me in the way that I tell you, if you believe in me, that's the heart I want. I want, you know, it's a relationship. Yeah. The rules even back in the Old Testament pointed toward the relationship. The fact that they could share that meal, that's why I keep going back to that The people like the people when they were allowed to share the meal, remember that meat was most holy. The layman could do it during the peace offering, but the priest could do it. During the other offering, their portion was allowed to them. It was most holy. They were think of it as as a communion with God And I b I think that's a picture God was trying to give him. I want to commune with you, but I am holy. I if you just don't have any any um reverence for me That's the we're not in relationship. Look at it that way. Okay? If if we're f if we're uh I have to wrap this up. If if we're Uh disrespectful and and uh unconscious of a uh even a relationship with each other, we know what that's like. But even so, much more than God God is God. For some reason I don't know. I understand what you think because I remember the scripture said he is Oh that's what it says. Right. Oh, I don't know if this is worth reading. I'm going to read it anyway. Just this last sentence, then we'll go. The typology of the Old Testament sacrifices point to Christ as the spotless Lamb of God. The spotless uh Lamb of God. Christ is so much more uh as he is si the sinless son of God who through his death took away the sin of those who believe. And remember that, that's that expiation, he took our sin By his death we were made holy that we may ultimately be presented to God without blemish. We can't be we we can't be in heaven ultimately with God without Without being without blemish, without being holy, without being pure. We can't. That's who God is. That's where all of this was all ultimately always pointing to That's that's God's plan