Save your notes. Week three. Save your notes for next week. We're way behind. We opened up a big topic on lesson two, but we have to go back there. Because we didn't we certainly didn't do it. Last week the just to be a reminder, to bring us up to speed, remember we were talking about um these covenant relationships uh suzerain vassal relationships. Um it was just a typical relationship that these people would have been in in in all kinds of um Uh well between clans, between kings, and uh this was uh a normal uh occurrence for them. So the Lord's Covenant obviously takes it to a new level, but it is the same kind of covenant. You we you know to recognize This is the sovereign king. This is the king of the universe, but nonetheless, it's the same kind of terminology. And I talk about that. Uh words that that uh the Lord would have used, uh that uh God would have used through his prophets and communication, it would have been vocabulary that was applicable to the day, but it he uses that to apply it to um communicate uh his attributes, who he is, who uh you know, his holiness, uh all aspects of God. Uh sometimes we look at this and we think, well, that's the holy word, you know what I mean? And I think we lift it up um sometimes too high. To w again, we we kind of need to know that historical background to things. So let's see. I am oh yeah. So let's pick up on two This is the key word. I'll pick it up here. The spirit of offering, and well let me read the verse. When any one of you presents a grain offering as an offering to the Lord, his offering shall be a fine flour, and he shall pour oil on it and put frankincense on it. The serial offering has little meaning until we determine the meaning of the Hebrew word for grain offering. And it's minka. We talked about that last week, but This is uh the Hebrew word for offering is uh Korban. So uh minka is obviously describing what type of offering it is BDB, which is Brown Driver Briggs, you can see it in the footnotes, the complete Who this is. The definition of minka is a gift, tribute, or offering. This word was used for non-religious ways when a subject or vassal state paid tribute to a conquering kingdom. This referred to as a suzerain vassal uh covenant. Uh suzerain, whoever's in charge, it could be a lord, uh, you know, like a clan lord or a you know, they would call 'em kings oftentimes, and the vassal obviously is the one who's the subject, right? And so Again, this is the covenant that Israel is in also. It's a similar type, although they're in covenant with the the Lord, again, the king of the universe It can also mean that one gives a present to another, though it is often given out of respect for the other party and often in fear of that party in person. In 1 Kings 4. 21, Solomon ruled over the land from the river. He's talking about the river Egypt, not the Nile, but there's another river. And uh the river to the land of the Philistines and all the kings paid tribute, Minkah. Right? So I want you to get that in your mind. We read the problem is we read in English, it's a grain offering. It's a grain offering. But say the original audience would have heard Minka. And that would have been they would have thought tribute present Okay? And that's why we're going through this whole vassal thing, this whole suzerain, because that's what they would have thought of. Not grain. Grain came out of the text. And and so I mean that's why we kind of need to peel back. I mean to me when I read through this in English, I'm thinking, I don't know. You know, he brought a green offering. He had to bring bread and all. But when you think of it as minka, a tribute, okay, now you got a different scenario, right? This this grain that they're bringing is a tribute to their sovereign. And they understood that. We don't. But now we do, right? Any questions, anything? You interrupt me any time, but um This is really important. Jacob gave Esau presents as he was approaching his brother out of fear that Esau wanted him dead, right? Mammy, I mean he's coming back from Laban. Um Esau said, I'm gonna kill him, right? You ever heard that just when he fled to the other land uh f found his wives but he was fleeing Esau, right? And so remember when he's returning, remember he sent He stayed in the back. He sent everybody else forward as presents. They were giving him, you know, livestock and everything else. Well, he was giving him minka. So uh In Leviticus, Minta is defined as green by the context of the chapter. In contrast, Cain offered green, Abel offered a blood sacrifice, and they were called Minka, right? Uh the the sacrifice was uh so I I'm just trying to to point out the range and meaning of this word. So and it's like anything we to remember, especially with older languages, you didn't have a a separate word for everything Um I always like to use the one we know. Uh this is Greek obviously, but uh the same thing in Greek. Uh Greek had a complex uh uh grammar and there was a lot of nuances there but they had words heart cardia means heart mind soul will One word, right? We have a different word in English for each of them. So you just remember that. Minka can be used in other contexts, but it's it's it's still some type of present, tribute, that kind of thing. So the Serial Minka offering in Leviticus 2 is seen as a tribute to Israel's divine overlord, Yahweh. Israel was bound by her covenant with God to pay tribute to her sovereign Lord, who provided her both protection and provision. Uh the tribute was the recognition of Israel's great king and an act of fidelity to that king and to no other. The tribute was to uh keep uh the relationship and the in good standing as witnessed by the phrase and offering by fire, a soothing aroma to the Lord. Now as we read through this passage, the w we I don't want to take the time to do it today. Hopefully you've read it. Whoops. Um you know, you you see this repeated, a soothing to the Lord. Uh God was pleased with it, right? And and he's recognizing, he's acknowledging uh this. This is this is acceptable Okay. Here's a definition. Minka offered every morning and evening was a holy offering Eaten only by the priests, not shared with worshipers. The idea of atonement is not specifically present in Minka, although that of propitiation certainly is. Okay, so we're throwing these big words out here. Atonement. What do we look at with uh whole burnt offering? Atonement primarily uh had what? It was it was uh the atonement. Uh wha what what was what w what did holum, the whole burnt offering, what was what was that atonement? It was um Well when they bring okay let me let me make it uh closer. If they bring the animal and they're sacrificing the animal, what is that animal to the person? Yeah. Symbolically they transfer Substitutive, we get substitutionary atonement for this. And that's why look at that's why I say that because That kind of needs to be forward in our minds. I I I do this to myself. I'm going, you know, you start reading these words, you come so familiar with it, but you're you're not I'm not thinking Beyond, okay, w what is the essence here? It's the it's a substitute. The atonement, Christ on the cross That was him. It had it it was it was him for us, but it was Christ's work. Didn't have anything to do with us except that God Jesus was atoning, being a substitute to God for us, but it was all his work. That's why we say Right? Uh w w nothing I bring. We we've got uh nothing there. It's it was a substitute. We deserve death. And really him on the cross was his relationship. He was his total obedience and and so many other things on that cross. He was being the one man, the God man was being the perfect man for us. Jesus was God, but he was a man. He was a man did it. Yeah, you be it a God man, but still a man did the law perfectly. That's huge. Don't don't run by that. Uh I I oftentimes I don't know if you do this, but I put too much D in E well not too much. My focus on the deity of Christ. What you we the humanity do not pass that. He was a hundred percent man. And and really by his example and everything else he's shown us this is what you guys are capable of. And we're looking at and we're going, no way. But a man did this. Yes, a god man, but Uh we could unpack some of that more later. We have the Holy Spirit. We have we have an aspect of the God in us, right? God is in us, is he not? Is the Holy Spirit inside of us? Huh? We're sealed with it. So remember that. Uh puts more pressure on us, doesn't it? Although uh and so propitiation, what is that being five dollar word? This is a real simple definition. See that's why you we need to be thinking this. We need to move beyond propitiation atonement and think of uh the core of it Appreciation, come on. Just so they made you I'm gonna put you on the spot, they made you read you what'd you read? A thousand, two thousand pages worth of stuff? It was ridiculous, wasn't it? Propitiation. God is satisfied. It's appease. If you do a worse zone of propitiation It doesn't really go anywhere. It's that it's that. It's not used that often. There's a couple of Greek words, hillas, moss, and I forget the other one's a version of that. It's to appease. It's to it's satisfied. God was satisfied But it took the right kind of sacrifice for him to be satisfied, right? So let's read let's go through it again. The idea of atonement substitution is not specifically presented in Minka, because he's bringing a tribute Although the uh that although that of propitiation certainly is. The offering of the new uh produce of the land, along with the ordinary leavened bread Obrigado 2316 indicates submission to the totality of the life of God's people to the great suzerain Okay, and that's from I think I've quoted that. Yeah, that's uh uh theological word book. That's their definition And again, remember that this is what the believer during this time would have seen. They would have seen the God who were supposed to see the God as their s as their sovereign. Remember, um We'll look at it, but remember the flashback, right? Exodus 19. God in Sinai was making that covenant. They're still at Sinai. Okay? Even though this seems like just law, we are in narrative, believe it or not. Okay, he's telling the story. Things are happening sequentially here. Uh we're parked here on the wall and we're parked at Cyanite. We're not we're not moving. Uh so but so I'm just trying to get you to put yourself in the in the uh original audiences uh Right? From from their perspective. And what God's trying to communicate to 'em. Because the essence of it is God is doesn't change, right? It still applies to us. So the serial offering was presented with other offerings, which makes it difficult to determine the meaning of the offering. In verse 14, the serial offering is the offering of the first fruits of harvest festival. And one of the things we're going to have to do, you're getting introduced to these sacrifices in layers. We're going to kind of repeat this when the priests come, and you're going to get some more detail. So we got progressive revelation even in this book. So I want you to know that we're we're getting some layers. This is just a basic and this is communicated to the people Alright, this is uh communication to the people. We're gonna get these these commun uh some more data when we get up to um seven Exodus 7, when he starts talk talking to the priests about these uh sacrifices. Um So in verse 14, the serial offering is the offering of the first fruits of the harvest festival. This is an acknowledgement of the covenant and God's provision of the land and the produce of the land. The first and the best belongs to God. This tribute demonstrates loyalty and recognition to God and his provision. So Deuteronomy, obviously, this is going to be later now after this scene, but here this kind of captures it. Okay, because he's kind of Moses is really Deuteronomy is what? It's a repeating of the law. Moses Deuteros, second. And and what he's doing is he's kind of summing up, okay, we've been in Sinai You all messed up. We were here for 40 years. Nobody had faith. We didn't go into the land. So we wandered around. And then in Deuteronomy, Moses kind of repeats more or less in in a in a little form. Okay. We will we won't die. Um It repeats in a form the law again. And so here it is. And the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. With great deeds of terror, with signs and wonders. Let's not read through that too fast. Remember now, put yourself in their place. Slow down. Remember what they saw. Some of the generation uh w would have would have remained. Yeah, a lot of them died out, but okay, they're getting ready to enter the land. Some of that generation remained. Moses is still there They saw the Red Sea. They saw, well, let's go back to Egypt. They saw the plagues. Okay? I mean, this isn't this guy to be reckoned with. He he w the Red Sea, he saw them buried. the the prime uh forces of Egypt, right? Uh they also had some other things in there where people rebelled, right? And and that didn't go well for some of the Israelites. Uh remember just so kinda take back all this stuff in. This is this is what uh This is their point of view, the signs and terror. This is a God that this God's playing for real And he brought us into this place and gave us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey. And behold, now I bring the first of the fruits of the ground which you, O Lord, have given me. And ye shall set it down before the Lord your God and worship before the Lord your God. Worship. Anyone know if you looked up worship, what it would have been in the Hebrew? It's it's that prostate, it's that humbling. It's that you know, you like let's say you're going before a king, uh one of the Babylonian kings or Persian kings, you know what I mean? Like it's a bad day. I'm gonna terminate you. Egyptian king, you know You would prostrate yourself. You would humble yourself before this king. You want and but this is a God that and it's not It's the difference is we are doing it if it's in real faith, we're really trying to do this out of love, right? But there is a terror aspect, right? We talk about the fear of the Lord. Remember there are three aspects. There is a terror, there's a respect, and there's an all. There's an all that, wow, this guy can do all the, you know, he is who he is. There's a terror that this guy can he has my life in his hands. And there's a respect, you know what I mean? Um I care about this person. I don't want to insult my friend. So there are those three aspects. Another use of the meal offering is seen in Numbers 515, where a husband is jealous of his wife, suspects her of adultery. In this case, a meal is barley and oil and frankincense, uh, excuse me, is barley. And oil and frankincense are not added to the meal. For, and I quoted it from there from 511, for it is a green offering of jealousy, a green offering of remembrance, bringing iniquity to remembrance. Leviticus 5. 11, the man who sins and cannot afford two pigeons brings a meal offering, find flour, and again, put no oil or frankincense on it, for it is a sin offering. The Bible doesn't tell us the reason that the oil and the frankincense were not used in the offering for adultery or the man who sins unintentionally As to the excuse me, as to the significance of the oil and the frankincense, uh what they're doing is you gotta speculate from structure of their meaning. Ross suggests that the oil in the Old Testament symbolically represented things that were set aside or consecrated to the Lord. Uh you remember whenever you had a king. What'd you do? What happened to David when when uh Samuel came? What did you do to him? He he said, You're gonna be king. Consecrated. Consecrated? Yeah. Well. You know, Saul. Saul would be uh uh uh uh Eli. Eli uh anointed with oil And uh so it was a way of you know, it's it was a separation. It w and and that's what Ross is is putting out here A la World was also seen as a symbol for the Holy Spirit, in light of its connection with consecration too, right? So Zechariah. Particularly in that chapter he gets that view of the candlesticks with the oil and the oil is all dump dumping back in and um They're trying to build the uh the the temple and and they're having troubles and and um uh Zechariah and and others were exhort their job was to exhort 'em, let's get back to building this. You know, we're having trouble. Remember they came back out of captivity from Babylon and and uh the surrounding tribes were against them and they had all these issues and Zechariah's and he tells them that that famous line, not by might. Not by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. That's in that vision with the uh candlestick and the oil. So one of draws the connection of oil and incense is a symbol for joy, and because the the uh the discernment of adultery and the purification for sin are not joyful occasions Oil and incense are not added to these meal offerings. And again, you know, we can't be dogmatic about all this, right? Uh we we we draw conclusions. And When we're reading the Bible, I would encourage you, I mean some don't get me wrong, I don't want to throw heresy out there. We can come up and make up all kinds of things But when you read it, consider what are some of the things you you you could think about wh while you're reading. What is this what is this pointing to? What is this uh illusion here? What W w what associations uh can I make with this? Sometimes you need to meditate. Sometimes the spirit, you know, uh brings thoughts to our our minds that that we don't think. Reading through the Bible is good. It gives us it it does give us the the kind of the flow of things and and you remember some of the details. But let's let's face it though, it's I mean, we we uh we read way too fast most of the time. Trying to get, I need to get this done. No, maybe maybe sometimes we just need to park on uh even a verse. The reason for the prohibition 11 or yeast is not stated here, so a possible explanation is sought through scriptures. Ross and others see the uh nature of yeast as decomposing element associated with corruption. Some view leaven as having a permeating effect and it's used symbolically infecting people for good or evil, and that's what you see there in Psalm 7321. Thus the reasoning that it was prohibited from the sacrifice is that its symbolic meaning must be negative. The New Testament, Jesus referred to the teaching. Somebody turn to 1 Corinthians 5. 8 for me while I'm reading this. So we'll read this. In the New Testament, Jesus referred to the teaching of the Pharisees as Leaven. In 1 Corinthians 5. 8, Paul uses the analogy Leaven is malice or wickedness, unleavened as insincerity, uh excuse me, unleavened as sincerity and truth. Somebody want to read that verse Let us therefore celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and evil. Mm-hmm. And this is debated. I mean, in some of the parables, we kind of went to this uh before, some of the parables Uh uh in in Matthew it's it's really debated what the leaven is in in um so you find and I and I wanted to point that out. There is no You have people on both sides. Is leaven always evil? Some say yes. Some people go no. It it he could be using it. I mean the idea when you put leaven in, what's it do? it it permeates, it spreads, right? The the yeast spreads through the dough. You you need it in there so the dough will rise. So it has that that's the um That's the idea, so is that always evil? And it's r really much debated. Um uh old and news. And that that's why you see these um two commentators and there are others. These are the two that I I've leaned on a lot um that and d uh uh Kyle, uh Kyle and Dillage. But yeah, it's But I think uh when we read through this, uh there's an interesting thing, and we'll we'll look at the uh text on this in in a minute. in Leviticus. Honey was also forbidden to be added to the minca sacrifice, was reason that it had uh fermentation properties and consequently pointed to corruption. Again, the uh text doesn't explain this, uh uh why it's not used uh in the sacrifice So every, here's the kind of a, I think, a turning point. Every grain offering was to be seasoned with salt. Kyle knows that the soul has the power to strengthen the food and to prevent it from corruption. He views this as the truthfulness of self-surrender, of the worshiper to the Lord. Wayne notes that the contrast between preservation power of salt and the corruption by leaven would strengthen uh uh that's strengthened the argument that leaven uh is corruption in this context. So let's look at that. Uh so Leviticus two Okay, verse 5. If your offering is a grain offering made on the griddle, it shall be a fine flour unleavened mixed with oil. Right? They said they're going to bring the grain offering. They'll put it in a in uh you can cook it in different ways. Some of it's going to be offered as most holy. We're going to look at that. Verse 11. No grain offering which you bring to the Lord shall be made with leaven. For you shall not offer up in smoke any leaven or any honey as an offering by fire to the Lord. As an offering of first fruit, you shall bring them to the Lord, but they shall not ascend for a soothing aroma on the altar Every grain offering of your uh, moreover, shall be seasoned with salt, so that the salt of the covenant of your God shall not be lacking from your grain offering. With all your offerings you shall offer salt Now, so the phrase uh the salt of the covenant, verse 13, was meaningful to the Israelites because the custom for some time had been to seal a covenant by eating salt in some manner, rendering the covenant firm and irrevocable. The salt of the covenant added to the sacrifice represents the strength and purity of the binding of the is of Israel and covenant fellowship with the Lord. Numbers 819, we see the eternal nature of the covenant of Saul. So, uh I'm going to read uh 819. All the offerings of the holy gift which the sons of Israel offer to the Lord, I have given to you and your sons and your daughters with you. As a perpetual allotment. It is an everlasting covenant of salt before the Lord. To you and your descendants with you. And to me, I I get this, and it's of course this comes from raising. But when you think about it, uh yeast What does bread with yeast do? And i it it goes bad re re uh relatively soon, right? Uh honey and the ferment uh fermentation of all that, it goes bad, doesn't it? And when you look at that in the contrast, especially in the two verses, and you think of Salt of the Covenant as eternal Uh the salt is a preservative, right? No refrigeration, what do you do? You salt your meats. Um But that's the logic you have to use. Again, it's not dogmatic. Are you draw are we making the right conclusion? I think so, but you know, again. And that's another dilemma where we deal with scripture. Sometimes it's it's like, Lord, just tell me. So the Lord accepts the memorial offering. The offerer brought his his grain to the Lord and the priest, took a handful and burned it on the altar. The rest of The rest he and the other priests shared as the portion from the Lord. The most important part was that it was offered as a memorial. And the burnt, uh, excuse me, and burnt on the altar as a soothing aroma to the Lord. This was an act of dedication, acknowledging that all belonged to the Lord. It was also an act of remembrance, of worship, that all belonged to the Lord. So and that's the uh that's kind of the disciplines, isn't it? You know, we talk about the law and um you know, well, you know, we say the law is no longer in place and all. But think of it not so much as as us doing the specific laws, but even now, what are our spiritual disciplines. And it's a remembrance. It's it's it's whatever that discipline is, it's a remembrance to to bring it. We are forgetful You know, when you when you read your word, um if you don't do it, if you if you let it lax for a while. It's amazing how quickly we forget things. Um if uh reading the word daily. It it there's there is something about doing it. Um Um you know Scott was talking about some of this with uh uh in the idols about um you know Are we doing are we tempting each other? Are we d uh addressing appropriately? Uh what things are we exposing ourselves to? This in itself won't make us holy, but at the same time, if if we move uh and allow ourselves or put ourselves in a in a tempting situation You know, don't blame God. We followed through with it, you know. How did I get here? Well, you probably were in a situation where you expose yourself Uh with the youth. The youth always had the uh take every thought captive. Uh oh most of it um I'm dealing with this a lot with the guys in in the jail ministries because a lot of them aren't saved. Some of that are saved are baby Christians so they haven't walked very long with it. Um Their thought habits. I remember reading something uh uh criminal personality And um these two uh uh psychologists uh from Washington, D. C. , I think they were from Georgetown, went over to St. Elizabeth's when it was still open And uh back then it was during the era when uh people were innocent uh due to uh s what what did that term used to be on basis of insanity And so what they did is they went in there and they picked out the guys they knew really weren't insane. They were just, you know, playing the playing the system. And the interview these guys, and they went all in there with their with their One was a doctorate of psychology, one was a doctorate of psychology from uh George Washington. They went in there with all their presuppositions and go, why are these guys changing? So what they did was they went back and said, you know, instead of us telling them, we're going to listen to them. And what they found out, they had two, three volumes on this and and And what they what they did was they listened. What are you guys thinking? And what they found out was the cr these criminals started at a really young age And they had all these thoughts in their minds and they were planning this stuff. And he said, they have criminal activities they never did, but they were thinking about and plan them out. And he goes one of the reasons they don't do them is because they w they'll get caught. And so, you know, when they go to prison, what they do is they get better at their trade. The goal is not to stop, it's not to get caught. But i uh what they w the all of this what they went to this whole all the psychology they had and what they said was if we can get these guys to think differently They'll change their behaviors. What does the Bible say? Renew your mind. It's funny. Truth is truth. You can find it out secularly or through God's Word. But that is a discipline. A lot of times we're thinking things and those thoughts just need to be stopped. Uh you know, is that thought from God? Worry, things like that? We make up these whole scenarios and it's things that never happen. That I I pa I put to you is a lot of the disciplines that they're doing with all these sacrifices. God is showing them, giving them to a principle, and it's his holiness, it's their sin, their separation. This is what really the essence of all this is pointing to. Because we know those who took the sacrifices and and did everything, quote, correctly, didn't save them, did it? What saved them? What's what what what one thing saved them with the coupling of all this law, all this practice What did they have to bring to? What saved people in the Old Testament? Faith. Faith. Faith. You gotta believe it. Right? And we know even faith is a gift from God. You know, but you know, God's word, these things, can can be an instrument to bring that person who's going to be saved I came to faith by listening to God's word, hearing God's word, preaching, reading God's word. It works. Gary? Yes. This is this is a bit of a dirty question, so I confess that up front. You got all this really Cool brand that you're building up here. I got my own notes on it last week and this morning. I love this right because it's fantastic, but It it's prescriptive, it's uh concrete, it's uh both true and uh able to be obeyed, thus you're using the words for law and And and then rightly, I'll confess personally, frustratingly to me, you throw in this concept of faith, which is completely vague in in this context. So could you could you flush that out a little bit? Like what do you mean that they put away all this stuff that is true and exemplifies our relationship with God? And just had faith. Could could you just flesh that out a little bit? Like you said, I know it's a dirty question. It is because you say they just had faith but and um That's that's always the issue, isn't it? We're almost back to predestination even in the Old Testament, are we not? How do they get that faith? Can you get that faith yourself? Okay. Well well now that that brings up more questions. It does, and that's because if I'm if I'm the children of Israel and and and my brain just floated with questions, so I might have my chronology wrong, but If if I've seen that at work, I've literally seen it be God has worked among the children of Israel and given the law. I know he gave it because I was there when he handed it down Right. Is it is it just fate or or have I seen what happens when I put away? So it it it's it's faith from a salvation standpoint. Right. Um and now I'm asking myself the question, are the children of Israel after salvation to the to the context? That we are seeking to be saved from sin in the same visible We're not staring at God in the same way and he's saying, Be holy for I am holy and you're a set-aside people. And that's what the children of Israel had, their existence and experience a relationship with God has different contexts and experiences. So I do this because God has carved us out and has given us what we have and has rescued us from Egypt. That's not my experience though. I don't have a a physical Egypt that I'm coming out of. I'm not a carved out people in the same context And so salvation and a life with God, because they don't have a life in Christ, is not the same faith because they've seen Moses come down from a mountain and they've seen the tablets and they've seen serpents on a staff and they've they've had different experiences in that context. So when I bring a great offering and when I bring every other offering and what God is saying to me, it's it's it's not for the same reasons that I confess sin to the same context because I'm confessing sin and faith Because the word is telling me that Christ died for my sins, which I didn't see and it's all in faith. Do you get what I'm saying? Like the context is different So is the same faith lived out for them as it is faith lived out for me, or is it their experience with God Has more tangibility to it. And therefore I live it out in obedience because that's what he's commanded I I think that was a long time. But I think really when you when you listen to what you're saying, I see you participating in your salvation. Yeah. Do you do the the after the cross, do you participate in your salvation? In the saving or the living out Well let's start with Savie. I didn't participate in my salvation. And neither did I No, but are they after salvation? Right. The problem is, and this is Scott never talked about this a little bit, and I said, if God separated all these people, why didn't he save more of 'em? I'm not God, I don't know. Hebrews chapter three. I'm gonna read it again. Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as when they provoked me, as in the day of trial in the wilderness Where your fathers tried me and tested me, and saw my works for 40 years, therefore I was angry with that generation. And said, they always go astray in their heart. They did not know my ways. And I swore my wrath, they shall not enter my breast. Verse 19. Well, let's go with 18. And to whom did he swear they would not enter his rest? But those who were disobedient. So we see they were not able to enter because of it didn't say because of disobedience, because of unbelief Why did Caleb and Joshua say we could take them? The other guys were right. The other spies were right. We got they had no weapons, no nothing. They had chariots in that fortification. In Jericho. No way. You're right. We can't take them. The only way it's going to happen is if God does it. No way. You heard the things. The walls were so thick, right? And so tall they said it was thick they could ride two chariots on the top of the walls. true. But it was big. They weren't going to get it down. They didn't have anything. Again, I I hark always hearken back to it. Go to Genesis 15. How were people saved in the Old Testament? Genesis 15, 6. Paul talks about this all in chapter 4 of Romans. He brings it up again in Galatians 3. James mentions it in chapter 2, is it, right? Show me your works. And he says, Abraham believed God. And it was credited. It was imputed. Same kind of word we use in Romans 5. You know, the imputation of sin. There's also the amputation of righteousness, right? The gift of righteousness in Roman 5. It was a gift Um it's the same thing. It's belief. Yeah. But I guess rather than EQ, I'll just test it. Oh I'm sorry. He had his hand up. Oh no. I'm just I'm I'm letting it all think it's all. I know. And trust me, this is one of the reasons I wanted to go back and read it. What is God telling us Because God is saying, yes, he's telling us a lot about He was giving us a picture and giving them a word picture, an example, a manifestation of and if we really go back and put ourselves there, even with faith, you know, we have to see the holiness of God. Why did Steve Lawson do what he did? Did he not have enough theology? Did y'all hear about him, right? You know who he is? No. I mean Steve Lawson was a a Bible teacher He he was on the doctoral board in master seminary for the doctoral students. He used to work with legionary ministry. The guy was all over Why did he he he had a a uh inappropriate affair with a woman, they said. Okay. Which is nice. I mean we don't need the dirt, right? You know what happened This was a few years ago, right? No! This was just the other day. Yeah, cool. So I mean it's it's yeah. And I would also contend that Steve Wilson doesn't necessarily have a lack of faith No, I wouldn't either. I would. Why? I would. But there because in every example in every example this one I'm gonna get assertive on And every example of faith in Scripture it is associated with obedience. Saul offered sacrifice because his army was dwindling and we got to six hundred, he just decided he was going to disobey and offer the sacrifice. It wasn't that he didn't believe that he was That sacrifice was there, that God was there, and in some ethereal sense there was faith, but it lacked obedience. Here in the passage in Hebrews 3, there is a direct correlation between disobedience and unbelief. In the two passages in scripture that talk about the four types, one of the reasons I don't remember all five sacrifices. But in the four types of the sacrifices, Psalm 40, 68, and Hebrews 10, 10, 5 through 8, which quote Psalm 40, all of the sacrifices are listed. Well, four, sorry. Um and the quote is the same in every one. You did not desire filling for sacrifices because you desire Or I because what you want is that I desire to do your will, oh my God. Your law is within my heart. Repeated in Hebrews 10, which then tees up Hebrews 11, the Hall of Faith, which brings in the Old Testament faith that the believers had. Faith is trusting in God's goodness and his promises and his presence and his enabling and his sufficiency and completeness and all of those things in such a way that I take the step of obedience even when it doesn't make any sense from a human perspective. Ask me, ask me, let me, let me study Well, I agree with what he said. Let me boil it down to a simple thing Pastor Leek used to say. Pastor Leek said, when somebody sins, it's because of unbelief. Because you for that moment you don't really believe God. You're not believing in him at that moment. You're you at that moment. You're I'm not talking about a loss of faith No, I'm saying he's not believing that God is going if he saw God in front of him and he was ready to uh Well never takes him for this. That would help, wouldn't it? Yes But see faith we walk by faith and not by sight. Okay. And and we and we we look we are forgetful Lawson, let's compartmentalize it, which we do. You were asked a question a long time ago. We were way more. Are we talking about we are mortgage? Morgan. Okay. I wasn't gonna ask I don't know if I was gonna ask the question. I was uh I was gonna uh maybe I was. respond to some of the uh to the question that's not asked and then see to clarify everything. So in Hebrews eleven verse two. Um eleven verse one and two. Uh now faith is the assurance of things hope for conviction of things not seen. or bias, the people of all received their commendation. And we assume that that commendation is the commendation from God. And the faith that I will assume uh that they have from what I've seen in scripture is um faith in who God is, and this is uh something that's repeated I think in many parts of Scripture where uh like in Exodus thirty-four verse five, the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there Or sorry, verse six, the Lord passed before him and proclaimed, The Lord the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. Um Godfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. But who will by no means clear the guilty for sing the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. And that it I'll be quick and then I'll let you speak. But that to me was the essence of that the thing I was looking for out of this. The fear of God again. He's he is he's got grace, he puts it right up front. He's merciful, he's gracious. What does he say in Ezekiel? He says, Am I happy to to to punish and and to uh you know the wicked no he says wash yourself seek god be restored but i will punish him And never mind, look, we the the thing we need to have even uh in all aspects, we'll if a missionary is being persecuted or or people, they have to have it eternal perspective, that's the only thing that'll take them through that. Why else would you do this? Because you know this is just you know There's a extra there are a finite number of days, seconds, minutes, day months in this life, this body, this moral, this fleshly life, right? But then we just go on to eternity And that's like forever. And you have that in perspective. Right. Yeah, and uh God from what we see just all throughout the Old Testament it's repeated, um God says God's loud. continually. And I think that that's the fact the the source from of of our faith is in the character of God, in his love, and his forgiveness. And even when we see in other places of the Old Testament Uh we can see uh like in Psalm fifty-one, um David talking about sacrifice and he says Uh for you in verse sixteen and fifty one, for you will not delight in sacrifice or of good, and you will not be pleased with the burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken contrite heart, O God. And then Malachi when he is responding to what he sees is the priests polluted offerings. in those offerings because they're not done in space. They're just doing it. Well look what then what they say in one eighty, that we ran that, right? You go, can you bring it down these lane and he says you wouldn't bring them to the governor Yeah. He knows your head. You wouldn't bring him to the king, he'd go, get rid of that guy. Boys, take care of him. And you're doing this to the whole scene. Listen I think we do this too. We forget. My di My faith, when I'm forgetful, I forget. I'm pushing the envelope because I'm not worried about God He's great. And that's what they mean Irving Luther has written a book here recently. He's been talking about it. He's talking about how W loving, you know, we got this loving God, especially now. I think you I think when the persecution comes, you're gonna find out who the real church is. And it's around the corner. These people that are getting into power are not going to tolerate the Bible. No socialistic communistic, we we've thrown it out of the school. It's it's coming. It's we're moving further. And the more socialistic we become, you gotta get rid of the Bible. There's too much animal truth in there Every you go look, it always happens. And it's gonna happen here. Um I I but I think, yeah, I think it's where, you know It's one of those dilemmas. We don't I don't I don't we don't really understand salvation. We don't understand so many aspects that we throw around. We really don't And that's that's what drew me back to looking at this. Yeah, for the record, that's super difficult for that whole discussion, right? I I just love I I Because this is really the point of this. Yeah, right. I'm sorry. No, that's okay. I interrupted you earlier. I I I'm really loving your study and it's so rich and it's so neat. And to cover it with just this thin manure of face was like really insulting to me. But as we progressed, you you you didn't, right? You showed all the depth of faith with the fear of the Lord and the need to believe and the intersection of what's true about God and the trial of my life. You know, just to show the richness of faith as this new covenant that we have in Christ is so satisfying. So thank you very much, Jack. We're really grateful for that. Look, a lot of you guys came to faith and a lot earlier on. Man, I was living like a world. I didn't I was brought out of Egypt. God got me out of slavery I was a before and after. We're going baptism and some of these young kids um Uh I'm like we gotta finish this. There's a couple of points here. Well but there are a couple of big points here. Most holy um We need to look at most holy. The portion of the grain offering, remember if you read this, it went to the priest, right? Uh they put part of it on, they burn it, and the other part went to the priest, and it was most holy. Um And again, I don't want to just throw out a bunch of Hebrew terms to it. It's uh uh Kadash, I believe it is. The the point is um uh They, well, here's the quote I got from Exodus 26, 34. Then put the ark's cover, the place of atonement on top of the ark. of a covenant inside the most holy place. Same thing. What they do is they repeat the word and the Hebrew likes to do that. It's kadash, kadash, right? And it's it's different forms, you know what I mean? Could it be a I I'm not a grammarian, okay? I'm not. I I I know enough to get in trouble. And I know enough i it was good. They taught me enough uh uh to know when some of these Bible commentators are pushing the envelope. Some of them do that. Uh it's like you don't know the grammar. You you're this is not uh you're wrong. Uh but he repeats it. And I like if you look at this um Uh I I quoted the New Living Translation. They got it right. It's not the mercy seat There's no seat in that. Uh we talked about that. We looked at Kafar, atonement. It's it's uh Kapur, uh Day of Atonement, and and it's the same route. There's no mercy seat, it's place of atonement. And uh, but it's also the most holy place. Some of the verdicts would have Holy of Holies, right? Think about it. This is a picture I want you to get. That there this this this is the identification. Now I'm I'm pushing this. Maybe they didn't see it But that individual, it's not the priest, the individual is bringing this greening offering. He gives it to the priest The priest burned some of it and the rest of his grains that this little guy brought is most holy Kadash, Kadash, which and he knows what's in that tabernacle, that most holy place, and only the priest can go in there. So th there's this identification that they're they're getting or possibly could have gotten. It's important. God wants to bring us into these most holy places. He brings them close to it. We'll see this next week in chapter 3 is brought out. Remember, they ke it isn't like the sanctuary, we can just show up. They had to be cleaned. They had to bring a sacrifice. They weren't they were allowed in Somebody it had to have a substitute. They were it it was showing you're a sinner. You can't come in and have a substitute. You're not holy. And so get this thing, keep rolling and rolling. This was played out in everything they did. You're clean, you're unclean, you're holy, you're unholy. These scenes and they were getting this. I think we've lost a lot of that. We've got that grace thing going on. God is love. He'll forgive me. Um I think it was the main thing we want you to see You know obviously Romans, uh uh I have a you know Romans twelve one, uh be not being conformed to this world, be transformed, or newly it's your sacrifice, right? Um which is your spiritual service of worship. Um I think that was the the main point. Oh so If you take anything away, this grain was a minca, it was a tribute, it was a present, he was bringing it to his sovereign king. The holy king. Alright? Um most holy? They saw saw that. Um It's also a memorial. It's a these practices, these sacrifices, these rituals were a memorial. They would be reminded Um we forget. If you have any questions on that, those of you had notes, can you bring them next week? I thought I was hoping we'd start this. And you can look over these notes and then you can challenge you know what I mean. Uh not challenge me so