Uh through obedience to the law, through the realization, Lord, that they are separate. But remember, they are approaching the the and it's it's kind of uh I don't really we don't really understand it, but he's they're approaching the Shekinah glory of God. And then if you look at Leviticus, you go back and you're reading it ever some time. We don't bog down in all of this, all the detail for how you should isolate, uh but but think about it It's made me think of of big picture uh kind of things. And that may give people a better understanding. And when they had these peace offerings, that was a another beautiful thing, a sacrifice that was brought up. And what it does is it's kind of bringing them in a kind of a word picture or a you know an actual event to their their closeness, their relationship with God. They cannot go to the tabernacle. On the eighth day, the restitution of the cured man back into the covenant was completed by complete sacrifice, a certain ritual anointing. It was the same thing he did when he when he bought the priest into so uh uh it's a major uh thing. And that's what a lot of those blood sacrifices were. But it's just a separation from God. It's it's it's this wholeness and and unholeness when we're where you have uh sin uh we have diseases or e even we're gonna look at this with with uh uh And again, uh uh I don't know where you were because I you came in, but I was telling them, remember the the ones that were sinful were outside the camp. Uh you know, I'm out there you can take and uh do with this what you want, okay? I see this is a great big school. It's a it's a broad term. Again, he's still it's old testament law, that's what they had to do. It's important to note the Old Testament sufferer had no human intervention for the disease, and this should have caused him to seek a creator God for his healing. And again, if you think about it, these are all natural functions. Uh the man who had a seminal this is verses sixteen through eighteen the man who had a seminal omission was declared unclean until evening, and to wash his whole body with water, wait till evening before he was clean There was no sacrifice that had to be offered, no guilt associated with this condition, right? With the sexual lack between man and his wife, this axe makes them unclean until baiting, waiting till evening There is no guilt sin associated with this. If the man and the woman had intercourse while she is in a menstrual cycle, the man shall be unclean seven days. It's who he is. You can fill in the details. Thank you for your creation. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the grace that we know who you are. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you so much for your blessing, for your grace, for your mercy. uh what we kind of discovered is that we're in the midst of uh Leviticus. Okay, they were still making sure that they were totally clean and that the disease so I mean you talk about a separation, um so the Yeah, it was a reparation. And that's what this is. I pay a reparation to God, but I pay a I I pay the first thing you do if it's against somebody, you pay that person back, which I think is really cool. It's a separation. It's gonna melt. Male discharges are long term which are cleansed by sacrifice, short term which are cleansed by time and water. And someone else find Leviticus 20, 18 and read those verses. And she has exposed the flow of her blood. That's a good question. They did have those who were again separate them to the true believer. And Lord, that's the message you have uh taught us. 'Cause a lack of faith. To me it's a foundation for the holiness of God. Leviticus. We see that in the New Testament. Um thank you. were obviously under the new covenant, not the old. And they go through kind of the same thing. In other words, they start offering the sacrifices. to Patan in a way is passed off to Aaron, the high priest. Okay, it's starting eating the animals, right? from from people, but you could not go to the tabernacle in that condition. There was s there's so many uh aspects that God is putting in here. you know, the ultimate level. we've talked about that. you know, all kinds of remedies to try and clean people. He doesn't deal with theology, he deals with truth. There he believed there was a God, even though he didn't know God, because he realized through his um his discovery that, you know, time, space, and matter had a beginning And when I really thought about that, think about somebody as Einstein who has who has mathematically comprehended that. Common people who didn't have that, they were lucky that you know they had manna. I'm holy, I'm separate. I'm in the middle of uh chapter 14. uh I really didn't quite comprehend. They were called unclean. Which I talk about. When people are separated th this is a a a it's it's a d it's a kind of a twofold thing. So the blood from the sacrifice smeared on the right ear, the thumb, the toe, and he was consecrated as the priests were. We don't think of that as being cleansed, right? So, you know, again, it's practical, it's it's hygienic, people were put outside the camp, but is he separate I mean he He's separated from God. I have a question. Remember they put that the blood on the ear, uh the the the the right ear, the right thumb, the right toe. But if you want to get to the sanctuary, you've got to be sanctified, right? Pivotal point. Then he moves to the houses. They're gonna be occupying the land and what are they gonna do? You're gonna you're gonna be have crops and houses and things you didn't build because they're gonna take over the land. Genesis fifteen, right? Uh again it's just a sin of living here on earth. With all of these things he's he's he's letting the people know their separation from from the of their sin and it's not It it's separate. So yeah, I mean you say, yeah, he chose us. And this is this is my theology, so you can put put out on a limb, so you can saw it off if you want I think God's plan was and this is where I'm out there. Well God w you know, why does God come down as a man, anointing one? So obviously, right, we knew he he he had to know they were gonna fall, right? They had to cleanse the house because there were molds in there. I assume back then a lot of people would probably let this stuff go, you know. Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I will be clean. Uh again, when he s when he recognized that all this he didn't like it. Uh in the New Testament, the term for leper is lepros. That you say nothing to anyone, excuse me, but go show yourself to the priests, offer the gift that Moses commanded for approval to them. the sanctuary now because they have this nice big sanctuary that Herod built uh uh so he could he could go in there. Healed him. Eternal. Uh when you think about the revelation that they have and the revelation we have now on the other side of the cross. Because of the impurities of the people and the things in sin, curse, fallen world, the tabernacle must be cleansed of defilement of the people in order to maintain the ability to approach the presence of the Lord. Altar of incense, right? But it's separate from God. You're going about life as it is, this is separate from God. You know, store for yourself treasures in heaven. You know? So and this is the court I wanted to get to. atonement. of seminal discharge. If we're going to define blood as as life or say included seminal discharge of the sperm and the eggs as light, that that during this time is is considered unclean Uh Mel was telling a story about um well not a story, it's a a woman in the church who had childbirth. Unholeness. The leprosy, all these laws concerning not particularly sin, but from the unholeness aspect pointing to Christ, pointing to He being that It's like when I'm looking at these two great contrasts of a person that is clean in every sense and a p person that's what? Abraham believed that he could even raise the dead. Heavenly Father, uh thank you so much for this time. He gave us that revelation. And it's and it's not just you can have an intellectual faith, but then there's a faith where I know what's going to happen, right? You have revealed so much. seek uh heaven, Lord, which is really uh the ultimate um uh position for us to see you in Goes to the different sacrifices and really the sacrifices are are a revelation of what Christ did for us And we'll look at this today in fourteen because um but there there's a burnt offering which is a substitute. We c we we accept we accept that by faith. one of them, a sin offering. rose on the third day, but it pointed to that. We see that. did not abide by the the rules, they offered uh sacrifice in a way that God didn't command it. You can't come to me on your terms. And and we'll unpack that again today. Childbirth, God tells man, right, to uh uh subdue the earth, to uh fill the earth, uh to uh uh uh right, to have children. And yet we see childbirth, after childbirth, the woman is unclean. Okay, not leprosy as we know it today proper. Uh it's God who who also ultimately heals. Uh the thought just kinda occurred in my mind. uh theology and all that until they agree on the truth. The people get healed because God ultimately is in control of it. Are things perfect here, you know what I mean? So what does this have to do with with uh because if you think about it, if God created everything, he's in control of it all. Okay. was really worship and it was voluntary. The person slaughters it, but he gives it to the priest, and the priest now, the mediator between God and that person These rituals parallel the final ordination ritual of Leviticus 8 and 9. it almost represented you're out of the community now until and and some of these people, remember, if they had a really bad skin disease, this is the one thing we really to declare them clean. Uh this all stems back to uh uh Exodus nineteen, Mount Sinai where they made the covenant with the people. their covenant relationship with the sovereign God. tribe leaders, things like that. You had to follow his rules. of the restored man to the altar. Reunited uh with the covenant community, he was able to offer the required sacrifices the Lord commanded Israel. the the categories. God's on the mountain and remember and the mountain's shaking. Right? fifteen and be done. 'Cause I always went to Ephesians chapter two. the foundation of the world. P uh an aspect that he told us to do. this procreation. And again, this is just my thinking. the the the cursed this period of where we have this cursed world that is going to uh expire, we're gonna have this new a new creation, this old creation itself is the temporary. His saints. So they had to look at it if it spread, uh they they cleaned the ha house all up, they re plastered it. Well I forget, I don't know about you, but I forget that he is in control. Let's see the Old Testament person uh with a disease of the cure of the ailment can only wait and hope that God would heal him It's amazing how we unless God comes and and intervenes, we're blind. Now if you can comprehend that, how could he not be in control of all that is in existence? Again, they we have 2020 vision, or at least a lot clearer vision than them. sail through chapter fifteen. And it's it points to Christ. We want to do it our way. cleansing those uh who were healed, lepers, uh, of uncleanness and the material objects, houses that were infected with fungi God is revealing the means by which the people will return to his presence through his grace and sanctification and atonement. Uh again with with the Day of Atonement, that one time they went in to the Holy of Holies, right? Right? Uh but look, I'd say like two alright, so verses two through eighteen you got male discharges. But it's it's in the context, uh virtually all of them agree. Which is really kind of the pinnacle of this whole thing. Transient, intercourse, tr uh male, now female, same thing. This form of Hebrew writing is used to show unity of a double-sided event. But yet they are not clean. Okay, and again it's that big picture. of the sexes finds its most profound expression in the act of sexual intercourse. For it unites the law of the male discharges and the female discharges. Focusing as they do on the unity of mankind in two sexes. The unity and interdependence of the sexes find its most profound expression in the act of sexual intercourse, for fittingly this discusses verse 18, the midpoint of the literary structure. These two verses is prohibited and treated as sin. sexual relation maybe they're you know but if it was unintentional during the m menstrual time, uh God said no. It's what he always pointed to. You know, beyond that, it's it's a life in the blood. But a lot of things he doesn't. sacrifices animals, it was that that substitute life that died for that person, their sin, that was what cleansed the altar. uh you know it's a natural thing. you know, a healthy body. picture of well that to fight is Christ. that we try to put our minds in here I am in Leviticus, this is who I am. And especially with some of the things that Abraham and some of the other people in in Hebrews uh eleven, right? I don't know how, as much as in other words, God is pointing to again, look at the big picture. Okay, the whole w the whole world is separate from the holiness of God. of things. Lord, let us move forward into this time of corporate worship. skin imperfections and stuff like that. uh that we have and uh to come to the realization how separate we are from a holy God. Lord, the perfect sacrifice, not an animal, but uh of human blood, Lord. Uh and the different sacrifices really have different a aspects to it. uh Lord that that we realize that uh even in this laws we uh we were discussing this morning Lord that um uh you're revealing Lord to me uh pre present, face to face, to see you as you are. It was Christ's substitute for us. In the verb form, it can mean purification, even in the lexicon. It's a different economy than we have today. Their their revelation, their faith that they believed in was obviously not near as complete as ours. the the different rituals in order for them to approach now remember this the Shekinah glory God's presence was manifested during this time in that tabernacle A different economy, but God doesn't change in his holiness. uh uh anointed and the sacrifices go into uh production, so to speak Put it in a context. This you could not go uh in this condition before well you were isolated, it was a hygienic thing W you know, if you think how people are with their untruth, I mean so here's the people that's being trained, right? 14 is really the cleansing of these skin conditions. But that was the one time through this whole sacrificial system when they give is and it's described in there, when they give the meat, when the meat is sacrificed, okay handles the rest of it. And and the representation there because of the altar and everything else it's holy, it's separate. But I have, God says, I have provided the way back. And it was a sacrificial wood. The visitors, uh what we found, we if you look at the meal offering, it doesn't say meal. The king. Purification offering. can be uh is a translation. Then you go to God. uh agree with. Dedicated the guy was smeared on the right ear, the thumb, the toe, and cured the man uh and poured over his head. defiled the sanctuary. uh any type of omissions uh from the body uh make us unhole. all the of all the types of offerings are made because the the guilt offering is made, the burnt offering is made, the sin offering is made and and and even what we just saw a second ago holy so we we can uh uh worship at the altar. He's allowing us to approach him. Uh Mary he told him uh what was it four hundred years he gave 'em? So this is just the cleansing of the houses. But they are while there is an omission uh for a time after the woman gives birth, she cannot come to the sanctuary. in Christ, right? We we in heaven is there gonna be any no God is the creator. you know, uh any of this was visible. So even though their houses is again a fast forward through fourteen Uh it was a broader term. sp uh sacrifice thing, two birds were still sacrificed, even for the house. It's gotta be any re you know, and whatever you define God as, it's it's an eternal being with power to cause everything to come into existence. This here's here's the outline with this and it's uh I will uh just kind of show you because we'll talk about this. And and I think it's um uh I'll uh uh uh it's in the the text and and one of them really points this out, the uh com one of the commentators 2-12 is long term. or, you know, uh something was was uh uh again it's like a disease. There is a thing and and he g and he s and he says this uh um a verse that that's that's kind of a peg for this one of the you know, there's certain verses and uh of books that This is kind of a peg here. For the life of the flesh is in the blood. You know, you see this all the time. I say it and re repeat it. Um I wouldn't go I'd be careful about going that far. um as it's not undue a you know portion of life. We draw as a conclusion. transfused her, eventually she died. Ultimately it points to death. This is not our home. That's where things will be pure and clean and holy and that's why God's presence is there. If I have a skin disease or or even a burn that gets infected, that's not good. maybe looking at that divide, like that picture of it not being our home, like this this world system is not our home. who is fallen in the fallen world, unhole, in need of the atonements, right, to be before his kingdom. No. He believed, but what did he believe? uh but he's the ultimate substitute. None of it was was used. Well, not always, but there they it says there were there could have been consequences for those people that that did approach it in in a in a bad manner. natural causes. molecular and everything else, that God created us. It seems as though, and it doesn't really flesh this out, but it seems as though the elders or the family heads, especially when you bring in animals And it and if it's a it's a serious thing, uh so it here we are in in um uh Exodus fourteen, ten through thirty-two, and this is uh kind of a summary. uh plus what is it, twenty percent, twenty five percent, whatever. leave leave the uh sanctuary, go pay your debts, you know what I mean? And um the ones that I mentioned here seem the the commentators, it's kind of a broad cat or it's a kind of a category that they they You know, oil oftentimes represents a spirit, the spirit of God. The the sin of the uh canites, the prezzites and the disites, the a the ice, the ice, you know seem to talk about. Verse 3. The chapter concerns re uh this chapter concerns uh reproductive uh uncleanness. Uh I'm not sure, but but i that that is the topic here. The structure of this chapter puts emphasis on the unity, the topics, the subject discussed, the discharge of the sexual organs of male and female are presented in chiastic form Uh let's see. Are we right? God's nature of just being complete in every sense. killer of that great device. revelation does God give them? Right? this time period and what was so you okay, right. um assume we know. divide is more so a fuller picture of the problem. You can't go there. And they don't get it. Aye. They had to be brought all the way back into the community. And again, an old remember, it Mount Sinai, chapter nineteen really is the is again the So this next section, not going to spend a lot of time with it, but but think about it. move towards the initiation for the priest to start offering the sacrifices. And behold, a leper, this is uh behold, a leper came to him and knelt before him, saying, Lord, if you will make me clean, uh if you will, you can make me clean. terrible with varieties. C here, which would be sexual intercourse, is kind of the pit. Because I'm running out of time. Yes. Again, this leprous condition, it's a skin condition, whatever it is, it keeps them from the community. So the purification for the cleansing of the sanctuary, the burnt offering for reconciliation with God represented rededication of life gonna bring us back, but it you know it's his way again. Let me see what I want to do with this. The majority of these people were non-believers, right? I don't know. It's the priest didn't do it. Maybe you couldn't give the tithes or you couldn't give the offering, you couldn't worship. For the priest and everything. So obviously he knew people were going to fall, right? And then um how that aligns with God chose us before the foundation of the world. Form and content here complement each other to express the idea that God created man in his own image. So whether they saw Christ as a bridge, I don't know, but they to me the faith was. Unfortunately I like to keep key I we gotta go. Um is uh postcard of how the camps were set up at this time and how the tabernacles in the bit in the middle of Then we have Christ. And it's a huge thing. I mean uh but I can be concrete about I know that God revealed certain things from Hebrews eleven because he told them. You can't if you say he's part of this world. And I'm I'm worried about going off in this, but uh you know, w as I was thinking about this, I was thinking about uh But it it here's an interven intervention where God and in the and the uh person of a man touched him and healed him It's easy to get in this world where we're in the world but not of the world, you know. My gist and I might be putting some words in there, but ye but really if you look at that's the stages that they're coming back to. Fir what is it, Second Peter? He said as much. And he put the blood on there. We we we know how they uh went astray from God. Yes. Ultimately God heals. Yes. Yeah, 156. A number of people in the Old Testament went through the rituals but they really didn't believe. Yeah, I mean the the you're talking two million people. Okay. Remember God's on the mountain up there, right? We are the ones that are you know, and that's what this is that's what this uh this world system's doing, yeah. And and what is uh what is it what is uh diseases and unholeness point to? Sorry, just for clarity. I either lost ya or you kind of have a grip of where we're going Mm-hmm. And that's why I think this this uh was so elaborate. But but again, w w w what what what what revelation did God give them in their minds? Faith is a gift. That's what the covenant is. The reparation offering is sought perhaps to compensate God for sacrifices, tithes, first fruits which a man had been unable to pay while unclean I mean, that's huge, right? Could be right, but we could also be wrong. If we want to be in his presence, we have to be according to his holiness, not ours. There's a spiritual side to it too. Think about it. Um there's a reparation to God alone as a reparation if uh trespass against somebody I don't know if you talked about this, but um do the commentators make any comments on why for cleansing the levers Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Here's the picture that the commentators agree on when you said something about death. They didn't go outside the camp. Uh so the oil represented the union um with God. All the and again, big picture. Mm-hmm. So for what and what they knew that they I there's no way they saw a pic perfect picture of Christ. Aga again he's he's screaming at us that this world is not our home. But who really created the the the baby in the womb? And verse 2018, does anybody have that? When Israel sinned, they they they um uh the altern the sanctuary needed to be cleansed from the people's sin. Just as he chose him before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before him. Why would he why would there even be a Christ, anointed one? He healed, not merely declared the the sufferer clean, right? So review, right? Where the prayers go up. What do I really want to take you to? It's a foundation for what Christ's work is. It's really a purification. He takes some of that meat, but he he uh during the peace offer peace offering, the meat, some of the meat is offered back to the individual They don't understand. Think about unclean people uh th that's a state where we're we're we're even uncommon, right? He goes, I'd rather prefer that this belt was eternal, but it wasn't. It's the light that's in the blood. Um sorry, I'm trying to grapple with this image of our unholiness. You can speculate, okay? Leviticus 1, that was performed. Again, God doesn't spell this out in his word, so uh you know, you can't take it as uh like a hard doctrine. When he made that covenant in Genesis fifteen with Abraham, he says, Yeah, you're going to get the land, but the sin of all these people is not yet complete. Uh not Ephesians two. It meant really a lot of s uh skin diseases. It and it could mean scaly, scabby, rough, leprous skin. And it's a it's kind of a mnemonic thing, but it also ties and and w and it's in the the notes, but it kind of ties things together. But I mean we're talking broad categories here, okay? But there was also a reparation to God. He's teaching them about remember, and this is he's really looking forward, right? This is one of them. It's it's a it's a peg for this whole book. You are not going to see God until we are totally glorified. There's so much we don't know. And this is a big point to think about because uh you know I and I kinda get off But here I am with all these sacrifices. Christ appears. And and he's he's pointing that out. This is not even our world. Okay? It's uh uh with people in chapter in First Corinthians eleven where people took the uh uh the sacrifice or the uh Chapter 13, we start to look at leprosy. These people made a covenant with the living God, but it was the same kind of covenant. Absolutely. There's a unity that's in in implied here. God, you give grace to even those who will never know you as Lord and Savior. And that's that's what all this blood says represents, cleansing that altar. Mm-hmm. Christ's blood. Is he saying that because it was life that's dead, that's unc it's unclean. And we can draw that inference, but it is just that. Pagan societies, what were they trying to do? And then there was a process and they came back in and even when they came back in, they came back inside the camp. And it was a you made a covenant. It kind of reminds you of the one uh, you know, if you have a if you trespass against somebody, you know Uh this is oftentimes called the sin offering. I think this whole world system was a temporary situation. But we live in jars of clay. I don't know. That would be not the way God's mind does originally you know, just like saying manager cycles. So we went to death of the burnt offering. We have to be glorified. And then you have the the uh ordination, the initiation of sacrifice. He told us he he allowed us, he allowed people to be part of So it would just be like A, B, yeah, and then maybe it really doesn't do it, but you know, let's just say almost Come back now. The the carcass it was uh um uh not that did not go up to the Lord in in a pleasing manner, was taken outside the camp, the whole thing was a substance. It didn't have anything to do with us. The uh uh the priest, what the priest's obligation was, what their responsibility was in the sacrifice, and then you have the uh priest being uh It it's it's the world we live in. Christ is the ultimate atonement for all of this. But they had faith. And that's a the question we always have to answer. Heavens and earth's gonna be new heavens and a new earth. Thus both of them shall be cut off from among their people. God doesn't say there are types in the Old Testament where God says this is the type. But if that blood continues, it's a problem, is it not? Okay, so so taking a step back, not so putting myself in the context of the the It has to point to that. It's much bigger than our minds think it. We look at that a lot. When writes it is most appropriate device to employ these particular laws So you have one through eight, you've got all of this, the consecration uh of the priesthood. Which what are animals that are clean and unclean? They can't uh worship there. So all the mandatory sacrifices are incorporated here. It it is to purify something. They he also uh uh cleansed the um uh We live in a world that's separate from God. It is most appropriate that the sexual union between a man and his wife is described here. They're gonna be living in houses that they didn't build, right? I'm kind of tracking with you because yeah, uh go ahead. Yeah. Right. Remember when he was going to sacrifice Isaac. They had to be holy to even approach it. Another thing that you all didn't realize or didn't weren't exposed to, there is an idea the commentators see We see him in bodily form. So yeah, I that's what I'm my take is. I think it wa it had to it seems to me it had to and again it seems to me I'm using logic so They were living outside the camp and whatever means that was. But he chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. Ultimately. Uh female discharges, okay? Uh do not think on uh uh worldly things, think on things above. He was really talking about having a child. That's why we I mean, we've y all of grace allows us to see that. I mean, uh and and this is the king uh uh king of kings, right? We think of making dirt you know, boiling on the altar is dirty. It was a sin of the the nation Israel that that uh Leviticus 11 dealt with unclean foods. They they they must wash their bodies, wait till evening before they're cleansed. So it's it's unholeness. It's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen. These are the terms I'm giving you to cleanse yourself, to come before me. Um I was re uh I remember going through uh I don't have enough faith to be an atheist and w the reason I liked it so much is because the first thing he talks about in that book is is The date m the number of my da uh you knew the number of my days before there even was one. He cleansed everything. And we and I talk about this a little bit, you know. And that's the problem. What is truth? These people were outside the camp. They fell in the wilderness. Uh it opens more questions oftentimes, and that's good because we need to meditate on your word. The communion in an unworthy manner and some of them are were died. They had to go to a priest to see he's clean. And so is that like I guess I'm just trying to grapple with that essentially as we're looking at the the fluids, the And Lord we look we look and uh we uh pray for and we It's always been by faith. And again, it makes sense. This whole world system was a temporary thing from the get go. But here's the thing, and this is what we tried to do. Um because if you look in the context, uh and even even sometimes the verb, uh uh the i it's a word for sin. This is uh unfortunately we started this last week with the uh the people over here. The first one is interview. Abraham. Uh no, the priest declared 'em clean. You know, we're we're cleansed by the blood. You know, it's not the sprinkling of the blood again is that on the altar when they are when they So we have these different sacrifices. We're going into the holy presence of God. It would include that, but it wouldn't it would be scabs, boils, even a burn that that's would got that could get infected There were mandatory times they had to bring a peace offering, but it was it was voluntary Remember what I told you. Ephesians chapter two, everybody goes, Yeah, yeah, it's predestination for for people. He's bringing people, he's bringing a body, uh right? It's cleansed by a sacrifice. Until we're glorified, we c we don't come back. I mean chimp w ch women having childbirth didn't do anything wrong. Ephesians 1. Does s anybody out of uh Leviticus eighteen nineteen? Leviticus seventeen uh seven. I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your soul. You are God and we are creatures. Then we hit another section. There was nothing. Uh I don't know what their thinking was during that time. And so it's hard to s you know uh again it's not doctrine. Abraham, again, Genesis 15, 6. Uh the essence they still had to believe the revelation that God was revealing to them. Even in the wilderness, right? You know, we tal we talk about natural causes and that kinda reminds me of evolution. Okay, it was a common coveted thing for for the people. You remember that. It's what the sacrifice did for us, prepared the way for us, the bridge to come into a relationship with God. And uh He he works different ways through through different eras. I mean g again, you have unclean Number one, he's training the people in a pagan land with a lot of them, what is clean and unclean, what is hygienic and what isn't hygienic. 'Cause that's what we think, you know, whether is no truth. You you even in your natural form, even though you've done nothing wrong Question. Nobody was clean by the priests. Um doctors do the work, right? It there was a relationship. And then remember, God comes down to the tabernacle. If the molds were deep, I mean it's infectious. These bodies don't stay healthy very well. You know, and we forget that with modern medicine and everything else. It's like me going out on a limb and you know I you know, that's why I feel compelled to tell you this. We have a relationship with you. But we don't know. He's talking about the male and female sex organs, okay? Are they not? Yeah. I'm up against the wall. And even today w we tend to forget that because we're we're so advanced in medicine. I mean they put blood on the ear, blood on the thumb, blood on the toe, same thing you did with with the priest to to consecrate them, bring them back in I know, so I put them all in there. And that covenant inv uh uh oftentimes, especially if it was a leader, it was it was it was a suzerain, a ruler These people were taken outside the camp. The other one they weighed outside the camp and hopefully, you know, God They're cleansing the tabernacle because the people sinned defiled. I mean it's it's perished in a sense. And so and that's where it comes with the dilemma. And even w even you know, uh it seems like the clan heads were were really the representative for 'em The meal or dedication offering. But it's really A, B, then it goes B A. They're grace. I mean he knew we were gonna fall. So you're saying for them it's more so that May we praise you and honor you and throughout the week, moment by moment. Lord, but we realize through this book we have to be glorified to enter that. Because you can't talk to people about God and Yes. But you did have, you always had a remnant. And and that's what we're seeing all through this Leviticus. Okay? They're it's uh they're not they have to be cleansed first You live in a world really that i in this time and space that's separated from God. And God sanctifies us to become He said their p sin is not complete. The life is in the blood. The world as we know it is not going to be here eventually. Abram believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. They would have incantations, magic things, uh Now if you want to do it on your own, which is what the world wants to do, it's not going to work, right? Right? Don't make it sp too specific. How are people saved in the Old Testament's faith? Well why didn't he heal this? It's to cleanse it. Okay, so the the leprosy, fungi, the disease was in the person And if you could think of what Einstein must have thought or or realized Lord, for opening our eyes to uh your salvation and even this word. First it was all the all the the method and the responsibility for the individual, what his participation was in the sacrifices. Leprosy is a broad term. The universe is expanding. He was uh let's see. We all go speak speaking to the choir here. It's it's uh but yeah, hey what's what you what's gonna happen to the world? You can see how much we use Greek in some of the other languages, but a lot of words just translated. If there is a man who lies with a menstrual one that uncovers her nakedness, he has laid bare her flow. But Lord, the ultimate uh bridge, the ultimate uh uh bringing us into holiness, Lord, was uh s obviously through your Son. It can't? And and the best the commentators come up with, it's kind of like, well, during the time that you were separated from God But if you also look, this is if you you know, and I'm not gonna spend a time with it, we're gonna fast forward because I want to get to Why would he choose us in Christ before It's not wholeness, right? All those sacrifices I think I know what you mean but I just Well if he chose us before the foundation of the world in Christ, he obviously had a plan for us for our Christ, the anointed one. So it's male discharges, okay? I quoted Wendham here. Which is why, you know, w we see so many times, this is not our home We don't know what revelation they had, but we do know the revelation that It's a foundation for the holiness of God. Psalm one thirty nine, right? He's omniscient. He's gotta cleanse it. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. Form and content here complement each other to express the idea God created man in his own image, male and female created them. So we're where Think about just thinking think again, the other big picture That is our problem. Anything unhol or blemished could not approach the tabernacle. Uh uh he he na he he knocked it down, you know, instead of paying like if you're a thief you had to pay double what you stole. And one day we're going to see him face to face. These people are outside the camp. He has to redeem man. Um and you keep referring to I don't know nothing about the future, right? It's not well let me go through this and and I'll and I'll uh I it it needed to be healed. Um so we're already specifically cycle menstruation and then Uh there is um Oh you see that all tr through out past uh this Um obviously Nadab Mabihu He didn't he he he was not a believer. This is a picture of God through his son going outside the camp. A unity with male and female, right? Uh sexual union? We we the first part of the book We went through different offerings. It's kinda like you had a debt you had to pay to God New Testament. And there's gotta be a cause. And all these diseases they're letting the people know, again, it it's a s it's the age old story. Transient uh intercourse, long term. But this separated him from entering the presence of God. But you see how it is? So mm again, there are if it's a chronic disease, you know, and he talks about He was old. All those different sacrifices were first for the people They're a means for you to come to me. But look at the difference. That's a big thing. Just and be aware of that. It points to death. What'd he do? Yeah, it happens. Okay? Now he can go back into the community and to Twelve with uncleanness of childbirth. Look at it that way. And that's really kind of what Um Lord, he was our substitute as the the animals were the substitute for those When that person brought that thing to uh the sacrifice to the altar, the blood was sprinkled on the altar. Um so again, uh God kinda it's look at God as cleansing it No, no, you know Had an Abraham w I mean obviously God put in his mind in Hebrews it said God Is it a real quick one? So and that's what it does. And we don't really see a whole lot of detail in in that of what these people's existence was. From the from the plan. It's fallen cursed, if that's what you you know, and there is that aspect of it It's it's his life. Well what we really know is what God has revealed to me The majority of 'em fell. Chapter 12 is is childbirth They're gonna move the uh It was a plan all along, was it not? I think this whole world to me And very fittingly this is discussed in 18, the midpoint of the literary structure. That person could die. They had in other words, to give up this world you gotta believe there's something else And this is this is to bring the person back in. They take it to be a meal offering just from the context. Ephesians 2 is the enemy. Any questions, any thoughts for we It has to be that way, not for us, because Uh so then we turn the page and then we we're we go we uh in chapter eleven they talk about clean foods and unclean foods. But again, this word in the verb form And by the way, it it mentions uh flesh Again, it's a natural thing, but in uh you know, it doesn't make male or fem you know, male superior or female inferior. Because God opens up the heart and the mind for somebody to believe. And if they weren't then um They didn't see Jesus dying on a cross, buried Why didn't he you know? And that's and when we discussed that because we said well how the two million people, not everybody's bringing sacrifice. If it was really a bad disease and it and it spread Uh and and if so don't look at it as a sin So again, this chapter addresses uncleanness of sexual organs in male and female organs. Because the peace offering Because they're in the wilderness Verses 16 to 17 is transient. They went through an elaborate thing to bring this leper, this one with this disease, back into the community Same same kind of uh it's the same idea It didn't mean necessarily a leper proper, you know, with with the disease we now know today as leprous skin If somebody is bleeding So we don't need to try to stop these unholeness. Ah and so again, who who w what does that point to? We tried to put our and this is We want to be God They understood it. But it was it was it was to cleanse the altar. That's what he told Abraham and uh It's not. Um but uh He he judged them. Now the man was re uh It's it's it's separate from him Uh these chapters illuminate the meaning and purpose of the Day of Atonement, chapter 16 Cut off. Wholeness is is the w A God. What they knew, we don't I you know, we have to be careful about speculating. He was going to get older before he still had one. And he talked about Einstein and how Einstein really came to the the uh When you see those of you who are If you were to trespass against somebody you had to uh offer a sacrifice but you also had to repay that person. That's what the commentators look at. It's just uh it's profound, it's deep, it's unfathomable It's a total the whole animal was totally burnt They had to be brought back into the covenant. You're right when you said that It could be it for any disease And that's kind of where we're going to pick up where we left off last week. It's expanding into what? I mean If if they came back they had to destroy the house. Christ There's a uh your your Bible calls the Uh uh, even on that level. Sometimes it just is for some folk can see It's uh we see this today. Uh is that the right one? And that's what God's pointing to. These covenants were made all the time. So the person's being cleansed here. Um It's almost like they're coming all the way back into the covenant covenant community. His his body, his church Okay, we're talking about New Testament or Old Covenant and the New Covenant Now it's transient. Uh uh it's uh it's only if it if you kinda again you went to the kind of disease uh Excuse me. God tells man to uh again be fruitful and multiply You know, I yeah, I d again that's speculation I d and I wouldn't God has given him that gift and he comprehends it and he realizes that all this and he g and he understands at a level And these people get to share in that. And it's because of the people's sins. All those rules in one through eight that were Yeah y in m you form my inward parts, you know, in my mother's womb before It had to be from the plan. Again, just my thinking. He healed it. Now tell you what, somebody find me Leviticus 1819 And it talks about they were looking a lot of 'em were looking to a future. That's grace. Ooh, it and why would why would um childbirth be s uh Who's the cause? Um The man shall be unclean seven days. I do. They did not go into the promised land Might be the surgery or whatever, but who heals the body? It's what he's pointing to. God who is complete in the world. We are created. God told 'em to do that Now he's moving And he knew this before the foundation of the world And Jesus said to him, Remember, in And and it happens even today. But in general that's that's what they look at with this the pr The priests declare them clean. Uh the blood spray now this is kind of what they see as symbolism uh for these acts. Uh the blood symbolized uniting. Remember he did that when he consecrated? Remember those phrases? I know. So Christ, what do I know about him? Lord, you do provide a way though. It's a it's a Why Well, we c we can wrestle with that later. I thought he had some really good Again, now you're looking at going outside the camp again. I I was just gonna ask, how are these things unfold? So uh it it still goes today. And when you think about it, uh Everybody familiar with that? It's it's it's a typical Hebrew thing, it's it's a chiasm We know that from Revelation. God is pointing to this world Same as today. Uh uh if it's contagious, and even if it isn't contagious, until they're healed, they You obey Everybody knows. Yes, it works, but ultimately God heals it. God created them God created man. We're we there's a gap there. They couldn't stop the bleeding after the childbirth. He's moving closer. So I mean it's this whole process we're moving closer to it. He didn't like it that God, that the universe was not Regarding the the discharges, is it because that Probably they're they're probably thinking about uh Okay, you want to read it? No. You know, we see it all throughout uh scripture. I'm wondering though, like, would it be I guess where my mind is going is that That's when you know the spirit's working inside of you Yes, we did we are temporary here. The female discharges are less in reverse order, the males, right? I don't know how else to say it. That is part of God's design of us. Uh And it seems harsh So this meal offering is really it's a dedication, it's it's a recommitment to that covenant. Male and female created them. Okay It's a separation And obviously it this all points to us. I'm trying to catch some of you visitors up They weren't allowed to go in their tent for a week And again it's hygienic, but it's also um The atonement is the ultimate sacrifice for all the sin of the camp of Israel. And Okay, you you go from Moses, you know, Aaron's It it i it's n it's gods 13 gives laws concerning uncleanness of skin disease. And we in Black void? Okay, she's unholy We know all this stuff He could not go in there if he was unclean. So this is kind of chiastic, in other words long term up here We have clean, which God considers common And it is, but if you look, there's a bigger thing that most people don't Yes. Verse 18, we have the center of the chiasm For it is the blood by reason of the life that makes it atonement The burnt offering I think you do. If this is not skin disease or something like that. Okay, right. He's always had this. Oh, I need a Savior. So the blood sprinkled on the altar was smeared in pure man, the oil The Ark of the Covenant was in there. But again, God heals er Right? I mean the again it's it's a sh it's big picture. We we cannot do it in this flesh, Lord. Um But he believed the revelation. Uh between kings That's in Leviticus 4. Ephesians 1 Think about that So it kind of goes, you know, if you were to put it down, it would be like But he's also pointing to uh They can approach him Just for clarity, can you elaborate on what you mean by the world system was temporary if Right. And that's what they're pointing to Okay, and that involves sexual intercourse. Also you shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness during her. There's some imputation right there All of it. The word actually is uh it's a dedication This must be an unintentional occurrence because And we brought this up with uh We need to meditate on who you are. Uh Lord, that it makes sense to us, that we believe it You provided the way b in this period for these people through sacrifice The one concept that you all uh It's gonna burn it all up, right So it you know, it it's what they call, you know, like And he tells us specifically in the New Testament. And then man I don't know. It's in your name we pray. There was nothing there until it expanded I feel like in my mind it's just this huge Old Testament, New Testament. How would these things be unfold But if it was clean, there w there was even a uh uh Um uh but the life is in the blood, you know, I I It's our inference. This is the thing. Uh and and and really The unity and interdependence Again, there's a lot of this symbolism that It isn't the blood. And I'm going to go through four then the 14 rather quickly God has revealed that to us. They were in Egypt for four hundred plus years So it's so out of my comprehension The dedication is they're they're reaffirming. He created them male and female Uh And God says, You cannot, I am holy If if they they be they become clean what? It's kinda And if you look But it but to me God is is is When somebody gets faith, what 'Cause the priest went outside the camp to do to The reparation She had she In the Old Testament, uh He has a means. But to me I mean obviously let's things Yes. Amen. He believed in what God had told him It's it's it's that God heals the body. But Jesus healed him So it must have been an inadvertent thing, you know, uh We will not get to heaven in these earthly bodies. Uh and j right there in Genesis No, eleven. That's what all of these are pointing to You need a Savior. The blood is a is a thing that that points Uh Lord, we can't just Again They they c and that's had to be that faith. And that's what the whole thing is about. Heaven is 14 gave us details. It basically means sin in a noun for We are separate. He's moving Now We just went to in the outline. We are separated Well he he he had to um So Ultimately And that's That's the one I really want. We I took this picture on the cell. You need to know that. And Um