So my goal was today uh to kind of get through one through twenty. We did the overview last week Uh but I like to get the verses uh one through twenty and kind of the the some of the again the details of it. Uh not everything is is um Uh there are a couple real theological points in here and um uh So that's what we'll deep dive into. I hopefully we'll finish uh one through twenty. Uh I think I'd like to start with um Let us read because from verse 29 to the end through uh thirty-four It's kind of the summation. And really, there are a couple lines in here that that this is the goal uh of of Disatonement. Um fives are blurry today. I got these uh old glasses. I broke my other ones and these are not powerful enough I have a magnifying glass. Somebody want to volunteer to read uh 29 through 34? Uh and and uh kind of take your time, read it through thoroughly. Anybody won't volunteer for that 29? Okay. I just have to be open. And it shall be a statute to you forever that in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict yourselves and shall do no work. Be he the native or the stranger whoso done among you. For on this day shall atonement be made for you to cleanse you. You shall be clean before the Lord from all your sins There's a Sabbath, a solemn rest to you, and you shall afflict yourselves, it is a statute forever. The priest who was anointed and consecrated as priest in his father's place shall make atonement wearing the holy linen garments. He shall make atonement for the holy sanctuary, and he shall make atonement for the tent of meeting and for the altar, and he shall make atonement for the priests and for all the people of the assembly. And this shall be a statute forever, for you for a statute forever for you, that atonement may be made for the people of Israel once in a year because of all their sins. And Aaron did, as the Lord commanded Moses. Couple of things. What version were you were you was that? I'm sorry? What trend what version of the Bible was that? ESV. ESV? Right. Uh Nasby has in here humble. He says, you shall humble your souls. Um and he repeats that twice. He he he says, uh this a permanent this tenth day You shall humble your souls and not do any work. He says you have affliction there, you shall afflict yourself. Again, just a different point of view. Uh I like to read lots of translations, even sometimes a New Living Translation, because that that is really an interpretation, right? He's taking the old text But it is just that. It's it's it's it's it's interpretation. Um but you should humble your soul, really Um he says it twice. He he says it again in in verse thirty-one. And this uh it shall be a Sabbath, a solemn rest. This is not on a this could fall on a Sabbath day, but not necessarily. This is a Sabbath, a rest, and it's arresting God And you gotta humble yourselves really to rest in God. I mean this is uh the it's foundational to uh from from my from my theology, I and I assume with a uh you know a lot of yours that uh we are recording it? But this is just th the the basis of it. Um Because it's God. God's doing this. Carrie, what is it question? What does it mean uh Verse thirty-one talks about the uh about the rest. And what does it mean that it is a permanent statute? The permanent statue is the Day of Atonement. That's this is the statute he's talking about. uh you know uh uh in twenty nine this shall be a permanent statute. I should ask them what permanent means. Like is it is this continual to today because Certain things you have to do because of Christ, right? Well, Christ has a new covenant, doesn't he? Right. This is the old covenant. But it says permanent statute. Yeah, permanent until the new covenant came. Oh okay. It's it's uh you know uh it's a will, it's a law, it's a covenant, it's a it's an agreement. Uh they they made an o an old testament covenant And again, I agree. This is some of the difficulty as we look at the progressive revelation throughout Scripture. It does progress. But yeah, that we and we can get into that a little bit next week. We'll be lucky to get through what we have today. I gave you, this was last week's outline, I gave you WANMS. This is simple, but you know, it's kind of like, okay, what are the major sections here? And and he does cut it down really well. Introductory. about entering God's presence. We see that, you know, in one and two, right? We'll we'll look at that song. And then what they do, he says he's is is It's animal and priestly uh animal sacrifices, really, in priestly dress are needed for this ceremony. All right, that that's C what he covers in in uh three through five. Six through ten is kind of uh a summary outline of the whole text. Uh but he does give some detail about the uh what what's in most Bibles called the scapegoat, right? Uh that that aren't later in in which uh he covers in in verses twenty-one through twenty-two when he goes through the detailed procedure. So if you look at it, it's kind of a an outline of of all the detail he's going to go through. And then 11 through 28 is the detailed description of the ceremony. Uh right? So what are the what are the categories? The sprinkling rights, the scapegoat, or or I'm gonna try and get this word in your mind, Azazel Which is w the word that's that's being translated, scapegoat, cleansing uh of the participants, and then twenty-nine through thirty-four, the people's duties. Among yourself. I mean it's uh again, all this big picture, all this is gonna be applied through faith There is an actual ceremony, there is a material thing, but again, we're looking at a spiritual aspect of it. So let's let's work through this So any in God's presence must be done at His invitation through the provision of atonement Right? So he tells them in these first two verses, right? The Lord spoke to Moses and reminded him of the death of Nedab and Abainu, how they approach God's presence. the presence of God and were consumed by fire. Moses has warned uh that Aaron shall not enter uh inside the veil or he will die, for the Lord will appear in a cloud, a place of atonement. Um that's a phrase, uh okay. You we're gonna see mercy see come in here. We're gonna deal with this a little bit. Note that this was uh presented to Moses after the death of Aaron's son. And I I thought about that. It's kind of interesting, you know, we think about it uh we look forward. He didn't really give. He told him about the censors and all remember, Ex Exodus Uh after nineteenth, the all the description about the making of the censors, the linens, the tabernacle, all that was in there uh the tabernacle is completed, now we're uh they're in the tabernacle. We went to the s they told them the laws about the sacrifices, and then they actually were able to institute the sacrifices So we it it looks like law and just rules, but it is moving for these people and for the the right, it's moving in a narrative, you know, in a time sequence. Uh so um but they weren't told really before that he didn't get all the details. He's getting them now. Note that this was presented to Moses after the death of Aaron's son, and it was again, again, Moses is the main mediator between God and Israel. Just a note, I mean he is talking again to Moses. Uh there were a couple of times if you remember he was talking to Moses and Aaron. Um J just a just a note. God reveals that the mediator for the people, the high priest, may not enter the presence of God in his own manner. God is going to reveal the time and the manner in which a high priest may enter the holy of holies. Verse 2 commands Moses to tell Aaron not to enter the holy place inside the veil, the Ark of the Covenant, the mercy seat. So that's Tyndale's is the one who coined that term, mercy seed. It's translated translate Martin Luther's Mel can maybe help him with this. You know German Mel? I don't know. Katie knows better than I do. Okay. Do you in in Greek, when we were taught Greek, you you like uh n Gnosticism, which is that GN combination, we were told to pronounce it Genus like Ganosko. And and well the word we use for Gnosticism. Uh I don't know if you do this in German or not, so is it Gannad denstuhl or I don't know. I'll butcher it. Anyway, it's this term that uh Luther had, which means seat of grace. So the word uh the word the Hebrew word is is capareth. Place of atonement. The Septuagint word is Hilosterion. Septuagin is the Greek, right? It's a Greek translation of the Hebrew text. And this is kind of what we get in the New Testament. These are the two words that'll show up. It's a place of propitiation. So Freiburg's lexicon defines Hilosterion as follows. Hilosterios, uh Hilos uh With a focus on a means by which sins are forgiving, having atoning power, bringing about reconciliation So substantivally uh ta hellisterion means forgiveness. That's Romans 3. 25 is where that word, when you see propitiation there. uh uh by another me in other words it's it's um using a word that that kinda like The throne might be you know, mean the king kind of a thing. It's uh using a word in a uh to represent something else. With a focus on the place where the sins are forgiven by means of blood from an atoning sacrifice placed there. Place of forgiveness, place where God forgives sins, often translated as mercy seat. So it it's kind of a place. But we look at that because what? God's presence is we're see that it's gonna be in the cloud on verse three. Um Uh over the mercy seat, right? Uh the ver actually verse two. Right? Um The Lord said to Moses, Tell your brother Aaron that he shall enter, not shall not enter at any time into the holy place inside the veil, before the mercy seat, which is the ark For he will die, for I will appear in a cloud over the caparet. And you know, again, this is a uh a term with this mercy seat So it's kind of like, okay, so if he's appearing in a cloud over the mercy seat, then the assumption is it's kind of like this is God's throne on earth But again, that's an interpretation, okay? Specifically, what is the scripture saying? So we try and go back between the two. It doesn't mean that the uh the concept is incorrect, but just know that, that it is a concept. It's not something that we're specifically told in this text. That's why we define these words. Okay? And it it it helps us. It broadens things out. Sometimes you go, I just want to know, is it a mercy seat or is it the throne or not? But sometimes We have to wrestle with things. That that's way God's word is. But again, it's just it's a perspective. Uh and I want to give you the the whole perspective, not just um Again, somebody's interpretation. The Vine rights of Hilosterion, are you all familiar with Vine's dictionary? Vine's? Yes. I yeah if you're gonna get the this is I highly recommend this. They use this on an academic level. He does break it down for the layman. Vines is a great Greek scholar. He's w he's known. He he's he It's and you learn a lot from it because it is a dictionary. When you go to the the technical uh books, which we call lexicons, you're not going to get much of a definition They'll give you a slight definition, but really what the lexicon does is they'll give you references where that word was used in that form And so you you define a word by the way people use it, by context. But this you will learn a lot from Vines, and he's good. It is recognized, it's used in a lot on the Bible college and seminary level. Uh uh but you know I highly recommend it. Uh Vines writes uh Hellisteran in the New Testament It occurs in Romans 3. 25, where it is used of Christ Himself. The revised version text and punctuation in this verse are important. whom God set for to be a propitiation through faith by his blood The phrase by his blood is to be taken in immediate connection with propitiation Christ through his expiatory death is the personal means by whom God shows the mercy of his justifying grade to the sinner who believes. Now let me go let me go through that because that that is a lot. I mean there's a lot packed in there. The phrase by his blood to be taken in immediate connection with propitiation. So you've got propitiation and expiatory. Now, I mean I have to think through this a lot of times too. Okay, what do these, you know, the propitiation is for God. So we we were enemies to God. Propitiation is reconciliation with God. So it's for God. Pro, for. Expiation is for me. It takes my sin and cleanses it, which is where we're going, which is why I wanted to read the conclusion of this. At the end, we're cleansed of sin. He says it twice in there. He says, you know, for the cleansing Verse thirty is on this day the atonement shall be made and ye uh for you to cleanse you, so you will be clean from your sin. That's expiation. Propitiation is that God says, well let's let's go back to the animals. Let's go back to the Old Testament. These animals, the blood of this Will I will accept as uh expiation for your sins. It it will appease me But again, w what is the key to all of this? And and even well let me finish this. So that's it, that's the uh where we're going with this propitiation, expiation So the phrase by his blood, excuse me, is to be taken in immediate connection with propitiation. Christ through his expiatory death is the personal means by whom God shows the mercy of his justifying grave to the sinner who believes. It's and there's the key, right? It's always belief. It's the same thing in in the uh in the old economy. It wasn't going to do them any good if they didn't have a saving faith. If they didn't have a faith that God really is is going to cleanse me, is going to justify me through this animal, through this sacrifice, through this blood that we're sprinkling all around then i it it has no effect, right? It's not a mechanical thing. Christ, you know You know, God so gave his uh uh son, right? So the uh the whole world. Uh is going to be saved. But not everybody in the world is going to be saved, right? Those who believe. So it's it's by faith. So justifying grade to the sinner by faith. It's exp expiatory. It takes away, it cleanses. His blood stands for the voluntary giving up of his life, by the shedding of his blood, an expiatory sacrifice. Okay, voluntarily. God sacrificed himself. These animals are sacrificed. There's the parallel, and this is what they were looking for, the ultimate fulfillment of those sacrifices is is a body, it's it's a person, it's Christ. How how much they saw I don't know. Okay, it just depends on what God put on their hearts, I don't you know, through faith. Uh but This is the sacrifice. God he gave his he he he he puts it out here. He he voluntarily the voluntary giving up of his life. Nobody took his life. He gave it up. He was sacrificed. So under divine judgment, righteously due to us as sinners, faith being the sole condition in man's part. Right? So our part again is in faith. Faith being the sole condition of man's part. And that faith comes from God. Can can you can you just make can you like Signify significant extension as a penalty. It's it's a lot is a lot in there and that's why I wrote this down. Later I want you to go over through this a few times. He has packed in a tremendous amount in that little paragraph. Expiation would be in the old testament economy and even in the New Testament is Christ's death. Cleanse me. I am justified by faith in Christ. It's in other words It's it's making me I am declared justified means we're declared righteous. So I'm just thinking, I mean you sin, because you sin You need that the wages of sin is that you need to die. So because she you're saying you need to uh Big I you know, in in order to be alive you need to you need to have a somebody. Like it I'm thinking is it extra Expansions like the No, you're right. Go on that thread. You go on the thread because I think you're starting to hit it. You said you need somebody, and I assume you were going to say something. It's what you need to pay for the the substitute of it. Remember? Because the and Christ is a is it's called and and this is there are different different um theologies over the ages about what the atonement was. Was it a penalty to pay for a debt ow to Satan? And of course we reject that. We believe in substitutionary atonement. Let's start with the Old Testament. That animal was innocent. And that animal they they s sacrificed that animal, they killed it, the blood of the animal was that the life that animal was the innocent life of that animal was the substitute for that sinner. That sinner and and it always points to the same thing. The sinner was to look at that animal and say, I d I deserve that death. But this animal is substituting for me. And that's what Christ does. I deserve the death And Christ died for my sins. So whatever happens to the ceremonial laws, they are just a picture of absolute Ceremonial. I'm saying I mean the blood, the anima the the blood the animal's blood was a picture of Christ's blood Yeah. Yeah, and and and again uh what is the blood? I mean i it's 1711, the next chapter will tell us For the life of the flesh is in the blood. And I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls. Yeah, but that moment there is not um permanence. So it's button. Well you know that's fine. That's I I think they debate that. There are different s uh lines on that. I am not an authority on that, whether it's You know, in Hebrews it says that the blood of both bull bulls and goats could not cover our sin, but it was a pitcher. Of the cover. Yeah, and it it's the yeah, again, when we went through that, but it it does say and it's it's it's Hebrews nine and it I don't like cover I I don't like cover. They use that all the time. But w we're gonna look at that a little bit. Uh Kafar doesn't really mean cover. It was a it was uh a word that they were associating uh w with an Arabic word and and um I've given you the text on that and we'll we'll look at it today. It it Look at Hebrews 9, because the the verse you're talking about. And Hebrews 9 is going to be a is going to be a commentary on what happened Before, right? Scripture doesn't co contradict scripture. Let me get my eyes out here. I'm going to pick it up in verse 13. Which one? Hebrews 9, 13. Okay. For the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling those who have been defiled, Sanctified for the cleansing of the flesh. And that is what the word means, is catharizo. I think we get the word cathartic from it. It's cleansing. Look at the parallel. Verse 14. How much more with the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead work to serve the living God. They were cleansed to enter the tabernacle. Their flesh was. But you're right, it wasn't saving grace. When we uh um and this is the point where where it gets gets Difficult because they were cleansed, they could uh they could enter the sanctuary But a lot of those people who entered the sanctuary, including priests, were not saved. You'll s look at the read the rest of the Old Testament You see it over and over and over again. Look at some of the sons, look at the sons of Eli and the sons of Samuel. Those guys were scoundrels. I kinda kinda don't blame the people for asking for a king because Samuel's sons were were not good. century. The people could not go inside the holy place. Not the holy place, but but they could go inside they could give well but again the you couldn't enter you had to be clean to enter the courtyard. Right. And we we saw in in the in the in some of the scripture we saw before that the um I I I can't think of the term, but if they went in unclean, it would basically be on their heads. Would God necessarily judge them? But he he put in his word several times, this is not a good idea If you are unclean, you enter in. You should not go in there. That's what he told them. Right? And we saw we went through all those chapters, 11 through 15 Okay, natural causes of if you had uh skin disease or whatever, uh you know uh uh uh a burn where it got infected, you should not go into the sanctuary And it and we went through all the other details, etc. , etc. This says here that they the blood of bulls and goats, because they had to enter In order to go in they had to take a sacrifice of some type, didn't they? Be it a grain, an animal. Okay, you didn't go into h in empty handed. Remember the the picture that we got, where you have unclean, clean, which is common. And in the but to order to enter the sanctuary you need to be s uh sanctified. And this is this is what this is, this sanctifying picture that he's given them. The flesh was clean so they could go in there I don't s uh you know uh uh we'll uh we'll see this. Uh uh I think I've got it up here uh uh in this section. Um Okay, well let's look at this real quick. Next section. Mercy seat. So Harris writes, and again, this is from uh theological word book. We looked at this the first time. We looked at Kafar. Okay. And uh the definition Mercy seed is a noun. It's used twenty-seven times, always referred to the golden cover. uh of the sacred chest uh in the inner shrine of the tabernacle or temple. It was uh from above the mercy seat that God promised to meet uh with men, numbers seven, eight and nine. And in our case it's uh verse two. Uh at least he'd be above the mercy seat, that's why I told him not to go in there. The word, however, is not related to mercy, and of course it was not a seat. The word is derived from the root word to atone, kofar. Okay? Which is what we get our word atonement from in the Old Testament, Skefar. By the way, atonement, the word is not used in the New Testament. Because theologically we we talk about the atonement, but it's not used in the New Testament And um so I make atonement, make reconciliation, purge. That is the range of meaning It it it um as he's done the study, and I think I gave you the complete one if you go back to uh probably I think it was in uh chapter one where we looked at atonement Kafar I gave you the the complete text of this if you want Email me. It's a copyright thing. I can copy it and send you the whole article. I don't know that I sh You know? But it it's good. And and he and he writes and he does. The problem with Old Testament words when you're looking at something that's written, okay, this is uh we're talking what Hebrew of uh 1450 BC. We don't have a lot of other things. They have to a lot of times they determine that the uh meaning of a word from its etymology. Is it a loan word from Arabic or some other language? Uh and and that's w you know, languages were being put together that way. There were there were l there was blending of of words. And a and it it's it's a real art and a science to go back and to do all this work. Uh And uh w as we you know, and that's the thing, we get more information as we dig up these uh uh archaeological sites And we can compare it to other things that were written. See our knowledge is still expanding. But it doesn't mean cover Cofar does not mean cover. I I don't see it. Uh uh this is what um Theologically this was Harris who wrote this in this this particular article uh on Kafar. Uh Well I think I believe Wanham, if I'm not mistaken, and uh Ross both uh agree. It doesn't mean cover Okay, since my versions of purification would that be closer to the meeting or uh purification uh for what So there in in Hebrews um this is in Hebrews thirteen it's for the uh same time for the purification as flash. Yeah. Well it's purification, cleansing, it's the same idea, and and then purge to be cleansed, yeah. Yeah. I mean the the word is uh catharido. It means to cleanse. It it's uh again we use it in English. We have to think it's cathar cathartic a word Uh uh the same room it's uh from the same Greek word. Yeah, it means cleanse. Um again and it it's uh it's uh g uh God cleanses sin, but the And that see that's a difficulty because we're dealing with this the in the we have a lot of people who go to church. We have people Uh we we get this a lot. I get this in baptism ministry, especially when we get younger children. They've been raised in the church They know the gospel. They've been preached the gospel over and over again. And intellectually they Oh, oftentimes they they may believe Jesus Christ died for his sins. He was buried. He was raised on the third day. Intellectually they may believe it But that is and that's the problem. That's not saving faith. If you don't have well Romans 8. If you don't have the Spirit of God, you're none of his. That's what it says in Romans 8. 9. You don't have saving faith. Intellectually you can believe this stuff. Intellectually the uh you know, and and they could carry these these things out. Um obedient, you know, some people are just really type A and they're they're really good at being obedient to things They could go through the motions, but it's it you ha it's saving faith is what God is looking for And and you know, it's w uh that's you we're kinda getting to the wheeze with all this, but there's no way around it. Any questions? Are we on target? Well, if they come up. Keep keep keep uh So in verses 3 to 5, Moses is told, Aaron shall not enter the holy place, uh equ you know, but uh that he shall, excuse me, enter the holy place. And these are the preparations he must follow before coming into the presence of God. Aaron is to have a bull for purification offering and a ram for a burnt offering. Your text will say sin offering there, right? You he's gonna have a bull for a sin offering. We look at that. Again, if you and uh oh you look at the thing, what what is what is all this doing We uh in that summary in in from 29 on, verse of twenty-nine, it's the cleanse. They're going to be cleansed. We saw this When we look at sin offering uh uh back in in the sacrifices, uh uh I we in the noun it definitely means sin. It's qata. In the verb form It can definitely have a meaning for purification to cleanse. Uh and it's used that way. If you go back to your notes and and look at those sacrifices and y we did the word study on it Uh it can be a cleansing. So this is Ross's interpretation. Wenham takes the same line. It's it's uh yes, it is for sin, but look at it as a purification We're we are cleansed. Remember, and that's why he goes through this whole thing. Clean, unclean. This is huge in in the Hebrew economy. In our economy, not so much. We just use that word atonement and and salvation and we we don't think about the uh implications of all that. So it's a burn so he he's gonna offer a purification, a sin offering, and a burnt offering, right? The b the uh uh bull and the ram. He is to wash his whole body and put on holy clothes, plain white linen garments. Significance of the white garments is not defined. Many uh uh divine and may represent uh purity or righteousness. It has also been speculated that the uh plainness of the garments is the humility before God, where the colored garments represent authority of the high priest as mediator between God and man. He's going into man. This hasn't this he is remember this and we'll talk about this, but his first layer, he's offering sacrifices for himself and for his household. This is for the priest. He does there there are multiple uh there are two times really that he enters and sprinkles the blood. First he does it for the priest and his household, then he does it for the people. And he's cleansing the temple. There's a lot going on. Because remember, we talk about this. The people's sins defile the sanctuary in the temple. And that and that has to be cleansed. And you know, we thought we you know you see it in the you know how the people will defile the land. It's it's the same thing, it's this uncleanness. So again, there's speculation on both of these. What are these white linens? But they're plain white linen garments. Which is kind of interesting when you think about it. Uh Revelation, right? 19. What are the saints going to be clothed in? Right? The the angels they have white garments. The saints will be clothed in white garments. Purity, right? But again, uh humbleness, right? We're clothed in in Christ's righteousness. So access to God requires full atonement. So this section is like an overview of the ritual procedure given in verses 11 through 28. There is detail given here concerning the two goats that is not repeated in the following section. And this may be because the two goats were to be chosen before the sacrificial ritual. So the two goats were to be brought, okay? All these were to be there before the ritual really began. And the two goats were part of that. Aaron was to offer a bull for his own purification offering and then present two goats to the Lord. Aaron was to cast lots for the goats, one for the Lord, the other uh for the scapegoat. So here's I gave you, I'm gonna give you a couple of this There are different um well, I'll just read it. Az is El, alright, which is Scapegoat. is described in theological word book, the Old Testament, as follows. The actual use of the meaning of the word in Leviticus 16 is at best uncertain. Bit so there is. There's a lot of speculation. However, regardless of its precise meaning, the significant dimension is the removal of the sins of the nation by the imposition of them on the goat. In this passage, sin seems to be the uh apostatized Which is a fancy word, uh which is to take something inanimate and make it animate, right? Immaterial, make it material, kind of a thing and therefore readily transferable to the goat. Indeed, verses 21 and 22 state that this goat is to bear away the sin of the people. Such a ritual would illustrate vividly the physical removal of defilement from the camp to a solitary place where it would no longer infest the nation. A parallel to the scapegoat can be seen in the ritual for a recovered leper. Okay, two birds were selected. One was killed, and both the uh leper and the living bird uh were touched with his blood. Then the living bird was released. This bird carried away the evil, the leprosy itself, into the open field, and then the leper was pronounced clean. Uh this is Brown Driver Briggs. This is kind of the standard Hebrew lexicon. Um uh As a zel as entire removal of sin and guilt for the sacred places into the desert on the back of a goat, uh symbolically uh It symbolized is uh the of entire forgiveness. So verse uh in verse sixteen we read But the goat on which the lot fell for Azazel shall be presented alive before the Lord to make atonement over it. That it may be sent away into the wilderness too as a Zill. That's ESV American Standard Version, which is the predecessor, this is the first translation in the new, well, New American Standard is based on this text. This is like 19 1901 or something. The translation here says, but the goat on which uh the lot fell for Azazel. shall be set alive before Jehovah to make atonement for him, to send him away for Azazel into the wilderness Now you can see the difference. He has four Azazel. ESV has two Azazel. I talked about this a little bit. Kyle takes a different position. And as I went back and looked at this, I kinda agree with what he says and I think I th and his perspective is i and we'll go through this. Yeah. I think he looks at it from the s the spiritual side and and the more I thought about it, I I think it makes sense. The problem is Uh well let me read through and I I'll tell you why why some of them have such difficulty with this. Kyle takes a position that Azazel is a person when he writes The words of one Lot for Jehovah and one for Azazel require unconditionally that Azazel should be regarded as a personal being. In opposition to Jehovah. We have not to think, however, of any demon whatever who seduces men to wickedness in the form of an evil spirit. As the fallen angel Azazel is represented as doing in the Jewish writings of the book of Enoch. And this is what a lot of them have troubles with, is that they that uh some of them were taking this as like, they're actually taking this putting their hands on this goat and they're actually putting it on the devil and sending the devil out into the wilderness. But I I don't think it's w w really what he's getting at But the devil himself, the head of the fallen angels, who was afterwards called Satan For no subordinate evil spirit could have been placed in antithesis to Jehovah as Azazel is here, but only the ruler or head of the kingdom of demons. So I'm I just wanna yes I do I know. Let me just notify the two goals. The first goal is for three offering Because you need death, uh life is death to faith for the thing. And the second thought is you uh where all the things of the Jews You uh like bury all the seeds of the Jews and then you send it to Azazel. Azazel is a place is a desolate place of the wilderness where the ghost uh goes And it signifies that the sins are forgiven because it's out. Is that it is I mean I'm I'm just trying to carry you might get confused now. Right Yeah, no, and this is this is and this is deep because and and this is what he's presenting here. The the sins were carried away. Okay. That that's the basic big picture idea. And I think what Carl is is pointing to is that it's not that that They're being carried away, and his point is they're being carried away to the wilderness, to a desolate place It's not outside the camp. It's out to a a wilderness where there's to a desolate. Think of it as as almost no life. Really what they what they were uh well uh in a literal sense what they were they were having this goat to do was go to a place where he's gonna go to a desert place and he's gonna die. It's like forgiven. Since forgiven. Right, but he's gonna die. There's death there. Oh. Because there there's not life. Because when you think about it, we have two kingdoms and and uh you know I think this is spiritual and and I don't see and and It's not like Kyle is just taking it just uh a spiritual. Kyle is is is trust me he's he's He's he and uh Dillich uh have written a complete commentary on the Hebrew uh on the whole Old Testament So he he knows uh the words, he knows the grammar, uh he is he's not just shooting from the hip here And but I think is uh and I think it's true. When you think about it, w w what do we have In the garden, right? They're innocent. I mean who introduces to them, right, the whole sin thing? It's Satan, right? And then you have You have a fall, and then what do you have right there with with Cain and Abel? The what did God say to to Cain after he he brings a sacrifice that's not pleading to the Lord? He says, He personifies sin. He says, sin is at your door. It is a spiritual thing, but it is a thing. Just because it we can't see it, we can't quantify it. Yeah. But is it a thing? And in the New Testament, w what do they what does he tell us? Uh Ephesians 6, our spiritual our our our warfare is not against flesh and blood. It's against the rulers, the powers God lets us know and think about it they didn't have a lot on on uh this side of of the scriptures At this point, not much revelation is given about the devil. We get much more later. Okay? Ezekiel, Isaiah haven't been written. They're not going to be written for hundreds of years. And then even in the New Testament, we're given more revelation. But God doesn't focus on the devil. What he focuses on is he lets us know there is a problem. There is a spiritual problem. There's a warfare. But he tells us, he didn't tell us about the devil. We're not supposed to go out and conquer the devil. We apply the solution. The solution is God. That's what he's been telling us all along. You know you you're in a sin-filled world. They saw this through all this that we've been getting in in Leviticus Even some of the natural things are causing you to be unclean. Here's the solution. It's me. You know, uh again, and and like in Ephesians, he tells us our flesh our war is not against flesh and blood, it's against the rulers of powers And then he goes what? Put on Christ. It's faith, helmet of salvation, uh the the breastplate of of righteousness, the sword of the spirit, the word of God. Then tell us what he he goes, here's the problem. Don't go focus on a problem. You can't defeat the problem. I'm the solution. Here's how you defeat the problem. Me. Focus on me. I think this was kind of a picture. I I I kind of I kind of see where where Kyle's coming from. The antithesis here is What what is this enemy? What is this sin uh and who is the father of sin? Who is the father of lies John 8. 44. He says you're under your father and the devil. He's a liar from the beginning. Right? Every time he speaks, he speaks a lie. So I'm a little confused then what would be the purpose then of human thing. That I can sell if they're saying what would be the purpose of incending the scapegoat would that be? Because obviously they're not in this is not going to happen to anything or sacrificing to Satan. So it's be the purpose they're thinking that their sins just go out there to be with Satan or is it to show to Satan's their sins are forgiven. Like what The yeah, the the uh the sins are I I'm not exactly sure. Uh I don't thought about that myself. And and that's why I don't want to make this too big of a thing because uh uh again the the one commentator uh uh did say the definition of this is definitely unsure at best. Um You know, you think people are gonna go in in in in um Matthew twenty-five, people are gonna go God's gonna come and he's gonna judge the the the the sheep and the goats, right? The goats are gonna go to hell Which was prepared for Satan and his angels. Really, there's two kingdoms. You're going to follow the kingdom of this world, which is Satan, or you're going to follow the kingdom of God. There is no neutral territory. Those that that uh are going to hell are gonna be following Satan into hell. It was prepared for him. Okay, but this is it says here in the notes to make atonement. So how is this representing those who are saying that how does that connect in that it's making atonement? So again, because it's kind of a purging, they're taking their sins. The sins of the people will be cleansed because they're gonna that goat is gonna take those sins away Look at um let's look at this. Isaiah fifty three, right? Starting in verse four, surely I grief our gr excuse me, surely our griefs he himself bore. I mean I'm already okay. We are placing our sins on him. He's gonna he's he's born. He's bearing our sins And our sorrows he carried. We ourselves esteemed stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. He was pierced through for our transgression, he was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening of our well-being fell upon were there upon him. And by his scourging we are healed. All of this Christ is going to do. He's going to take those sins. This scapegoat idea, he's going to take our sins away. He's going to bear our sins. And this is why God could see him. Is he bearing our sins? God said You know, he he doesn't look to w what happened to him? My guy, my guy, why have you forsaken me? He's bearing our sins. Or placing them all in him. And he blow it outside the home. Outside Jerusalem. Yeah. I get a picture of Christ bearing the sins of us and he died outside Jerusalem. Right. Right So it's like outside account. Mm-hmm. Yes. Okay. I told you uh what I'm really thinking is like Why is God doing I mean at that time because it's just the beginning again you know uh the what it's in the Old Testament they really don't know about right and all. So why is God doing this? It's just because He is holy and he's teaching them. Because there's a lot of like it's just teaching them obedience. And obedience is a actually an evidence of holiness. Yeah, and to me he's teaching uh me, especially through all this, when I w when I go over and over all this and I'm thinking Look at how look at how far we are. You're gonna start seeing again after a year. A year after a day to go through this again. You know why do we drank right. Well, to to show them that i again The New Testament writers in Hebrew says that they realize by having this done over and over again. And remember that not only that Think of the personal aspect. Depending on where you were in the thing, you had a priest changeover. You weren't even having the same high priest, right? 'Cause the the priest would die. So if you're young and Aaron's old, Aaron's gonna go and then somebody's gonna have to replace him. You but you see this and it Is it a picture? Did were they able? The heap Book of Hebrews says they were looking for. It should have uh had their minds looking forward. to a complete cleansing, to a complete atonement, to a messiah, to a Christ. But again God has to put God has to open your eyes to to meditate on that. Um and then to have the desire to do it. Yeah, I yeah. If if nothing else, did this I Did you all not see your separation between after reading through all this? Your separation between you and God? I knew. I'm thinking, wow, you know. Again, I I take I take the holiness of God. I don't I don't we don't comprehend it. The Isaiahs, maybe the Paul, you know, th those who went up and and experienced that Holy sanctuary? Well Isaiah, what did Isaiah say when he was there? He's going, man, I am ruined. I'm done Can you imagine John when he saw the uh glorified Christ, the vision or whatever he saw, right, and revelation and he fell down. He's like, it's You can imagine it's like somebody looks through you, you know, you feel poor as you go, man, I am I am a sinner And that's what this word is trying to bring me to. I I assume it brings you to. It brings the people to. You have children. Now you're unclean for childbirth for a while. What what is that? You told me to Very fruitful multiply, right? It just shows the separation between the holy God. Yes. Yeah, I appreciate how uh all of this is pointing towards Christ believe the completeness of his work on the cross. Right. Because I think all of it symbolic, you know, I'm asking the same questions. Why you have to do so many steps and what's the purpose of all this? But uh Christ really does fulfill all of it for uh, you know, both of the the goats and uh And all of it being a high priest no longer require a to go directly to the Father, not just once a year, but immediately uh confessed sins to be Yeah. And it it shows me the more of the detail, more of the depth, like you said. Not only this there's little he took care of the little things, all these little things that we were so separated by, he did it all. Hey yeah. We're not gonna get to twenty, are we? But uh any other questions because I mean this is she it's about time to to finish I'm just glad we don't have to go through this every year. Yeah, yeah. The I mean that uh yeah, they were told. Right. But it's a good reminder, isn't it, of what he did for us. Oh yeah. And y you know, uh as Ethan was saying, you know, that we can go To the throne room of grace, right? E Hebrews chapter four But at the same time, okay, uh and I've talked about this. You know, we talk about fellowship, uh uh being full of the spirit And Peter says, you know, about you know relationships with husband and wives, tells the husband, uh, treat his wife correctly or your prayers will be hindered You know, there is a I think there's a sanctification. I mean, if if we're I'm living like the devil, doesn't he say in scripture our prayers won't be heard? Uh you know, there's a sanctification just like in the okay they approach the sanctuary, they need to be sanctified uh but uh y at the same time I I need to be sanctified. I need to be living. wr you know, righteously. I need to be depending on God for grace to help me to live righteously I I think the uh the prayers are answered. New Testament, Old Testament They gotta end it there. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your