Amen. So we we kind of got through most of chapter eight, but I I I really uh want to finish. Um So we talked about the narrative, we talked about the history of it. Uh you you can look through notes to that. Um uh Uh let's see, let me get to the mi here's the outline. Um uh fairly straightforward. I I think this helps sometimes uh to go through this and and look uh see where we're going and and uh the different uh you know Aaron's anointed the purification the burnt offering the peace offering Uh but so the congregation is is broad. It it's the for this ordination, never really to witness this. This is the ordination, the consecration, the installation And and remember it's uh w what we saw before were the rules uh in the f early chapter. These were the commands how to approach this. Now we're actually getting into the concrete thing uh in the narrative, so to speak, it doesn't seem like narrative, but this is, of Israel now they're gonna institute, they're gonna start the sacrificial worship uh and um So you start with the priest, and that's that's where we are. So that's 1 through 5, verses 1 through 5. We went over that. Cleansing of Aaron. Aaron's got to be cleansed before he can do this Again, and we'll look at this some uh we'll look at this again today with the order of sacrifices when we get to chapter 9. Uh it's and remember the significance Um this really brought out to me um that first step, the cleansing That just allowed them to approach the sanctuary. I didn't necessarily remember now, a good p uh member of these uh people were not saved. They really weren't true believers But they still had to go through the ritual. God said, if you do this, you can approach me, you can move. They're they're approaching the tabernacle, approaching God, right? His presence. And that's really what we're going to see in chapter 9. He's going to verify his presence in in the uh temple tabernacle. So Air uh Aaron has to be cleansed first. Uh he remembered uh the next section he's clothed, he puts on the garments. So Moses is really performing this because Aaron's not a priest yet. He's being consecrated to be a priest. Moses is actually doing these things. So, you know, it's uh it's kinda it's different. He's a but he so he's washed, he gets washed, this ceremonial washing. Uh then he gets clothed, right, with the garments Uh so the uh consecrating gets consecrated with the oil, the anointing oil. Remember they talked about there's a certain formula that we were given for that. Um they're not to copy that that formula. The oil is holy, it's not to uh go on the lay person Uh then there's a purification offering. Aga again, um we went through this It's uh the per purification offering we saw before. The the blood cleanses the altar. And uh uh we mentioned last time it's the burnt uh offering altar. It's the altar that's outside. It's not the altar of incense and not in the holy place. Um I I guess they haven't defiled it. They haven't gone in there yet. Um but for whatever reason, uh the altar had to be cleansed before the burnt offering could go on. So the burnt offering isn't next. Okay, um oh I mentioned the burnt offering. What in w you've gone through this? What what would you say the burnt offering was? What is um Terrible of getting wording questions without getting the answer. Well what what would the burnt offering represents what? Propitiation, atonement. Yeah, atonement. And the c the propitiation is the God is satisfied with the atonement, right? He accepts the atonement. But so and that's uh again we we've gone through this, we look we'll look at it again, especially in chapter nine when we go through the order, you'll start to see some of this, but there's a cleansing first But that's just to approach the altar and God and and to to uh be able to to move toward the sacrifices. The burnt offering Atonement and if you remember we we did that word study, kafar is a word for atonement in the Old Testament. And in essence it means substitute. Right? And really all these sacrifices were a substitute for the person, right? They're not being sacrificed, they're bringing an animal to be sacrificed for them. And of course all this points to Christ because uh essentially God is doing making this right with him. It's it's Uh we we have an obedience to do, certainly, right? They had to to be obedient. We'll look at that again in in nine when we get there, but uh The substitute, this is the atonement. This in this burnt offering, the whole thing goes up. It's called uh Ola. It it ascends. Everything ascends. Nothing. It all ascends to God. And and The the symbolism is like the the the life of that uh sacrifice is substituting for you know uh the what the uh worshipper really deserved The ordination of the peace uh or the peace offering um Um remember you asked about that? You the you said there were the offerings we mentioned the week before? You said there was uh uh uh another offering that wasn't included and it was the it's the uh the ordination offering that we have in this chapter So he's making an offering for ordination. We talked about the this word verse 22, the word ordination or consecration is the Hebrew word Melu and it's defined as Brown Driver Briggs defines it as installation, as an installation of a priest. It defines 828 as an installation offering. This is the same word as used in Leviticus 828. So it you know it has that idea to it, this this sacrifice. It's very similar to the peace offering, that's why they kind of call it a peace uh It's the same uh kind of uh procedure as the peace offering that we studied before Hmm. Now I've written the notes and I don't know if you you all have still have a handout. That's why I kind of did a review Because all this kind of builds on one another. You you m do you remember the handout I gave you, uh a review of the different sacrifices Just to kind of keep these things in mind. So Wedneson points out the parallels in the ceremony, they give meaning to his passage, because a leper is cleansed By this offering too. Right? So it has a cleansing aspect, right? The leper, he's not cleansed, he's declared clean, right? Uh unfortunately the priest or anything, Jesus is the one who could cleanse the leopard, not not the priest. Uh the blood indicates a covenant with Israel. Uh has become God's people. So this is what I I think we may have stopped here. So let's read through this. We'll pick it up here. So the ordination of peace offering Uh l let's look at that real quick. Eight twenty-two thirty Somebody wanna uh volunteer to read that, eight twenty two to thirty Then he presented the ram with the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram. And he killed it, and Moses threw the blood against the sides of the altar. He cut the ram into pieces, and Moses burned the head and the pieces and the fast. He washed the angels and the legs with water, and Moses burned the whole ram on the altar He was a burnt offering with a pleasing aroma. Where are you where did you pick it up? 92? Oh sorry, I I did. Eight 82? 822, yeah That's just Then he presented Aaron's sons and Moses put some of the blood on the lobes of their right ears and on the thumbs of their right hands and on the big toes of their right feet. And Moses threw blood against the sides of the altar. Then he took the fat, and the fat sailed, and all the fat that was on that was on the antrus and the long lobe of the river And the two kidneys, but they're fattened they're like five. And out of the basket of unleavened bread that was before the Lord took one unleavened loaf and one loaf of bread with oil and water uh with oil and one wafer and placed them on the pieces of fat and on the right thigh. And he put all these in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons and waved them as a wave offering before the Lord Then Moses took them from their hands and burned them on the altar with a burnt offering. This was an ordination offering with pleasing aroma, a food offering to the Lord. And Moses took the breast and waved it for a wave offering before the Lord. It was Moses' portion of the ram of ordination, as the Lord commanded Moses Then Moses took some of the anointing oil and of the blood that was on the altar and sprinkled it on Aaron and his garments, and also on his sons and his sons' garments. So he consecrated Aaron and his garments and his son and his son's garments with him. Thank you, Mel. Okay, so this offering was commanded in uh Exodus 29. Really remember that in Exodus. You get all the rules, all the commands. how to make the clothes, all the uh uh the tabernacle, all that was really an Exodus, right? And of course at the end of Exodus uh the tabernacle uh was uh was uh completed, assembled, and we'll we'll we'll probably look at that today, right the glu then the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle Uh so all these ordinances were were really spelled out and now what they're doing is they're instituting it here and uh in this section. This is uh we're moving through in time and now all these all this has been completed and now Aaron is being installed uh here. Uh let's see. So this is very similar to the peace offering in Leviticus 3. Moses Takes the role of the priest and receives the breast as a dedication offering. But instead of receiving the right thigh, which is what would have been then the peace offering For himself, it is burned on the altar. This seems to symbolize both God and Moses participating in the ordination of Aaron and his sons. I believe that's Ross. No, one of them said that. In verses 22, the word ordination or consecration, the Hebrew word milu Uh it's defined as installation, uh the installing installation of the priest. Um and that's the way you define E twenty eight. A significant feature of the offering of insulation was the use of the blood to consecrate Aaron and his sons by smearing some on their right ears the right thumb, the right big toe. Also in verse 30, Moses took some of the blood and the anointing oil which was on the altar and sprinkled it on the garments. So this consecration installation offering portrays several symbolic meanings for the priest as a mediator for the people. To begin with, Aaron and his sons were anointed with the oil and the blood from the altar, symbolizing the connection of the priesthood with the sacrifice. Through the blood of the altar, Aaron and his sons were ordained were ordained to offer the sacrifices at the altar. And remember, Think about it, you you kind of have to go through mentally picture. We saw that in all the rules. Things were most holy, certain things, right? The layman couldn't touch Uh uh remember they would take some of the grain and they would put it on the fire. The priest would keep it. That was most holy. And the priest could have it, because it was consecrated, remember, but the layman couldn't have it So all I'm trying to do is point to the look at remember all this was pointing, separation, separation. Uh I'm bringing you lame lay people in close, but You need a mediator, right, between you and God. And and all these things. They weren't allowed to touch the altar. The the priest was. Okay. Uh and and it's just it's pointing to all this and they would understand that with us that separation though Well, I I don't really think of it in in those terms like they would, but you know, this is what it's pointing out. And then we know what our mediator is, right? It's Christ. And It's huge though, but he is our mediator. Uh without Christ that's why there's only one way to go to God, because people that are trying to not do it through Christ They're trying to go to God without the meteor. Right? It's impossible. It it's it's uh God said no, you have you have to go through this meteor Wemon points out the other parallels of the ceremony which give meaning to the passage. The leper who was declared clean was smeared with the blood in the same In the same way, Leviticus 14, as uh as here that represent the lepers return uh to communion with God Because a leper in Leviticus fourteen for uh fourteen was declared clean, he's now allowed communion. He's now remember because e even you saw we saw it during Jesus' time all the time. Lepers had to stay far off. They weren't allowed to go to the temple or anything else. They there was uh a barrier. There was no Uh this is a kind of a reconciliation, a way to commune again with the leper with God, once they're declared clean He also recognized the sprinkling of the blood on the people to ratify uh the covenant. This is in Exodus twenty-four, right? The blood indicates that in the covenant, Israel has become God's people. That was the picture they saw back then. Remember and Mount Sinai they made the covenant and w and if you remember that uh uh in Exodus twenty-four, uh the people apparently went by and they were sprinkled with the blood of the sacrifice It was binding them to the covenant, their their covenant king, uh, the eternal king, God So that's the imagery that he's pointing out here. The blood sprinkled on Aaron and his son linked them to God, and therefore God's representative to the people. Again, this is a high office. This this was uh the people would have recognized that. Um Uh w you we can think about you know think about it in our terms, you know, the maybe going to a place that's restricted to most people, maybe you're allowed to go in there. Uh oval office of the presidency. Uh, you know, I would imagine uh it it could be a uh aw it's uh intimidating and and awesome uh experience. Uh so uh blah. The uh consensus for the symbolism of smearing blood on the right ear, right thumb, and big toes, big toes It should be toe. On the right foot is the ears consecrated to hear the voice of God the right thumb to perform godly deeds, the toe on the right foot to consecrate the priest, to walk in holy ways. Again, this is um Conclusions. Seems to be a lot of consensus. Uh the commentaries I read uh kind of all point to the same thing. But again God doesn't say this specifically. I mean this is just a logical conclusion uh what these represent Uh we you know, it's true, we can make a lot of logical draw a lot of uh this symbolizes this But we do have to recognize at the same time, this is our reasoning. God didn't say specifically, so uh you just have to be careful when we're out in in that area In verses 25 to 28, Moses places the fat of the ram and its right thigh in the hands of Aaron and his sons. This appears to symbolically associate Aaron and his sons to the altar, sanctifying them for the office of priest and mediator in the eyes of the witnesses. So this is the first time. This is their handling this sacrificed animal. These are the uh again this has become some of the most holy things This separ the laymen are not allowed this. And this is the installation. This is the initiation of all this. So uh for kind of a New Testament application, the summation and application by Alan Ross are are I thought they were insightful To begin with, it refers to the ceremony as a consecration for it embraces the calling, preparation, sanctification, and dedication of the priesthood for the service. Of mediator between God and the people. The consecration includes being cleansed for sin, equipped for ministries, anointed by the Spirit Sanctified through the blood, and set apart the full service of the ministry. So the application uh of this chapter uh We see similarities between the Old Testament priest uh and the pastor of the church. The lay people of Israel, the laity of the church, who were both declared uh kingdom of priests. And the high priest Aaron and Christ are high priests. Ross lists these following applications. This didn't verbatim, but it's a summary of the things he wrote. People called to the ministry must be done publicly so the whole assembly can confirm, recognize those who are called of God. And we do that, don't we? I mean uh they are set apart. They have uh an ordination. We different churches use different things and they should be ordained, they should be tested, they should be tried, they should be evaluated before they're into this office. Um in this economy, uh, we d we obviously do it different. Uh uh th then, you know, God's economy, they're they're going into the holy uh sanctuary where God's present was, there was a certain Uh we'll see in chapter ten, right? You can't just go in there uh any way you want. Um but it's important. It's important that it's public too Uh I know we're an elder-led, we're not a uh congregational voting uh type of church. Uh but I think the public needs to know and be aware of of who's being installed and also to recognize those that are installed, right? That they uh they deserve res our respect. Um carrot, as a comment it like um regarding the call to the ministry, like uh just saying how it gets a little cloudy these days, but uh um in my former church it it became where people would go to the pastor and say they believe they would call, but there wasn't much of a um a testing or approval process. And Timothy and Titus and You know, don't you know uh you have to be very he he cautions 'em to be careful who you call. Uh not to call somebody too young, that they become boastful Uh it's a tremendous amount of responsibility. Uh uh I think we'll flesh that out in in some of these points down here. Uh they are more accountable to God. Even teaching, they say. Uh you know, uh I put myself in there. I said, you know, what's it say? Not many of you should be teachers, right? You will be judged uh more stringently th than the rest. I mean uh y uh w uh anybody who's speaking God's word in any c in a capacity like this is uh were s were ambassadors for Christ. We have w we're gonna be accountable. A church that does that that's that I remember having some conversations with you. That's that's why you don't It it doesn't work. Look, even how many good churches have ha uh w had pastors? It happens all the time. We w they're men. Um They're not they're we have a nature that that uh we're we're overcoming. How many um uh elders, pastors have fallen Um yeah. Yeah. And that's what makes it so dangerous. Um to the sheep, right? Right, right. Absolutely. Right people that were quote unquote in leadership. Uh they didn't uh talk to people, they weren't even people persons, first of all. You know, uh some of you know people who call themselves uh you know shepherds of parents, but then you're not a people person. That doesn't make sense. And then they didn't disciple other men to to stand according to to uh to scripture. So you you also have a weak body in the uh So you know, and I'll say this too. Uh uh uh we do expect these pastors to have all the gifts, be a people person, to be a leader, to be Uh excuse me. A pastor, teacher, uh a great expositor And the perfect I mean m most ye and kids people I tend to have stronger gifts in certain areas and nobody has a full package. Um But you do expect, you know, obviously the the the intangibles that you can't negotiate on. Yes. One of the things is You need a pastor to admit he can't do it all. They're rare to find them humble enough to give somebody the job that he can't do. humble, yeah, and um and g and gr and and so grounded on on Christ that they're uh they have the int the capability integrity to say we're confident. Yeah. Yeah. And and again, um You know, but the uh the other thing is is that okay th to recognize the skills that we're weak at uh and say okay I'm not gonna be perfect at this, but I I need to see if I can't increase and become better at this. Uh button but yeah, you're right. If you try and try you're never going to have the body of the church. I agree. No. No, I agree. A little humility would help. A lot of humility. Okay. Because that is the essence of what does it say? God is opposed to the proud but gives grace to the humble. Right. Because if you got pride in there, then God says, Okay, I guess you you you do it on your own. Really what he's saying is you want to do it on your own, go ahead. But they have a lot of people in the process Yeah and and just one more thing because these things happen because a lot of uh a lot of churches are not doing you know things according to being a you know uh being approved and not being anonymous according to the scriptures, a lot of people skip the line. But and here's the thing though The leadership is to educate everybody in the church needs to be a little theologian. Right. Everybody needs you. Otherwise, well when you educate yourself you're going, you won't tolerate somebody being installed like that. You you know. Typically when somebody like that when they're really far off you have a lot of people in the church who are like if they're saved, they're baby Christians or they're not saved at all. It And we you know, we we uh people need to be few we need to feed ourselves on the word. It's so important. How many times, you know, it's like the old thing they say, don't expect the Sunday school to to be the sole responsibility, you know, for for your child to know about Christ and to lead them to salvation, right? Home. It's so important. I mean what happens uh w what happens when you're in a p a country where the church is persecuted? You know you don't get the the opportunity to go do to all this. Yeah. So as you can see uh and and I'm sure we can move through some of these things, especially with with uh uh later chapters, there's gonna be a lot of discussion because There's a lot of gray areas, a lot of different uh aspects to this. The Old Testament priests went through uh a clothing rite, uh acknowledged their separation and cleansing before God. Um I were running. Let's just go to Zechariah 3 real quick. It is worth reading. Rereading for those of you who are familiar with it. I'll get there eventually. Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. The Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you. Satan, indeed, the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is this not a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua's clothes with filthy garments and standing before the angel He spoke and said to those who were standing before him, saying, Remove the filthy garments from him. Again He said to him, see, I have taken your iniquity away, and you will be and excuse me, and you will close Let me try that again. See, I have taken away uh your iniqu uh no, that's right. See, I have taken your uh iniquity away from you and you will will be um man, my eyes are losing. Well let me get my eyes focused. From you, and you will clothe you with festive robes. Then I said, let them put a clean turban on his head So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments while the angel of the Lord was standing by. And the angel of the Lord admonished Joshua saying, Thus the Lord of hosts, if you will walk in my ways and if you will perform my service, then you will also govern my house. and also have charge of my courts, and I will grant you free access among those who are standing here. This is such a neat picture because I don't think Joshua was a blatant sinner or anything But he just he he's showing you he's in he's he he's standing before the courts, right? Uh the high priest And he's and he's standing before the court and before the angel of the Lord. And he's saying, Look, you're in filthy garments. It's like Isaiah. Remember when Isaiah got taken up in Isaiah 6? And he goes, I'm a man of unclean lips, and I live amongst the people of unclean lips. Because when you're about the holiness of God And we're not. But it's it's such a um representation uh Uh and even Zechariah says here, put a clean turban on his head uh later in this chapter. Uh so Zechariah is almost participating in this vision. But This clothing, the Hebrew mind understood this. It was a representation. They realized uh the sinfulness of man uh and the purity of God, the holiness of God. Believers are said to be clothed with Christ. Romans 13, 4. Somebody gets that and reads that, that would be good In the book of Revelation, overcomers are uh clothed in white garments, Revelation 13, 5 Command Romans thirteen four Is God's servant for your good, but if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not carry the sword in vain. He is God's servant, an agent of retribution to wrong to the wrongdoer. I don't know. Well I'm looking at I like it. I like it a lot. I was just asking why you took it there. Hey, obviously 'cause I was supposed to be clothes, but obviously it's the wrong verse. Never mind. I'll have to double check that. I got uh I put the wrong one down. That's probably what happened. Thank you. I missed a little one there. Okay. Yeah, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. Right. And then you know then that's what we talked about, right? Uh Ephesians six, uh put on the full armor of God. We're we're putting on aspects of God, right? Salvation, uh uh Sword of the Spirit, the Word of God. And in Revelation 19, 14, and the armies which are in heaven clothed in fine linen, white and clean, were following him on white horses. Uh This is uh saints, right? Uh coming back with with God during the during the judgment time and and uh at the uh at the conclusion of the tribulation They're they're white and clean. He's gonna clothe us. And even now, right, we uh we are clothed with what? Christ's righteousness. It's not our righteousness, his righteousness is imputed to us. That whole idea, it's his cleansing, his perfection. The anointing of the Holy Spirit is essential for life and ministry, Paul says in 2 Corinthians 1. 21 through 22. Now he who establishes us with you in Christ and anointed us is God, who also sealed us and gave us the Spirit in our hearts as a pledge. So Christ God anoints us, right? God anointed us. He established us with with uh He establishes us with you in Christ. We are placed in Christ. We are anointed by God. The Holy Spirit is in us. He sealed us for a pledge. Zechariah 4 is a good one. It's uh uh he has a picture of the lampstand and the the oil and all that goes in it. It's uh really uh the oil was a uh Old Testament uh uh picture of uh the Spirit coming on him, the anointing of kings and you know, and that's where he says Zechariah, they're they've come back from captivity, they have the foundation of the temple laid, they have the altar, but they don't have the building. They've stopped building in that They're having troubles and Zechariah and Haggai are uh uh urging them on to go back to construct the temple. And he's saying here in this verse, he says, you know, not by might, not by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord, the rubbable is gonna start And continue and complete, finish the temple. That's what he tells them in chapter four. It's by the Spirit Believers minister on the trust and basis of the atoning work of Christ. By Christ's atonement, we are able to serve the living God, but also free from the bondage of sin. Romans 6, 4 through 14, we are enabled to stop presenting our members as instruments of unrighteousness, but as instruments for righteousness to God. And we kind of talked about this last week when uh with Scott and I were just we were talking about uh, okay, so God's grace What's our part? And kinda in this section in Romans four, uh Romans six, uh, four through fourteen You know, he says, look, if we've been baptized, we died with Christ, right? We've also been raised with Christ. Those who have died are free from sin, right? He says that in uh verse seven Then he has these two commands. We're in Romans, because we're by Romans. Romans 6, 12, therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body, so that you obey its lust. And do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God These are commands, these are imperatives, these are uh so obviously it's it's both sides. We have the grace to do it, we are freed from sin, we're no longer slaves to sin But now, he says, therefore, now let's do not let sin reign in your mortal body. So again, it's both sides of the equation. We uh we expose ourselves, we we rely on God's grace to overcome This uh old n old man, right? Ephesians four. Put off the old man, put on the new man. Yeah, same idea But it's by his spirit. And it's what we went back to earlier: humility. A lot of humility. Humbleness. Those who are called to past or are fully set apart to God, the sanctification of the Spirit must be a work in their lives. For the opposition of the Word of God is burdensome. The pastor must ha uh have his uh ear consecrated for the voice of God. Uh you've got to be listening to God. Um His hands must also be set apart to do the work and deeds for God, and he must be consecrated for enablement to walk in the ways of God. Um again uh we're we're we're kind of going through this in the men's ministry on Saturday morning. Um Pastor Mike has been uh doing uh what are the attributes, what uh what is uh what does a godly man look like? Uh and and He was talking about a very uh the very thing really this this Saturday. Um It's intentional, uh uh uh but we need God's grace to walk in the in a manner that's worthy. We need to be saturated our minds with the word of God, right? To know uh what he wants to do. The world is educating us, right? We have to be transformed, Romans twelve, by the renewing of our mind God's Word is going to renew us. It's a new way of thinking. The worldly ways, um they're in opposition to God So the service for the Lord is a lifelong commitment. Jesus said, whoever wishes to come after me must take up his cross and follow me. Uh those who carried the cross in the days of Christ were not coming back. It's true. I mean there they were there were it's it's no turning back, right? With that song uh I've decided to follow Jesus, no turning back, no turning back, right We are called to a difficult task of dying for ourselves daily. Any questions? On any of that? Any thoughts? So we we set apart We had the institution, we had the priesthood in place. Uh we had all the regulations they were telling the lay people in the early chapters what their responsibility was for these various sacrifices and the priest's responsibility. Chapter 8, now we have the institution of the priesthood. Um now uh Leviticus nine, you have the institution and sacrifices uh uh in the tabernacle. I used um is outlined by uh Wenham, I believe. So one through four you got uh Moses command Aaron and the congregation to bring the sacrifices The congregation obeys. 5 and 6. Moses commands Aaron to make atonement. 8 through 21, Aaron obeys. first by offering sacrifices for himself and by offering sacrifice to the people and fire from the Lord uh reveals God's presence. And So chapter nine So let's see. So we sh uh would somebody read uh nine one through five. Leviticus, right? Yes. Yeah, we are we have to be jumping around anyway. Back to Leviticus. On the eighth day, Moses called again and his sons and the elders of Israel and he said Aaron, take for yourself a bull calf for a full calf for a sim offering and a ram for a burnt offering, both without blemish, and offer them before the Lord. And say to the people of Israel, take a male goat for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb, both a year old without blemish for a burnt offering, and an ox and a ram for peace offerings to sacrifice before the Lord, and a grain offering mixed with oil, for today the Lord will appear for to you. And they brought what Moses commanded in front of the tent of meeting, and all the congregation drew near and stood before the Lord Thank you. Okay, so God's people are called to worship with a promise uh to witness his presence. Um And we're we're running low on time, but so let's think about this is really what all this is pointing to. All these promises are going to be verified at the very end of this. God's fire is going to come down. First they're going to see his glory. Fire is going to come down and consume it. And this is going to make this very real to the people. And when you think about it, it's going to verify everything that went before. God is saying, okay, I've accepted this You don't get anything out of this chapter but this, God has accepted the priesthood. Aaron and his sons have gone and done the sacrifice, they're going to go into the holy place. And he's accepted the people's offering too, because we're going to go through a section where the people bring their offering. And he and this is a verification that he accepted all this. And it it has other applications too. It's a when you know it's Like when fire fell down when Elijah was there and consumed it. Uh God is verifying Yes, I am here, I am holy, I am awesome, I am powerful, uh this is my tabernacle, and this is the way you approach me. And and other I mean there's more, it's just all of this, it's a verification of all of this. This is real. This is this is significant. Carrie, just eagling through this, you and your New Testament references, uh what would you say I'm sensitive to Rachel's caution last week about not trying to make every symbol from the new system. So I'm not trying to do that over and over and over again here You see this preparedness to come into the presence of the Lord. Help me h how do we How do we read that and then be faithful to it in our New Testament context? And next I don't I I um I would say the small things we do, but they're they're not elaborate, they're not as defined. But again, familiarity can can breed what we'll see what happens. I mean, people's hearts. You know, uh, doing this again today, you know. Um Well we take the Lord's Supper and we talk about that and we and we go to uh 11 of 1 Corinthians. And there's the context there, they have to take the Lord's suffering a bad way and some of 'em are sick and some of them have died. And and he says, you know, as we take it, you know, look, do not take this in in a manner Uh yeah. And again it's a representation. Obviously that bread and that grape juice Right? But God is yes. I see the you had a comment now. Yeah, I think um We need to prepare ourselves before we come to church on Sunday morning. Absolutely. We often spend our time wandering over what to wear instead of praying for the pastors, for the Sunday school teachers, for our heart And we just don't casually come into God's presence and casually leave his presence. We need to be conscious of the songs we're singing Do you ever notice the folks' faces when they're singing? Nobody's got a happy face. No, think about it. And and uh that's in the application is kind of pointed out. Well he talks about that and so does Ross. Um Yeah, I mean you w what are you doing? You're not doing you y it's a communion regardless and 'Cause I'm out of the room at that time and I don't want to spend I wanna maybe we'll combine with ten. But No, also my thought. When Wenham says it does these rituals The clothes, the pomp, all this really is nothing. It points to God and his holiness and if your heart's not right, Isaiah chapter 1, what do you say? I'm sick and tired of all this stuff you're bringing me, because it it's worthless. Right? And it's and it's exactly what you're saying. If you're not if we're it it's an inward thing. Yeah, are you prepared? Are you really communing with God? This is a spiritual thing If you make it mandatory and material, you've lost the essence of it. God is not Material, we are. Right? We have to worship in spirit and in truth. You know, and you were mentioning something and uh and I'm I'm not bragging, but my thing was a lot of times on Sunday mornings I'd be Larry going, no, you gotta get ready I would I like to get up early. I like to get my coffee because I'm um dead in the morning. And then I like to read my Bible. And a lot of times I would be into something I'm like I want to go to church, but man, I'm into something right here, and I don't want to leave this. That's my I'm not a my my prayer is that's my way of praying. I need to get into the word And then I find myself praying to God. And my prayers are like, oh man, thank you, Lord. Wow, I didn't see this. Or Lord, you are so good. I am not an you know, it's kinda like the guy who can sing, uh, start off everybody on the right tune. I can't do that with prayer. I need the word to get me going and then uh and then it gets me Everybody's different. I don't know how you are. But that's the way I I pray uh the best. And I'm getting I'm getting better at at talking to 'em and and and saying, like even driving down the road, all right Lord um Look out over me. Watch out for the flying objects. Some of these people are like flying objects, aren't they? Why they drive. So That's my ramble. Any other thoughts? But you're right, it is. Yes. I just I wonder to all of this covering and having to put on new covering, because we're washed by the blood, we are actually already covered. Right Um so that I'm sorry, in Hebrews thinking about entering into the rest. There's not any works that we do because it's all been done. Right So now we just do whatever I mean we that we I mean it's we're not perfect, but you still need to prepare your heart to meet God Well and not only that and now before we could out we couldn't before we were not able to. And it's not just a ritual, it's a genuine coming together Yeah, yeah. Right, but here's the point that that that uh works from uh w uh the w the thing I'm getting from Myself Vedic is is What you just said, yeah, Christ did that. But here he's telling you all these sacrifices are pointing to what he did to get you there. Yeah And when you realize that, that warms my heart. It's like, okay, I don't send this always the God didn't sit from heaven and go Oh we're gonna have righteousness, we're gonna we're gonna do this to these people. He sent his son and actually lived as a man, a god man, but he he went through everything we did Yeah. And did it perfectly. He he did it. It wasn't just by fiat or, you know And and when I realize that, it to me it's like, okay, wow, this is what he did. This is and I get the benefit of it for nothing. And do anything. I didn't even have faith. God opened my heart to have faith. I love it. God's people called to worship with a promise to witness in his presence. Aaron and his sons have just finished Seven days of being consecrated. Remember we just went through that in eight uh chapter eight, right? Seven days he's consecrated. Now he's got to do it again. So, right, on the eighth day by sacrificing sins for the priests and the sins for the people. It is noted the elders are called to represent the people. uh commands come from Moses who is a prophetic uh mediator between God and man. So I put those verses down there. Remember, God Moses is still getting the commands. He's still hearing God's voice, he's commanding Aaron what to do. Uh all the rules and and Exodus came through m uh from God through Moses, right? Uh um The people recognize that, but now they're shifting. Now you've got a priest, okay? And it's not Moses. Wow, we got a new guy. And the people have to recognize him and and obey it. And and that's one of the things you're gonna see in this chapter. Um So Aaron and the people were obedient. Think about it. Aaron just went through a week of this. They were in the temple. They weren't allowed to leave the court. Uh they were being consecrated all week. Now he now he offers sacrifices again on the eighth day He he did it, he's obedient. You know, we talked about familiarity, could have said, ah man, do I really have to go through all this? I just did I'm being funny, but you know, really, when you think about it, that that's kind of people's hearts. And in the people obedient to the commands of God to follow his instructions and how to approach him God calls uh his covenant people to come and appear before him in an act of obedience, worship. The the hope is the fulfillment of the promise and manifestation of his glory. That's what they want to see. Wanna see Everybody likes a miracle. The people were commanded to bring uh their sacrifices to the tabernacle in order to be in the presence of God Again, if you want to move towards God, they had to bring uh offerings and sacrifices uh to approach him, right? We saw all that in the in the first uh chapters and in the regulations and rules for their the priests offer sacrifices for themselves first and sacrifices for the people Hebrews 7. 25, that which you were alluding to, for it was fitting uh for us to have such a high priest, holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, exalted above the heavens. who does not need daily, like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins, then for the sins of the people, because This he did once for all when he offered himself, when he offered up himself. Again, it's what we were referring to earlier. Yes, Christ did this, but remember This is why Christ went through these these old these Leviticus sacrifices kind of open up a picture of the things that Christ did for us cleansed us, purified us. This made all the more dramatic here because Aaron and his sons just finished one week of consecration to the Lord. and still offered sacrifices for themselves before offering sacrifices to the people. The people approached God on the basis of the blood atonement Um we can start this, we're not really going to get in. But again, uh we uh a couple of things will be brought out and then um be repeating myself But remember the the people, laypeople see that the priests have to offer sacrifices for themselves Uh they are separated from the people, but this also w reminds the people they they are men like us. We we do identify with these priests Is and then and really what God is doing is the same thing too. I am holy, but if you approach me, I want to identify with you. I want communion with you. But you have to approach me because in a holy manner because I am holy If you come otherwise, you know, I I don't abide with sin. Not who I am. But I am separate, I am awesome, I am sovereign, but I want Communion. I want to approach. And you see these these tensions between the two offices, the mediator, the priest, and the lay people, uh and even uh and the lay people even to God. So There is a separation, but there is also the connection, the communion. Um Let's start it. People approach God on the basis of the blood. Because really if you look at if you look at the commentaries on this, most of this is a recapitulation of things that we've already seen And so there's not a lot of sense. You need to hearken back to a burnt offering, a sin offering, uh purification, a peace offering. Because that's literally what they're they're going to to give to him. And as we as we ra as we look at the conclusion of this Maybe we'll just pick this up next week. As we look at the conclusion to this, uh Ross, Wenham, and some of the others put out the significance of the order. And the significance for each of the sacrifices that as the people approach God. I think we ought to end there, otherwise Again, as you look to these notes, you'll see there's not a lot there. The commentaries are quite short on this, and and really what they what they do again is is to draw out um the emphasis of it. And again, the emphasis is is going to be the institution of the priest And even really the institution of the believers, represented by the elders, like Moorhag says, you're not going to get two million people. In front of the tabernacle, or however many they were. You're not going to get the whole congregation. So most assume, and it says in the in this verse, call the elders Right? So we know it's probably a representative. And the other questionable thing is when you say whole congregation, is that how what is that referred to? And the commentators wrestled with that. Um is it a representative group? Or because the whole congregation is they're not going to be able to move into there But you could have had the elders, you could have had uh leaders of the clans even come in and participate and observe this. And then of course they go back and report to the people. But what they need to what they're the message they're seeing is is look we can we can bring our sacrifices to God. That's the message they should be bringing out The priests have been installed. They went in, they prayed in the inner court, they came out, the glory of God appeared. He burned up the offering, so he's verified all this. And that's where this is.