So I'm gonna finish up uh with um the end of sixteen. Um I am going to look at this. I know there's controversy and what this is, but what we're talking about is the atonement, and we have two goats that are sacrificed. One is is killed in the normal sense. This is in uh chapter 16. We're going to start at uh right around verse 20 And the reason it it it um I was uh to me The the one i is kind of common. It it's uh not common but it's it's the one I think I understand the best or or am more familiar with. The one goat is sacrificed. It's it's Throat is slit, the blood's poured out, you know, it it's a it's a substitution, it's an atonement, it's a expiation, taking away of sin for us A and you know, it's it's uh God accepting that substitute. Uh uh the one that the other goat, the second goat, is the one that's alive The sins are put on that goat and it's it's the what we typically translate scapegoat. And to me, this is an important aspect of it because really our sins are taken away. But they're taken away to a distant place. And the s the the the the the sinner, the worshiper who has faith identifies with the goat that sacrificed. And he says I deserve to die. This is my sin. Right? I know that that my sin has separated me from God. Thank God for his grace, for that substitute. But again, the other goat we place our sins on, and that goat goes to a place That's isolated, that's cut off. And those are the words that are used to describe it. And it's a place where that's my sin Really, I except for God's grace, I deserve to go there. I have sinned against God. And and to me I think that's the important thing because I think there's two aspects that are here. And this is what this we we got into this last week and we'll we'll see what w how we come on it this week Uh I d I am not seeing in up front in any way that the second goat is a personification or it's it's a devil or anything else. I'm not saying that. This goat is carrying away that sin. And it's carrying it to a place that's desolate. Is that a picture? I guess where I'm going with this and and uh w uh I'll explain it Is that is that a picture of of separation is that a picture of of hell, of eternal separation from God? It's outside the camp, and it's way it's not only just outside the camp, it's at a desolate place Uh he he uses up two words for it. Uh a place that's cut off. There's it's kinda like no life is there. So that's the introduction. So here in verse 20, here's the notes. After the cleansing of the tabernacle Aaron was to bring the live goat to the uh uh to the burnt altar and to place uh both hands on the head of the animal, confess the sins of the people. A man was to take the goat out to the wilderness to leave him there. The land to which the animal was taken was called Jezerah in Hebrew So Brown Driver Briggs, that's the abbreviation, BDB, defines Gezer as follows, until a land of separation of the goat for Azazel solitary land cut off uh whence it would uh not readily find its way back. The two goats were to be identified um uh were to be i as identical excuse me as possible and the live goat was to be regarded as merely the sin bear but as a sin of uh uh but excuse me not to be regarded as merely a sin bearer, but as a sin offering, same as the goat sacrifice for the burnt offering This goat was to expiate the sins, take away the sins of the people. as the sacrifice goat was to e uh expiate the sins of the people. In other words, the one they're both of uh a picture of taking away the sins of the people. But uh again, it's it's like the two birds, th there's There's he's trying to, I think in some way, he's trying to express two aspects of this expiation, which is why you have two animals. Um so the go was to uh expiate the sins of the people, as the sacrifice goes was to expiate the sins of the people. Both were. Kyle Race, and this is where the controversy comes in. Okay, both Israel was del uh both Israel was delivered By both. So in other words, by both goats, Israel was delivered from all sins and transgressions. But by the one upon which the lot uh I'm having a hard time focusing here, upon which the lot for Jehovah fell It was so for the st uh um it was so with regard to Jehovah, by the other upon which the lot for Azazel fell as regard to Azazel With regard to Jehovah, or in relation to Jehovah, the sins were wiped away by the sacrifice of the goat. The sprinkling of the blood, setting forth their forgiveness, and the burning of the animal The blotting out of them. And with uh this separation of the congregation uh from Jehovah because the sin uh was removed and the living fellowship with God restored But Israel also had brought by its sin into a distinct relation to Azazel, the head of the evil spirits, and it was necessary that he should be brought to an end If reconciliation with God was to be perfectly secure. This complete deliverance from sin and its author was symbolic in the leading away the ghost which had been laden with the sins into the desert. Now here's where I think Kyle kinda explains himself. This goat was to take back the sins which God had forgiven. to his congregation into the desert to Azazel, the father of all sin. On the one hand, as a proof that his evil influences upon men would be of no avail in the case of those who have received expiation from God. And on the other hand, as proof to the congregation also that those who were laden with sin would not remain in the kingdom of God. But it would be banished to the abode of evil spirits unless they were redeemed therefrom. So what he's saying is My w I think his theology is, this is what my theology on this is, this goat was to take back the sins of the people that God had forgiven to his congregation. And what he's saying is that this goat is going to this desolate place where Azazel Is is really going to end up. He's separate from God. And this is what it is. It's separation from God. And he's taken these sins. This goat is not a devil. It's not Satan himself. It's the medium that's taking the sins away. And he okay. I know this. W why why is he opening the this up? And to me, I think it's it's uh it's kind of a picture of opening up that this our sins will separate us for eternity from God unless they're dealt with by grace Why and uh so why would we say this? I mean and uh I don't see where this this really differentiate because a lot of the commentators what they're what they s uh seem to think is that Uh Kyle is agreeing that there's uh this goat is is uh the devil himself. And I don't think he's saying that. I think he says it's it's a means to to uh uh to take away the sin to this place. The New Testament, let me just say a couple of this, and then we can get into this. The New Testament. When Jesus is tempted, he goes out into the wilderness and Luke The devil tempts him and he says, Look, Luke 4, all of these kingdoms are mine. It's been given to me. I can give them to whoever I wish. He says that where? And the devil, verse six, Luke 4, 6, and the devil said to him, I will give you all this domain and it and its glory. It has been handed over to me and I will give it to whomever I wish. And John, he's uh Jesus says the the ruler of this world is coming and he has nothing in me. And in Ephesians he talks about uh Ephesians two, he says, the prince of the power of the air, the And you were dead, and you trespassed in sin in which you formerly walked, according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the Spirit is now working in the sons of disobedience Among them too we all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging in the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as a wrath. But God being rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us. Even when we were dead and are trespassing in sin, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved and raises up with him and seated us with him in heavenly places. And I think he kind of gets to that Same idea in heavenly places. In Colossians 113, he says, look For he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved son. This is not I don't think Kyle and I'm certainly not saying this is a triad. It's not like there's But there are two kingdoms. There's the kingdom of light or the domain of darkness, and we are born in the domain of darkness. And I think this is what Kyle's pointing to when he sees this is is this this sin is taken back to this Okay, to this desolate place. And and the desolate place is is uh really where Satan's gonna end up. Uh Matthew, I'll finish with this and we can we can discuss it. Matthew twenty-five. 31 But when the Son of Man comes in his glory with all his angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. I mean, dispensational. I I don't see God on Jesus on his throne now. He's gonna come and sit on his throne when he returns to uh to earth All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them um among them uh uh uh from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats He will put the sheep on the right and the goats on the left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Then he goes in and he says, Well, the how do you know 'em? Because they have the spirit, the fruit, those they had the fruit of the spirit. did took care of uh me when uh took care of the prisoners, took care of the uh the poor Verse 41. Then he will also say to those on the left, Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels. That's the place. It was prepared for the devil and his angels. Humanity is going to follow them into that place. I think that's the theology that Kyle is pointing there, and and it seems to me that scapegoat, whatever that is, maybe is it taken us too far But if you identify with this, that scapegoat went to an isolated place, regardless of whether the he's pushing this too much and explaining too much. That person had to identify this. I deserve to go to that place except by the grace of God. So as I was looking into this a little bit more this week, it seems as though the crux of the issue is what does Azazel mean. Yes. And so yeah, you're obviously I think you're a hundred percent right that it's has nothing to do with the code itself Um but Kyle clearly interprets Ezel as a personal being and then he ultimately identifies it with Satan, the father of sin. And so then everything else he says has to explain he's trying to explain why would sin be sent to Azazel, to the father of sin Um and that's where his interpretation comes in. Right. And um the reality is there's no universal agreement as to what as a cell means. It's only used here by Leviticus sixteen. And uh so it's it's uh Right. Uh only here and uh hubbox legomena by the way is the word that's only used once Right. Hopox is one, legomena means saying, yes. Anyway, they go to say So by identifying Hazel with Satan, he has to then again come up with an explanation of why sin being sent out to Satan And I think in doing so he creates a theology that I can't trace anywhere else in scripture, nor does he seem to attempt to, in terms of sending sin back to the father of sin. Um the if if we just set aside Azazel for a second and just say okay I don't know what that means what's going on here I think we have great clarity that the goat being sent away is a picture of the the sin that's cast as far as the east is from the west. And that our sin will not be remembered anymore by God because it's passed away. Right. Um And that just becomes a simple truth, in a sense, a simple illustration, which is in fact traced everywhere in scripture. And then when you put Azazel back in, it doesn't There's nothing about Ezra Dell that that conflicts with that understanding. And so it's almost like, well Lord, we don't know what that means, but um But we're gonna go with what is a clear uh and consistent interpretation of this goat, which um there's other examples of that in the in the mosaic law. You know, two birds. Right. Um Yeah, and he right, and he even alludes to that. I think he talks about the two So I uh I just personally object to the idea that Azelf is the father of Sue. Uh yeah, I I get it. Uh and again you may be pushing it too far, but what w it pushed me to see and I think 'cause the other commentators don't hardly touch I mean, uh neither one of 'em hardly touch on what this scapegoat is. And that that to me was was uh unsatisfying. I agree. I I I I think the the relationship maybe is too close, but if you take it to a place of The desolation. Let's just keep it Azazel, because all of them kinda agree on that. It's a place that's uh it's isolated, it's cut off, it's outside Okay, we are saved by grace, but for the person who doesn't believe This is their destination, and they will be cut off eternally. And again, even for us that are saved, I deserve to go to hell except by the grace of God. I've already sinned. And unfortunately, even if I was saved, I will sin again. But I and this is what I deserve, this this separation. And so When I read, I was unfulfilled when I read the other ones on on Yeah, it just took my sins away But but uh it to me uh it's it's is a realization is more than that, uh what God saved me from Eternal damnation. Eternal separation. I mean, yeah, we talk about the the uh uh we we think about being To me, this is this is my ramblings. I think about, you know, eternal fire and and you know, all you know it's But think about that that is certainly an aspect of it, but think about total darkness, separation, isolation. It's the outer the the hell is described as the outer darkness. Yeah, I mean to run to the meet and greet uh the only thing I would say about that is um and and I know you understand the hermeneutical principle of letting the text guide you know our conclusions the emphasis of the text is Place you know your hands on the goat to transfer your sins and send the goat away. The text itself doesn't emphasize the the ultimate significance of the wilderness. I agree. So I hear the connection you're making and There there's validity in making a connection like that, but I don't think that that's what the text itself is emphasizing. Well it does uh uh when he talks about the um He sends it out to the wilderness. He uses the wilderness. He uses two words. Okay, he uses uh what is it? G uh Gezeres or whatever. Gazera? Right. It doesn't explain why it's being sent out. Like it doesn't. He doesn't have that connection. He doesn't. He doesn't. Right. And and I would agree, and that's why, you know, uh we talk about this. We have all this information from the New Testament because we know They weren't really given this revelation that we are. All the scriptures I read to you, they weren't given all that. So, take it or leave it. Um that's my ramblings on it. Uh maybe it is too much for you, I I g uh, and and maybe I'm taking this too far. Um but again to me um shows me uh the appreciation I have. It gives gives me a greater appreciation for what I've been saved from and what I've saved to Any other thoughts? If you it's okay, you can disagree with me. You can Uh Carrie, I just I want to encourage you again. I I don't agree at all with Kyle. Um it has nothing to do with you. I just I bought his commentary, I have read it. My book, he's just dead wrong if you have a series of studies that I can use to support it. But every conclusion that I've heard you draw from the types and I'm drawing a very careful hard line between types and subjects by a little frustrated with how we've been a little wishy-washy with those two words. Right But the types, every conclusion that you have drawn from the types and the litigus have been dead on, and I have really appreciated you drawing our attention to this is who we are in our sin, this is our holy God, and this is what was accomplished. So again, I don't agree with Kyle, but I don't want you to be discouraged by that. I have loved where you have led us in this study uh using the types in Leviticus to better understand our relationship for before Christ. And so I just I really want to thank him for that and make sure that you are encouraged in how the Lord is leading you to teach us these things and not discourage those things. So again thank you. Well again I I give the credit to the the teachers that I've been reading uh you know the Ross and and Wenham have been the major ones and and Kyle w was thrown in there as well. There's some other some others I looked at, uh other sources, but yeah, I I give them the credit, so You know, we yeah, and we have to you know, we thank God for these kind of these men that done all this work and this research. Um But yeah, it is it's been a uh fabulous I've enjoyed this journey. It's it's uh this is a book I knew Never really cracked before, so uh and I I hope you guys have too. So anyway, um couple of quick things. Uh let's let's uh well let's just read the the conclusion to um because again just just listen to the words the clue conclusion to this chapter What we need and and and w w where he expects the people to go. Um this shall be a ver in verse twenty nine Chapter 16. This shall be a permanent statute for you. In the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall humble your soul. and not do any work, whether the native or the alien who sojourns among you. For it is on this day that atonement shall be made for you, uh, to cleanse you And you will you will be clean from all your sins before the Lord. Again, it's to be cleansed. Ye and you will be clean. It is to be a Sabbath, a soul solemn rest, that you may humble your souls. It is a permanent statute. I would suggest, I'm not going to do it now, but you should probably look at Hebrews, into chapter 3, into chapter 4. The reason the Israelites didn't enter is rest, because of unbelief. And he goes, there's still a day of rest. And uh thank the Lord. Uh so that the priest Who is anointed and ordained to serve as a priest in the Father's place. In other words, he's saying, this is, you know, each generation continue to do this. This is basically what he's saying. It shall make atonement and shall thus be uh put on linen garments, uh the holy garments, and make atonement for the holy sanctuary, and he shall make atonement for the tent of meeting and for the altar, and he shall make atonement for the priest and all the people of the assembly. I mean, do you see he's making atonement? Everything needs to be cleansed All the items, the all the people, the priests, everything needs atonement, right? Uh we're the we're separated Now he shall have this as a permanent statute for atonement for the sons of Israel and all their sins once every year. And just as the Lord commanded Moses, so he did. Humble your souls. Right? It's where it all starts. Thanks for the grace of God to do that. Trust me, I didn't do it on my own. So, Chapter Seventeen Uh and by the way, yeah, I guess you've already figured this out. We're gonna have to do an airplane kind of overview of these last chapters. There's no way we're gonna go through this for another whole quarter Um really we we've gone to the essence of it and and we're we're looking at laws. We'll we'll we'll try and pick out some of the main points Uh you know, but this is how think about it. He's taken a holy people, he's he's had 'em, uh e they have a covenant Uh he's teaching them now how to live, right? Just kind of like Sermon on the Mount in in Matthew 5. He's saying, okay, uh the kingdom of God looks like this And he expounds the kind of the law there, right? He says it's not just uh that you don't commit adultery, but you know, in your heart y you know, if you lust after somebody, you've already done it. If you don't murder somebody, that's good, but if you hate 'em and you you're you know, you you curse 'em in your heart, you've already committed murder, right? He he's ex you know, it's That's the change that happens, right? We can do the outward things, but I need God to change my heart because it's my m my gyroscope, it's it's my desires, it's my will. I I don't you know intellectually I don't want to sin, but my heart goes, you know, uh you know, and you feed the flesh, whatever way. So you know let's let's keep look at that deeper level. So in verses 1 and 2, uh the directions are given to Moses as typical, but it's to Aaron and his sons. These directions are binding on the priests as well as the nations as a whole. Uh I guess we should read through this. Um I'll read to the first paragraph break. I'll read dual one through seven. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to Aaron and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, say to them This is what the Lord has commanded, saying, Any man from the house of Israel who slaughters an ox or a lamb or a goat in the camp or who slaughters it outside the camp and has not brought it to the doorway of the tent of meeting to present it as an offering to the Lord before the tabernacle of the Lord Blood guiltiness is to be reckoned to this to that man. He has shed blood, and that man shall be cut off from among his people The reason is so that the sons of Israel may bring their sacrifices which they were sacrificing in the open field, that they may bring them into the Lord uh at the doorway of the tent of meeting, the priest and to sacrifice them and uh to excuse me to the priests and to sacrifice them uh uh for sacrifices or priests uh for peace offering and to the Lord. The priest shall sprinkle the blood on the altar of the Lord uh altar of the Lord at the doorway of the tent of meeting and offer up the fat and the smoke as a soothing aroma to the Lord. They shall no longer sacrifice their sacrifices to the goat demons Which they uh play the harlot, this shall be a permanent statue to them throughout their generations. Somebody want to read from eight I guess through thirteen. And you shall say to them, any one of the house of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn among them. who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice, he does not bring it to the entrance of the tent of meeting to offer it to the Lord. That man shall be cut off from his people. If any one of the house of Israel, or the strangers who sojourn among them, eats any blood, I will set my face against that person who eats blood, and will cut them off from among his people. For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it for you on the altar to make atonement for your souls. For it is the blood that makes atonement by the life. Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, No person among you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who sojourns among you eat blood. Uh somebody wanna read uh fourteen through sixteen. Whatever man that the children of Israel are of the strangers who dwell among you, who hunts and catches any animal, a bird that may be eaten, he shall pour out its blood and cover it with dust. For it is the life of all flesh. Its blood sustained its life. Therefore I said to the children of Israel, You shall not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be cut off And every person who eats what dies naturally or what was performed by beasts, and whether he is a native of your own country or a stranger, he shall both wash his clothes and bathe in water and be unclean until evening. Then he shall be clean But if he does not cost them or bathe this button, then he shall bear his guilt. And this is uh kind of a Uh we've seen some of this before and we've alluded to it before through the sacrifices and some of the things that's gone over. And obviously the the key verse in here, if you miss any uh get anything at all Uh and he repeats it, if you uh notice in fourteen he kind of repeats the same thing, but for the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls. For it is the blood by reason of the light that makes a ton. So let's go through this uh and um So in verses 3 through 7 speaks of the prohibition of slaughtering an animal outside the camp. The context of this passage seems to indicate a sacrifice outside the camp and an offering is an offering to a false god. Uh if a person wanted to eat eat meat, then they were to bring the animal to the door of the tent uh and offer it as a peace offering, thanksgiving offering, and the priest would offer the blood. uh to the Lord and return to me to the offer. So if you remember we did that. Remember the peace offering, thanksgiving offering was uh kind of a praise thing. You you really it was not All, and we'll look at this as it kind of brings this up, all sacrifices in some way or another, kind of a what we call an expiation. It has that idea to it. But Uh really, if you look at a peace offering, there's usually a burnt offering before the peace offering. The point being this You y it's not really a sin. It's it's a praise the Lord for what he's done. It's a thanksgiving. Maybe it's answered prayer. It's a thanksgiving thing. And if you remember, the meat uh g the the priest goes to the ritual and he returns the meat uh to the offer and they get to share, they get to eat the meat Uh so and I think that's what he's saying here. But uh again, I think the emphasis we'll as we go through this is We've already seen it. They had a propensity to go and calf, right? It's our nature. And what he's saying is don't be uh you you war these are sacrifices I think the emphasis here is sacrifice. And I think we see this, we'll see this later, especially as they move. This is, again Remember where they are. They're in the camp. They're in a community. They're in a close proximity. They're not in the land. As they move to the land, this this law will be kind of expanded some. Because it's not going to be practical if they're way away every time they they kill an animal that they're gonna be able to bring it to the the sanctuary, right? As they they m move and inhabit the land We'll bring that up. It's in Deuteronomy. The point is, really, I think this has to do, the emphasis here is They were sacrificing outside. Okay. And and so they're sacrificing to something other than than than God, pro uh n uh is a good possibility. Um so in verses uh the person who does not obey this command will be judged for blood guiltiness and will be cut off from among the people. This is a serious act. Um And it is the Lord who will judge as uh officials may not be aware of this offense. Um I'll j I just want to say something brief before I get some pick up in verse five. Um Uh Wenham goes on a long d has a light on this. Uh how you know it it was a fearful thing. A and it is. I mean God is judging this to be cut off uh most commentators assume this really is associated with really that they're they're gonna die But but if nothing else, there is w would hopefully or should be a guilt on the people uh for not obeying this command. Uh again it's it's uh w all of them seem to agree. Uh the commentators that I read that this is really judgment by the Lord. Again the the officiating priests m you know, these things w could be going on, uh and this cut off aspect uh they wouldn't even be aware of. Verse five. This is a question. But the the real purpose like God wants all the sacrifice inside the camp and not outside the camp Is it related to God wanting them to like God sa uh setting them apart from the pagans? Absolutely. Uh I mean it's an aspect of it, I mean and uh But see what everything just is there, so understanding And he wants it's to the Lord. He wants to He's a jealous God. You shall have no other God before me. And Let's okay, well what do we do now? Okay, we don't we don't take our sacrifices to an idol now, right? But do we in a in in in our way do we worship other gods? What is w what are some of the gods we worship today? We don't call them gods Remember when Abraham made a sacrifice, there was no temple, so that was outside, as it were. Right. Okay. Now they're they're only been in this business and eighteen months at this point and they're now coming out of land that we see them. There's nobody around them. That is have you ever been there? It's a wilderness. Right. Absolute that goat didn't have to go far to find a a baronic place. Okay, so now they have to have new rules that that will work in the new land. And so they have to bring everything in, this is to be the rule for all time. This is new rules. This is a new set of things. The temple has been establis or the tabernacle has been established and they have to figure out how to use it And God's telling him man, you don't have to figure it out, I'll tell you how you and so this is all brand new. Right And that's why no longer you did that in the field when you were in Egypt. Now you have to kill this uh God is teaching them how he wants to be truly worship the way and he wants to be in charge of what's going on absolutely of who he is and how they expect. That's that's very important. Look at factor Chapter 16, for just a second, what's the last phrase in chapter 16? And he did as the Lord commanded him. Right, right. God wants us to obey Him in the manner that He prescribes and everything that He prescribes. And when you're obedient, you're pleasing to God. When you're not obedient, you're not pleasing to God And this is serious. They want they're showing him how to get rid of their sins. In fact, I have it marked up here That their sins are forgiven. We hear people say their sins were not forgiven in the Old Testament. Yes, they were. They were forgiven each year in the atonement. Right So that's why they have their sins are forgiven, but it did not cleanse their conscience, right? Was that it in Hebrews? No well sins are there It is it it says it needs like it's like you need it like the it says in Hebrews like it is the only the the blood of Christ that transfers the function. four says is it possible for the blood of golden goats to that at this point in time it was this is the picture looking ahead to the atonement of Christ So and they're look it but them the key is they are doing what they're told. If they did if they did what they're told they're covered. So otherwise they're just doing it basically right there is no cleansing of that. Thank you. Remember when we started this God made a covenant with them in Exodus 19. This was new. They were making and a covenant is a relationship Okay, we can make it mechanical, but God wants us to relate. He is a person. We are made in his image. He it's a relationship And when you have a a really sincere relationship, well it takes faith for us to to bridge that gap, to to to really have that relationship But it's a relationship. You, yes, there is a commandment. He wants us to obey because this is who I am. This is the relationship with me. I we're trespassing s the relationship. It's like me insulting any of you or or you know coming and and I'm insulting God. I'm saying Uh what I'm doing is I'm if I sacrifice to somebody else, I have a relationship with that. Whatever I think that deity is, right? I it's a re it's uh and he talks about that. He he talks about it, uh, you know, the harlotry, uh you you're going out after other lovers You he wants us to be a lover of him. Remember the Jews at this time were headings They worship the gods of Egypt. God destroyed, He's taken them bit by bit. He's destroyed the gods of Egypt. He's brought them in So this land, open the w water of the Red Sea, run them into this land. He's taking them bit by bit. So this time they're still in Mount Sinai, right? Yes. Yeah. Still there. There's not actually made worse outside the thing There wasn't a lot of needles. No, but there isn't a lot of life outside they can't. God had to give them the water and he had to give them the manna to eat. nothing to sustain them. Yeah. And he gave them water. He actually even gave them what was the bird? Quails. Uh uh that's only because they whine and complain and no meat. Okay, he's still doing it. He's taking them piece by a piece. And if they actually thought looking around that land there's nothing to sustain life in God's sustained. Yeah, God sustained. Yeah. Yeah. And we take it for granted, we think we're sustaining ourselves. It's the illusion, right? And he has blessed us amazingly, right? We have a roof over our heads, we have heat, running water. I mean, that's a luxury, is it not? The majority of people in the world don't have those those things. Um you ever you know, uh uh you ever been to I remember when I first went to Egypt in Cairo There's all these people in the streets in Cairo sleeping and sleeping. They got no place to go. That's They're just there's all these people. And I remember saying something to the p person who was there and she said, Yeah, they that's they got no place to go. There they'll be sleeping on the street or in some alley or yeah. Yeah. It's horrible. It was one of the most uh popul at one time it was one of the most populated density population cities in the world. So, yeah. Back to the text. Verse 5 says, This command said the sons of Israel would bring the sacrifices to the Lord at the tabernacle. and no longer make sacrifices in the open field. The Lord wants them brought to him so that the priest can offer the fat and sprinkle the blood on the altar as a peace offering to him. This was uh uh let me give my eyes here. This was the command while the people lived in the camp in the wilderness. In Deuteronomy 1220 The people were about to enter the land, it was permitted that those who wanted me could kill the animal at the location but the eating of the blood was prohibited uh for the life of the uh the life within the animal. So, in other words If you hunted or you or at this time, number one, remember the majority of people are not eating meat, right? This was a luxury Uh and even when they went to the land, I would imagine a eating animals was still somewhat of a luxury. Uh but if you did, uh what again the emphasis is on The open field, I think it I think the emphasis is on don't be sacrificing these animals to some idol, some other deity, some god Sacrifice comes to me. Worship me. First five is just super cool, right? It I I guess I'm not sure you seem to be narrowing these to just sacrifices, but I got the sense that it was if you kill any domestic animal Then you need to bring them. And verse five is so cool. It's like if you're gonna kill any domestic animals, that's fine. Right. But bring it into the presence of the Lord and make it a peace offering, which is the one that you mostly got back to eat and enjoy, right? So it's just this cool invitation like, if you're gonna have a feast, that's fantastic. Come do it with me. I'm rewarded. Come feast with me. I just think that's a cool and it's every meal, right? It's like every time you're gonna have meal. Come and feast with me. It it it kind of changes those real-time prayers that we have every night, right? We have plans to do this. Yeah. Thank you for for reminding me and pointing that out. We looked at that in the peace offering, because that's what it is They identify, they're eating with God. That's and that's it's like, man, come. Yeah. You know, and and We do it It's hard for us. We don't do that necessarily it's not automatic But he says come I want to have a meal with you Right? And we see that picture in in Revelation, right? The supper. Right This uh was it Revelation nineteen, uh the supper with the Lamb. It's just the love of a loving father. It is And w you know, we are not loving. I need God's laws to be a God knew it through me. Uh really. Love comes from God. in the way that it casts the law, right? These are hard walls. And it talks about that in the evening. It's hard you know, it's impossible for men to bear up under the laws. But even in his walls, his laws are structured to bring us in what you said. relationship with him. His laws are are hemming us in so that we come to him and enjoy him and have relationship with him. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, uh come on, how many times do I go on about my business and I'm not even, you know, I'm not praying and You know, pray without ceasing. It it's basically just talking with God. All right God, you know, just kind of making him aware he's here. A and you know, uh Yeah. So let's see where are we at? Um Yeah, so uh then in verse seven, uh We are given a reason for the strong prohibition for sacrificing in the fields of people have uh propensity to sacrifice the egos um goat demons, idols, uh rather than the Lord with whom he had made a covenant, uh and they would um that they would have no gods before 'em, Hebrews, uh and the Hebrew word is uh it really just kind of means goat. I mean we we've seen it uh uh uh Uh Saic Saraeim. Excuse me. Seder demons of uh with he goats uh uh uh form or or uh or feet uh hairy demons inhabiting uh desolate places or ruins, uh named for idols. Um Harris says uh he he thinks that uh this word should simply be defined goats. Uh this word is used in Isaiah for uh uh creatures that inhabit uh desolate ruins, uh uh names for idols in Second Chronicles eleven fifteen uh Leviticus 717 uh uh uh seventeen seven I mean sacrificing the goats but it really means it's it's it's sacrificing. Cow says the word uh means goat and there is much speculation about its meaning, but uh to worship idols is to worship demons We see that in Deuteronomy, Psalm 106, 1 Corinthians, right? They're actually worshiping demons It it it's not that the idol of the statue means anything. It's the uh spiritual power or forces that that uh uh really that are kind of behind in in instigating these kinds of things. Um That's what those scriptures speak to. The Egyptians had a god called Pan, uh, who was a form of a goat. Kyle speculates this may have influenced the passage But he also acknowledges none of the ancient writers report this among the Israelites, regardless of what particular idol or image they may have been worshiping The Lord is a jealous God who desires the love and devotion of the worshipper, uh like a marriage relationship, the Lord will not tolerate unfaithfulness among his people. And and so, you know, uh So they verse 7. So they shall no longer sacrifice their sacrifices to the goat demons with which they play the harlot. This shall be a permanent statue to them throughout their generations. It's obvious. We're playing the harlot. It's obvious. Why do they just mean go to whatever? They're it's it's obvious that they're offering these things to idols. That's what he's the the emphasis here. That's what he's uh prohibition is So what are our idols today? What's our biggest idol today What would you all say is our biggest idol in in United States? Politics? Yeah. That's all power. Yeah. What? Money. Materialism. Materialism. Big. I mean what is Babylon, really? You look at Revelation. What does he say? And the their the first is Babylon. The first one is it looks like political and religious And then the next chapter it talks about, oh and they cry because all their merchants, right? All their ships. And if you look at their cargo, everything on there, nothing on it was practical, was perfumes and and uh precious uh this or that, you know, uh even even expensive foods. It's all yeah. And it's hard because again, he has blessed us You know? Uh he pla he he has. It's easy to get um cars for stuff. Um I look around my house, we got a lot of junk. I'm not taking any of it with me Oh then you gotta take care of it. Verses ten through fourteen we are giving prohibition against the eating of the blood, right? Verse eleven For the life of the flesh is in the blood. I have given it to you, uh uh uh given it for you on the altar to make atonement for your souls For it is the blood that makes atonement. Uh atonement by life. The Hebrew word for life and soul, nepesh, okay, that's uh Hebrew. The uh uh so it you know it's soul, uh living being, life, self, person, desire, appetite, emotions, passions It's like it's it's one of those words. You have to use it in context. It could just be literal life, okay? Life and uh you know, uh but it could be soul, it could be the the hearts, the intentions of it Uh the equivalent uh Greek, the uh Septuagint, uh uses Sukay. Uh of course we get psychology. Um from this root. Uh animal, uh the uh this is kind of a secular, this is a secular uh the soul, especially irrational part of the soul, is distinguished from the rational mind. The soul, the inner being of man, Freiberg defines it as principal life, life breath, life, uh natural life, one's life uh on earth It also could mean soul, inner self, mind, purpose, heart, desire. Kyle writes, God appointed the blood of the altar as containing the soul of the animal to be the medium or of expiation for the souls of men, and therefore prohibited its uh being used as food, accordingly as not the blood as much as the uh blood as a vehicle of the soul uh which possessed expiation, uh virtue, because the animal soul was offered to gu uh offered to God upon the altar as a substitute for the human soul. Hence every b uh uh bleeding sacrifice had an exp expiatory force, though without being uh an expiatory sacrifice in the strict sense of the word. All that to say that in this passage where he talks about uh uh offering this in in verse 11 for the life is is the word there is nepesh okay so it's interchangeable the life the soul uh Uh you know, and this is what the interpreter has to has to determine uh what sense he's using it in. So the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement For your souls, Nefesh, right? For it is the blood by reason of the life, Nefesh, that makes atonement Yeah, just simply the point is this. It's it's precious. God gave life to that animal. And its blood is a representation of the life. It's not to be taken lightly. It's it's to be regarded as a remembrance. All life comes from God. And Christ's Constitution of communion like super shocking to the disciples. Like how do we understand? Well, what are you talking about? Yeah. Yeah. Well it's not a good thing. It's not uh I'm thinking about uh why the s why the sun uh the sacred left of the the blood of the animal like uh it's not uh is Because it's used for atonement. But also I think it's also because the it is from a guiltless animal. Yeah, it's like Right. It pictures Christ as a giftless sacrifice. It does. And these animals that are being sacrificed, you know, like the goats, the sacrifice or and rocks or whatever, they are being sacrificed with Are they less like given this way? I think that's what that's you know. But it even says, you know, the and these are these are specific right, we only had specific animals, right? There were Used for sacrifice. Uh uh we're gonna have to stop here for today 'cause I gotta go. But even the even when you hunted an animal which was clean to eat But if it was, let's say it's a deer. The deer was not an animal that could be sacrificed, right? Uh I d and I think I think it's a bigger picture. Most of the commentators agree that this kind of points to uh the this is the light, respect it. And this is what God is trying to demonstrate to the people. I have given this life. Okay? Don't don't disregard this. Uh we'll have to pick this up next week. Uh uh there's not a whole lot more that's here. The commentators are even brief on this chapter. Uh but yet if you look at the notes, you'll see at the end We talked about, you know, how radical it was to drink his blood is is obviously we're looking at it for his life. His life was poured out for us and we are accepting that sacrifice.