Hemi Father, uh we thank you so much for uh just a blessing of this day, this time of season, to be reminded uh of Christ. And Lord, I thank you so much as uh Scott and I were talking the blessing that you've given me for going back over this law that I really knew next to nothing about. Even uh even through school and uh different trainings. Um Really didn't touch on this. And Lord, I'm s thank you. Your word, all your word is inspired. None of it's in here. It's frivolous that we should forget. And and yet we've forgotten this book Lord, you're showing me the foundation of your whole plan of redemption. This is a huge part, and thank you, Lord, for opening my heart and my mind to understand and to see some of these things, to move from the intellectual to uh a faith, a belief and a understanding and a comprehension of of what you're trying to uh and I pray, Lord, for all of us in this class that uh they uh some part that they would get that same uh revelation from you. You y y you have to open our eyes and our minds to really embrace your word and to get down to uh different levels of it So that's what we lift up today, Lord. Just uh uh uh give us something, uh a new revelation. Give us more of who you are, Jesus, and what you've done on the cross. And this This word, this Leviticus just unpacks that. So that's what we pray for. It's in your name we pray. Amen. Um I was we were talking earlier in the in uh I thought I would probably be kind of skipping over uh incorporating this chapter with some other ones. And really, as I Pour down uh into it and and um it was Guy was kind of revealing to me. We talked about this. We're going through this uh journey. We're we're in a narrative even though it doesn't seem like it. It's just a law Uh we we went through uh the different sacrifices and we saw the culmination. The priests got consecrated and the initiation for the sacrifices to the people in actual practice was happening. Uh now we're in the the section now where uh we're looking at cleanness and uncleanness and And now we're talking to the people and and what the priests have to do because remember the priest we saw that in uh um uh Leviticus ten ten where where he was talking to Aaron after Nadab Mabiah who were where uh fire came out of 'em because they were doing something that wasn't God hadn't commanded. And he says to Aaron, he goes, Look, you you need to not be drinking, but you need to be sober He didn't say that, but that was implication. You you're gonna you discern cleanness and uncleanness, and you also are going to be teaching the people uh the word of God, the scriptures. So that was a critical. So now we're in this section and we're going, okay, last week we looked at food I can't eat this food, that food, we're asking why we can't do this. But remember, this is This is um this is clean and unclean. And we're we're we're gonna try and get that concept. Uh and I'm When I wrote when I reread my notes when I was trying to edit, and boy is it hard to edit your own work. You seem to make I seem to make the same mistakes over and over again. But uh I was saying, boy, I just seem to be repeating kind of the same theme over and over again. But I think that's what I needed and and I think that's what we need to get down to the layer of it. Why was he doing all this? Why was he instituting this? And it finally clicked with me. Um This section, we went with foods. We're looking at child childbirth. It's only eight verses, and I thought, wow, this eight verses. incorporate it with something else so we get through this section. But I think this will explain all of this it did to me. If we comprehend this, it explains what this uncleanness is. And and w you know, we can go through bodily uncleanness, uh uh things that come out of the body uh of uh uh leprosy and all that, which is gonna come to another culmination, right? The huge thing in this whole book, the atonement. And I've looked at this and and this is another thing, I'll just throw this out to you all. I I I don't know what everybody's schedule is. This is a busy time of year. We need to do atonement. We need to spend some time on that. And I not just what's i in this passage but what it means theologically and I'm trying to start to look at that and look at aspects and expand my understanding because that's it isn't it? This whole point of redemption, this whole point of of God coming in into a relationship, it's gonna require that atonement. And of course it all points Christ. And we go, yeah, Christ atoned for my sin, he was substitutionary atonement. But that's just that's just scratching the surface. It's bigger than that. It's huger than that. And I and I a lot of this I didn't comprehend. All that rambling Let's look at this and I hope something will c I hope you'll kind of get the the picture I got from uh this childbirth. Let's read through the passage. Somebody read Leviticus 12, 1 through 5, and somebody pick up and read 6 through 8. The Lord spoke to Moses, Tell the Israelites, when a woman becomes pregnant and gives birth to a male child, she will be unclean seven days as she is during the days of her. uh menstrual impurid flesh of his forescan must be circumcised on the eighth day. She will continue impurification from her bleeding the third and three days She must not touch any holy thing or go into the sanctuary until completing her days of purification. But if she gives birth to a female child, she will be unclean for two weeks as she is doing her menstrual period She will continue in purification uh from her bleeding for sixty-six days. And somebody pick up sixty wait for us And when the days of her purifying are completed, whether for a son or for a daughter, she shall bring to the priest at the entrance of the tent of at the tenth meeting, a lamb a year old for a burnt offering, and a pigeon or a turtle dove for a sin offering, and he shall offer it before the Lord and make atonement for her Then she shall be cleaned from the flow of her blood. This is the this is the law for her who bears a child, either male or female, and if she cannot put her land, then she shall take two turtle those or two pigeons, one for a burnt offering and one for a sin offering. And the priest shall make atonement for her and she shall declaim. Thanks. Okay, so uh this is kind of a um Well I'll start with the the kind of the theology of this. Um again, this is that that issue we have to deal with with clean and unclean, or really what that means. The law classified everything as holy or unholy, and only holy could be permitted in the presence of God. Now, and that's w that's the theme we're going to be looking at. This is to move into the presence of God. There is a subcategory of holy which is clean and unclean. The normal state of things is clean. And by pollution, uh which we'll look at, and sin things may become unclean. What is clean can be elevated to holy through consecration and sanctification. The sacrificial system was the means for elevating the common or clean to holy. Something that was unclean could be made clean through purification, and once clean needed the blood ritual to make it holy. So we've seen a lot of this in all these sacrifices. It is utmost important to discern unclean. from sin and unclean from pollution, which does not always involve sin. Um I had a thought, but I'm I'll I'll p put it later. Someone unclean from disease or some other body pollution does not have to be forgiven of sin, but only be ritually cleansed. and sanctified for re-entry into the sanctuary. Regardless of the reason of the person, uh the what the person became unclean They were not permitted into the presence of God. So you can kind of see where this is going. This passage addresses the state of uncleanness after childbirth. How is it that a woman is unclean from childbirth when God has commanded the man and the woman to be fruitful and multiply? Right? Genesis 128. In order to understand this, we must realize God is dealing with ritual purity. What was clean, was free to participate in ritual in the sanctuary where the ark was. What was unclean had to wait. That's uh Ross. uh Alan Ross, which we've looked at. This chapter on childbirth is in the same context with foods, fungi, disease, and discharge. Women were not singled out because of their menstrual cycle uh and childbirth. Men and women were declared unclean due to bodily discharge. It is not childbirth that makes a woman unclean, is the bodily discharge that presents her or any person from entering the sanctuary due to uncleanness. Children are a blessing from God, but children uh But childbirth is uh very earthly, worldly, and not the usual norm, healthy condition for women This is a problem because access to the sanctuary of God required a person to be whole. And we kind of talked about this. This is kind of the um Theology, so to speak. And remember we looked at this chart last week. For those of you who weren't here, this is what Wendham had to kind of look at what is wholeness, what is normality. Um and it's kind of a yeah it it's it it's somewhat vague, but uh on this side you have life This is a top. You have life increasingly uh you're you're moving from life uh increasingly towards uh uh uh death Uh so you have normality, you have something that becomes like abnormal, uh, then you have total disorder. Uh We've we've talked about this the Holy of Holies, right? The inner sanctuary where the Ark of the Covenant is. You come to the altar, the altar of incense, uh you move to the tabernacle court Right? The altar out there. Y you you're moving a direction towards the camp, outside the camp, and then shield. So you you can see these are different shades of it. And it's um Again, try and think of this as as um again what what God would consider as whole, normal, but it but particularly if you're moving towards the presence of God You have to be sanctified. And we just look at we express it in a material sense, but it's it's kinda more than that, right? The spiritual thing. Um and I think um as we we go back to to uh chapter twelve, I think you'll see uh hopefully you'll understand this more. It it hit me finally. So now we have God, right God's holy, totally holy. We have priests who've been sanctified. That's why Nadab and God came down so hard on Nadab and Nabihu. They were the mediators. They've been consecrated. Remember They have been consecrated for a whole week, seven days. They never left the tabernacle. On the eighth day, when they offered these sacrifices for the people is when They offered something that God had commanded. This is unholy. This is not you're coming into my presence. You must do it according to to who I am Uh you got deformed priests. Uh you will see that you know throughout scripture as as y priests could not be deformed. They had uh if there was any uh physical uh abnormality, they weren't allowed to go into the holy place. And again, think of this in a general category. Uh clean, unclean, wholeness, unholeness And don't just just think of it as uh anything that's unclean is sin. It's not necessarily true, and that's what we're gonna see. Um in a broad sense, yes. But Um because really why is something why are we in the state we're in? Because we're we're in a world that's sin cursed. So yeah, we could say everything is sin, but I'm talking about uh as we look back, the woman just for example is in childbirth, she's not sinning, it's it's a result of what happens, right? And yet God says, No, y this is unclean. So that and that's what we're gonna try and uh comprehend here Uh so you have uh God, priest, before priest, Israelites, lay person, uh you have unclean. Uh people? Uh and c uh death is the uh the ultimate uh uh you have uh the perfect sacrifice, right? Unblemished You have a blemish sacrifice? Uh you have something that's edible, clean, inedible, unclean, and then carcasses, right? We we looked at that last time. Uh you can't even uh touch. No, let's see. So it's vital to keep in mind that these chapters 11 through 15 are presenting commands to be observed for sanctification. Again, if you're unclean, no clean person may enter the presence of the Holy Lord. I gave a quick outline here, a summary. It's basically Ross's. So we have uh purification after childbirth. Uh a woman who bore a son was unclean seven days, uh, after circumcision, uh or after uh circumcising him on the eighth day She had thirty-three days for purification, was not allowed in the sanctuary. We saw in the text she's not allowed to touch holy things. A woman who bore a daughter was unclean for fourteen days, followed by sixty-six days purification After a prescribed time, the woman brought the purification and burnt offering for cleansing and restoration to the sanctuary. After the purification period the woman brought a lamb for a burnt offering and a pigeon for purification, for cleansing and restoration. If the woman was poor God provided, right? They could bring two two birds, either pigeons or turtle doves, for purification and a burnt offering. So the physical aspects of childbirth render a woman unclean. So we'll look at this. As God commanded man and woman to be fruitful and multiply, right? Genesis 128, childbirth in the Old Testament was Sarah laughed, right? She rejoiced with laughter when she and Abraham conceived their son, Isaac, uh and Isaac was born Uh God allowed people to share in his act of creation through childbirth. Everybody's probably familiar with this one, Psalm 127, 325. Behold, children are a gift of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, so are the children of one's youth. How blessed is the man whose quiver is full of them. They will not be ashamed when they speak with their enemies in the gate. So here in chapter twelve, the woman is declared cle uh unclean following the birth of her child. The command to be understood in the light of the woman's condition after the birth and the laws of purification. Pregnancy is an abnormal condition compared to the normal way of life when not pregnant. It prevents regular activity, calls for special care uh during their pregnancy. So this is a a theological kind of a point of view. It's like so they're saying, why is God looking at people in in this condition? And again it's this kind of wholeness and I know that the I see a fur furrow of brow, but and that's kind of what I was thinking. What is this what is this wholeness? What is this state? What is normal Again, it's it's kind of a theological point of view for uh what uh uh God is looking for when it comes to his presence Uh, you know, he's looking for a lamb without defects as opposed to a lamb with with defects. And I don't know if you're If this is coming to you, but to me it kind of reveals the state of the world we live in. The world we live in is not holy. It it it's cu it's sincers everywhere, isn't it? The ground was cursed, the people are cursed. And w we can get into the presence of God, but I think what we need to look at And this is what was helping me. It's not so much again, it's it's a self-centered thing. How do I get close to God? It's like it's me, me, me God says, this is who I am. This was was is what comes into my presence. And I I because of Diamond I and I To me, I d I think this pushes the people to look ultimately. If they're thinking childbirth is a normal thing, and I'm unclean after childbirth? What does that tell me about my environment and where I live and everything else? It does does it make us look to something else, to something complete, fuller? Does it did it make these people look to eternity in some way? We don't know because of the revelation that they were getting, but it's like My one of my conversion things was when I looked at my dad's grave after he was dead and it was a fairly young man and he was didn't die that old, I looked at him and going, is that it? And does this does this kind of a revelation, does it point to them, say, well, this is unclean. Well what does it take to be right with God? And it's and uh again, uh this is not sin. This is he said to have children and and multiply, and yet now am I clean after death. You know? How how do we reconcile this? The woman is declared unclean following childbirth. Uh the command to be understood in the light of the woman's condition after childbirth, the laws of purification. Pregnancy, like I said, is that normal condition compared to the normal way of life? When not pregnant, it prevents regular activity. Under the law, it prevented the woman from entering the sanctuary during her period of uncleanness. after the birth. The main focus of these laws is purity of the sanctuary. The baby is not declared unclean. We don't see that anywhere. For w for if the son uh for if it was a son, he was brought to to be circumcised on the eighth day, right? Many have seen the correlation of uh And you'll see this with some of the commentaries because there's a similar thing in in the uh uh d uh in the culture of this time. So many see the correlation of the pagan practice of seeing a woman uh and the child as unclean and not allowed to come near the sacrifices. The Hittites believe that the woman and the child were more vulnerable to demon possession. This belief could uh be the result of the complications and even death of childbirth. We we see that even today, right, with all the technology we have. Uh Women die from childbirth. I and uh there aren't dangerous things. It's a kind of a it's a miracle. It's a m the whole birth thing's a miracle, but it's a miracle even that sometimes a woman can recover from this And we take it for granted, but um it's funny, Mel was telling us uh just last night we were having a conversation at somebody in a church he was at, uh th the very thing happened to the woman. I think she uh gave birth to a child if I'm correct and they could not control the bleeding. She blended death. Even with all the transfusions, eventually she blended death. Uh So you can see how the pagans would see this, and of course they assumed everything that, you know, if you have these gods and then there's other gods that you have to pray for the you know how it is that God could even be uh against you from time. So um so the flow of blood is not a normal condition for the hu of a human. Even today if the blood flow cannot be controlled, person dies. Israelite did not view the baby as vulnerable. the demon possession, nor the woman because of the flow of blood from childbirth or menstruation. Again, it's very similar practices, but It's kinda like we talked about with the covenant, the Suzerain covenant that was so prevalent during that time and they were making covenants. God makes a very similar covenant, follows the same kind of uh uh stipulations, uh Uh, but they're making a covenant with the ultimate God, the creator of the universe, not some uh tyrant king or you know, even vassal clan or whatever, or uh suzerain clan leader, but it's the same Same idea. And and this this too, a lot of this you'll see uh w with the correlation. But again, this is revelation they're getting. This is the God you're making a covenant with, but I am also holy. You cannot come to me in this condition. This passage commands a woman to bring a burnt offering and a sin offering after her time of purification. The point of this passage is not to view childbirth as a sin. The flow of blood as a result of childbirth separating a woman from the sanctuary, and the offering is better viewed as a purification offering. Only those who are pronounced clean may enter the sanctuary and uh that by ritual, uh ritual sacrifice. The passage is another illustration of the holiness of God and what was earthy, too physical, disease. Unclean and unacceptable for before God. This is what um is that clock right? I know it was wrong the other day. I want to keep track of it. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, okay, that's good. Um Again, th this is uh what we s what I see in this is that um God Even in this world, he gives and all those sacrifices, he was giving them a means uh uh to be cleansed, a means to be s sanctified Consecrated to God, a mean to move towards Him. Now I'm gonna give you the punchline because I can't help it, but when you think about it even today, okay, we don't follow those practices, but we uh even with the Holy Spirit dwelling inside of us We cannot go into the presence of God. We cannot go into heaven in this earthly state. We can't This isn't just about women. We're gonna see you're gonna see the same thing with men. It could be diseases. Anybody has a pus or you know what I mean? If they have leprosy, you can't go to the holy, consecrated place Mm-hmm. And it it just to me it just points to the future. W you know, what are we looking were they looking for a Messiah that was going to be the ultimate sacrifice Were they looking for a heaven that's beyond this earth? We talk about dead bodies, uh uh uh be it animals or or people. The the people that touch a dead body. So so I guess think about the heavenly place. Think about the the the uh the s going to heaven, seeing God face to face. And that remember that's what they were This is a different economy. God was and I have this in my notes, but God was manifesting his glory there in the temple. It was a different economy. He's not God now uses the Holy Spirit inside of us, but it's it's a different it's a different it's a different manner that that he's working with This is a this is another these had the Shekana glory in that tabernacle. And he said to come it's kinda like coming to see me face to face, you cannot come in this condition. And and that was that's the picture they're they're they're try they're supposed to be getting I don't it took me a long time for this to go over my head and finally finally get this. And it's not, you know, we talk about going to heaven and oh I'll have a glorified body and you know uh no more sin or this uh i it's like I'm looking at myself. But look at it this way. You can't go into heaven without a glorified body. You can't go into heaven without sin. You can't go into heaven with these bodily discharges. It's not God's doing it for if he wants a relationship with us, this is what you have to be to go into his presence to see him face to face. Again, it it's uh who God is. It's that holiness thing. Yes. Second Timothy two twenty-one. Greek and forward of the exact same words for cleansing and purification and other cleaningness are used in technical analysis. Right. Sanctified useful to the master of prepared for every good work. So you get that New Testament individual believer aspect of exactly what you're talking about. And I guess the other picture to me was is that you know, you hear we we say it, I've said it's in songs, you know, you take this world and give me Jesus uh this world is not my own, this world, you know, uh but we are steeped in this world, aren't we? And and this sh this like just brought like a new light to me. It was kind of like There's this is James, right? Anyone uh friendship with the world, anyone who's friends with the world, the enemy to God. This is not the state. Uh it's n uh It's it's not what we should be seeking. Uh in Hebrews, uh Abraham, all of them were seeking uh uh uh a nation not made with hands, you know, they were looking for a better thing, right? This is even before the law. And that's what God's putting our heart This this world is good in its aspects. We can use it as as a tool for for God. He's given us things to to use us for for primarily to spread his word and his kingdom, but this world is not going to be presented to God in its own way. It's it's when we go to that eternal state, right, everything is cleansed. Everything. This world is nothing to be holding on to. It's a mess. It's cursed. It's good in in the sense that God made it and he he it sustained life for us, but uh It helps me to think heavenly, right? Um questions. I'm just thinking like these laws are really I mean I I want to go back to this period uh in the debate it's you know, just not the New Testament. Right. Uh it's just that you know if you're in the period, it's probably so hard to like to so many laws, like you're just a person Right. You really don't have that Holy Spirit to strengthen you to obey you know God loves and everything. So I'm thinking that God is probably putting it in their hearts that really it is really hard So it's um to point them that um maybe to us like there's gotta be a way God like to to make them go to him and just uh tell them that you know We are just men. We really cannot do this. There's gotta be some way. I'm thinking all that period. Amen. No I agree. And and what you said is the essence of all salvation. You come to the end of yourself and you're going, I can't do this. As long as you can do it You don't need a savior. You got it. Well, I might need him for this or that. Now get me into heaven. But I'll you know, I got this down here. Um but yeah, it's the that's the essence. It's again How do people in the Old Testament get saved? The same way they do in the New Testament. By faith. And and wasn't that exactly what all this was pointing to? The God was telling them, You can't do this. And and you they uh where they are we able to to come to the end of ourselves and say, I agree, I can't do this. I am this is beyond me. Exactly what you said. That's the gospel. They're looking for something Something outside of themselves. Exactly, but but God is perfection, that's what we need to comprehend. And we're not. But He has a way. Even during that remember, as as difficult as this is, remember in this passage, they can bring they call it a sin offering. Um We looked at this before, I know you weren't here the first quarter. When we went to the Sin may be a bit much. It may Uh uh in in in chapter four you're looking at at what they call a sin offering. It's really a purification. Might be a better interpretation of it. You're being purified, you're being cleansed. And we talked about that. And you should really go back if you can find those notes of mine and and look at this per particularly and we we we tried to uh point that out what what the different aspects of each of those sacrifices was. And I think This is the same word here. It it is sin. It's uh kata if it serves if my memory serves me correct. But in the noun form it definitely it's sin. In the the verbal form to be purified Uh it's oftentimes used uh for purification. There are it's one of those words that have different meanings. And and if you look at my notes on chapter four, uh I I spell that I give that all out to you and I give the uh the different uh c uh lexicons and all that that um define that. They're being purified. I mean this is not a It w when I say sin, we're in a sin world, right? Because she uh she is this person is during this time, anybody who has any fluids coming out of this time is not um able to go into the presence of God. But they ha they haven't done anything. It's not a moral choice. It's not They haven't crossed any lines. It it's it's the reality of this world and this age. But nevertheless, you said it, perfection. God is perfection And what he's saying is, you need perfection to to to be with me. And then if you're honest, you're going, I'm never gonna get there. And he goes, You're right And so what did he provide here? Like a like uh uh before I went off in this? These two sacrifices. Uh the sin offering uh um Uh what is it? Verse seven, they shall offer it before the Lord and make atonement for her. She shall be cleansed from the flow of her blood. Uh well I guess I should pick it up in six. When the days of her purification are completed For a son or a daughter she shall bring uh to the priest of the doorway of the tent of meeting a one year old lamb for a burnt offering. Okay, a burnt offering is um Uh basically atonement, um Kafar, it's a substitute, and uh young pigeon or turtle dove for a sin offering And uh I think the connotation there is really purification. Because you haven't really s the person hasn't sinned. If I catch a disease, uh I don't know some bodily things are coming out of me, which is coming out of me, my eyes dripping and I don't know. Uh You know, I got my I got my maladies for sure. I guess I'd never be in a sanctuary. The older you get, you know, you start drawing. Mr. Joke. So but uh this is the perfectionist it's not a it's not a w a willed thing it's not an intentional thing. There's not so But it is sin and a general thing that we're in a sin of fallen world. This is not heaven. And I think I mean we see in Hebrews Abraham was looking for a country that was not made without hands. They were looking for something And I think God, when you believe, puts that on your heart. What what revelation they got in the Old Testament, what they knew, we don't really know. God doesn't tell us in scripture. But I assume it's like they're like m like us As we became when we really believed, God opened our eyes to things that we read and maybe could understand intellectually, but didn't believe, didn't really know It's like knowing I'm saved. How did I know I'm saved? The Holy Spirit. The only way. He just like opened my eyes and I said, Oh, this is real. That's not him, you know So uh does that answer your question? The long way around, wouldn't it? That's the way I go, unfortunately. But yeah, you're right, it's perfection. And you're right, they they it was conviction. But isn't the key to the whole thing obedience? Well it is obedience and and The purse the obedient uh it's an aspect of it, but if you just lay it just on obedience, no, it's not. God has to perfect you. It has to be grace involved in it as well You could view there are some people that are really type A that are good in law keeping and rule keeping and uh of course none of us even say We're gonna do it perfectly, right? But yeah, obedience is certainly an aspect of it for sure. And it has to do wa as far as the sanctification process, the woman had to obey these commands She had to stay away from the sanctified things, she had to stay away from the sanctuary, and then she had to bring these offerings. What about repentance before obedience? Repentance But here again, this is this is my whole point. I have this in a note but I know how I am when I start talking, I I don't finish this stuff. There is no there is no forgiveness in here. Why? Because she doesn't need to be forgiven. She hasn't sinned in that aspect. She had a child that she had a child. God won God told him to be fruitful, good. Yeah. In order for they need faith in God's word to believe what he says. Well that's and in order for faith to be effective you have to obey. Faith and obedience will give you a faith I believe well, yeah. I I guess what I'm saying is some people can obey without saving faith. I I will say that, but it's effective, but also has to Right. But uh again, um maybe I'm maybe I'm wrong about this. I got a couple of theologians in the room. You can shoot me down if I'm wrong. Um It's kind of like we talked about the negative. Don't do this and you won't be cursed. But there's also the positive. You know? Well faith is the positive thing. Exactly. Salvation well uh w I see it all the time with with uh just last week in in in uh in the jail One of the guys was saying, man, uh, you know, we we we can present this thing because uh I'm fighting with lust, you know, fighting with lust. And we're going, man, that's good. 'Cause and and the the chaplain who knew the guy, uh since he got there goes, he goes it's a good thing. He goes when you first came here you weren't fighting with a lost. There wasn't a problem Now you're saved, uh, he doesn't want to do it. Faith makes me want to to do this. As I become more aware of how fallen this world is and how separate we need to be from it. It motivates me instead of saying, don't be like the world. Okay, I won't do this, I won't do that. And I'm not good at that. I'm I'm I'm telling you my personality is the way God worked me. I'm not good at that. But when I see a positive thing, I'm going, man, when when I look at the word and God open it to me and I understand it, I'm going, that is cool. I mean, I just feel like totally close to God. Do you get that sometimes when you're doing scripture? You ever get those aha moments? That's That's the motivation. Faith, and the more you and the more you're obedient, the more your faith increases. Stephen M went out down to missionary thing. I mean, they're in another realm that we're we're not into. They had to tell they had to take this They're intelligent people. They're going, man, we could've made a living death back here. We could have been living, you know, this good life's good here in the United States. If you're disciplined Life is good for us, is it not? It is. We have money to go on vacations and do this and do that and uh you know. But it it's it's it's M it's realizing it's being motivated by that belief, by that trust. As we as we are obedient, it gives us more faith. Because like some of the things we do, it's like, I don't get this I'll tell you just a quick one then I'll get back to it. Um I know. When I when I when I was had my shop and I was feeling called to go to seminary full time seminary. This is me and I don't know it's amazing I finished my undergraduate. I am not a natural student. The only thing I had was a desire and a uh perseverance of Just don't give up and y it's easy. God God takes you through. I was telling us a lot and and one night one night I was down there and I was busy. I had a big job. It was a complex job. I had cars backed up Working like a dog and nothing's getting done. It just felt like I was mucking, mucking, working. Hard I was working. Like I wasn't wasn't checking off the boxes. The cars are still there And um um I I just felt this thing. I felt like, you know, God wanted me to go to seminary and I'm going I'm arguing with him. I'm yelling in the uh it was at night, so I was by myself Oh I can't do this. So I th I said to him, I said, well if you want to do this, then you're gonna have to uh have somebody buy this shop Okay? Uh and and it's a lot easier to buy these things than to sell it. The real estate agents would tell you, oh man, you need to buy this, blah, blah, blah. And then when you go to sell it, they go, Well, you know, it's not easy to sell these things. So I said, you gotta sell this thing. So I think it was within a day or two I was uh talking to uh in my office, talking on the phone to a customer and Um this woman c comes in. I think I might have been talking to a real estate agent and uh this woman comes in, she and her husband uh had one of the uh units around the corner from me and she uh she overheard me talking and she says, Um, I gotta get you my husband. Uh I'll be right back. He he's gonna wanna talk to you So apparently she gave him the conversation. I'm on the phone with a customer, he comes in, he goes, I'll buy it I'm like, Uh oh God I mean he just he does things. You just walk in it and it's and it's tough. There are times when I did not walk through open doors and I guess everybody in here has that story. So, we aren't talking about the laws of purification here. We're also gracious provision, right? Again, God is God is allowing sanctification through this process. That's what he's showing them through all this. Okay, you have a condition, you're in a fallen world. Here's what you do to come back, be consecrated, to come to the sanctuary. And this is the two things are right in here. So there's this all this controversy about the male job. Why do we, you know, I just go through some of the reasons real quick. Why Why does the male child only why does she only have to go into the purification for half the time for a man child? Why does she have to do it twice as much for the female? And there's all the really there really we don't have an answer for this. Uh the here's the here's the some of the main points Uh that the commentators point out. Number one, the difference in status between the sexes. This is prevalence among Jewish people. I've read some even um Contemporary modern Jewish rabbis commenting on this. There's this sort of difference, you know, between the status between the male and the female. Uh of course there's no scriptural evidence for this. Some try to prove the discharge lasts longer uh after the birth of the girl, but this is not supported by evidence Some suggest uh that a female child may have bleeding at birth and this is accounted uh for the double length of the time of purification. Uh some have suggested that uh female would have future menstruation which would explain the Um any you guys want to chime in on this? You ever thought about this? I know. Who wants to touch this one? We don't know But again, I I like what Morag says of and Mel about obedience to what God says. Um that's that's uh what they did. Um and again, he gave them a way to get back to uh sanctification. Um so the ritual sacrifice, a purification, a burnt offering, uh restores a woman to a holy presence. In order for the woman to be restored and declared clean, we should offer proper sacrifices, a lamb and a burnt offering. This is the obedience. uh a burn for sin or or better purification offering. Only the ritual purification uh of childbirth was was required uh Uh and there was no sin on the part of the woman. She didn't do anything wrong. In verses six and seven, only purification on the part of the woman is mentioned with no reference to the forgiveness of sin. Said that Verse 7 says, uh she shall be clean from the flow of blood. There is no moral component uh of the uncleanness. In fact, the some of the commentators refer to this as kind of an automatic thing. Um It's not like something s uh she does. It isn't like something that the the Lord had to intervene with either, uh in in in the normal state of things. Uh so the result of her carrying out the commands of the Lord, right? Um Verse 8 gives her a special offering for the poured and and this is this is again this is God saying this is something that's commanded, this is mandatory Uh we looked at a peace offering. A peace offering was not necessarily mandatory. A and certain certain a lot of times people brought a peace o peace offering just as uh as a way of worshiping, as kinda like, Thank you Lord for what you've done. uh and I and I want to dedicate this to you. Uh so the uncleanness of the woman uh with blood flow was not thought uh to be an action, led to her uncleanness, uh and thus it wasn't sin So the uncleanness of human nature in a worldly earthly environment condition, God manifested his glory on earth among his chosen people in the tabernacle. It's important to see that. Remember, we are in it's so hard for us just to look back this side of the cross and and uh import all this. This was for this time and this place. And God was manifesting his glory physically there in that tabernacle. They were entering, so to speak, into a type of presence of God. That's why this was this is why this is so uh critical that they they'd be in this state 'Cause it's not who you are, it's who God is. Uh let's see what Janice talked to you about the E C now Where the man was the boy kid was to be circumcised? Circumcised? Yeah. Several yeah in the sixties There was a book put out by a doctor who had gone through the in Leviticus to check out the health things. And they check out the w circumcisions. And a male child to be circumcised on the eighth day. The vitamin K which clots the blood is over a hundred percent on the eighth D, not the seventh nor the ninth. Is that right? Yep. Okay. And this and so that this way they wouldn't bleed to death. Today if a child is circumcised in a hospital, they have to give 'em vitamin K to clot the blood. Interesting. No, that is the and he went through there. I have to look well I don't know if we still have the book. And he went through all the health uh diseases. Not in fact the name of the book is None of Us. Diseases right, yeah. And he said that when the like washing their hands and putting it up to the sun to dry. We didn't know that till the eighteen hundreds in Britain. And that's why people died in the hospital because they didn't wash their hands in between. Okay, it's a very practical book, but that's the one thing that stuck with me above everything else. The vitamin Cights. My daughter is in there, so she told me about that. Yeah. They have to give her And and again excited about it. This is uh this is The other aspect of it again it's um it's you know we talk about obedience and also this is a practical thing. Definitely Uh a health thing. But but I want to look at this you know, I and I get that. That's why I've been emphasizing the spiritual side of it because uh it's the relationship Uh it's the closeness. It's the sanctification aspect uh of getting close to God that that um Uh and if we do that, everything, you know, seek ye first the kingdom of God and everything else kinda falls into place is what he's saying. uh these we will be obedient as we get faith. We will be obedient to a lot of these precepts and and uh there certainly are in the New Testament But as Scott and I were talking earlier in the New Testament, it's for me, it's so easy to go, oh I'm saved by grace, I'm good, you know. But that's a and then take take the fear. When I started this class I was saying, look, one of the reasons I really wanted to go back to this is I wanted to fear a God again Yeah, guy yes, he's good, but I wanna fear him the I i he's awesome. He's all raising up breathing is because of him. And I you know, for me to mock him and to take advantage of it or Just because I'm, you know, saved by grace and a good or getting into heaven. Uh just you know, I want more than that. I forgot to tell you one other thing about that. Uh well I just have to tell you because we'll never get back on the Jewish um the circumcision prevents a lot of diseases and Jewish women it's rare they die of cervical cancer or uh these types of cancers I do. That it preserves the women in health. I tell you. And it's also rare for a Jewish male to die from cancer of penis. Believe it or not. Right. That was one of the one of the things we also pointed out in this book. I I think what struck me the most for this lesson, these are mostly like a related to physical and thinness and uh in the New Testament when Christ died That's why this was eradicated, right? This w this was like part of the ceremonial laws that was when Christ died, no longer exists This is what the the Jews and the Gentiles hike all the time because the Jews want this still circumstance. Yeah, this physical I mean this all these physical laws Because this unseenness is related to physical, not spiritual. That's why when I talked about repentance earlier we said no repentance because there's no sin. So so what I'm identifying is these are Because these are all related to physical uncleanness. It's just a picture of what's gonna come in the New Testament. Uncleanness which is the thin of rejecting Christ. Yes it is. The reason I brought up this word obedience is because we're talking about clean and unclean in this chapter right here. Uh huh. But when Simon Peter was told to go to Cornelius The first thing God told him was, don't you call anything that created clean or unclean. So it was a matter it was a matter of uh what the Jew know knew at that particular time, he's gonna learn more later. And and it's but the key to it is hey do what I tell you because I know what's best for you. And not only that, but over in Hebrews it says it's a it's impossible for the blood of a bull or a goat to make one purified before God. It was only only through the blood of the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, that even made salvation possible in the first place. So we do look forward to that time coming. Right. And now we look back on that time called the hand. Yeah, there's so much there. A couple of things. He says in Hebrews 9, he says, the blood of bulls and goats, for the cleansing of the flesh, which allowed them to approach him. And then if you look at the next verse it says How much more the blood of Jesus who will cleanse our conscience? It was an in this is an inner cleansing for faith. He cleansed us our conscience to do good works. And what and what it was is is is the moving forward. But there was a cleansing. It's the same word used in both of those verses. It wasn't a covering, it was a cleansing. So it did allow them in some aspect to approach God in a fleshly manner. Let me read this because we're just about out of time. Revelation 2127. Below it. Now we're uh now that's first John. I want to get to that too. And nothing unclean and no uh one who practices abomination and lying shall ever come into it. He's talking about heaven, right? but only those whose names were written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Nothing unclean. Again, w everything is going to have to be glorified to go into his presence We will see him face to face. 1 John, you know this, but again, beloved, now we are children of God. not appeared yet because what we will be. We know that when he appears we will be like him because we will see him just as he is Everyone who has his hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is pure. And that's what it uh that's what they were being really projected back in these chapters, eleven through fifteen. And then you're going we're gonna it's gonna culminate in what? The atonement. Okay, they're gonna see that they're uh they are unclean. They live in a land that come from a people of unclean lips. It's it's the atonement God is gonna provide. But it has to be God who provides. The question, you know And that's the gospel. Back then, even now it's always the same thing. Do you believe uh God? Do you believe that you need him? Uh what he's saying is here is is you can't even come into his presence. You need to know that. We are not going to go into heaven in this state. We're going to be glorified first. Not for us, for him first, right? You can't go into his presence, uh unclean. It's that simple. Um there's all kinds of application when you think about this. Just wrote one thing and then then we'll pray uh you know uh let us go on to uh uh the service. But um when you think about these things that are being unclean, think about how you can see how society breaks down the barriers and we call clean what isn't unclean We al the if you think about this and especially as we move forward, the practices that people are doing, if this natural thing is unclean, think of the unnatural things we do that are bitter Sanctification to me brings us to God. It is separation from the world. You're separated. You're holy. You're being separated from the world, but you're moving towards God. Sin is taking us away from God. It's separating us from God, right? It's complete separation. Ultimate. Thing will happen. Those who don't know God will be separated for eternity. Heavenly Fathers, uh, we lift up uh your word, uh we lift up our time, we pray for uh the service, uh we pray for the word preached, we pray for the music. Lord, we want to worship you. Uh thank you again Lord for The impression you've made on me during this chapter, Lord, to see you as more holy, more high, more lifted up. And Lord, the the blessing that we get, that one day we will be glorified so that we may go into your presence, to see you face to face. Incomprehensible. Lord, just give us eyes to see you more each day. It's in your name I pray. Amen.