Uh let's go ahead and open in prayer. Uh Heavenly Father, uh thank you again for this day. Thank you, Lord, for your grace and your mercy, for your salvation, uh Lord, for um your spirit to uh Teach us your word, to enlighten us, to open our eyes, to understand uh w uh what you're trying to communicate to us, who we are, who you are. Lord, you we have such uh uh knowledge because of your grace and your your spirit uh working inside of us. So Lord, we want to lift up this time. We pray for this class Uh Lord, just use me as an instrument. Lord, it's your word that needs to come forth uh and not ourselves. Uh enlighten us. Uh may we learn something and and uh uh consider things that we hadn't considered before as we look at uh Leviticus. And I just uh lift this time up to you. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen So, um I've talked we have a couple of new people, so I'm just trying to bring them up to speed. They miss a lot uh uh uh our our understanding because of the uh uh sacrifices and the the time we spent on that and seeing the differences in the sacrifices. And I spoke to both of them briefly, so Uh again, we're in um we're at Mount Sinai, where we are in narrative, even though it just seems like law, especially today. Um So these cu these sacrifices and these covenants, all these rituals, the sacrifices, and I'll and I'll I have this in the notes The sacrifices he gave the rules for the sacrifices, remember? First he told the people what their responsibility was, what the what they should do, what they shouldn't do Then he went uh uh and this is chapters one through seven. Then he went and he told the priest what they should do in the sacrifices and what they shouldn't do And then in chapter eight we have the consecration or the initiation of the sacrifice. Well, the priests first. The priests have to be Sanctified, sacrif you know, they're set apart. They are uh sanctified, holy What it w and and the way that God uh sees them that way. They are the mediator between the people and God. So they have a special job. And responsibilities that go with that. Uh chapter eight, chapter nine, um but chapter ten, which we finished just last week, was was a big Um well chapter nine they actually initiated the offering and they started to make sacrifices for for the priest. And then for the people. Because they uh we see that in Hebrews, right? Uh Christ is our high priest who doesn't need to make sacrifices for himself, uh like the priests who had to make sacrifices for themselves and the people. Uh you know, that's what this is pointing to. Christ, uh it's uh as the ultimate uh high priest and and sacrificial lamb Chapter 10, we have a problem because Nadab and Abihu do not obey. They offer something that God hadn't commanded. And this is the initiation. This is huge. And we talk about this. This is almost this is the initiation for the sacrifices in the Old Testament Think of it as like the day of Pentecost, right? It's their first, it's their first day. And so they've done something wrong, and God judges immediately. We think it's harsh But it's it's it's not according to God's commands. And they are the representative. Remember now, these are priests They've been set aside. They spent a whole week before they did this event. A whole week being consecrated, offering sacrifices all during the week for themselves. And now they're offering it for the people. They do something wrong. God judges them. You know, if you know the story, a fire comes out and consumes them. Kills 'em. Um so that's kind of where we are. Now we turn the corner and now we're looking at um uh the laws. And and just let me say this about um chapter nine, right? The end of chapter nine, after they offered the sacrifices, Moses and Aaron had gone into the tent the holy place. Uh they went into the tent of meaning, this is uh chapter nine to verse twenty three Uh when they came out and blessed the people, the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people. And that was the promise when they offered the sacrifice. They said You are going to see the glory of the Lord today. And he appeared. He he sh he showed up in in his uh glory, however that uh appeared to them. Then fire came out from before the Lord. And consume the burnt offering and the portions of fat on the altar. When all the people saw it, they shouted and fell on their faces. So here's a demonstration of God's glory, God's presence. They the he basically said by this, I have accepted your offering. And again, let me just kind of recapitulate on that for a second too. Remember These lambs, these animals, the grain offerings They are accepted by God because He said, This is the way I want you to do it. They are not in and of themselves any magical thing. And you know, we need to always separate that. uh uh even a th a thought I'll have and I was thinking of uh Saul my example that I if I I I might look at that passage today. It said God ordained it this way. And remember, we're saved by faith. The Old Testament saints were saved by faith. Uh the standalone passage that they always refer to in the New Testament is Genesis 15, 6. Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. Romans quotes it, Galatians and J and um who's that guy back in the back there, um James. I got it. James uses that passage, right? So remember that. Um it's God who who or who ordains all this. Um Uh and one more last point and then I'll get started. Um Well, let me just go with this. What I've done with this is on the beginning of these notes, I've kind of front-loaded it Because we'll w we're looking at food offerings. If you're familiar with this at all, don't eat this food, don't eat that food. You know, if it's fit we'll look at some of that But what's and m m the it's always the main dollar question. Why these foods? Why not why these animals? Why And we're and what does it mean? This is a difficult one because there's more disagreement among the commentators on on these types of things. Why these particular things But I think what I've tried to do in these first pages of notes is l we're gonna think through What are the implications of all this? And I think it's multi multifaceted w with all of this. So having said that, let's begin Leviticus 10 and the priests were to judge what was holy and what was common. If you remember, uh that was the passage where Uh God spoke to Aaron and he said, and this is after the two his two sons were killed, and he said God spoke to Aaron, he says, Do not have any of the priests come into the uh holy place that they've been had any drink uh or uh any uh w wine or strong drink. And then he says, you for you are to judge They're there to make a distinction. What is clean, what is unclean. They're also the priests who are responsible for teaching them the scriptures, right? It's right there in that passage. Chapter 11 begins with a section describing clean and unclean food. Chapter 12 deals with the uncleanness of childbirth. Chapters 13 and 14 with skin diseases and fungus disease. 15 deals with bodily discharges. These chapters lead to chapter 16 The Great Day of Atonement. Because of the people's sins and their uncleanness, the priest was to make atonement for them and cleanse the tabernacle In Leviticus 1 through 7, God gave the procedures for the sacrifices before sanctifying the priests who were to mediate for the people by presenting their sacrifices. In this section, God presents what is clean and unclean. He then initiates atonement for the people and the priest and the cleansing of the tabernacle. So you can see there's a pattern here. He gives all the instructions for the different sacrifices, and then you move to the actual sacrifices, right? Now he's talking about they need to know What is clean and unclean? What defiles? What does God expect? And then 16 is the atonement for all their sins. And it's The cleansing of the temple. We we saw a little bit of that of the cleansing uh of different part, but this will cleanse the whole temple. The holy of holies, right? Once a year. We'll get there So I gave you a summary. Um this is a kind of a good summary to uh keep you You know, it's like a program. Like a playbill. What what what scenes are we gonna see? Um so Clove, you know, I I guess we could redo this. Clover and hope cut chewing land animals, uh you know example, sheep and cattle, maybe eating other mammals are unclean. You know, pigs, camels are an example They may not be eaten. Only fish with fins and scales may be eaten. And of course they give you the verses there, so it's a good little overview. Certain birds, probably birds of prey, may not be eaten, 13 through 19. Flying insects insects may not be eaten, but hopping insects are edible. I know. And if you look at that, that's the kind of what you're gonna see. Uh touching the dead carcass of an unclean animal makes a person unclean. He must wash himself. Other swarming animals, such as mice and lizards, are also unclean. If they are found dead inside a vessel, the vessel becomes unclean, must be destroyed, or purified if it can be. Clean animals that die of natural causes become unclean, unfit to eat, and a source of pollution. So the rules concerning the foods of unclean Food uh unclean foods is uh it's pretty much plainly presented, therefore easy to follow. Uh the meaning and rationale of the of the inst of God instituting uh these commands is not evident. They've been debated for thousands of years, really. You see old the uh uh Jewish writers even uh prior to uh New Testament uh commenting on this, debating this. So there are four main categories. And and the the probably the most prevalent most people think the hygiene. So unclean animals were not fit for consumption because they were likely to carry diseases Uh this is uh uh this is true. Uh there is excuse me, there is uh truth to this. based on our knowledge of diseases, but scripture does not mention this as a reason. Not all unclean animals are more prone to disease than clean animals Jesus declared all animals clean and would not have done so if they were inherently harmful to man. So you can see that we're going to have discrepancies Again, I think I think what we'll see when it when I get to this is uh to me it seems like i there is logic behind this aspect. But it's not the whole meaning. It's not just uh uh a hygiene uh issue. Arbitrary This is just a means of separating Israel from other nations in order to make them a distinct people. The choice of foods has no significance other than requiring obedience on the part of the covenant people Wenham uh says uh this is a negative approach and should uh be adopted only as a last resort. It's just a way of saying, well, you know, we don't know, and in a lot of ways we don't. But um Again, uh th uh there are other aspects that that um can be uh brought to light. Culping These unclean animals are associated with foreign cultures and uh deities, especially when used in s sacrifices to false gods. There is southern to this view and that the covenant was to make the nation holy, separate from other people Uh you know, Exodus uh nineteen uh five through six and Leviticus forty-four. And we're gonna go over this because here Here is the gist of this chapter, by the way, and you're going to see me repeat this several times throughout these notes. At the end of the chapter, Be holy because I am holy. Isaiah 65, 4 says, and people sit in secret places and eat swine's flesh. He's probably uh uh this is probably an act of emulating uh Cain Knight ritual. This method of discerning uh foods uh which trees were unclean does not make a clear distinction for many of the same animals sacrificed to God of Israel were also sacrificed to the foreign gods So again, there are aspects of this that certainly uh make sense and um Yeah. I think it's it's part of this, but you can't I I think it's it it's there's not enough. It's it's not uh uh definitive enough to say it's just a cultic uh difference. Symbolic. Unclean animals represented the curse of sin Uh God placed on man, uh animals and nature. Many of the unclean animals Israel was not uh to either touch were carnivorous uh or fed on dead and decaying animals. Many conclude that this is a reminder of Israel of the prohibition of eating the blood uh of an animal. Um Is uh that's in uh chapter 17 Leviticus. Uh do not eat the blood of an animal, for the life is in the blood. Uh the clean animals were grain-eating animals, thus they were acceptable to God. The queuing of the cud has been seen as representing uh Meditating on the Word of God, a lot of people use uh bring that out. These other symbolic illusions are partial and may be whimsical or capricious Capricious, how are you? You know I don't know that I agree with you on that. What's that? You know these commentators often When they don't know what to say they put in their own ideas and their ideas are not their own. Exactly. Well there is a prohibition that God gave to them, you obey me and none of these diseases will be yours. And get mail closed it up. Right. It was given in Leviticus. Right. So it did have something to do with Oh no no, and that's where I'm going with all this. But this they are these letters are Extra. What's that now? And people will see in the cultivating or whatever. Well, and the but uh you know I Again, this is a teaching class. I'm not a preaching class. If you're a preacher like MacArthur, a lot of times he would just pick the the side that he's kind of boring. And sometimes they give you the other side But this is these are the prevalent Without saying I disagree with the other sites. Okay. And and now we have uh heard from uh Lorang International Commentary on uh we don't have to buy for everybody. I yeah, I agree I agree. And it doesn't matter what their education is. I agree. Sometimes that case of disbelief on their part, or they want to show that they're stronger than the Bible. But it's supposed to be always good. The exposure is good, but you don't have to buy it. Correct. Okay. So what did that say the layer the unseen? Well, see and that's that's the problem. That's why you have so many At the at the at the end at the end of this, I can't say definitively and neither can they, and that's what they're trying to tell you by these different views that they're going through. Well God doesn't tell us. That's the bottom line. Well he declares they're unclean. Yeah. And that's all you need. Right. Well you do for the education, but you know Sometimes that's misleading to a lot of people too. So we have to be very careful. Well right. Right, but okay. Um you can tell I'm done with it. Well, trust me, uh one of the one of the things I had difficulty with in in going to Bible college and seminary is that You have to look at a lot of these things and go, like, I wanna know what the truth is. I don't wanna hear all this other thing. But but You need to s we kinda need to see this cu because these untruths creep in. Right. And people are very good at sliding that little car that little untruth in there and and you're adding to that's all you need to do. That's all God that's all the enemy needs to do. He wants to add to scripture. Give you a little bit Right? Kind of lost my thought there. But these different aspects are, yes, these are I think is kind of a combination of all these things. It is cultic somewhat. He was separating them. It is hygienic because it's common sense. Even s even the pagans uh weren't eating a lot of these foods. Egyptians weren't eating uh anything but fish with scales. Okay? And fin. So Uh and we talked about this when we talked about the covenant. This remember the the Suzerain covenant, they made a covenant with God But this was b this was a covenant idea that was prevalent long before God made this covenant in Sinai. It had been going on for hundreds of years, maybe even centuries So uh the point is that God says this is the way and the truth. But as far as high hygiene goes, uh in Acts chapter ten, when Peter is has a vision He sees all these unclean foods lowered down in front of him and the vision was, take and eat. He goes, No, Lord, I'd never eat anything unclean. God says specifically, what I have cleansed, right? And I have this this quote in there. Um, Jesus talked about it, okay? And that What goes into the body doesn't defile the body. It's what comes out of the heart. Well look at some of these passages. I have them written down, right? Mark and Matthew. So that is the problem with just saying these are the rules and this is what it is. Because and let me move through this and we can let's let's really get into the discussion as we look at the I'm giving you the broad range of ideas that did these men who have studied this intently This is this is some of the ideas they're coming away with. Are they necessarily right? No. The point is again Nobody knows exactly why something is clean or unclean. Now you're just gonna have to deal with that. We have because God didn't tell us They don't know? We don't really know. But it's a broader picture. I think sometimes we get It don't make this the law. If I eat the right animals, I'm going to be good with God. Is that no. It's a bigger picture. It's obedience, is part of it. So, now that I've broadened the scope out, hopefully a little bit, there's also a fifth category, and this is what you're seeing. This guy Wenham uh kind of embraces this. Um this third category of interpretation that Wenham and others are embracing is the idea that the underlying What is holy and clean is the concept of wholeness or normality. Priests were to be without physical deformity. Mixed crops, mixed clothing, mixed marriages are all incompatible with holiness. The idea of wholeness underlies holiness And cleanliness is seen as the theme of this chapter. The animals are divided into groups of flying animals, land animals, and fish. Each of the animals that occupy each sphere has a basic type of movement in that sphere. Birds have two wings for flying and two feet for walking. Fish have scales and fins for swimming. Land animals have hoops for walking and running. Any animal that does not move in this fashion is a deviation from the norm and is declared unclean. Animals that do not conform to the standard m uh method of movement, crawling animals are unclean. Individuals are to conform to a class to which they belong if they are to be holy. What what they're what this what they're saying is the only criteria it seems to be when you look at the the Like for fish. The only thing they really say is it has to have scales and fins. And then you look at the animals. What do you thought? Why? Only animals that that that walk in a certain way Uh i you'll see later uh like uh a lion, they walk on the poles. Um I actually if you look in the Hebrew, it could be translated, that same word could be translated, hands. And when you think about it, they kind of use their paws as their hands, right? Cats, animals. They're unclean And the the idea, the only the only concept they can f that this person can find that's consistent is this seems to be the norm for these types of creatures. It's almost like the the the paradigm or the prototype. And there are these other deviations, okay, uh, are out of the norm. It's just an idea. But what they do is they're trying to put the idea with the criteria for this the scriptures that is given right here. Because as we mentioned before, what God says was unclean back in the Old Testament, he says now it's clean. Right? So and that that's that's the dilemma that we're running up against, these these types of things. But again, I want you to pull back. We need to be looking at this. You can't be in the woods looking at why is why are these fish clean and or are but w w what's the picture? Why what is he trying to communicate to his people? To a covenant people. To a people he wants to separate and make holy. And it's this is a tough passage. The the commentators can't come down on this with a nice clear definition. They just don't And it's because they're wrestling with this. At least they're wrestling with it honestly, right? I don't know that There are three ritual states, unclean, clean, and holy. The unclean may be cleansed and become clean. The clean may be sanctified and become holy. The laws concerning clean and unclean were religious and theological. They were in part to set aside Israel from other nations and set forth obedience to the lawgiver. Right? The the Lord God, the maker of the covenant with Israel. These laws also were for the benefit of hygiene of the people. Priests were to distinguish between clean and unclean. Right? That was she. That was one of the things. Leviticus 10, 10 through 11. So divine revelation was given to both Moses and Aaron. Revelation was given concerning food, chapter 11, childbirth, chapter 12, disease, chapter 13 and 14, and various personal cleansing and 15. This chart I think would help. I've copied this from Lenham. And it illustrates kind of so you g it kind of gives us a picture of uh I think what maybe what God is trying to portray in all this, right? So up top you have this line, you have life. Increasingly, things are increasingly moving from life to death. So underneath you have here in this first line normality, abnormal. It moves it moves in this direction to total disorder. Here I I think it You again you have the holy of holies, right? You have the the Ark of the Covenant, that's the most holy place, right Then you have the altar. The altar of uh incense which is in the holy place. Okay? Then you have the the tabernacle court, where you have the other altar, but you you have the court. It's uh uh uh others are allowed in there, right? Not just priests. Then you have the camp outside the tabernacle. And then you have outside the camp, right? If you're a leper or something like that, you're put outside the camp. And then obviously it moves the shield. So you have God. God is totally holy. You have priests who are sanctified. You have the form priests. The foreign priests If they have some type of physical uh blemish, right? They they cannot uh carry out the uh all the duties of uh they can't carry out the duties of going into the holy places. So then you have the Israelites, layman, right? So you have God, priest, the former priest, layman. Laman become unclean. And he g then it moves to death. You have a perfect sacrifice? A blemished sacrifice We saw that uh people did that later, as they uh didn't really believe God. You have the edible, which is clean, the inedible, unclean, and carcasses. Right? Dead animals. Does that help with the kind of the concept from moving, from clean, holy And that's kind of what you're looking at. You you're looking at uh uh you know uh a sanctified, wholly set apart people uh to God. And he's telling them how how to how to live and and what they should uh be offering, etc. So now After all that, I know more anybody anybody else is w what ideas do you have about this? I think there is one more category that that's almost obvious though that we're not really even talking about, that no one mentions. Think about it, we're in this food Uh if you're familiar with this, we're going to go to childbirth, leprosy, and and all of these But what does God w God is the pe the people have to first they've gotten all the rules for how to bring the the sacrifice, right? They gotten the rules and they've understood because they also understood what the priest part in that sacrifice was. And their part And not the layman's part. There's a separation. They've understood all this. They're getting all these rules. Now they're they're going to these disciplines, right? And we're they're gonna be talking about washing and cleanliness and foods and everything else. There they're sh There's spiritual disciplines. And it kind of all these things are a reminder. Why are you doing this? Laura says it, because that's what God said. Exactly. So on top of all this, it's a daily reminder. And it's it's a discipline. It helps us keep on track. They're the uh and he was remember he's taking a people, they just come out of Egypt. They were there for 400 years. Their culture is in them, right They made a golden calf. Um you you and I see this a lot. Um, you know my deal with going to jail ministry. One of the big things is these people grew up in chaos. They aren't old at all. They don't know up from down. These disciplines, a disciplined life will help a secular person, will it not? Some people don't have any discipline at all. They get money, they spend it before My brother made good money and he always spent a hundred and twenty percent of what he made. Some thinking so when they were in Egypt they were used to Also uh doing some sacrifices but those sacrifices that that's not really uh worship God is not appropriate uh worship to God. So no God uh doing all this is more like uh sacrifice teaching them sacrifices that really send someone to through worship. Yeah and easy and the point I'm trying to make is even broader than that. It's culture. You know a culture. Just like I said, the the people I d I deal with in the jail, they come from a culture that's totally different than ours. This is a culture. He's making a culture and all these disciplines But does he only want blind obedience or is there is repentance also? Well that's exactly what I' you yeah I mean to to come to God repentance is is uh 'Cause a lot of people were doing this obediently, right? But they weren't repenting, right Well that if they weren't repentant, they were obedient. Well I get what I'm saying obedient to the law. I guarantee they would follow the law that closely and not repent. But if you think about it, the the the sacrifices are to atone for it. That's your relationship with God. But clean and unclean is your lifestyle What you know, what am I eating is reminding me of who I am and die? What am I wearing as reminding me of who I am and die? Who am I associating with as reminding me of who All of the lifestyle Security's Point is creating a new culture where you understand what is clean, what's not clean. What's set apart and allowable and what's not allowable. I think to a degree it might be comfortable if we had that today. The word still does that. But the point is You don't have to set sacrifices against clean and unclean. You want to keep them together because they're all pointing you back to Christ in a different way. And so when I live this lifestyle It reminds me, oh, the sin that I need to repent for, that I'm taking this bull or this turtle of or whatever it is I'm going to sacrifice, it's for the things that I didn't do. And I'm going to lay my hands on that sacrifice as a priest uh does the ritual and that's only for give me four but I'm not I'm not doing one source with the other I'm doing them in concert so that along the way I'm striving to live a life pleasing to God. But it's so if if if we if we look at it as implying obedience, as in I just do and I have some little idea why I'm doing it, well it's not No my my my point is uh they don't know questions yet. So this is all about you know that point when you crush or anything Yes, because um these one thing is screen. But it does point the price though. It it points to Christ in in the sense of that that that's high. But yeah, let's go down carry because there's one thing I was curious about that Winham didn't click in that Yeah. Why doesn't he put Jesus next to those sacrifices? Why? Yeah. Because I'm the priest, but why isn't Jesus the priest? Sometimes we're too busy applying trace, don't you? Because we because I agree. And I've talked about this several times. What did they what did they look for? Were they even looking for an ultimate Messiah that was going to be the sacrifice? I don't think Christopher. Huh? This is the picture right now. Right This is this is for the contemporary at this time. Yes. Contemporary. This is a nation that just become a nation. There were s slaves and they only had taxmasters. That was the rule. Now that God has taken them away from that and he's telling them what his standards are. He gives them the law of the Ten Commandments. This is the rules you have to follow. These are the sacrificial rules you have to follow. And this is what you have to take the people away from what they've known to give them a new rules and standards. He doesn't have to explain it to them. This is the new rules And if you have all the laws in the world you will never come up with better than the Ten Commandments. And you need to get into and intend not to be jealous, not to covet. Our law books are not that good. And he's taking them in and then he's telling them what they should eat and how they should eat it. He's telling them what the standards are for worship. He doesn't have to explain it. He's God And eventually they'll catch on. But there is a statement in there in Exodus 1526. If you do these things, none of these diseases will go to that was one of the promises of it. So we need to realize these seeking illiterate Well, some people like us. As far as he's concerned. Ooh God. Yes. Yeah. And bringing them so I have so they can live together out of to not steal each other's pen pain, whatever. And bring another two where they have to be able to live with each other. And how can they please their God? But there's And explanations don't need to be given. I also think there's uh some kind of fear because when they saw uh when God killed uh what's his name? May God and it just killed them. Isn't that already scary enough? You will obey. Mm-hmm. We need to begin to see that God is mighty, great He brought them out without uh some to shoot or shot and brought them into a land and fed them for forty years in with no food. So I think we're trying to go too much into how it applies to Christ to see what this great God is doing with this amount of people, some up to probably two million. But more if you can do both. It can but we're doing it too much. Right. Because then that gets us out of seeing what God's saying to us. Right. Right. But but the minute we apply Christ, we can eliminate the law whatsoever. I'm saying the Bible is written to tell us history. What happened historically. And that's what you're telling me. Historically, this is what God did. God has always pointed towards Christ. Well I know but that's you looking back. But so that's the Bible for me. Right, but right now you don't need you learn what they learned and then you can be more amazed looking back. Right. And can I just say short when we see it applies to Christ. Let me interject here because and I I agree with more. I said my free I I agree. Because I think that's what we're trying to look at. W what they're trying to say is, God God is not just doing this for um fixing people. Well well what Pastor Link always said here I want this church to think biblically. Mm-hmm. And we say that. But come on, that's radical. You and I, we all know when we go into the week and the busyness of life And the same thing applies to them, okay? Things are a lot more mundane there. They're in the desert, ain't no lot going on. But sometimes boredom can be the worst distraction of all. But it it's that to think godly, to think biblically. And it's radical. Because number one, we're we're sin we're our nature is not that way, right? We're enemies to God. They were enemies to God too. Um another point I want to point out is that um Repentance. We talk about repentance and and uh well they would have re we say they would have done this, they would have done that, and and it's hard, but just keep this in mind. Repentance Um is a gift. And uh Second Timothy chapter two, right, he says uh He's talking about uh uh arguing, he says, um, the Lord's bond servant uh must not be quarrelsome. but be kind to all, able to teach, be patient when wrong, with gentleness, correcting those who are in opposition. If perhaps God may grant them repentance leading to the knowledge of the truth. Repentance is a gift You're not gonna repent just like you're not gonna have faith if God didn't give us that faith And and sometimes we we I think we blur the lines there, you know. Um It's a gift. So we talk about these people. Well, wouldn't they have done this or wouldn't they have been this? Um Yeah, you can go through the motions And do all this legal stuff and not be safe. We could do it perfectly. I you know, I'm not going down that path. I mean Even if you're saved, would you do it perfectly? I you know what I mean? The point is you can go through the motions, but this has nothing to do with salvation. Some people are very good rule followers. It's their nature Laura probably wouldn't. That's why I married her. Somebody in the in the household has to have definitive roles. I live in a gray. Yeah? Uh my nature is is not as gray as it used to be when Laura first married me, it was very gray, and now, you know, I'm starting to get uh God is impressing on me either. Okay But I think corruption. Works both ways. And I but I think what we're talking about is the essence of this chapter Because we can go in and I've kinda highlighted here and put out some of the things and I gave you, you know, what the e you know and uh for this and that, but again, I wanna know the essence. You know, when I got saved, before I got saved, I was like, well, is this really true? And after I got saved, I'm going, this is true. Why did he write this? Why what is he telling us? And I think he's telling these people something in With Moorhag says, in this time and place, it's to a specific people at a specific time at a specific place right now. And that's where we need to be if we're going to look at this this passage. Um and I don't think it was I think there was a theological aspect or religious aspect to this as well as the things we discussed. It is hygienic. It's common sense a lot of it. Uh uh And but it's also it's also cultural. It's uh and it's cultic. Uh it does. He wants them to be separated because he he's gonna take them into a land where they're gonna embrace the uh the things from the other god. Well how you see God and their wisdom that's we from everybody. So he can be their teachers. Right. He's got to teach them how to live ethically, how to live religiously, how to live healthy, before he lets them go into that land. And I would say even this, most people don't think about this and uh Uh well pastor kinda was going through this in another church, Genesis. When he took them down to Egypt There's that passage just before he takes them there, right, where Judah goes off. And people are going, why is this chapter in here for Judah? Judah's Judah's taken up with pe with a foreign If you notice he takes them down to Egypt, he makes them a nation, but he also isolates them in Egypt. They're in the land of Goshen. God is God has been forming this people and separating this people from the get-go. Yeah, and I I don't think that was any accident. I mean I I think that's right there. Right. And that's why they were given the best land. And separated. Separated. Oh, you know, they were in a you know, a quote ghetto, so to speak, you know, there was a ethnic group and and you know, ge uh Israel or uh e Egyptians wouldn't meet with Israelites. I know. Right. So yeah, this this um I think sometimes we try to overthink. Sometimes, yeah. Yeah. He expects us to be obedient to him. And if we are obedient to him, then we first of all we We tur we tur we turn our trust to the Lord Jesus Christ for our salvation. The Jews didn't have that picture yet. Their only job was to be obedient to God. And he set rules for them. Why he set those rules is immaterial. The rules were set to sh to show that that to prove that they would be obedient And they failed, like we failed. But those but that's why they were there. Bookman used to have uh Bookman told us that and and uh going the through the through the couple of tours we've taken with him that if you look at what they knew at the time, God only gave them what he knew they could understand. As they grew more and more knowledgeable of him, he gave them more information. That's why you don't really see much about a savior until you get into the prophets and the prophets because they couldn't handle it. So so the the the real clue the real clue, the key word in all of this is obedience If we will be God, it is. Then we then we become holy. It is what it means. It means separate, separate, separate, apart, different. Right. Sorry, I didn't mean to get on the No and I would agree with you except for one aspect. I would agree with you except for one aspect And it's not it's not irrelevant because we know God's side. God's also shown us our side. And if you I know. Well w when I'm dealing with these guys in in this jail, the first thing they have to see, we can tell them all the rules, we can tell them what's right, they can even agree with that What they really need to see, what all of us need to see, we talk about repentance. Repentance is really when your eyes are open and you see yourself and what you are actually doing. That is when the light really comes on. And you go, man. Okay? But and it's progressive. I think sanctification is the same thing. Is when you look at the light and you go You know, I am like this. I told a story that's that's great. There was a guy, Paul Meyer, who was on New Life Clinic. Paul Meyer was uh I used to listen to Christian Radio when I first got saved, he was on there. This is back in the nineteen nineties sometime. Paul Myers had a had uh he was a site psychiatrist, so he had a what a a medical degree. Yeah, I guess you have to have a doctorate to be a psychiatrist. I think he had multiple doctorates and a bunch of uh master's degrees and the other guys used to joke he goes man you you guys you you just you're over the top with education. Apparently we're just good at it So Paul tells a story on himself and he goes, he was driving home from a small group thing and and uh apparently there was an altercation with him and another woman. A woman said, You're controlling So on the way on the ride home from the car, he says to uh uh his wife says to him, she goes, You know, you are controlling. And he says it nicely and he said, No I'm not. She says, yes you are. He goes, no, I'm not. Yes you are. No, I'm not. The point is We all have four or five year olds in this that we have to deal with. And things just don't go. I mean it's our nature. Nature. You can have all the education, all the knowledge in the world. And I think that's what God is showing us here. This is your nature. This is what needs to change. The only one that can change is God. But Do you notice how he kind of wants with this? Yes, he gives us repentance. He gives us grace. But he he says Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who is at work in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. It's both. And we have to see ourselves. Now I think that's what God's showing them here. He goes, I give you these rules. Try doing 'em. I always think, Gary, when you see those first four things that you listed, it is human nature for someone to look at something as they're trying to understand it and ask why. Mm-hmm. Okay, I see that God gave these rules. Why to be able to I see you can eat this animal but you can't eat this animal. Mm-hmm. Well why can't you be that out? It it's it's not out of the realm of well since I can't figure it out, let me go look back for reasons until people start to systematically put things into a category so that they can understand it. And there's aspects to that. When you're raising a child and you say, don't be so and so at certain points when they're young, what do you say? Because I said it tonight. I I have a reason. You just don't need it. What you need to know is it said so. But they're young men are right. And as they get older, no Israel is young. Correct. And he is because he said so. Correct. But he doesn't just say because I said so completely to your point If if you do this, this is what I'll give you. Right. That's what he does in Deuteronomy. That's what he does as he gives the law. If you do this as a step before you life and death, guess what? So so if he doesn't do it arbitrarily in the sense of it doesn't have a reason, God's not about reason. But he doesn't always explain the reason explicitly. He does. In context. What he does do is tell you what you mean. But often we use the word why so we can disobey Not because we want knowledge, so we can disappear. Absolutely. Carrie's reason or thought process, there are just people who go after knowledge because they just Other times they're just curious and that's just that's just their passion. My point is this. You're gonna have people that'll say Just tell me what I need to know. I'll do that. Put my head down and keep going. And then there are other people like, no, okay, okay. I need more. Yeah. I need more information, more context, more understanding. Sometimes it's because they want to know where the lines are, and other times it's because that understanding gives them more opportunity to follow because they see where they're heading Okay, so when you ask God away, tell me where he tells you. He does, which is why I say when I look at this, I can't help but see Jesus Because he's already given me personally a lot. In that context, you've seen the whole area. To your point, Israel hasn't. And so you're saying, but you've got to shut off an aspect of this and say, just look at what Israel knows, so you understand how Israel is supposed to live. Right. And I say more right, you're right Israel only had X amount of knowledge. That's where we are studying. I got it. But when I read it as it pertains to me, what I see is Christ. Same thing with the with the sacrifices. You see all of these sacrifices, you know what Israel, you've got to do this, but for Chester, it's but Christ is all And that gives you a blessing and a satisfaction. But when we teach you constantly that we were missing what the instructions were. Right. And you need to get the basis before we can get to the conclusion. I would agree. I agree. And you also you also learn an aspect of what um Mel was pointing out uh scripture is progressive. I think you just can't get around it. I mean look at what he gave them there. And as he says, even with the nation, he moves on. He gives them more and more and more. If you look at the covenants, the covenant starts with Abraham in Genesis 12. And he expands on the covenant. Uh it's it's it's always it's progressive. God's moving on. Um Yeah, uh that's part of his plan. Yes. I think what's struck with the monster like in the beginning when you when you cannot eat blood because there's like Yes. Life is I think that already like beginning to have a specific life. Exactly. Because there's there's life in the blood It it is. It is. And and but see what what we're trying to do the hard thing is the hard thing to do is is to put yourself through the eyes of what They were seeing. It's it's really we're asking you to put blinders on. You get tunnel vision We have so much beyond the cross and we live two thousand years virtually bu beyond the cross. Do you realize how much knowledge and theology we've gotten from all the forefathers and the the theologians and commentators throughout all these years, and hopefully from the Holy Spirit was true But uh he's used the the Holy Spirit has used these men. So I want to finish with this. Okay. Because we're not gonna we're not I'm not gonna recapitulate this one. Uh well let's look at that. The New Testament, you know, he tells us, right, that uh in these passages He goes, you know, food is not what pollutes a man, it's what comes out of the heart. So the New Covenant Air for believers, right? Uh is where the Jew and Gentile were baptized into one body, so there was no longer Jew or Greek, slave were free. We were all made to drink of one spirit. 1 Corinthians uh twelve thirteen. They remember the Judaizers, you see this all the time, were trying to keep the law And they didn't need that law. They didn't need these things. It was separating them. A and really God had broken down the barrier. You see that in Ephesians. God broke down the the the wall, he says. That wall was in the tabernacle to separate Jew and Gentiles. The Gentiles could go no farther. Um He broke down the wall. He made them one. But you know, this is the again, this is now we're jumping to how do we apply this Leviticus thing to ourselves The dietary laws were to continue to separate Jews and Gentiles. The Judaizers uh were trying to keep the law only div uh w uh it only divided the church. Um But they they didn't understand the oneness really of the body of Christ and the Spirit. And most of us don't. We don't really understand that. It's a spiritual thing Right? And unless we kind of go through the theology, we don't understand. We are now brothers in Christ. It's so neat, but I this is the thing this this to me and this is my two cents on the on the thing. I didn't get into any commentators. Christians are to demonstrate their distinctiveness by the command of Jesus A new commandment I give to you that you love one another just as I just as I have loved you. You are also to love one another. By this, all people will know you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. That little statement's huge, is it not? We could just unpack that forever. You talk about a lot of laws. Love is patient, love is kind It's not jealous, it doesn't seek its own. Are you all doing that? Especially in a church. Are we demonstrating that? And people are watching. Yes, of course. People are watching. Uh you know every once in a while We get it right, don't we? I had a little incident happen to me where this I was checking out at this grocery store and wanted to go to a uh uh uh a person because I had these things I need to do. I'm going, I can't figure this out. Coupons and stuff like that I'm like, I'll get it wrong, I always do. So I just I went there. And this one woman was just trying to ask a question, but she was kind of butting in. And so she was talking to the girl checking out, so she starts taking herself and putting it on my bill. So then we have to wait, right? And uh we're waiting forever to somebody to come and do us. And the one woman said to me, she goes, Wow, you're really being patient through all this And I said, Well I'm working on it. But you know people are watching. And uh we do. We live in a they lived in a world We live in a world. The world is just bombarding us with anything but Christ, right? And and that's the battle Are we going to be obedient? Are we going to grade a line? And it's it's it's a battle. Uh if we don't admit that, I think you d we're defeated already. Uh it is a battle. Heavenly Father, Lord, thank you for your grace to sustain us, to give us the power, to have the desire to even want to fight this battle. Lord, without your uh spirit walking within us, uh we wouldn't even want uh to try this obedience. Lord, so we thank you. Lord, we lift up the this passage to you. We we Now I want to transition. We want to go to corporate worship. Taking the Lord's communion. Lord, may we uh search our lives. May we uh m meditate on on what we are doing. Lord, you won't put us to death if we take uh the uh the bread and the juice uh inappropriately, but Lord, uh you are here. You are present. Let us be reminded of that You want us to be conformed to the image of your Son. You want the best for us. Lord, may we lay down, may we humble ourselves, may may we let uh the Spirit control our lives. So that we may be obedient to you. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Him that