Okay, so we're gonna do Leviticus five. Um I uh different people take it at different uh uh sections. I some of the commentators see it running from uh five fourteen through uh up to six seven Um it sometimes look and we'll get into it, it sometimes looked like a a different offering, but I I I think it's it's kind of the same. And and that's always been Even as I've studied this, read the commentators, um, so what is it, you know, it's kind of like we're picking apart, what are the differences in these sacrifices? And sometimes it's the little details. Um Uh think about it too. The details. Sometimes they were bringing different animals and that would have been a good sign for them too. Okay, this is for this particular sacrifice. And that's what we're trying to discern out of of this. They weren't different sacrifices, so obviously had a a little different purpose. Again, it's that Yeah. It's all of them have a have an aspect of atonement or s you know, a salvation, or a substitution But they're they're they're pointing out different aspects and I think today we we really see a a good one. So I label this the guilt offering. Most Bibles translate it that way slash reparation offering. And let's get into it. So the word used for guilt, and I have a parentheses reparation. offering in 514 to 67 is Ashama. So the definition of this word in its noun form is number one, offense. trespass fault. It could be guilt. Three compensation. This offering seems to have been confined to offenses against God or man. They could be uh estimated and so covered by compensation. Uh the ordinary trespass offering was a ram uh together with r uh restitution and a penalty of a fifth of its value. um Brown Driver uh Briggs definition. Uh this Jacob Milbum uh I I did end up buying a couple of his commentaries. Um Boy the one, I mean, he's he's he's Jewish, he's he's a scholar, he's he's bright, but he's unsaved, so he believes, you know, you have to weed through a lot of uh heresy shall we say. But he does make good points. And and Ross uh which I've been using, excuse me, and um Wenham or the two major commentaries I've been leaning on. Uh Kyle says so so, the other these other two are much better. They quote him quite a bit. He is a good scholar. Uh he's doing he's he's devoted his life to um sacrifices. So I just wanted to give you a little background who this guy is, where he's from. So Jacob Milgram writes, though guilt is not the root meaning of the Hebrew word translated guilt offering, a shamb, it does not uh it does not convey the distinctive function of the sacrifice. since guilt is a prerequisite also for purification's sin. The sense of the word as it is applied to this offering is more accurately expressed by the name, reparation offering. For in every case, its purpose is to discharge liability for material damages or loss either to God or man. So, you know, we see that, right? Why don't we read, let's read the first section. Leviticus 5, 14 Uh through sixteen, I think we'll take it in that section. Somebody want to volunteer to read that? Leviticus 5, 14 through 16. Try that again. Who suppose the saying, if anyone commits a breach of faith and sins unintentionally in any of the holy things of the Lord, he shall bring to the Lord as his compensation a ram without blemish. out of the flock valued in silver shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary for a guilt offering. He shall also make restitution for what he has done amiss in the holy thing, and shall add a fifth to it and give it to the priest, and the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering, and he shall be forgiven. Okay. So before I get into the weeds, and I do bring this out, I say I bring it I brought it out in the notes. But just to just a look at the section, okay, so let's let's look at the the big thing here. If any person acts or sins unintentionally against the Lord. So that's a category we're in. We're not talking about other people, we're talking about Lord and His holy things. Okay, so uh and we're still in the translation here. Uh Wemem uh affirms the translation of of Hashamah as reparation and recognizes the confusion uh with the purification offering in Leviticus five seven. But if uh he cannot afford a land, then he shall bring the Lord to the Lord as his compensation. uh for the sins that he has committed two turtle dogs, two pigeons, one for sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. The term guilt offering would be better translated compensation, reparation, as the ESD gun. And see what he has here, brings to the Lord as his compensation Uh some a lot of translations will just have his guilt offering. So you can see these these uh If we lose anything else, our sin, we incur a debt. We we have a debt to God. And that's The gist, if we say if you don't get anything else out of all this, we get lost in the woods with some of this detail, our sin brings a death. And remember we talk about purification. Our uh our sin does what? It makes us Guilty or what is but why we're purified, so it makes us what? Unclean. Unclean. You know, and the the Hebrew mind really got this. I mean, you know, when you think about it, they talk about clean, unclean all the time in the Old Testament We don't see that so much in the new. We it is brought up. We we talk about that, you know, uh the blood of Jesus cleanses us from uh all unrighteousness. from right. But the Hebrew mind really knew this is unclean. You're an unclean person. And we we talked about that with even skin diseases. You're unclean. You can't come into the sanctuary. So again They want to recognize this is a an offering for a debt. They owe. And so if we don't get anything else out of it, let's keep that in mind. So Milgram explains the difference between the sacrifices by referring to, and I think this helps. Look at numbers, let's turn to Numbers chapter 6. Um sometimes just having the scripture explain itself is the best way to do it. Uh number six. You're talking about a Nazarite vow here. Um I guess we could start in four. Let's read uh number six four through say eight. All the days of his separation he shall not eat anything that is produced by the grapevine from uh the seeds even of the skin All the days of his vows of separation, no razor shall pass over his head, and he shall be holy until the days are fulfilled for which he has separated himself to the Lord. He shall let the locks of his hair on his head grow. All the days of his separation to the Lord he shall not go near the dead person. He shall not make himself unclean uh for his father or for his mother, for his brother or for his sister. When they die because of separation to God on his head all the days of the separation uh he is holy to the Lord. Now that's what he's talking about, but then he goes over to like uh let's see, pick it up in um Let's read somebody read from nine through thirteen, I guess. Actually fourteen. And if any man dies very suddenly, beside him and he defiles his consecrated head. Then he shall shave his head on the day of his cleansing. On the seventh day he shall shave it. On the eighth day he shall bring two turtlenovs or two pigeons to the priest, to the entrance of the tent of meeting. And the priest shall offer one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering And make atonement for him, because he sinned by reason of the dead body. And he shall consecrate his head at that same day. and separate himself to the Lord for the days of his separation and bring a male lamb and a year old uh and bring a male lamb a year old for a guilt offering But the previous period shall be void, because his separation was defiled. And this is the law for the Nazareth. When the time of his separation has been completed, he shall be brought to the entrance of the tenth of Eve. And he shall bring his gift to the Lord, one male lamb a year old, without blemish, or a burnt offering, and one ew lamb, a year old, without blemish, as a sin offering, and one ram without blemish as a peace offering. Alright, so uh what he points out here is uh so Milvern explains the difference between the sacrifices by referring to number six and pointing out the guilt offering for defiling the Nazarite bow. If the Nazarite was to come into contact with a dead person during this time of separation, he was to offer a sin offering, kata uh to God. Number six eleven. He shall also bring a guilt offering, a sham. Okay? And the reason I put those words out there is because we remember it's in English we kind of blur them together. uh we see the differences um uh he's to bring in a sham to compensate for the time of lost service He has promised to God. Numbers 612. Then verse 14, when the Nazarite completes his vow, he is to bring a sin offering to Ta for purification And he is also required to bring a uh guilt offering a sham to be sacrificed. Um What he doesn't have to do is to bring a uh uh the the vowel He doesn't have to that doesn't make sense the way it wrote. If you look in fourteen, he shall bring his offering to the Lord, one male lamb, year old, without defect for a burnt offering and a U lamb, a year old without defect for a sin offering, and w and uh one ram uh f without defect for a peace offering. He doesn't have to bring a reparation offering. He's completed his vow. And it's this idea that we don't get is that he he actually owes, he he he made a vow to be under the Nazarite for a certain amount of time. But because he got the file, now he owes God for this time that he didn't fulfill his vow. I mean it's rather technical, but then again, none of us taken down the right bow. Uh but do you see the point there? He's he has to pay for that And the Hebrew mind would have understood this more so than us. We they owe a debt. He is a debt for the sin and and this is even uh unintentional if he just comes in contact Right? Uh it becomes unclean. Wasn't the Nazarite volitional? It was up to them to make it. They chose to do this. Yes, it is. Okay But you can see the see he again, this is why we read to the numbers uh this section, because you can see the sa all these sacrifices are for purification, for peace, okay? Uh They're being separated or consecrated, so to speak. They're not a priest, but they are being consecrated, separated to God. And it's that whole again, what is the again, even bigger picture? God is holy. He's so holy and this is what it comes when you come into the presence of a holy God. We, I, take all this for granted because Christ covers all of this in his substitution. And I just, oh yeah, you know, it takes care of all this stuff. And I don't back in in this economy, they are aware of uncleanness, uh peace, uh, you know, uh general atonement, uh and all these different sacrifices that we're going through They're aware of that. And and we are too in a lesser sense, but they they so more because they They're they lived out. They took a lamb. And think about it, they didn't do this just one time. I mean, this is going on for day after day, year after year Okay, oh so and so's bringing uh and we even look at the difference. Uh they have to bring a male. Uh sometimes in a in a purification they brought a female So they understood the differences between these sacrifices. There was something different. Yes, no? And and again, uh I think we'll look through this and uh I think we um When we get to this, to me I see how much really throughout all of this what Christ did to bring me into a right relationship with God Um he did a lot and you know, we're getting down to a a little bel below the surface, but I mean he just gotta keep going and going. I mean what he did for us is is huge. Um I think um maybe somebody who went through this and got saved would would maybe have a better appreciation than than most of us. Carrie not even I'm sure you've mentioned it before, but just not just the type of sacrifices, but there's not one sacrifice for all sins in this under the law. I've got to bring this for peace. I've got to bring that for purification. I've got to bring this for guilt. I've got to bring this for sin. Right. And as we say, Christ paid the penalty and the price for all of this. Right. And not only does he atone for my sins He creates the opportunity for peace between me and God. Seeing all of that reading the law has more definition to Christmas. That's what I love about As we study Leviticus, we see the depth of the sacrifices to then point to the completeness in Christ's sheds of his blood. And and like they had to bring the animal, God just didn't do this from heaven, man. He came down and literally did this. He paid Uh and it yeah. I know. It's like wow, I took that cross for granted. And look, I'm sure, you know, we we could get in de uh you know, it's like anything. We're just we w in a n I'm at another level, but it y you know how the Bible is, you can just keep go it just gets deeper and deeper Yeah. And that was the thing that brought me to it when I was kind of prepared, I was preparing. I thought I was going to do Hebrews. Rob said he wanted to do Hebrews. I'm going, man, you'll do a great job I said, but the other thing was is I said I don't think anybody's gonna volunteer to do Leviticus. I thought And and I kept looking at it and everybody was going, man, Leviticus is a great book. And I've said that before and I thought Man, uh obviously I don't know Leviticus at all. And so when I started to look into it, I got one commentary on it and then I started getting more. I said, Okay, yeah. Just like wow, I didn't know anything about this. So in Leviticus 5. 14-19, the sinner must make full restitution before he can be forgiven by substitutionary sacrifice. The reparation offering, a sham, was required sacrifice for someone guilty of defrauding another. The Hebrew term used here is ma' and had become a legal term used when um when to sin against God. It's it's uh uh the word ma'al is to act unfaithfully, treacherously And it's usually applied against uh in in uh most of its application. I don't know about everyone, uh, but it's typically it's a sin against God. It's it's uh kind of a specific application. This then applies to sins against another person, for it's viewed as a sin against God. And we talked about this a little bit when we were just kind of overviewing it. Uh you know, we brought this up, we said, you know, uh like David in Psalm 51 we're talking about, you know, David said uh uh in his confession there, I've sinned against you and you only You know, and he's talking about his uh uh sin with Bathshima and and we were talking about what about what about Uriah. But see and that's the thing. It's it's Ultimately what he's looking at, you know, it's kind of the foundational thing. Everything is God. He created it all And I thought uh we you know with Rob talking about um you know that intro in into uh Hebrews and how God holds everything together and he got into the molecules and and uh the atom and and how you know two positive uh forces can stay together in the atom. Well God's keeping that all together Everything belongs to him. Ultimately he he was trespassing against, and that's the idea here When you defraud somebody, you're sinning against God. We forget that, you know, we think it's too easy to compartmentalize. Oh, I just sinned against this guy, you know, and then we compartmentalize and go on our Sunday day. You're all good with God. Yeah, but no. No, you sin we sinned against God. It's God's creature. It's it's uh So we see in Numbers 5, 6, speak to the sons of Israel, when a man or woman commits any of the sins of mankind, acting unfaithfully, ma'al, against the Lord. And that person is guilty, Hashem. So you can see where he's he's relating it. You can any sin against somebody, you're sinning against the Lord. Don't forget that God is watching. You know what I mean? We forget. We're not doing it in the dark. He can see in the dark. Ross refers to two categories of this type of biblical defrauding sins against the Sanca, holy things, and violating the covenant oath. In this section, the sin is against God's holy thing, and sin against the neighbor, and swearing falsely. So both of these sins are called uh call for reparation uh sacrifice because they condemn the sinner before God. Uh blah blah blah blah So let's so let's so we look at the first section. Uh this would be Leviticus whoops too far. Five seventeen, I think. Um, twelve through seventeen Somebody want to read 12 through 17. This is a sin against individuals. Leviticus 5, 7, or 12 through 17. And he shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take a handful of it as his memorial portion and burn it on the altar, upon the Lord's fruit offering. It is a sin offering That the priest shall make atonement for him for the sin which he has committed in any one of these things, and he shall be forgiven. And the remainder shall be decreased as in the brain author. I'm sorry, I told you to read the wrong things. Uh read 17, uh I'm sorry, 517 through 19. My bad. If anyone sins doing any of these things that by the Lord commandment ought not to be done, though he does not know it, then realizes the guilt, he shall bear his iniquity. He shall bring to the priest a ram without blemish out of a flock, or its equivalent, or a guilt offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him for the mistake that he made unintentionally, and he shall be forgiven. My bad. So this is for an unintentional sin. Um So this is one where the person doesn't know it. So let's look real quick. Animals. Only a male lamb or a ram could be offered as a reparation offering A male sheep are not allowed in purification offerings. Again, they they see the difference. Ritual of the offering. The worshipper brought um Iblemished uh ram to the burnt uh altar and killed it. Uh there is no description of the worshipper laying his hand on the head of the animal, but It's assumed that it that uh they did this procedure as with the other sacrifices. Numbers 57, they're told uh for this particular type of offering. Uh the sinner confessed uh of uh to his trespass uh uh and as part of this rite. So we're assuming flesh land is uh hand on the head of this animal he is is at least going through the confession. So most commentators assume that this is a process So the blood was thrown against the altar, the burnt uh offering. Uh there was no sprinkling of blood as in the purification offering. Again, just so These uh whoever was offering these things, they recognized this is different. Very close, but it's different. There are different rights. Uh 5 fourteen um uh fifteen the sins of reparation were unintentional sins. Uh Concerning the the Lord's holy things, this is a broad undefined category, would include such things as the proper eating of meat, the worship of sacrifices Failure uh to present uh due gifts, a sacrifice to God, not paying tithes, failure to fulfill vow, perform for service due to the Lord. And again, this is uh uh just a An example, it's not a complete list, but just to give us an idea, what are these unintentional? So the RAM offered had to be without blemish, the value of a sil uh silver and shekels was required The exact number of shekels is not stated, so I'm certain by scholars. So it must be according to the standard set by the sanctuary, not by the commerce of the day Uh so in addition you had to pay like an extra fifth uh of restitution. Right? All these are are uh things above and beyond. Um I don't know if I mentioned this later. There are uh I think in Exodus if somebody is uh If a thief is caught taken from somebody, he has to pay back double. People go, why do they why is only a fifth? Is there a contradiction in scripture? But you know, uh No, but that the it says that the thief is caught. This person is coming and admitting to it and confessing. I'm assuming the thief is thief is thief is caught and it's like, now you're guilty, right? Now he's sorry for it. Uh it's it's kinda like uh true repentance, right? Are you sorry you got caught or are you really true, really sorry you did it? Um but anyway, he had to pay back more. Others have speculated maybe he only th maybe the uh God only made it uh twenty percent more than gr to encourage him to confess it and and make reparation. You know? Uh 'cause that's what he really's looking for. He's looking for the heart. So anyway, um So in verses 17 to 19, the sinner only suspects he has committed a trespass against the Lord, but he does not know it. He is guilty and bears the punishment of it. It is surmised that the person may be suffering from some physical ailment and feeling may have trespassed against the Lord in a way he's not aware of. Uh he is to bring a reparation offering to the Lord. He must offer a rain without blemish, but no mention of offering additional 20% more than the value. He may just feel convicted. Maybe it's it's just something's burden burdening him, and he thinks, maybe I've sinned against the Lord. And there's we don't know. These are some of the s uh ideas that the commentators are coming up with. But he doesn't have to think twenty percent more. Because he's not even sure he's sin, right? He doesn't even know what it is. But the point is, is that uh this reparation is clear in his conscience. Uh so he brings this to to the Lord. Leviticus one six one through seven. Um let's read it real quick. 617? Yes. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, if anyone sends and commits a breadth of faith against the Lord by deceiving his neighbor in a matter of deprivate or security, or through robbery. or if he has opposed his neighbor or has found something lost and lied about it, swearing falsely, if any of all the things that the people do and sin thereby, if he has sinned and has realized his guilt and will restore what he does If he has sinned and has realized his guilt and will restore what he took by robbery or what he got by oppression or the deposit that was committed to him or the lost thing that he found Or anything about which he has sworn falsely, he shall restore it in full, and shall add a fifth to it, and give it to him to whom it belongs, till the day he realizes his guilt And he shall bring to the priestess his compensation to the Lord a ram without blemish out of the flock, or its equivalent for a guilt offering And the priest shall make atonement for him before the Lord, and he shall be forgiven for any of the things that one may do and there and thereby become guilty. Thanks So, uh in 61 through seven it deals with stealing, extortion, or finding, or not returning uh neighbors' property. Verse 2, it is said to be an act of unfaithfulness against the Lord. This act also involved swearing or lying about the matter when confronted with it. Verse three. Swearing by an oath to the gods was a common practice among the people In Exodus uh 22, 7, 11, an oath had to be given uh uh an oath is to be given uh between the parties of the property and disputes Somebody word was a big thing, right? And they swore and and of course they would uh do it under, you know, uh whatever God or gods they believed in Kalion wrote that is profane the name of the Lord, uh trespass against his holiness, therefore reparation had to be made. Think about this though, one striking uh difference uh here. Is that these sins were not with these sins were intentional. The sins mentioned at this point were all unintentional, right? And pretty much Oh, we've looked at before were were really unintentional sins throughout all these different sacrifices. But here is presented a blatant lying and giving a false witness in public. Wrenham observes that it seems possible that atonement exists for deliberate sins It's the evidence of true repentance, demonstrated by true remorse, and full restitution and confession. And so this and this isn't a debated thing about, you know, does God We'll probably get to this more when we get to uh Day of Atonement. Does God atone for intentional sins? And there are other passages, like some in and I think it's numbers, it says that uh you know, God doesn't forgive and t you know. So it it is a debated topic See there's a difference between intentional sin, meaning how we sinned, we knew what we were doing as opposed to a rebellion And I think I mean despising the words. Sure. Yeah. And again, it's kind of like the example we use with an Exodus if if a thief gets caught It didn't say if a thief confesses, he says if he gets caught he's not holding up to it until he gets caught. And i it it's what you're describing here, right? It's uh Is it just total rebellion against God? Um, I've seen a lot I I sin quite frequently. Well we all do. You know, oh yeah, but I never rebel against and in God's word with a m you know, like this. Right. Yeah. Well and that's the beauty of what we've gotten because we certainly would be able we're you know, it that's the gift of grace and the the Holy Spirit, isn't it? Like I said, um My testimony when I when you come to faith much later in life, there were times and you know, I didn't think about God. Yeah. Was blind. So let's see, what do I write So it is important to note that in verse four that the person who has defrauded another and becomes uh guilty. There is a general agreement that the guilty person recognizes his wrongdoing and is convicted to come forward to make amends versus fuller and uh it's also noted the guilty party repays the one to whom he is defrauded before he brings reparation uh offering. And we'll see that. I have an example and you probably kind of can think of it in the New Testament. Verse five anyone uh who swore falsely shall make restitution For it in full and add one fifth more, he shall give it to the one to whom it belongs on the day he presents his guilt offering. Then he shall bring to the priest his guilt offering So the God says, you pay the person back first that you defrauded, then you come to me. Uh I think that's important. We see that in the New Testament too, we'll see the example. Look at I Isaiah fifty-three. Probably ought to just turn there until we get the context, but um I mean we should probably read the whole thing. I mean You know why 'cause we are gonna split and take certain things out of it, but We all know this, but it it's good to be reminded. Um why don't we split it up? Somebody read um Isaiah fifty-three, one through six. And so if somebody else can finish seven through the end through twelve. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of the ground, out of the dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. A Lord has laid on him the iniquity of the soul. Tell me why I'll finish read seven through twelve. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lambda is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shoes is silent, so we open others now By oppression and judgment he was taken away, and as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And they made this grave with the wicked and with the rich man in his death, although he had done no violence and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him, he has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring, he shall prolong his days, the will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul shall he see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities Therefore, I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with transgressors Yet he bore the sin of many and makes intercession for the transgressors. So, so in Isaiah 53, the suffering server is seen as the substitution for our sins, right? The sins of men. Verse 6, all have gone astray, but the Lord has caused the iniquity of us all to fall on him. The substitutionary atonement is seen here where the servant suffers in our stead and bears our sins. In verse 7, the allusion to the sacrificial system is clear. When it says, like a lamb led to slaughter. Verse 10 says, the Lord was pleased to crush him. ESB reads that when his soul makes uh an offering for a guilt, and the net Bible reads The Lord desired to crush him and to make him ill. Once restitution is made, he will see his descendants and enjoy long life. This is the offering in my version says guilt offering, New American Standard. And that's what he's paying here He's he's not just is again, he is paying on that cross. Think about it. He is repaying God, four sins. He is being the payment And I don't think it was a you know, it was it was wasn't a one one second thing. It wasn't just a He he spent that time on that cross. And I who even knows, right? Nobody knows. We can't even comprehend. But he was, he literally paid for it That is uh it's deep. You know, if you think about it, uh like I said earlier, it wasn't just a a command from heaven, uh, oh you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna accept this. I mean he literally did it. I don't know. Was it that time where he says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? I would assume he would land and the Lord was pleased to crush him. I mean that that's what he was paying. This is the he was taking the r he was fulfilling this reparation sacrifice And purification. And atonement. Well it's all of it's all of it. Atonement really means kinda what? It's it's a it's a substitute, right? A substitute that God accepts for us. Back then it was lambs, sheep. Even green, but it was a subst even that it was a substitute. It wasn't us. And you know, obviously We looked at this before. You know, we talked about passing over sin or whatever, and how does he do that? We went to, you know, uh Romans chapter three, uh, and he talked about, you know, God Um let me read it so I get it right. So you it God is the just and justifier, right? He displayed Christ publicly, verse twenty-five, the propitiation and the blood through the faith that was demonstrated to to demonstrate his righteousness because of the forbearance of God. He passed over the sins previously committed. For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just and justifier the one who has faith in Jesus. So even though they didn't know the whole gospel, uh those who had faith obviously knew that this was a substitute And and maybe they have maybe God opened their eyes to something future, uh we don't know. But they realized it was a substitute. Something had to die that they weren't worthy Were they their works to come to God. Because we see what you see what happens to the people that come to work, the manifestations all through the Old Testament, and they they died in unbelief. Um so yeah, uh th but this is what he did. I mean To me, um having this looking at this reparation offering and then thinking of Isaiah 53, again, that just adds I I I I understand more of you know, what Christ did for me. Any thoughts, any questions up to this point? We're we're making time It talks to me a little bit about a how you're on Isaiah 53. It's a guilt. Is that a guilt talk? How is have you? I've had parts of it. Yeah, I don't think I I I have a bridge too. I wouldn't mean you to feel guilty Oh but I don't mean I don't think I've had the whole passage talked to me Yeah. That's what I mean. And I'm an old woman. Yeah, there was a book that was circulating uh a while ago and it was to Jews. uh the meaning of Isaiah fifty three I think. What was the name of that I can't remember. They were really putting it out as a um evangelistic tool for uh Jewish people. But yeah. It also occurs to me, and that's why how the Jews become lawyers and trying to figure out the law If I'm if I'm not mistaken, the the uh Jewish rabbis claim that Isaiah 53 is talking about the nation of Israel. Yeah. I had I had a Jewish friend that I worked with many, many years ago, and he was questioning things. And I told him, I said, go to Isaiah chapter 53 And read it and you find what Isaiah 53 is talking about and you will have your answer. And I haven't seen him since then, so I don't know whether he did or not. But I do remember that particularly that I used this This chapter when they're talking to a Jewish friend. If you go there, they don't like it. I've heard that many a time too. They don't they don't really discuss it. They don't like that as it's rabbis don't. I remember hearing John MacArthur talk about uh going to see a rabbi and he said he mentioned some of these things and about Jesus and maybe Isaiah fifty three and the rabbi was just just went ballistic So you know, it's like just put up a wall and he got angry, so they know. They they're they're convicted, they know there's a problem there. We went to a a funeral of office worker that Laura was close with. Her his mom died. And uh went to a nice big synagogue over in uh over around Bethesda. And at the end of it the rabbi says Right at the very end. Some about um you know, talk about I don't remember exact context. We were talking about, you know, life, what happens. And he says He this is this is what the end note was too he goes you know we really don't know And that's what they left on Yeah, we hear at the end of the funeral. Well, we really don't know what. We don't know. If there's life after death. Yeah. Smart people just go to show you. It it God has to open the eyes. Hey Carrie. Yes. I've another question. Go ahead. We got tons. Uh related to so in chapter six of Leviticus we start to look at the uh intentional sin. You're probably gonna get here, but how does um the so what we read so far shows that intentional sins can be forgiven And how do we reconcile that with numbers fifteen? Yeah. Any person does anything with a high hand, that's Attention. They divorce. He's blasphemy against Yahweh, and that person shall be cut off from among his people. And then uh thirty one, because he has despised the word of Yahweh, has broken his commandments, that person shall be cut completely off, his guilt will be on him. Yep And yeah, and it's a d it's it it's debated. Um people go back and forth with this. Um I can't give you the perfect because uh uh the scholars that I've read so far, uh I think Milgram, the Jewish uh one leans towards uh God will can restore on the Day of Atonement But there's a problem. People go, Okay, well you say that, but if they're cut off from the camp, do they have to go outside the camp until the Day of Atonement then they can come back in? So yeah, it's uh Yeah. Yeah, then the the that that discrepancy is not going to go away. I can give you my answers The commentators can give you their answers, but yeah, there is a tension there. And it's it's going to remain there because both are God's words. Yeah. Um I have my view, um, but it doesn't necessarily mean I'm right, right? Yeah, I would just add uh it's like what Morgan was saying earlier of the difference between knowing that you're sinning versus sinning out of a uh of a rebellious heart. The high-handed sin is It's more than just yeah, no I'm not supposed to do this, but I'm gonna I yeah, it's one I say right now. It's it's um um a a hard, hearted, utterly committed, unwilling to uh hear the truth. Uh you're closed off, your your your heart is cut off from God at that point. Total rebellion. That's like the Christian refusing salvation. Right. Or the Jewish people not wanting to read Isaiah fifty-three. Right. But is it also kind of like a church discipline esque way of handling things where you go into the person repeatedly They refuse to hear brothers, they refuse to hear the elders, and you openly repeat them and you cast them out fellowship. Is that is the concept the same or is it still not Well, what that process would show is that their sin is high handed in the sense that they're you know, they don't care. Right. But they can still remain. Right. There is no resolution for your sin. Because I'm putting you out, I'm turning you over to Satan so that you would see the depth of your sentence. That's what you hope. So putting it out of the campus not necessarily a a scenario where it Can that be resolved though? Is it because I'm I'm reading through chapter fifteen and it doesn't seem like it's a I don't see the permanence as well. Hold back to me, this is a big picture thing again. What does it take To be right with God. Yeah, it does. But what is what uh how somebody is saved by grace. Grace through faith. If God gives him faith, I mean isn't he gonna bring 'em back? I mean ultimately that's the thing. We do things church discipline and and other things, but really think God is in control of all this. If somebody is uh reprobate their whole life. Uh I mean I've heard of some of 'em swear that's uh uh I'm not gonna mention names but who the guy was, but uh they swear ser uh serial killers uh have come to faith. I've heard and I heard uh What I'm saying is that God gives that person faith who It's not my faith. If I come to when I came to faith, was it my faith? No. God opened my eyes. I didn't believe God ceases to work with people after a while. Well, you know, it says, you know, uh was trash. Exactly. But who's got the definition of where the where are God's around here? I don't know. He didn't tell us exactly Okay, you guys, if you see somebody sin this number of times, yeah, I'm done with them. He doesn't he doesn't give us that information, right? So I w I guess what I'm saying is sometimes we're We do this a lot. I hear this a lot in groups. People going, well, I'm not sure if that guy's saved or not. And I go, yeah, sometimes it's hard to tell. God knows Okay? Really, most of this stuff is written to us to examine our lives, but we're busy examining other people's lives. That's God's realm. And it's a fine line there. That's my theology on it. But you know, the guy if God could take them out, they could be rebellious, and if God wanted to give them faith They're they're gonna they're saved, right? Um but y we like to we like to have uh nice clear cut rules anyway. Oh, I know he's done too much. I know he's out for good. I don't really see those c clear definitions. Here it looks like those that are s and that's the real debate here. Exactly what what he brought up, what Morgan brought up is that It says what he just read. Once they're they sin, they're cut off, they're put out of the camp. You know, and so that's where that's why we argue. Was it, you know, actual rebellion or Yeah. How about Reagan's son that says he'll be glad that commercially proves out for atheism? He says, I will be glad to burn in hell Well I'm sure his wish will come true. Not funny. No. What do you what's what's the radio stuff? No, no, no, that's not okay. Oh shit, Ronnie. Run run radio, yeah. The son and axiom. Yep. Hundred percent. Don't I I wasn't aware that that was the case, but I I'll believe that. Um There's a guy out there by this name that shakes his fist of the ward Exactly right. That's what he does on television. That's fine. That's a fact. What conclusion are you trying to draw from that? I think it's a very dangerous thing to be that rebellious against God. I I I quiver for him. Amen. And yet how is he different than any of the rest of us that are described as in the means of God? Free salvation Well we all need salvation we're standing on the same ground. But his defiance is right is blatant. Amen. Just like every one of ours that continues in sexual temptation or in pride or in gossip or in unforgivingness or in an ostrace that deliberate failure to take up Christian community that we are called into in Christ. So I I I guess I just I want to be so careful there. I say this. You said, I sin all the time, but I've never crossed my arms and defiantly sin. And I thought to myself, oh I I do that. I do Every time I choose a half truth instead of a total truth, every time I linger too long on an advertisement that pops up on my Bible website, I choose to do a thing that I know, according to the language of Leviticus, pushes me back into an unclean state in which I need to go back to the Lord and say, Lord, again I'm on the throne of my own life. kick me off. Yeah, but Jesus' blood covers me because of believing. Amen. Amen. I'm not arguing that. Right. Amen. That's why I that's why I have Kenfray. Right. But you're you're di you're different between a a weak moment and being uh being liberally li uh being deliberately defined, yes sir. Yeah. Yes, sir. Not arguing that. I just I was trying to understand we had a bunch of facts lying around the room. I was trying to understand what conclusions are trying to draw. Right. So same blood can cover My half-hearted rebellion, if that's what you want to characterize as and the whole-hearted rebellion of this guy that you were describing I think I I am gonna tell you the name of the guy. I think it was I get confused. I think it was Jeffrey Dahmer. I'm telling you to throw an old reason. I think it I ain't with Jeffrey Dahmer. I think it's a Jeffrey Dahmer and not to have gotten I don't know if you just see whether there's any fruit to this profession or not. This is a God thing. We're worried about what other people are doing. Well how when you sin against the Holy Spirit is unforgivable Oh, she's making a cord. Well, I I was So I think we can all agree that when someone is so hard hearted and you know they're a leader in hard hearted in the hard-hearted community. It is normal and common for those who have who have become so hard-hearted to not ever come back But I think we have uh we have both biblical and extra biblical examples of people who have committed great sin and have been uh very overt and have come through. So I'll give you one biblical, one non-biblical. The biblical one is the thief on the cross. We call him the thief on the cross, and therefore we think of him as a thief, but he was actually a murderer. He was an insurrectionist, a murderer, a He was not a nice guy. And he started his time on the cross mocking Jesus. And somehow The Lord softened his heart, the Holy Spirit softened his heart, and drew his heart to Christ. And while we can never see fruit from his faith, we have confidence or crisis in that US said. Right. One extra biblical example is MacArthur has talked about Uh the leader in the homosexual movement in California, I don't remember if it was in the nine I think it was in the nineties or something who was outspoken, you know, atheist, whatever but leader in the homosexual community. But on his deathbed uh came to Christ and Though his life was limited, uh everybody who knew him, the doctors, the messages, could testify to a dramatic. I remember hearing that And so it's rare but it can happen. And I want to say he even said his life has so dramatically changed his friends stopped coming to visit him because he was They they couldn't stand they they couldn't tolerate it. In other words, they could see the change in 'em. And they were still in their sins. I as I recall ever have a memory saying that. I think we're only reading something. I thought I think you know for instance. You know but yeah, again, um I I I this I like this verse because it's um It's God's salvation verse. And it's so simple. Acts uh sixteen. Uh a woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatara, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshipper of God, was listening, of course Paul had had a group was listening and the Lord opened her heart to respond to the things spoken by Paul. The Lord does it. And I remember w my testimony, I remember w when Um I'd gone through a lot of things. There were a bunch of steps involved. I was reading through the Bible, I was listening to Christian radio, I had some people coming in my life and it w and there was one day I was in my office and um It was like I knew this was true. I said to myself, this is true. This Jesus and I just knew it. Now I've been reading through the Bible several times. Um again, listening to Christian Radio all day. I was listening to uh You know, all these good preachers, MacArthur, Swendall, uh yeah, the whole gamut. I was listening to it all day long And um and but all of a sudden I knew it and I said, you know, if I pray this prayer, my life's gonna change And it scared me. And I said, but I wanted to change. Well, I was saved already. That prayer would just be recognized and what the Holy Spirit had already done I just knew it. All of a sudden I've been reading and reading. I was searching, searching, searching, and and going, what is what is this? What is this? What is this? You know? Uh And then just all of a sudden I said, oh, this is real. That was God opening my heart. Just open the eyes That that you know that I I knew it was real. That uh that was my faith. He gave me the faith. So, I mean God works how He wants. Thank goodness He worked on me. I certainly didn't deserve it. I earned it Let's finish up real quick. Just a couple of uh um questions. Yes. I'm sorry, can I ask a question of our idea of 53 to some Yeah. Um so I just think like it's this word the guilt offering. Right. I would even talking about the um he had known. Um until then in their notes he was um so end of one day two So you said, clicking uh end this line. The reparation offering the sham require text So it's the same word here using it. The legal term used here is mom, is what we wrote top of page two and had become a legal term used when against God. The word mom must happen chiefly or to see. Um and then it's like I I like that what you said here. This sin applies to sins against another person. Or it is viewed as a sin against God. And so can I can I also apply this word mal to Isaiah fifty three ten? In the sense that so so we've been talking about like now. Okay. Because he's paying right he is he is pay for artisan. Yeah, he can't he's not yeah. You mean because Because God saw him as as sin being hung on a cross. Sorry, I w my question wasn't clear. Um I guess my question is can this slide so Jesus Is he so he so the word guilt offering is it being applied to himself? He was the author, he gave back uh the reparation offering us. Right. So You see that quote look at the net bible on page bottom of page three. Fritz says the net bible Yes. You see how they have their restitution is made? So what they're doing is defining that guilt offering for you. He's paying That's that's the way they they interpreted it. Right. Sorry, my my question to make it more clear is can I apply so would it be correct rather if I apply the word mall in the sense of our sin that Christ has died for. So intentional sin against Lord. That's what I think that's what you're what is being alluded to here, right? Uh numbers five six, the each of the visual When a man or woman commits any defense of mankind, acting unfately small against the Lord, and that person is guilty, masha. Yeah, well well we sin yeah, exactly. If um I just don't want to insert something Yeah, well uh well but look at it don't get lost in in the in the term necessarily, but yeah, if I sin against you, I am sinning ultimately against God. Right. And vice versa, right? We our sin is ultimately against God. That's the the d don't get book too make it too specific in that oh I'm not sinning against God here but I am here. Yeah. I just I wanted to see if I could understand Isaiah 6310 in regard to Christ offering himself as a gift as a guilt offering On our behalf. Just just to see if I can flesh it out a little bit more for myself. Well he in other words, think of it as this. He is paying. He is Paying for our sins. Literal on that cross. And God, again, you know, he was pleased to crush him Uh he's he's he's putting the weight, the guilt, all of that on his son In other words, he is allowing it, he is more than allowing, he is having his son pay for all of our sins. And he so said and the thing of it is is that he literally paid for our sin, not just figuratively or spiritually. Uh well he did it s you know he is spiritual, but physically, spiritually, he paid for all of our sins. And yeah. That's that time, isn't it?