Alright, so yeah, turn to page four of the outline. We're almost uh we're at the bottom of page four. So last time we started talking about um arguments in support that people make in support of things like transgender identity and uh homosexual orientation. And we looked at arguments from scripture on uh the first Sunday a couple Sundays ago. And then last Sunday we mostly stuck to arguments from nature. And just real quick, let's review that that hierarchy of epistemology. These are our sources of truth. You know, how do we know what we know and how do those sources of truth relate to each other? So for us as Christians, what's at the top in terms of our sources of knowledge? Scripture, yeah. Scripture is at the top. Because why? Yeah, because it it comes from God. It's the Word of God. And that that not only means that it's from God, But that it is actual words, right? Words and sentences. Unlike any of the other things, like um nature Well sorry, unlike nature, uh which was made by God, but doesn't speak to us in sentences and um you know propositional language Right, so I just have the second one, nature. That's why nature is subordinate to scripture in in our in terms of our epistemology, right? That's why When we're faced with something, we look to scripture first to determine our principles for how we think about the issue. And then after that we look to let's say scientific investigation of nature or analysis of what God has made. Um both of these require interpretation, but actually interpreting scripture is easier because it's like reading a document. Interpreting interpreting nature is harder because you have to supply the meaning behind the facts. And those those always come from your assumptions. Okay, what was what was the third source? Uh not quite, that's the fourth. Oh. Culture, yeah. Culture and I would put tradition in here So is this a valid source of knowledge? Culture and tradition? This is not um no. Okay, why not? Um so cultures and traditions are bas simply based upon like the way others have done it. Mm-hmm. But norms are not necessarily what's dictated by scripture. Um Yeah, cultures cultures and traditions are do make it to be strong understanding something. Right. So in one sense, that's right, you know, to the extent that cultures and traditions are completely man-made, they're the product of of human invention they have no binding like moral or or factual basis on it. You know, it's like um I'm thinking here about um creation myths from or or like origin myths from other cultures. Um like like the Babylonian myths that about how their gods, you know, like one one god killed another one and split him open and and like out of the carcass grew the world or something like that. I'm probably getting the myth wrong. But you know, myths like that, they have no actual um truth value or historicity for us, right? 'Cause because they're just uh invented by human culture. Um or um you know ideas uh like ideas like um patriarchy in the sense of um that men should dominate over women. Right? That's a that's an idea that comes from human culture and it's a way that culture has distorted God's design. So that doesn't have any normative or truth value in it. But I think there's another sense so in that sense, culture and tradition are not valid sources of knowledge. But I think there is a sense in which culture and tradition can be a valid source of knowledge. Take it more, Angel. Um what what s in what sense can they be valid Yeah. But the moment you mistake preferences for laws, then that's where you try to kind of become God and say, oh, I think this way is right because you try to like distort script in the future to support your culture not developing. Yeah, yeah, that's why this is third down here below scripture and nature, right? So when a culture, when a tradition takes um principles from scripture or or truths evident in the design of nature and applies them in particular ways to particular groups of people, that can be a good thing Right. I'm thinking of uh like the the Reformation. Um the Reformation is part of our tradition as Protestants. And Um the reformers wrote a lot of really good and helpful things, like if you read the writings of Martin Luther or John Calvin, um that can help you understand real truth. uh real truths from scripture about especially about justification and salvation. Right? So those traditions can be valuable Uh but they have to be subordinate to scripture and nature, right? Not everything that Martin Luther wrote is correct. Not everything that John Calvin wrote is scriptural and biblical. And so we have to we have to filter this. It can be a source of knowledge, but it has to be filtered through through especially scripture. Um you know, and even even in a secular sense, you know, like some cultures cultures have ways of reflecting, for example, the distinction the good distinction between men and women in terms of like how we dress or how we act, right? Those those kinds of cultural norms are not from the Bible, but they're applications of the good scriptural principle that there's a a distinction between men and women to be celebrated. Right? So so um using those and and following those cultural norms and traditions uh can be a good thing, right? As long as they are in line with scripture and with creative distinctions evident in nature. Okay, so I think I think there's a sense in which culture and tradition can be valid sources of uh of knowledge or of practice, but has it has to be subordinate. Okay, so what's the last one? Yeah, yeah. And this would include things like your feelings, you know, how your internal sense of who you are, like everything psychological that that goes on inside your mind. Yeah, again, is this a valid source of knowledge? It's the worst validation. It's the least reliable one. Why? Because your personal experience is not Right, yeah. Yeah, it's it's impossible to go from idiosyncratic particular experience that only you have access to to a statement about what's true universally for everyone. Right? So that's w that's one reason why personal experience has to c fall at the bottom of this list. What's another So we've said all of these sources of knowledge have to be interpreted, right? They have to be interpreted or filtered through some sort of hermeneutic, some some matrix of assumptions that you bring to the table. Which Which one of these is hardest to interpret? Yeah, personal experience. It's hardest to interpret. Why is that? Yeah, you're the only one who's capable of interpreting it, and you happen to be the one who's most emotionally invested in the interpretation of your experience Right? So that's a recipe for for bias, for drawing wrong conclusions. If you um if you're the only one who can interpret your pain uh and you have a strong emotional uh vesting in in you know how you interpret your pain, then you're you're probably you're setting yourself up to deceive yourself, right? This is why the Bible says that the heart is deceitful above all else and desperately sick. Who can know it Um Jeremiah seventeen nine, I think. Um okay, so this is this is our epistemology. here. This is sort of the hierarchy of sources of knowledge and how we have to we have to really keep scripture at the top and use it to sort of fa be the foundation of our understanding for everything else and the grid through which we filter everything else, including what we learn from nature, what we learn from our culture or our traditions, and what we learn from our personal experience. Um so Uh yeah, we last time we went through arguments from scripture and from nature that people try to make in support of uh like LGBTQ identity. Um we touched on tradition and culture. Um I think uh Lily brought up that that in her friend group people had argued um that from from language that uh the male-female binary is a cultural construct of the West, essentially. Uh and they would they pointed to, I think, languages with um with more than two genders, uh for as she I forget the language that she mentioned, but I know German, for example, has masculine, feminine, and neuter nouns Right. And so the the argument that you hear is is that, oh, therefore, speakers of of German or a language like that, um don't consider humanity to be two genders, they consider humanity to come in three genders, right? Which what's wrong with that argument? Yes. Interesting. So even there, even in the language itself, there's so there's sort of a pointer that neuter does not apply to humans. Yeah, I don't know if that's true in German. I don't actually speak German, but um but yeah, what if what if you had a language where people could be referred to with the neuter gender? Would that imply that people in that culture and speakers of that language think of human beings as having fluid gender or more than two genders? Uh it's a good gross assumption. Mm-hmm. If you try to assume something that might not necessarily be the case, like for example then I only know Spanish and Korean. Neither well neither have you were uh both are very masculine from the N especially spanning. Yeah. So the uh journalists I think you were looking weird to just be not relevant to each other at all. Yeah. If you if you assume that it was probably teaching, everybody would think, oh, there's a spectrum Right. Yeah, it's it's a case like this where the language, the grammar, is probably not telling you something deep about the cultural assumptions of the people who speak it. Uh another example would be like in Mandarin Um verbs don't conjugate, right? So you know in English we conjugate our verbs to indicate past tense or future tense or whatever. Uh verbs don't directly conjugate in Mandarin. And so, you know, somebody could take that fact and build a similar argument to what we're hearing here and say Oh, the Chinese don't have a concept of time. You know, they don't they don't have a concept of past or future. Everything is just like the present for them. But That would be ridiculous, right? Chinese people talk about the past and the future all the time. They just they have other ways in their language of talking about it. Um I think So you know, so that that just demonstrates the absurdity of trying to trying to lean too heavily on grammar and language as like an indicator of cultural attitudes. I think that if you went to if you interviewed, you know, a thousand German speakers um and asked them you know, about gender, that you'd come up with uh y you'd you'd see they have a pretty strong sense of male and female. That that they don't um believe that that humans can come in a third gender. Yeah. Also if you study a language You'll also learn that words always change every often the meaning is based on societal forms, traditions, expectation. So again, other Right, yeah. Yeah, it changes all the time. So I mean yeah, it's possible maybe that there is a culture in the world somewhere or in or in history that um that thinks that humans uh come in more than two genders or that gender is fluid. Uh what if that's true? What if that were the case? What what would what implications would that have for us? What could we draw from that? That gender is fluid. No, no, if if there was a culture in the world that thought gender was fluid. Yeah Would we would we then have to conclude, oh, okay, male female is a cultural construct of the West? No, we wouldn't have to conclude that, right? Because uh we know from sources of knowledge that are higher than culture and tradition, we know from scripture that God created us male and female in his image. We know from nature that the uh the teleology, the purpose inherent in the design of our bodies, is uh points to male and female as the normative categories. So if there's a culture that disagrees with that, we can confidently say, oh, that culture just got it wrong. Right? We don't we don't have to bow to uh every cultural attitude and opinion on on the topic. Um and yet in the world they've taken this this hierarchy of epistemology and they've flipped it upside down, right? So if there is a culture out there, especially a culture that's that has historically been oppressed, then that the the testimony of that culture, the ideas of that culture carry a lot of weight. and need to be listened to, right? That's that's kind of the modern attitude about things. Um yeah. I'm just thinking how when I said my class when I've debated with The evidence they'll always try to counter it. They'll use nature as an example because that's their highest I guess we like if I work with that, and so they'll say like, oh, but there's like worms and fish and like mushrooms, academia, right? But that's ALID developer production working. And then they'll say That's proof of humanity not having to go down to each other. But you're comparing mushrooms to people. Yeah. Yeah. Right? And so let's just think about how If you don't have a highest order truth, then it's really hard to provide concrete. That's a great example of how if you discard the assumptions from scripture You're it's not like you're just removing them. You're actually replacing them with other assumptions, right? You're bringing in other assumptions into your interpretation of nature. And the assumption that they're bringing in is that There is no ontological difference between human beings and other forms of life. And so what applies to other forms of life automatically applies to human beings. That's an illegitimate assumption, right? So okay. Yeah, I mean another another way that you hear this tradition and culture argument made is um Like I was listening to NPR one day and um there was a uh I think a pediatrician, uh I believe it was from Vanderbilt, who was being interviewed about like a study that had recently come out about um following kids who I identified as transgender as kids and like as they grow up. Um anyway, this this doctor was um was saying You know, hey, we need to we need to trust kids on you know on their idea of gender, like when they w on their self-report of gender identity. And by the way Um the male female binary is a cultural construct of the West. If you look throughout history, uh like you if you look at the ancient Egyptians They had transgenderism in their or like they had trans the idea of transgender identity in their religious practices. And I was like, wait, what Is that true? You know, 'cause the interview then ended and so I went home and I I looked this up and what she was referring to was that Um you know, Egyptians used to mummify uh important people, right? Because they believed that their soul was going to be reborn into the afterlife. They had a belief that only male souls could be reborn. into into the afterlife that way. So if they wanted to bury and and mummify an important woman, like a queen, they they had to conduct a religious ceremony where they transformed her soul into a male soul for like five minutes or whatever so that it could be reincarnate, reborn uh into the afterlife and then reverted back to a female soul. So Does that um so first of all, you know, completely false religion, but does that even indicate that the Egyptians believed in like gender fluidity or transgender identity? No, that's a complete cultural anachronism. Yeah, she's a dead person, and it's not like they're You know, it's not like they're saying, Oh yeah, she needs to live out her authentic identity as a man. No, it was just like a purely instrumental thing. She needs to be reborn Yeah, yeah, if anything, yeah, it's a it's it's a patriarchal thing. Like men are ontologically superior to women, therefore, you know, she needs to become a man to Well there's this is often the case where there's like two extreme errors in in the world and um you know the world tries to force uh Christians to one extreme or the other by saying like, oh you don't want to be like these guys, so you have to be that guy. But really the biblical ideal is is somewhere completely different, you know, like in the middle. Um And the two extremes I see with respect to children are, number one, a lot of people think children are just a burden, right? That you know, to the point where a lot of people are not gonna have children at all. They've decided they've decided not to do that. Um or, you know, with the children they have they they will, you know, sadly and unfortunately, like um You know, be repressive and controlling and and even abusive towards them. So that's one extreme that obviously is unbiblical. You know, Jesus said, Let the little children come to me and and Psalms say, Behold, children are a gift of the Lord. The fruit of the room of the womb is a reward. So children are not a burden. They're a blessing But there's the other extreme that says children are pure and innocent and um you know, they have special insight into um like the goodness of humanity, right? And they're and so we should we should listen to them. Like we should make them an authority almost, right? But That's not biblical either, right? The Bible is clearly uh is clear that foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. Right, every child is born with sin that needs to be disciplined out of them. And the authority in the home is not the children, the authority is the parents. And so like You know, and and children are not born with any sort of special insight and knowledge into God's plan or purposes. So we have to reject that as well. We have to, you know, if if one of my children who came came to me and was talking about like being confused about whether he was a boy or a girl or something, um, I wouldn't say, oh yeah, we need to listen and and, you know, get to the bottom of your personal experience on this, I would say, well uh we need to uh to look at scripture here. We need to look at what God's design is. I need to teach my child what's true and help them interpret their experience correctly. And in this case, reject that experience as or reject the interpretation of that experience um as being inconsistent with God's Word Right, so yeah, just two extremes, we gotta reject both of them and and not let the world sort of push us to one side or the other. Yeah, so let's go on. So the personal experience. Um you know this this is the the domain where like most of the arguments uh are are coming out from um So you've got uh sorry? Oh yeah, we're page five. Uh we're we're point E on page five So personal experience is, you know, in our epistemology it's the weakest, uh, most uncertain source of knowledge, but in the world's opinion, it's the most authoritative and strongest testimony that you could have is personal experience. And so this is where you hear most of the arguments for um like homosexual orientation or transgender identity come from. Like this this is my personal experience. I know better than anyone else who I am and how I'm constituted. And so you c you you shouldn't argue with my personal experience that you should just trust me, believe me, um, this is who I am But we know it's the least reliable source of knowledge, right? Like for all the reasons we just talked about. Your heart is going to deceive you. If you have if you have the experience where you are attracted sexually to someone of the same gender, your heart is going to deceive you into interpreting that experience as like this is my identity, this is who I am But what's the correct interpretation of that experience of same-sex attraction? If you experience sexual desire for someone of the same gender, what is the biblical interpretation of that? It's a sinful desire, yeah. It's sin living in you and trying to get you to go against the will of God. Right. So you see how that experience of same-sex attractiveness can be interpreted in two completely different ways, depending on your assumptions that you bring in from the rest of your epistemology You can take that same experience and either interpret it as like a fundamental part of who you are, or as a way in which you are corrupted and and distorted from God's original design. Right. Yes. Right. But that standard is not just any different from other things. For example, if if you cover just your neighbor wife with the same feeling and same desire. Um or you covered it um somebody else stuff or you wanted uh you know you saw um a young lady walk down the street and you covered it after her Is that same? It is Yeah, you identify identify and I am I just identify it's what it's like. So that some people gravitate that so that us have we weakness and just weakness of us is bang for sin stronger than other people. But doesn't mean that doesn't mean that um You know, yeah, yeah, identify with you other than your identity. Your identity is Christ. Mm-hmm. And he does have a band of them. And Yeah, that's why Paul says, um I forget which letter this is, but like, you know you you once were or like the the Gentiles are you know murderers and liars and adulterers, etc etc. And such were some of you. Such were some of you before Christ rescued you and transferred you from the domain of darkness into his kingdom. Is that Ephesians 2? Okay. Th yeah, there are I mean, a couple of years ago this this that would have seemed like a ridiculous um straw man. But these days there are actually groups of people who want to recognize minor attractiveness as an identity category. Talk with the irony is the traditionality. Yeah. Some people have at least what we call total standards. Uh-huh. Oh. Yeah, yeah. But you're not being inclusive. So inclusion is the way to really kind of turn a blind eye to everything and the way it can hold hands and same way up, I guess. But Yeah. I know. It's like you have a drill. Right, yeah. My heart said that this is the person. And then ten years later you look back and go like, oh God, thank you for this. Yeah. Yeah, your heart will lie to you. It will. It will. Not just in, you know, these these like hotly political topics, but just in normal everyday life. Your heart will lie to you And um you need to be guided by wisdom from the Word of God. Um, you know, two two statements that I've heard from people at work at the place where I work that sort of illustrate how personal experience is used as the ultimate authority on identity. Statement number one. As a gay man, I know my sexual orientation is a fundamental part of who I am. Um and an unchangeable part is in the context is what he meant. Uh and then the other statement, my gender is not up for a vote. Uh So, you know, both of these statements kind of illustrate how like you know people today treat that personal experience as you know the end of the story, unquestionable. Um but, you know, like we pointed out earlier, I think Aaron, you pointed this out, um these claims that that they're making, they they are phrased as personal claims that only apply to the individual, but they're not just personal claims, right? They have they have implications for what human nature actually is and how it's constituted. Right? The claim as a gay man I know my sexual orientation is part of who I am Uh that claim doesn't make sense unless you're claiming that human nature has a normative thing called sexual orientation in it. And that's not a particular personal claim, that's a universal claim about everyone And you have to make that claim on something stronger than personal experience. The personal experience is not adequate to uh to really base that claim in anything But I think the more even even more important response or point is like for these statements that are coming from personal experience. How how do you know you're interpreting your experience correctly? Right? I think um I read Uh even even um there are like you said there are divisions now in in the LGBTQ movement uh not just over uh pedophilia, but um feminists like old school feminists from from the seventies are a lot of them are objecting to uh the inclusion of transgender identity in the movement because they They think that it destroys feminism and destroys femininity. Um, you know, they're they're probably right. Uh there there was a an influential feminist, I think it was Germaine Greer, um, who you know, wrote about um uh who wrote about transgender identity and was was arguing that um You know, men who identify as women, they are not uh they're not experiencing what it means to truly be a woman, they're essentially living out a male fantasy of what it means to be a woman. And it raises a good point. Like, if you're a man, a biological male and and you you claim to feel like you're a woman, how do you know that what you're feeling is really what women feel? You know, you you can't get inside a woman's head and compare your experience to hers Um so how do you know? How do you know you're not just mislabeling the thing that you're feeling? Right. So even even secular feminists, like Jermaine Greer is is not a Christian at all. Um even secular feminists recognize the absurdity really of building these kind of arguments solely on an interpretation of personal experience. Um yeah, people are are really divided on that. You know, you have um Some you know m most of the the institutions like uh like the school, uh I think it's Princeton and and the other Ivy League schools are supporting um uh, you know, th like the transgender ideology. But then you have a lot of sort of traditional feminists objecting and saying this is actually destroying Title IX protections for women Um so yeah, that argument is playing out in in public and it's very quickly devolved from you know, arguments citing evidence and and making points to name calling. Like, oh, you know, you're just bigots, oh you're uh you know. It's it's all name calling now. Um And emotivism. So yeah, I'm not saying, by the way, that we should engage in any of that. I I don't think that As Christians, we are w I don't think we're called to um you know be be like those loud outspoken voices in the culture. Um My point here is that we need to be ready to think carefully about these things and in one-on-one relationships we need to be ready to sort of like gently p question people's assumptions and the interpretation of their own experience. Um but that's a good segue into into the last section that that I hope we can finish today, which is living in the world. You know, how do we apply all this stuff? Right? If we if we are convinced, um of what we've been studying here, of God's design. How do we apply those principles to our relationships in school, in the workplace, in our friend groups, that kind of thing And there's always gonna there's like thousands of potential applications here. So we're not going to cover all applications in this class. And really, that's the kind of thing where you'd want to um you know talk it over with with a a a trusted counselor. uh in the church and and say, like, this is my situation, how can I honor the Lord in this situation? Uh but we can give a few implications that I think are helpful. Um and I've got two Examples here. Lessons from Daniel and lessons from Paul. Because I think um those are Yeah, those are two really good biblical examples to look at. So about a year ago, uh the first time I taught this class, I taught on Daniel chapter one. And the example of Daniel and his friends, uh, who were taken out of Jerusalem, out of the the Israelite culture, which had a basically biblical worldview You know, they had they had a b basically correct view of who Yahweh was and and how he wanted people to live. Uh but they were taken out of that culture and they were dropped right in the middle of Babylon And the first thing that the Babylonians did was uh put them through a three year uh essentially college program trying to break down their Israelite worldview and inculcate um a Babylonian worldview into them. And who remembers like what uh what the Babylonians did to get them into their worldview. Yeah, food was the big one. Yeah, food was Mm-hmm. Yeah, and um but yeah even before the food the they changed their names, yeah. So they they changed they took names, their Hebrew names, which were all honoring to Yahweh Right? Like Daniel means God is my judge. Um I forget what uh Hananiah, Meshael, and Azariah meant, but they all um end in either Ayah or El, which are the the two suffixes denoting the biblical God. So they took the Hebrew names that honored Yahweh and gave them Babylonian names that honored the pagan gods of Babylon. What's what's interesting about that is that the four young men actually accepted those names and you know, submitted to being called by those names. I don't think they probably use those names with each other in private, but they didn't like that wasn't crossing the line for them somehow, for some reason. I think that's a really interesting point, but We'll put that on the shelf for a minute. Uh what was what was another thing that Babylon tried to do to uh sort of assimilate them into the Babylonian worldview Education, yeah. Basically teaching them the literature and the wisdom of the Babylonians, which included it wasn't just like facts, like star charts although that was part of it. It was also divination practices, you know, how to communicate with the pagan gods and tell the future, which were things that were strictly forbidden in the Bible. And interestingly again, what did those what did those four men do with that? Yeah, they learned it. They learned it with excellence. Right? God gave them the ability to learn all that information so well that they surpassed all their peers in terms of that knowledge. Um But where so where did they draw the line? So if they they accepted the names, they accepted the the learn they you know threw themselves into learning even this pagan literature, where did they draw the line? Worship. Worship. Explain that. Uh they used a task. Yes. Um and that was that was later, like in in chapters three and six. Uh so Which is connected actually to worship, right? It's not um so you know there are various views, but I think the one that's m most persuasive to me is that um the king When he when he said, Eat of my food and eat of uh and drink of my wine, it actually says the food from the king's table Right. So in in that culture, when you ate at someone's table, you were making a covenant with them. It was a it was the concept of a covenant meal. Um and so the king was saying Okay, now that you have learned all this stuff and seen what I can give you, declare your loyalty to me and recognize that I'm your protector provider now. And I think, I think I mean this is a little bit speculative, but I think that that's what Daniel and his three friends picked up on and said, no, we're not going to defile ourselves that way. We're not going to go declare our um Yeah, our allegiance, our uh sort of un um unconditional loyalty to King Nebuchadnezzar. Because our our our unconditional loyalty belongs to Yahweh. He's our protector and provider. We eat at his table. So that's for whatever reason that's where they drew the line. Right? And then how did they go about uh Drawing that line. You guys remember? Yeah, did they did they you know, create ticket signs and go like protest on the steps of Nebuchadnezzar's palace like, No food and wine you know. No, they weren't doing that. They were not obnoxious. They did not raise their voices in the public square They went to who? Yeah the meetup for a request. Yeah, Daniel went privately to the captain of the guard and made a request, respectful request. you know, that was sensitive to the the captain's position, you know, 'cause the captain w he knew that he was on the hook if uh if Daniel and his friends started looking scrawny. Um so yeah, like Go back and read that uh to get the details. But he Daniel and his friends used uh respectfully and tactfully worked within the structures of authority that had been placed over them No, even you know, even pagan ones, right. So I think, you know, you could summarize that whole situation Um and then of course the end of the story. God granted them favor in the eyes of that commander, uh, let them not eat from the king's table, and they as a result looked better and did better than all the other ones all the other students. That's God. Yeah, that was that was miraculous. Um so I I just put down wrote down five principles that that we can ex extract from that example of Daniel and his friends. Um So number one, don't go looking for a fight, but try to live at peace with all men. Um you know that we should not be, like I said earlier, we shouldn't be like out there blasting social media with polemics or or I don't think we should be the ones like bringing all these lawsuits into the courts to to assert our First Amendment rights necessarily. Like that's not I don't think that's the right approach. That's not really a biblical thing. Uh are we should be looking to live at peace with all men. And yet, number two, we need to make up our minds not to defile ourselves with the world, but we need to be ready to keep our hearts loyal to God. And I think it really is all about loyalty, right? Our loyalty needs to be to the Lord, and the world is going to try to secure our loyalty away from God and to itself, you know It's going to say like, oh, you like being in this school, you like being in this job? Well, you're going to need to, you know, say these words or affirm, you know, affirm this this statement in order to keep your job. Uh they're looking to secure our loyalty on the basis of what the world can provide. Um but we need to make up our minds not to defile ourselves with the world So, you know, like like we noted, Daniel and his friends, they accepted a few things that you know, like the the Babylonian names and the and the Babylonian learning, uh, that we might have said, huh, why didn't they draw the line there? You know? Um and The the the point here is that not all faithful biblical Christians are going to agree on where these lines fall. Right. Uh you know, faithful biblical Christians might disagree on you know whether to use someone's preferred pronouns in a particular situation, uh or whether to attend a gay wedding. Um those are the two examples that I listed at the end here. But we all need to make up our minds not to defile ourselves. And Don't try to discern those lines on your own. Right? Notice that Daniel uh and his three friends they were conferring together. They had a they had a fellowship, uh an iron sharpens iron kind of dynamic where they could uh talk with each other and come to a conclusion about these things So we need to draw lines. Uh we're not necessarily all going to agree on where those lines fall, but we should be talking with each other about where they fall and you know and asking each other, asking trusted, um, mature believers to help us think those things through Um fourth, try to work under legitimate authorities with grace and tact. Authority, even secular, like profoundly um unbiblical authority is put there by God for our good. And we are supposed God expects us to obey authority, even when they're unreasonable. You know, uh 1 Peter talks about um obeying authorities and and masters even when they mistreat us. Uh so there's no you know, w this is a very anti American message, right? Like as Americans we love to assert our independence and you know, the moment we detect that an authority is being unfair and challenging our rights, we're ready to, you know, revolt. But um that's not a biblical attitude at all. Like we we should be willing to work under authority, even authority that that seems um unreasonable And that's actually a profound way that we can show demonstrate our faith in Christ. Um and then lastly, you know, when you do draw the line, uh and when you when it does become time to stay to take a stand with gentleness and respect. Don't be afraid, but trust God. Trust be like be like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, like when they when Nebuchadnezzar was gonna throw them in the furnace. He said, What God will deliver you from my hand? And they said, We have no need to answer you in this matter, O king, for our God is able to deliver us from your hand. But even if he does not we will still what? We'll still praise him anyway. Right? That should be our attitude. We know that God can deliver us. in these situations. But even if he does not, we will still praise him anyway. Alright. Comments on Daniel. Lessons from Daniel. all the time you're connected to your friends as well as connection. If like you say something they don't like and you fear like I'm gonna lose out on my friends. Yeah. The way people look at me like they're gonna think I'm displayed. You get a top mouth Christian, like who wants to associate with somebody like that? Yeah. But I think the word of encouragement is God always provides for his people, whether that's for other people or if you remote Bible church or some other entity. Yeah. I think that's the combination shaped, knowing that even if you lose something today, you still have a relationship with God, you still have a relationship with people like you're not gonna lose that too. Right, right. The way they frame it is like if you do kind of compromise, or if you don't compromise you're gonna lose everything. If you're like and for some, like especially those are jobs, then I draw the line we could lose our jobs, especially for college education. Yeah. Yeah. So I personally don't find that out. Like most of my friends are uh at least I'm actually more not Christian. Some of them say they are but they they're not. Um and what I I think I think they're genuinely interested when I talk about you know, i not only about like LGBTQ and my opinion on it, but also just God in general and you know Yeah, they're they're they're genuinely interested in. It a lot of people think that if you if you say that you don't believe Um you know, being gay is okay, that you're gonna immediately get canceled that you're gonna lose all your friends, but really I think people are just curious because I think Because I come from like a different culture of people like I guess maybe they're more accepted uh accepted. Like they're they're more, I don't know, forgiving or something, but I think people like They want to see where you're coming from. That's really great to hear and a great reminder too. Like we shouldn't psych ourselves out like everyone's immediately hostile to us. Because that's not that's not true. Yeah, just um there's a lot of opportunity still for to actually have conversations about this stuff. Yeah. Thank you for bringing that up. That's a good point. Um yeah, there's a there's a lot of space still to live at peace with all men, um like like Daniel and his friends. But I wanted to say a little bit more about that issue of drawing the lines and how different believers might draw those lines differently. in different places. Because I know that's that's kind of a that can be kind of a shocking thing to hear, right? You mean there's not one answer to like using preferred pronouns. Um well uh the what I'm basing that on is is Paul's letters. Um in Romans actually yeah in Romans and in First Corinthians Paul talks about uh a couple of issues. One of them is eating meat sacrificed to idols. And um another one is is like celebrating uh special days, feast days and and new moon festivals and things like that. These kinds of issues were threatening to divide the early church. Um Uh because uh there were mature Christians, mature believers who knew that um meat that was sacrificed to an idol was not like any was not materially different in any way than you know any other meat. Uh so they could go and eat that without like spiritually polluting themselves. And they were right about that. Paul says that they're right Um, so they they could eat meat that was sacrificed to idols with without any unclean conscience. But there were other believers who had come out of pagan society where they had just grown up with this idea that anytime you're eating meat, you're worshiping a god. Um, you know, because that's that's really all the meat that people consumed in those days is you know, they didn't have refrigerators and So, you know, if you were going to eat meat, you would have to go to the temple and get what they had sacrificed and you were participating in idol worship in their minds. So There were a bunch of believers who like they just could not separate in their minds eating meat from idol worship and when they saw those spiritually mature believers go and eat meat, they were like What are you doing, you know? Uh worshiping an idol in the house of the Lord and um so it was starting to divide the church. Um so let's read what Paul said about those kind of things. This is a uh a situation in which legit like true believers are disagreeing over an issue of what we should do. So Paul says in Romans 14, each person must be fully convinced in his own mind, whatever is not from faith is sin. So this I think is you know it's r really fascinating to me. It allows for differences of opinion between true believers. on on these things. But each one must be firmly convinced in his own mind, uh, whatever is not from faith is sin. That means, you know, for the person for the weak b weaker believer who is really bothered by eating meat sacrifice to idols, it would be sinful for that person to go and and eat meat against their conscience. Right? Because it that's not that's not coming from a position of of faith, of truly honoring wanting to honor the Lord, that's coming from um you know, wanting to be like other people in the church. And then he apologize elsewhere in Romans fourteen, therefore let's not judge one another anymore, but rather determine this. not to put an obstacle or a stumbling block in a brother or sister's way. I know and am convinced in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself But to the one who thinks something is unclean, to that person it is unclean. Right, so what he's saying here is um The the people who each each side, the strong believers who are fine with eating meat and the weak believers who are bothered by it, each side has a responsibility to the other. The strong believers, what is their responsibility? Yeah, not to cause the weak ones to stumble. Not to not to use their freedom in order to cause uh another believer for whom Christ died to sin again. Right? So that should be our biggest concern is not not like what am I allowed to do, but How can I promote the the growth and maturity of uh my fellow believers? Right? So that's the responsibility of the strong believer, not to use your freedom to be a stumbling block to others. What's the responsibility of the weak believer? Not to judge, yeah. Not to judge, not to say, oh Because they're breaking a rule that's a rule in my mind, therefore they're not true believers. Or therefore they're sinning. Very typical. Halloween, Halloween. Yeah. Yeah. It's very typical and I think Yeah. Yeah. It's almost impactful. Another issue Yeah, another issue where this comes up is like alcohol, right? Um there's no there's no scriptural prohibition against the consumption of alcohol. There's a scriptural prohibition against getting drunk Um but you know mature believers uh who are able to responsibly consume alcohol, um that there's that's not a sin. But there is a way that a mature believer could consume alcohol in front of a a weaker brother that would cause them to sin, right? Like if they're if they struggle with uh drunkenness and and that kind of thing, it might tempt them Right, so we, the mature believers, should uh voluntarily in those situations refrain from from drinking alcohol when it might cause someone to stumble. And on the other hand, you know, if if alcohol is just like a big thing like for you and you you say, no, I'm not gonna drink any, that's fine for you to say. But you shouldn't judge other believers for responsibly consuming alcohol. Yeah. So these these things these principles I think are really applicable to these these kind of questions about like where to draw the line on on LGBTQ things, right? There are certain things there are certain lines that are clearly biblical that all Christians must draw, right? Like we we can't embrace or tell other people to embrace a gender identity that's different from their biological sex. And we have to maintain that that the only appropriate use of sex is in a marriage between a man and a woman There is no appropriate category for homosexual sex in God's law. So th those aren't the lines that I'm talking about. The lines that I'm talking about are things like should I Ever is it ever okay to use somebody's preferred pronouns at work or or in school? Um or is it ever okay for me to attend um a gay wedding Right, so these these are the things where I could see Christians drawing different lines. Um you know, like for the pronoun thing, I I um am having to think through this at work. Um And I I had originally thought like, well, you know, there's there's just no way to use somebody's preferred pronouns that differ from their biological sex and be consistent with scripture. There's just no way. But then I was talking with um a a friend who's a very mature believer in the church and whose whose counsel I really trust. And He was saying, you know, I could actually see if you had a long-term working relationship with somebody, like you work next to a co-worker who identifies as transgender, I could see going up to that person and saying uh, hey, you know, I n I know that this is where you are in your life and in order to um live at peace with you and for us to work functionally together, I will use your preferred pronouns, but I just want you to know I don't agree with uh with the statement that that's making. I don't agree that you can have an identity that's different from your biological sex. So like making it known that you don't agree, but using the pronouns to uh promote peace in the workplace. Like I'm not saying that that's what I would decide to do, but I it was like, huh, okay. I could see that maybe being a way to honor the Lord and be faithful to his commands um while seeking peace with all Yeah. I have problems of remembering people's names. Yeah. Right. There's no way we can Yeah. Well and that that's where I think it you know a lot depends on how permanent the relationship is, right? Like I can see you know if you're interacting with a coworker for like a one-off thing or for like a two-day uh seminar or something, you know, then maybe maybe you can do the mental gymnastics of like never using third person pronouns for them You know, if if your coworkers wants to be called by the name Janet, you say, Janet this, Janet that, and never say she. Uh you know, like that that could be possible. But for a long term working relationship that would get really hard. You know. Yeah. Yeah. I also think about the particular version scripture where your call aspirations not to anything know it shame the name of God um bring like a negative impression of us. So I think that's also very helpful in the way you technically navigate these kinds Yeah, especially go going to the school of the South, like the attitude of like what a proper Christian should be as very abrasive. You want it Like stand out like Christian. So like I will figure gay away. Yeah. I will like screw your pronouns to like who does that? Yeah. Like you make it know that you like are very objective. Right, yeah. That's so Yeah, that's not the example of Daniel. That's not living at peace with all men, right? Um but yeah, we do right. I I think I would still on these questions tend to land on the side of like not using someone's preferred pronouns or not attending a gay wedding because, you know, for for something like that A w a wedding is supposed to be a celebration, right? And and I just can't imagine going to a ceremony that celebrates something that is inherently sinful and against God's design Um but you know we had we have some friends who have had to wrestle with this issue and like if they if they came to the conclusion, yeah, we're gonna go, we're just gonna make it clear to our family. Um 'Cause this this you know, it's a family member, right? And we're just gonna make it clear to our family that we don't support um homosexuality and we think it is a sin and against God's design You know, I I'm not gonna judge them for doing that. I think uh they drew they draw the line in a different place than I would. But I think I would probably still draw the line there. I don't know But y if you are in a situation like this, definitely talk about it with with people. Talk about it with me, you know, with or with Jen or um Yeah, anyone. Don't don't just try to make the decision on your own. Plans fail for lack of counsel, and iron sharpens iron. You want the input of other believers on these kind of questions Yeah. I think it's you know the it's the identity thing, it's like if you d detect if your if your identity is wrapped up in other people recognizing you as being a woman, let's say And if other people are intentionally rejecting that, then it's like I think like I remember I I remember I thought my friend uh my friend was a guy for the longest time. Then later on, like a few months down I realized that She was a girl? Oh like not identifying as transgender just like I think if you're like if it's obvious that the other person is trying to like I I think it's different because butchering a last name is like it's not the other person's fault if you're not doing pay attention. But if they're intentionally like if someone's intentionally calling your name wrong or or or doing something like that to just be annoying that I I feel like you should be something. Right? If it if it didn't feel good when you got called this. Right, though. Right, yeah. So so and sometimes you know, the fact that it's offensive doesn't always mean that it's wrong. You know, sometimes we need to say true things that are offensive. Um, but we don't want to just be offensive for the sake of being obnoxious. Yeah. Yeah, truth and mercy. Yeah. Thank you. I mean that's part of living I think as a question too. Yeah. People have talked about the tricky things about me today. Yeah. You have to preach the diagnosis. Yeah, in addition to the cure. Yeah. In addition to the cure, yeah Yeah. People are not ready necessarily to hear about forgiveness from sins and salvation from sin because they don't know what sin is. Yeah. Right. All right, we're going to be able to do that.