Okay, yeah, so it's been like four weeks. Uh and yeah, I guess we started we started this outline, the uh the queer theory outline four weeks ago and um were all three of you here when we did that that like identity matrix thing on the board? Yeah. Okay, so I won't go over that again. But um yeah, that was that's kind of the key. Um I think to understanding uh the claims that we're that we're facing today in society. Claims um claims about homosexuality, like uh like I'm gay or claims about transgenderism like like I'm a a man trapped in a woman's body. Um Those those claims I mean I think as Christians it's easy for us to look at those claims and say like that's that's just ridiculous, you know, and or or that's a choice. You're not you're not born gay, you you're choosing to live a certain way. Um and that is true. I think, you know, like uh nobody nobody's born um, you know, having sex with with people, y that is something that you choose. Um and and nobody's born um changing their body from male to female, that's something you choose. So at at at root, yeah, it is a choice. Uh but I think there's also ways that we can dig deeper in to sort of get at some of the deceptions that are um really pervasive in the world today. 'Cause like um what people are claiming Uh I don't know if you guys got the outline, but um I think what what people are really claiming is like um It's uh it's three parts to the claim. There's there's a feeling, there's a behavior, which is a choice, and then there's an identity to the claim. Right, and and so, you know, like with homosexuality the feeling would be I'm attracted to people of the same sex. Um which I could I could believe that to some extent you could be born with that. We a lot of people are are born um with a predisposition to struggle with certain sins. Um but I think there's also a a lot of choice you you you have a lot of um power to cultivate your attractions and your affections. Um so there's still a lot of choice there too. But then there's the behavior uh, which is definitely a choice. Uh like who you know, choosing to have sex. Um but then there's a claim that's increasingly uh at the center. It's about the identity. Um Right, and it's so it's not just I'm attracted this way or this is my my sexual preference. It's that my attraction to men is a fundamental part of my identity that I can't change. Right? It's like we said four weeks ago, it's normative, right? Like it it determines how I should live, my sexual attraction. And it's immutable. I can't change it. That's the claim that's really being made is that like there's something at the core of my identity and it is this. It is my my sexual attraction. Um or with with uh transgenderism, you know there's there's a claim about something at the core of my identity. This thing called gender identity. Like I know that I'm a woman and that's at the core of my identity. It's even more fundamental to who I am than my body. And so I think like those are the claims that are being made, and they're false claims, but we have to recognize them and and sort of accurately represent them in order to understand them and respond to them. So that leads to this this sort of comparison table in uh in 2C down here, where you've got um you know the three aspects the feeling the behavior and the identity and you've got what the world says in the form of of queer theory which is sort of like the academic arm of of the LGBTQ plus movement. And then you've got what the Bible says, right? So about the feeling uh for example of same-sex attraction or of uh of dissatisfaction with your your bodily gender. Um You know, queer theory would say these are normal and healthy feelings. Uh these are fine. Um but the Bible would say that these are these are examples of indwelling sin. um not necessarily conscious choices to sin, um, but the principle of indwelling sin. Do you guys know the difference between between like Uh acts of sin and and what theologians would call indwelling sin. Do you guys know the difference between those things? So an act of sin would be like either I I choose to do something wrong or I choose not to do something that I that I should do. um you know speaking harshly or insulting somebody, that's an act of sin. What about but like indwelling sin is the recognition that it's not just it's not just that we make sinful choices. That's not our only problem, right? Our our main problem is that Because of Adam, uh, and because human nature has become corrupted, we are actually born with sinful tendencies and sinful desires in our hearts. Right? So um So I might um I might not insult somebody or call them names, but if I if I have just sort of like an innate dislike for them in my heart, you know, y have you ever met somebody where you they just rub you the wrong way and you just don't You just don't like them, you know, and you're not you you you are not predisposed to care about their interests. Um That's an example, I think, of indwelling sin. You know, that that principle of sin that's at work in us that uh we don't choose to dislike that person necessarily, but um It's something that's at work in our hearts because of our fallenness that makes us respond uh not in a way that God wants us to. Right. And I think I think it's the same way with uh like same-sex attraction or what's called gender dysphoria, you know, being um uncomfortable with your your bodily gender. Um those aren't necessarily um sinful choices. They're they're like they're not like individual acts of sin, but they're the principle of indwelling sin. You know, if you If you want something, if you desire something that God says you should not have, that's sinful. Um and so I think that's what Uh that's the category in which we should think about stuff like same-sex attraction um as indwelling sin. Uh but then then there's the behavior, you know, either you know, what you choose to do, who you choose to have sex with, or what you choose to do to your body, how you choose to present yourself as um what gender you choose to protect yourself. Um you know queer queer theory set would say that uh any of these actions, any kind of sexual or gender expression is fine, is morally right. In fact, individuals have a right to express their sexuality and gender however they want, and um any any restraint that society wants to put on that or that religion wants to put on that is oppressive. That's what that's what queer theory would say. Um But the Bible would say that that certain uh expressions of sexuality and and gender are actively sinful. You know, if you are uh a man and you choose to present yourself as a woman, that's going against God's design and that's actually an an act of sin. It's crossover from that indwelling sin principle to an actual choice to commit a sin. Um And then there's the identity layer, right? And the identity layer, um, queer theory would say that, okay, these things, these these um sexual and gender components of your identity they're fundamental to who you are and they're unquestionable. Nobody can come along and say like, well how do you know that you are actually a woman trapped in a man's body? Or how do you know that you're gay? Nobody can say that to you because you are the ultimate authority on your identity. Your identity is up here in your mind. Um it comes from within. It doesn't come from God or from nature or from anything outside you Uh so that's what queer the queer theory is saying. But the Bible says that um these identity claims, they're actually enslaving ideas, enslaving falsehoods. That your fundamental identity, the the the facts about who you are, they come from God and they come from the way He made you. Um, you know, God created us male and female. He created uh marriage between a man and a woman and he created sex to be the sign and the seal of that covenant between one man and one woman. And so anything we anything that um sets itself up as a fundamental identity against what God has made, that's that's an enslaving falsehood. It's dooming you to um to frustration and to uh experiencing the consequences of sin. Um so really it's a worldview clash. It's not just a um It's not just about like people living different lifestyles, uh or even making different choices. Um although, you know homosexuality and and uh gender expression are are definitely choices um that are s that are sinful uh but it's more about a worldview conflict. It's that there are these ideas out there that are that are demonic teachings that are enslaving large segments of our population. And um they really need to hear the truth of the gospel, which is the only thing that's gonna set them free from that stuff. Um Does that does that make sense? Like how this is really a more of a worldview thing than than a question of anyone's individual preference or behavior? Yeah, and and on that point, part D here, right? The claims these claims that we've got that are being made here about identity. Right, about um sexual orientation and gender identity. These are not just personal claims like like, oh, I have a gender identity but but You may not. No, they're they're universal claims. The claim is that every single human being has a sexual orientation and a gender identity. Um most people are going to have a heterosexual orientation under this this rubric and a a what's called a cis gender identity, you know, where they're where their internal sense of being a man or a woman matches up with their body. Um but the claim is that everyone has these things and What we should ask is how do you know that? Right? How do you know that everyone has a sexual orientation that's normative? Right. How do you know that everyone has a gender identity that can be or or maybe is or maybe isn't different from their biological sex? How do you know? And I I don't think that they can give an answer to that. Right? That's Their answer is basically, well, some people know it because they feel it. Other people are blind to it because they don't feel it. Well, how do you know that that the people who feel that way are not just deceived and confused about their sexuality or their gender? Um But I think it's not recognized often that these are these are not just personal claims. They're universal claims that every human being is structured this way. that that every human being is supposedly has um a sexual orientation and a gender identity. Um And this this it gets down to a key difference between the worldviews here, right? And we I think we mentioned these terms four weeks ago, but um They're they're probably new words for you, they certainly were for me when I read about them. Uh there's what's called poiesis. and mimesis. So uh if you look down here at D dot I dot one, poiesis Yeah that's each that that's the idea that each individual is the source of their own normative identity. Identity comes from your mind, from your psychology. Um identity is fundamentally a psychological category, not a not a biological or objective category. That's that's poisis Uh and so that's what our society largely believes right now. Um in contrast to that there's mimesis. Uh think of like mimicry, mimicking something. So mimesis is where um shared categories of of identity for all humanity come from outside of us. They come from either God's design or maybe from nature. possibly from from tradition or culture. Uh but the the key is that our identity is coming from outside of ourselves and we um try to conform ourselves to some external pattern or design. That's what that's why it's mimesis. We're mimicking that external pattern or design. And that's um that's the kind of thing we believe uh based on the Bible is that, you know, God designed us to be a certain way. He created us male and female. He created uh sex to to be um enjoyed within marriage and so we have to conform our desires to that design and our identity comes from outside of us, not from inside of us. So, and you know these this question of are we uh are we poietic or are we mimetic, uh that's not really a question that you can answer um with like science or any sort of secular source of knowledge. Right? If you um you know going back to if you if you went up to somebody and asked how do you know? How do you know that uh that there is a thing called sexual orientation or gender identity. Um they can't point to they can't really point to a scientific experiment that establishes that. Those are Those are what's called metaphysical categories. You know, they're invisible. They're they're supposed to be something uh that you can't see uh or touch at that are at the heart of human nature. And so this is a metaphysical claim and it's on the level of a religious doctrine. Right? So so this these these teachings about uh like LGBTQ plus identity, these are actually religious doctrines. And they're very similar to An ancient religion called Gnosticism. Who's heard of Gnosticism? Maybe in a Bible class somewhere. Yeah, of course you heard you've heard of it. Y do you know anything about Gnosticism or Okay, yeah. Well so Gnosticism it was it was a heresy that came up uh in the early Christian church. And I mean, like formally it wasn't around until I don't know, the the probably the two hundreds AD. But even in the New Testament, even in Paul's letters, you can see elements of Gnosticism creeping up into the church, and Paul has to like uh stamp them out in his letters. And Like the main uh the main thing about Gnosticism, there's there's like two or three core tenets of Gnosticism. Uh one core tenet is that there's this hard division between the physical world, including the human body, and the spiritual world, uh, including the human soul So Gnosti you know, Christianity biblical Christianity sees us as a unity, right? Uh the body and the soul, God knits them together. He doesn't make like a separate body and a separate soul and then kind of like mix and match them and uh smash them together. He makes a body and a soul together and the person is an organic unity of the physical and the spiritual Gnosticism says no, the body is evil. The body is a prison. Uh the spirit is good, and so we've got this good spirit that God made trapped in this evil body that is just gonna sin and do whatever it wants. So um the two the two Gnostic expressions of this of this idea are uh crazy opposite, but but they both kind of derive from from the same principle. Uh on the one hand a lot of Gnostics were um just totally uh licentious in the way that they lived. They they just did whatever they wanted. You know, they indulged in all kinds of sexual immorality, they were gluttons, they did whatever because Oh, that's just the evil body being evil and the body you can't help it, right? Like it's just e it's irredeemably evil, so let the body do whatever it wants and it it's not going to taint your spirit at all That's so some Gnostics were like that. Other Gnostics swung totally to the opposite side and were what's called ascetics. where uh aesthetics generally they they like discipline their bodies and they deny themselves uh like the ability to eat certain foods and they deny Um they deny themselves uh marriage and things like that. And so other Gnostics went that way and said, uh, because the body's evil, we're not gonna in engage in any sort of physical activity with the world beyond what's absolutely necessary to survive. So we're not gonna eat any any foods um that taste good and we're not gonna get married. Um And so Paul had to combat both of these things uh under the same that stemmed from that same source of Gnosticism. But you can kind of see where the Gnosticism comes in uh today with with queer theory, right? Um because if that Gnostic idea of that that hard, that stark division between body and spirit Um that's really what's at the heart of of transgenderism, right, is that my body uh is wrong. My body is a certain way, but that's not who I am. Uh who I am is my spirit and it's male. My body might be female, but my spirit is male and the body's wrong and my spirit crumbs my body. Does that kind of make sense Um so it's kind of that Gnostic idea coming back uh two thousand years later. Another big thing about Gnosticism was um The key to overcoming the evil body in Gnosticism was was um secret revelation, secret knowledge. You were supposed to, in your spirit enter into communion with God or enter into like some mystical state and he would give you revelation that uh was like just for you and and was secret knowledge that would help you overcome the limitations of your body. And so you kinda see that at work here too. That's I would argue what sexual orientation and gender identity are. Um by definition, they're not external characteristics, physical characteristics of your body. They're secret knowledge that each person only has access to for themselves. Right? How do you know that you're gay? Well you have to you have to perceive that and discover that about yourself. How do you know that you're a a trans man you have to perceive that and discover that by looking inside yourself. So it's that secret knowledge coming back um of Gnosticism. So I yeah, I think we ha I think we really have to realize this is a religion that's going on in our culture. Even though it's presented as as like very secular and kind of settled, even with a scientific backing You know, people will claim that that um science has shown that uh that homosexuality is um is natural and normal or that uh gender is non-binary. Um people will make these claims, they're ridiculous claims, and we'll hopefully deal with that uh in a in a coming lesson. But um really it's not a scientific philosophy, it's a religion. It's it's the old Gnosticism coming back to haunt us. Uh And then if you turn over the page here to Part E, um, you know, it's not it's not new at all. Right. So not only are the roots back in back two thousand years ago in Gnosticism. You can actually trace this, the development of of these ideas that lead to LGBTQ plus issues um for the past like three hundred years. Uh starting in the Enlightenment, um which is around the seventeen hundreds when uh essentially humanity started to become so confident in its own knowledge and in its own um ability, particularly through the scientific revolution, that it sort of declared war on Christianity and the Bible and said, well, okay, we're not going to accept what the Bible says anymore. We're just going to tear all that down and build up our picture of the world uh on a scientific foundation. Um and so out of the Enlightenment came these ideas uh like the idea that everything, including humanity and human beings, are the product of blind natural processes with no special purpose or design. the Enlightenment really sought to remove purpose from nature. Um you know, prior to the seventeen hundreds uh intellectuals, even scientists would look at nature and they would look at like an animal and they would see design there. They would see purpose, you know, like a bird was made to inhabit the sky. A bird was was made with wings for the purpose of flying. Um you know, or or human beings were were made with an intellect for the purpose of ruling over the earth. Um and and this is in accord with with what scripture says. But then after the seventeen hundreds, people began looking at um things in the world like birds and people and rocks as just stuff, you know, just purposeless stuff. It's all just um substance being transformed by mechanisms. That's the that's the sort of reductionist view that the Enlightenment brought about. Um and it really changed everything. You know, it it it doesn't sound like much, but If you go from seeing purpose in everything to seeing purpose in nothing, it changes the way you think about stuff. And it changes the way that you approach technology and the use of technology. You know, we have the technology now to change our bodies, right? To change a someone's body from male to female, or vice versa. Um 400 years ago, they would have looked at that technology and said, even if you can, that doesn't mean you should, because there's a purpose here to w the way God made it. Uh these days we say, well, if we can, then why shouldn't we Because nothing has a purpose, see. It's just malleable stuff. And that's that came from the Enlightenment Um yeah, technology, that's the second point there. Um Romanticism, another philosophy that that was sort of in the eighteen hundreds. Um People started to redefine this concept of happiness. I don't know if you guys knew this, but um for for thousands of years Happiness, like the the idea of what is the good life, what is living the good life. It was based on being righteous, being virtuous. Like even the ancient Greeks who knew nothing about the Bible b ha believed this about happiness. That to be happy you had to be virtuous. You had to you had to live um a righteous life. Uh you know, you had to you had to walk the line between um excess excesses and vices on either side and and live the golden mean, they called it. Um It's only in the last two hundred years or so that people have started um assuming that happiness is a psychological state. Now we we talk about like, oh did you have fun this weekend? You know, uh or are you doing anything fun this summer? I'm guilty of this too, I'd say this too. But like for us it's all about fun. You know, that's how we judge our lives. Have you did you have a good weekend or did you have a good summer is judged by how fun was it? What what sense of pleasurable satisfaction did it give you? But it that's not uh the way that anyone judged the good life until about two hundred years ago. They would have judged the good life as uh as Like, did you do well? Did you live well? Did you did you live a virtuous life or did you do the right thing in that situation? So um this is really what romanticism did, is it made happiness, it took happiness from being an objective quality about how you live to a subjective quality about your psychology. It psychologized uh the good life. And that's um that really feeds into today. You know, it's that we all um you know our world says In order to to live the good life, in order to be happy, you need to live authentically, right? You need to be be an authentic self. And that's really a psychological category that that follows this um uh this idea of romanticism And what goes along with that is that anything that keeps you from being an authentic self, anything that that forces you to do something that doesn't give you pleasure or satisfaction is oppressive to you That's that's another romantic ideal is that uh mo things like moral codes, especially sexual codes, are oppressive because they inhibit you from being your authentic self Um so yeah, I think uh there's a lot here that we're not gonna get to go into, but but just realizing how our attitudes towards happiness and towards um towards external morality have changed in the last two or three hundred years, uh, goes a long way to explaining where we are today. Right? And and why it's so hard to live as a Christian, because it's a hard sell now. Um that You know, we we have to we have to be transformed by the renewing of our minds and we have to really believe something that our culture is telling us is false, which is that our happiness is found in conforming our lives to God's pattern, not in seeking our own pleasure. Right, but that's what Jesus said. He said, um, whoever wants to save his life must what? lose it for my sake, right? And whoever whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. So Jesus is you know this this teaching was was there in Jesus' words two thousand years ago He flipped he flipped things on their head even back then. Um you know, we so But in our age, we especially have to face a world that's saying, no, seek your own happiness, seek your own pleasure, live an authentic life and and don't do what anyone tells you to do. And we have to listen to Jesus and and to the Bible and say, no, actually real joy and real fulfillment is found in uh in submitting to the Lord, in subordinating our desires to the will of the Lord. That's hard to do. Romanticism made it that much harder. Uh then there's existentialism, which was in the nineteen hundreds. And um the main thrust of existentialism is that we are we don't have an inherent nature. Human nature is not like a constant thing for all people. Rather we're blank slates. Each each of us is a blank slate on which we construct or write our own identity. Um and nothing outside of us can give us the meaning that we crave. We have to make it for ourselves. So that that's uh that's a philosophy called existentialism. It was very influential um in in the mid twentieth century. Um and now, you know, not many people have heard of or are familiar with existentialist writings, but that idea is still around in our culture, right? That we have to you have to you have to make yourself who you are. You're the hero of your own story, you know? That's the That's the idea today. That's an existentialist idea. Um And then in the late 20th century there was the sexual revolution in the late 1960s, early seventies Um, which was really, you know, the the application and the outworking of all the things that came before it. And the main thing in the sexual revolution was that um Sex is a is a recreational activity with no moral dimension to it. Um maybe that's even too mild of a way to put it. Um He the sexual revolution really was sex is fundamental to who you are and doing what you want in the in the area of sex is your right uh to be and it's the way you become an authentic person. Uh that that was really the the doctrine of the sexual revolution. And and that really lives on today Um and so anything that gets in the way of that, anything that gets in the way of human sexual expression, uh whether it's moral codes, whether it's God's design in biology, that needs to go. And we need to eradicate those those things with technology. Um so Uh contraception can be used that way. Not all I mean, using contraception is not inherently wrong, but some people use it as a way to separate sex from the natural consequences of of bearing children. That's wrong. Uh people want to separate sex from marriage, uh and and so uh no fault divorce was a thing that that came around in the eighties. In the nineteen eighties, um a bunch of laws uh passed the the the legal framework in the United States changed from before that. You couldn't really get a divorce unless there was some compelling reason to do it, right? Unless one of the the husband or the wife committed adultery or there was um some domestic violence happening. You know, those those were the only cases where you could get a divorce. But then in the eighties, um, the courts changed and the laws changed so that people could essentially get divorced for any reason as long as one party wanted to get a divorce, it was uh there was no legal barrier to that. And that was called no fault divorce. Um and so that was uh that reflected this this idea that um you know sexual freedom is necessary for humanity to for humans to achieve uh happiness. And so we need to get rid of anything that stands in the way of sexual freedom, including marriage. Um so we're gonna dissolve marriages and make make it much easier to to get a divorce, um, to enable sexual freedom like that. Uh and then these days, you know, separating sex from gender, that's something that our technology has enabled us to do. Um and that's part of part of the sexual revolution too. And I would also ar argue that abortion is part of the sexual revolution because it's um it's in the same vein as contraception, you know, separating using using a medical procedure to separate sex as a as an inherent right from its natural consequences of bearing children. Um So that's a sexual revolution. And then finally we got uh postmodernism and critical theory or or social justice ideology, which we uh talked about a year ago in the fall. And that's this this world view that basically sees everything in society as um as an adversarial relationship between groups of oppressors and groups of oppressed people. And um so And it also sees uh truth claims like um like the Bible and and and bib the biblical worldview as tools of oppression for enforcing that status quo where there's that oppressor group and the oppressed group. And So um critical theory is going to say that uh morality, you know, we should reject those those moral codes that are about how I have a responsibility to the community in favor of um this sort of individualistic and and victim based morality which says the community has a responsibility to recognize my identity and affirm me. And any kind of disagreement that anyone expresses against me and against my identity is actually a form of violence against me. uh because they're trying to oppress me. They're trying to reinforce that status quo. So that's that's kind of where we are now. That uh Uh critical theory was is a discipline that grew up in about the last hundred years, uh from about nineteen thirty onwards. And Um it's it is the the sort of overarching umbrella behind queer theory. Right. Queer theory is a subset of critical theory. Okay, so that was a lot. That was three hundred years of intellectual history in in ten minutes. So uh any any questions or comments based on that? I know this is kind of way way out there. You know, this is this is way way up there in in kind of the um the stratosphere of ideas, but these are really important uh to realize that um you know it's not just it's not just that like LGBTQ issues suddenly became uh important and and people suddenly started inventing these identities in the last ten years. That's not what happened. You know, these these developments have been thousands and hundreds of years in the making Uh even even Scripture anticipates them, like in Romans one, here we got a point F here Romans one, Paul highlights many of these of these same consequences of rejecting God. This is not a new thing. So if you look at Romans 1 verse 21, it says, For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their reasonings, and their senseless hearts were darkened So you've got a cause and effect here in this verse. You have the cause, the behavior, is people refusing to acknowledge God for who he is. And then what's the effect of that according to this verse? Yeah, hearts becoming darkened and becoming futile in reasoning. Right? So That that is fascinating to me because it's not necessarily what you would expect. Um you might expect the other way around, right? You might expect like somebody to be wrong or to be darkened in their understanding and that would cause them to reject God But in God's eyes it's actually the reverse. Somebody who who refuses to acknowledge and honor God He says, well, okay, I'm going to take away the light that I've given you in in general revelation, and you're not going to be able to understand things anymore, like male and female. Or verses twenty-four and twenty-five. Therefore God gave them up to vile impurity in the lust of their hearts, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them For they exchanged the truth of God for falsehood, and worship and serve the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. So again, we've got this this cause, which is idolatry, right, worshiping and serving the creature rather than the creator And then the effect, the consequence of that is therefore God gave them up to vile impurity in the lust of their flesh, so that their bodies would be dishonored. Um So, you know, we've we've got consequences of the rejection of God, intellectual blindness, um bodily dishonor. And then uh look down at at point three, verses twenty-eight and thirty-two. And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper. They o they not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice them. So this is again talking about sort of the intellectual blindness, but I think it adds a new element of of approving, right? They not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice them. Who's heard of allyship and being an ally? Is that is that something that uh like a term you guys have heard in I don't know in either in your workplaces or in in school? No? Not really Oh that that's surprising to me. I uh for me it's like all over the place now, uh like in my workplace. Yeah, everyone everyone's supposed to be an ally. Um and what that means is uh even if you are a a straight person uh who is cisgender, who doesn't you know have a a gender identity different from your biological sex, you're supposed to be an ally of those who are gay or trans in the sense that you validate their identity and you affirm who they are and you uh go out of your way to uh to make safe space for them to live as authentic people, right? That's what that's what allies are supposed to do. And um that's like the main moral obligation that um the world is trying to put on us right now is to be allies. Um and often you'll find or often I find that The people who are most outspoken in support of um queer theory and and LGBTQ issues are not like gay and trans people themselves, uh or people who identify as as gay and trans, I should say. They're the allies. Right? People who identify as um as straight or or cisgendered, um speaking very stridently and and aggressively in support of these ideologies And I think you can see that here in Romans 1, right? They they not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice them. It's it's that giving of hearty approval to those who practice these forms of of blindness and and bodily dishonor, uh that that I think is in some ways most surprising uh to me today Um so yeah, you've got causes and effects, right? The causes here are refusing to honor God, exchanging God's truth for falsehood, worshiping creatures rather than the Creator. And then God um brings about effects or punishments on those on those actions and those effects include like intellectual and moral blindness, the inability to to perceive truths that are fundamental to who we are, uh like male and female or or marriage and sex. Um enslavement to lusts, dishonoring of bodies, and craving for approval from others Um so you know we shouldn't I think I think this should be encouraging to us in the sense that uh what's happening now is not something Well, I mean it's tempting to look at at what's going on in society and say like wow the world is crazy. Like what's going what is going on? There's it's never been like this and Um this is like it's never been this bad. Um but we can look back at uh a letter like Romans and see that Paul, you know, through the Holy Spirit knew that this is how humanity operates. It's not beyond what God has anticipated and and ordained through the course of history. Um so we're not we're not living in uh in ch in territory that God has not uh has not charted, if that makes sense. Alright, so that's you know, that was like way up in the in the theoretical realm Let's let's bring it down and apply it a little bit before before we uh before we close today. So move on to go on to page three, bullet point three, major bullet point three, uh called Recognizing Propaganda. And you guys know what propaganda is, right? It's um how would you describe propaganda? So is propaganda like a well thought out essay? that is published in an academic journal. Does that does that sound like propaganda? No. Well what's different about propaganda? Yeah, it's short and to the point. It's usually it's usually like images, right? It's powerful, emotionally powerful. Is there usually a lot of logic or argumentation? in propaganda? They want you to have like they want you to bring that side of the season picture and say. Yeah. Yeah exactly. So they they don't they don't really want to engage your intellect. Propaganda doesn't want to engage your intellect. Propaganda wants to uh hook your emotions, right? Hook your your fear or um your anger. with uh usually like a powerful image or or a powerful story or something and make you believe something without really coming to a logical conclusion about it Right? So I mean think of I don't know, like Nazi propaganda. Nazi propaganda wanted to convince all of German society that the Jewish people were evil Not not really by arguing that, not not by like showing evidence or anything, but but by um you know just showing these these powerful and dark images of Jewish people doing bad things. And and that was that was r you know, like the convincing the German people that this group this this group of Jewish people are the threat to our society and we need to deal with them. Like that was what propaganda uh was for. And I think the key thing about propaganda is that it does an end run around your reason. It's not aimed at your mind, it's aimed at your mm emotions. Uh and I think this is you know I think propaganda is the right word to apply to much of the art and entertainment that we that we see these days. Um because you rarely ever see an actual reasoned argument for queer theory or for the LGBTQ plus position. You know, y uh like I don't think that I've ever seen somebody uh write out an essay on, you know, this this is the evidence for why I believe that everyone has a sexual orientation that can be either uh gay or straight or bi or whatever. Um I've never seen anyone lay out a case like that. I've only ever seen movies and um and plays and books and stuff that present um characters who identify as gay in a sympathetic light. Right? Like they're um I'm trying to think of uh So this this is persuasion, right, coming through art and entertainment where um feeling dominates over thinking. And so there's really two there's two kinds of um two kinds of techniques that are used in in this sort of propagandizing art and entertainment. There's characters out there that are that sort of try to tear down uh the biblical worldview and the and traditional worldviews. So like these these would be characters that present biblical or traditional attitudes and beliefs as ridiculous. And, you know, if we spent a little time we could probably come up with with characters like this from movies. Um but you know they're almost they're almost like stereotypes, right? It's the there's there's like the closed minded bully um who uh you know, just wants to pick on uh pick on the the gay kid. Uh or there's there's like the um what I've written here, the repressed prude who who drags everyone into her own min misery. Um I don't know have you had any of you guys seen the office? um, you know, Angela from the office, right? She's like the only Christian on the show. And and she's this repressed crude, right? Who's who's always uh like mad at everybody and always um judging everybody and you know so so she's the only Christian on there. Like I think that's pretty clear that that they're they're trying to propagandize, right? They're trying to say, um, this is what you become if you believe uh traditional Christian doctrines. You become an Angela who who judges everybody and who is miserable. Yeah. Uh wow, the office is from my time. I'm surprised you guys see it. Hm. I mean, can you guys think of any more recent examples? I'm not very up on pop culture 'cause like I have, you know a ten, an eight, and a four year old, so we're watching kids' movies all the time. Um can you guys think of any any characters like this in uh in popular movies or or T V shows that That sort of like propagandistically tear down um Christian stereotypes Not to put you on the spot, very thing. One of one of the tropes that I think I've seen is that like Um, you know, there's somebody who's like really a traditionalist and they hold to traditional morality. Maybe it's the maybe it's a parent of a child who's coming out or something. And um in the beginning of the movie, they're like really opposed to this and and they're really hostile to it. But throughout as the movie progresses they their heart softens and they have a change of heart and they um love wins, you know, their their love wins out over their over their intolerance and they they change their mind and they become a supporter and and and and they accept their their gay son or or whatever it is. You know, I'm I I'm at a loss to think of of an actual character in a movie, but like uh I was listening to NPR the other day and they were interviewing um a woman on NPR who essentially was this person, right? She um in the in the eighties or some a few decades ago, uh she had a son who uh came out as gay and she was like, No, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna support this. Um And, you know, this is just wrong. I I can't I can't support this. And she but then she described her own journey as she met with um other parents of of children who identify as gay and she was like, ah, they were I I hated myself because I saw all these parents being supportive and it meant that I was a bad mom and so like I changed my mind and now I'm now I'm the lead leader of the local chapter of of this thing called P Flag, which is like a parent support organization for um for gay kids. And so she you know, that was the narrative right there. She was the the hostile traditionalist and then um but you know she came around in the end. Love love wins. That that kind of thing. So that's that's propaganda, right? N the story didn't go through she didn't give any logical reason for why she changed her mind. She didn't say like, oh, I was convinced by the scientific evidence that my son had a sexual orientation from birth that was that was normal and natural. She didn't say any of that. Um She just talked about the emotional side of her of her journey. Um so that's why I think it's you know it's propaganda, right? It's not it's not logical argumentation, it's not uh It's not two worldviews just hashing it out on their merits. It's it's the emotional hooks that are that are digging into people and just dragging them along Can you think of any any examples yet? I guess maybe that could be homework. Yeah. I guess in the um as you watch movies or TV over this next week, uh be on the lookout for these kind of these kind of tropes, these kind of characters that that either sort of assassinate um Christian values. Or on the other hand we got protagonists who glorify authentic living and the authentic self. I think these are a little bit easier to see. There's like pretty much every Disney movie of the last twenty years has had number one, the brave heroine who defies convention to achieve her dream, right? That's um That's essentially building this powerful emotional admiration for defiance of authority and tradition and convention. Right. Which, yeah, authority and tradition and convention, they're not always right. You know, we shouldn't conflate authority and tradition with scripture Scripture is infallible. Scripture is the inspired word of God. But um you know when when the culture, when art and entertainment is is getting us to think in these categories like, oh, tradition and authority, they're always stifling and they're always wrong. And the Bible is a is an authoritative tradition, so it must always be wrong and stifling too. You know, that's when it starts to get into the propaganda territory, right? It's not like an intellectual argument that um the Bible is wrong or that the Bible is uh not the word of God. It's just an emotional argument that it's authoritarian and therefore oppressive. Right. Or there's uh you know, I think I think I brought this up last fall when we were um studying critical theory, but have you guys seen the new the new Mulan, like the live action version of Mulan? That one was fascinating because it was like almost overtly um like authentic self, hidden identity, Gnosticism stuff, right? Do you guys remember the like the whole thing was um Mulan, she's a woman uh in a world where like only men have have qi, right the the martial arts power. Um but she has qi And so she dresses up as a boy and goes to fight. And uh like the the the witch lady who turns into a hawk, right, she do you remember the battle between her and Mulan a at the at the hot springs? And she's like, you have to you have to acknowledge who you are. You have to essentially you have to come out, right? You have to live authentically. You have to live in the open and embrace your identity And only then can your true power be unleashed. Like, it that that's just I think I thought it was I mean obviously it's it's a deceptive and it's it's in service of a of a an enslaving worldview, but I thought it was pretty well done propaganda You know what I mean? Like I can't really imagine creating a more compelling scene to advance that narrative of embracing your hidden identity is the way to unlock your power Right. That's that's what the world wants us to believe. And it's like putting it in movies and TV shows is way more effective than actually arguing it in an essay So yeah, so be on the lookout for this stuff uh over the next week. And maybe you know see if you recognize any any examples and and um bring them back to class because I would love to talk about these uh some more. And so how do we respond to this stuff? Well, one thing that I do with my kids, like when we watch uh movies, we have Friday night family movie nights, is Um, you know, if we're going along watching a movie and we come to one of these scenes of propaganda that are trying to like subtly inject or not so subtly inject this these ideas. I'll pause the movie and I'll say, can anybody spot the lie And you know, my kids now they've like roll their eyes and like, uh, yeah, he's not supposed to do that or whatever, you know. And so maybe maybe we've done it a little too much, but that's something you can do, you know, is like don't just let these messages pass by un um unacknowledged or undiscussed. Right? If you're watching a movie with some friends, like actually pause the movie and say, wow, do you guys see that? You know, w what did you think about that? That might be hard to do, I know. But or maybe maybe you could you could wait till the movie's done if you don't want to pause the movie in in mid mid-scene. But but like Yeah, after the movie's done, say to your friends like, guys, did you did you see what was going on there? Um what it you know, what did you think about that scene Um and then it's not so it's not just that though, but like we have we have to be really, I think, diligent and creative to seek out art and entertainment and stories that are actually true and good and beautiful Um because, you know, like if we if all we do is just watch what the world produces, um even if we're aware of what it's trying to say to us, if it if we just allow the world to repeat itself to us uh enough times, we'll just start to believe it, you know? Like we'll start to internalize the world's standards of beauty and truth and um and goodness. And so we actually need to fill our minds with good examples. Like you might say good propaganda. Although I would say But the difference though there is that we should be engaging our minds in the truth, right? Like pro if propaganda is designed to cut out the mind We should be, as Christians, putting the mind, putting the intellect back into arts and entertainment. Um we should we should seek art and entertainment that affirms emo emotionally what we know and have convinced ourselves is true and good in our minds. and trying to f figure out uh think of examples of this. So with my kids, I mean this isn't going to be helpful for you guys unless you like reading uh fantasy literature, but uh for my kids we've we've been read there's actually a lot of really good um Christian fantasy novels out there. Uh one one such series is called the Wing Feather Saga. Um And it's a really well written series. It's like on par with Narnia. Uh Narnia's another one. And so we Uh we actually read it's a four book series. We sat down and read these books to my two sons at bedtime. Started during COVID and it was actually like a really good family activity. But it's full of stories that are not it's not like just straight up copies of Bible stories. It's it's new stories and new situations that illustrate um good and moral behavior and uh virtues that that I want my sons to develop and those kind of things. It's just like fodder for their imaginations to help them imagine what it's like to live as a Christian man You know, who honors God. And and these are the kind of things we need to seek out. Um I mean, arguably like the Lord of the Lord of the Rings uh is like this too. That Tolkien wrote Lord of the Rings for this reason, in order to provide um fodder for the imagination uh to be he he he called it the baptism of the imagination, right? To take to take your mind and and your imagination and baptize it into the truths of Christian virtue and goodness Um so yeah, seek out those kind of things, right? Um anybody know any any good ones, by the way? Like either uh books or movies or shows like good, really compelling Christian art. Used to be that virtually all art was good you know, w full of the biblical worldview, right? Like in the in the Middle Ages, you all the all the cathedrals, all of the stained glass windows were um were designed to do this, right? Designed to spark people's imaginations and and move them towards uh Towards godliness, towards imagining virtue. But nowadays it's it's very rare. Anything else? Any other uh questions? And I think with that, well let me close those in prayer