Uh okay, so this is gonna be like our last unit in the overarching biblical manhood and womanhood series. Uh so I'm hoping we can finish this up in August and um you know then when the new quarter starts in September we'll go on to something else that I haven't decided on yet. But um yeah there's a reason I put this one last. Uh and It's because um, you know, this can be seen like queer theory and LGBTQ plus issues can be seen as uh something outside the church And um there's always a danger when we as Christians are sort of critiquing the culture um that we come to see ourselves as uh as the Pharisees saw themselves, right? As we are the righteous ones because we follow these rules, um But I wanted to go through God's design for manhood and womanhood and marriage and sex and talk through how we as a church often don't live up to God's design ourselves in these areas. Um just to remind ourselves that You know, that we're sinners in need need of God's grace. Um just like the uh the community that we're gonna be talking about. today. So that's why I saved this one for last. Um and I think before we launch into it, um We need to just take a brief minute to remember what is true and and summarize sort of what we've learned in uh the previous units in this in this whole series. Um and That is basically four things here in in number one. Um God created us and we're accountable to him. Right? That's that's sort of the basic fact of Christianity is that God made everything and he made us and so we're not our own. But we belong, body and soul, to our Maker. Um and we're we have to live, we're accountable to Him to live according to how He made us. And that's a very important point that actually the worldview behind queer theory denies. And that's that's sort of the basic point of divergence. So it's good to remember that. I'm not going to be giving justifications for these for these truths because I'm uh they're in the previous outline, so you can go back if you missed a lesson or something and read the outline. Um but yeah, God created us and we're accountable to Him. And part of that creation is that He created us male and female. Um and not anything in between, really. Um and he created marriage as a lifelong covenant, remember, uh it's it's a covenant, it is a firm commitment or or promise made between two parties uh on pain of death. And so God created us a marriage as that lifelong covenant between one man and one woman And he created sex as the seal of the covenant. Remember we talked about how every covenant that God makes with us has a seal, some act that happens over and over again that reminds the t the the parties of the covenant. Um like the covenant the new covenant that Jesus made with us in his blood has the ongoing seal of the Lord's Supper. You know, the the bread and the wine or the bread and the grape juice that we take every month to remind us of the covenant that he made with us. And so, just like the new covenant, marriage, uh the covenant of marriage has a seal, and that is sex, and that's what God designed it to be. It's the seal of the marriage covenant and the means of producing um the fruit of children from the marriage covenant. Okay, so those are like the foundational truths of the worldview that we need to remember going into analyzing the claims of the LGBTQ plus community. And does does everybody know what Lgb T Q plus stands for? Um I think it's queer. The Q. Or So well back when Queer Now, yeah. It used to be questioning, I think. Back when I was in high school it was G L B T Q Q I A Um they rearranged the letters. But there were two cues. One was for questioning and one was for queer, and then I forget what the I was, but I think A was asexual um anyway Uh yeah, it's it's not really necessary to to know that, but uh I think one of the points there is that the terminology just keeps changing. So that's that can be one of the difficulties in And even talking about these issues is that the terms are always changing. Um so but I'm just choosing to sort of use the the currently popular label LGBTQ plus. Um but you know we should understand that to encompass any of these sort of claims about identity that that is more of an inward sense than an external characteristic. So before launching into that, I wanted to actually um do an exercise on the board here about identity. Okay, so we can think about identity in a couple of different ways. I mean this is not going to be an exhaustive description, but these are some useful categories to think about. are attributes. There are immutable attributes and mutable attributes. Everybody know what I mean by immutable and mutable? No? So immutable means unchangeable, right? It's something that you that you really can't change, that's fixed, that's that's uh set in y in your nature. Mutable is the opposite, it's something you can change. Um And then the other axis that we're going to look at these things on is normative versus non-normative. And so who knows what oh man, this is running out. Who knows what normative means? If some Hey, how's it going? Uh if something's normative, what does that mean? Sorry? Normal? It it sort of sounds related to normal. Yeah, and it's kind of related to that idea, but it's not normal is like a descriptive term. Like Like you look at a set of things and you know the normal thing is kind of the average thing in in the set. But normative has a more prescriptive um character, right? Normative if a quality or an attribute is normative it has implications for how you should live. It's different from right and wrong. Normative doesn't just mean right. It means it just means that there's a thing uh that has implications for how you should live. So an example of this would be like um our humanity Being made in the image of God. Like that that is something that we can't change, right? We cannot change our species, the fact that we are humans and made in the image of God. And it's also normative, right? Being made in the image of God carries with it certain responsibilities that we have to conform to. Um because we're made in the image of God, we are responsible to to him. You know, we're s responsible to worship him, um, and serve him and and recognize him for who he is Can anybody else think of a an attribute that is in this box, immutable and normative? Something you can't change that carries implications for how you should live Yeah, your gender. In the sense of like your your biological biological sex that you're born with, right? So th this is of course the biblical view of gender. Um this would not be what queer theory says about gender. But yes, we believe that gender um, which is a synonym for biological sex, is immutable, something you can't change, and it's normative. It carries implications for how we live, right? Like what kinds of implications Yeah, yeah, how you exactly. How you present yourself, how you interact with people, um you know, what what kinds of uh situations you you put yourself in or um that kind of thing. And you know it's it would be too much to describe all of these, but like this was basically um the last several lessons that we that we Just uh spent going over. Um anything else you can think of in this category here? Immutable and normative. There's not very many things here, but what about um something that we as Christians share that unbelievers don't have Yeah, the Holy Spirit. Um the Holy Spirit is not exactly an attribute of us, but yeah, related to that. What it what would you say is an attribute of us as as Christians that's immutable and normative? Salvation. Yeah, salvation, right? We are a new creation in Christ. So um I would I'll write both of those down, right? So the cause they're related. Salvation. Our salvation, the fact that we are justified, the fact that we have been regenerated in our souls, that that we're a new creation in Christ. That Is first of all immutable, right? That can't change. Nobody can snatch us out of the Father's hand, uh, or out of Christ's hand So it's immutable now that now that we're in. It's also normative. How is it normative? Right? Does does the fact that you're saved, that you're a new creation in Christ, change how you live? Or should it? Yes, absolutely. In in like every way, right? Yeah, I mean Paul Paul talks about this in Ephesians. Um You know uh actually let's turn there. Ephesians two Ephesians 2, verse 1, he says, And you were dead in your trespasses and sins. before you were saved, in which you formerly walked, according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience Among them we too also we too all formerly lived in the lusts of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. So that's what we were. But God, being rich in mercy, and because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ By grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. So, um, this is what we once were. We were dead in our sins. He raised us up. uh made us alive together with him and now everything about our life, you know, every every moral obligation we have is in light of that fact. So this is like this is like the ultimate normative status. Um very important in this category. Uh To this box I might also add um marriage or to make it to make it a a status, uh husband or wife. Right, so if you are it's not like we all start out married, but you know in the same way we don't all start saved. Once you are saved, or once you are married, it is supposed to be immutable. Right. That that is supposed to be an im immutable characteristic of who you are until you're dead. Uh and then when you are ra when we're raised in the resurrection, we won't be married anymore, because Jesus said the the dead are neither uh married nor given in marriage. Um or at the the the resurrected uh after the resurrection they're neither married nor given in marriage However, for this life, our status as a husband and wife once we get married is immutable and it's normative, right? You have certain duties and responsibilities as a husband or a wife, um, you know, by virtue of taking on that status. Okay, so enough about that. What about the other boxes here? Can anyone suggest something that is mutable but still normative? Like an example of something about ourselves that can change, that's temporary, but that still carries moral responsibilities with it Our behavior. Um unpack that a little bit. So I think you have that one that does this one that has to do with um Yeah. Um something that is But it is also beautiful because people can change still sort of hold out. Yeah. I I see what you're saying. I'm um so behavior is sort of our response to normative things, right? Like it's it's our behavior is our response to the moral requirements levied on us by something that is normative. So I think you're on the right track. Um but I would uh point to like what What is the thing that gives us the moral requirements that to which we respond with our behavior? Um I think the thing the that I'm thinking of mostly in this category is something like a job Right. If you say you work at a company, um is that immutable or mutable as a as a fact about you? Mutable, yeah, because you could quit, right? You could quit in two weeks. Um is it normative? The fact that you're an employee of this company, does that carry with it responsibilities and moral obligations? Yeah, you have to show up to work on time. You have to do what your boss says. You have to work your hardest as unto the Lord, you know? So that's the kind of thing I'm looking for. So behavior is on the right track. Like your behavior at your job is your response to this normative but mutable fact about you. Does that does that make sense? Anything else that's that's mutable and normative? Can you think of anything else in this category? What's another You know, a job we show up to every day, nine to five, what's something else we do on a regular basis? Let's say every week. Go to church. Go to church? Yeah. What's that? Yeah, does that fit in this category? Church membership? Membership at a particular local church? Oh yeah, okay. Right, so membership in the universal church is this, right? We cannot change that. That's immutable. But the local church that we go to, that's mutable. We could move uh and and find another church. So Local church membership That that's mutable, but it's definitely normative. Right? The fact that that we join this church, Hope Bible Church, means we have specific moral obligations to the people of Hope Bible Church Right. We are supposed to look out for one another and speak truth to one another in love and admonish one another, bear one another's burdens. Um it's not a It's not a a clo a a status that's that's free of requirements. Um it has it has the the law of love written into it Um in this same category I would also put like your status as a parent or a child. Which it's a little bit um Yeah, it's it's I don't know, it's maybe like in the middle uh between immutable and mutable. But The reason I put it in this category is that even though like you can't unchild your child or unparent your parent, your relationship as a parent or a child is going to change dramatically over the course of your life and and the life of your parent or your child. Um so this is a relationship that changes a lot, but it's still normative. Right? If you're a child, you are still um You know, if you're a young child, you're required to obey your parents. If you're an adult child, you're not required to obey them anymore, but you're required to honor them still. That kind of thing. Alright, let's look at non-normative things. Give me something that's immutable, not changeable, but is non-normative. Something you can't change, but that doesn't actually carry any moral requirements or ethical responsibilities. Yeah. I will give the first example. Um your ethnicity. Alright, so you can't change the country or the culture that you were born into But we basically all have the same requirements whether you know, whether we come from the Middle East or from uh Europe or whatever, if we all are living together in the same church, it's not like one ethnicity has has particular commands they need to obey and another ethnicity has other commands that they need to obey. You know, it's not normative in that sense. Um but it's immutable. You're not going to change the fact that that you're European or African. Um what's another example There's a whole bunch of them in this category. And most of them have to do with physical characteristics. Alright, so I'm just gonna write physical characteristics down here and you know it would be a lot easier for us To think of elements in this category if we were doing this a hundred years ago or two hundred years ago. Because things like hair color, eye color, um height would be in this category. Today, of course, we have the technology to change a lot of these things We have the technology to change our hair color, not our natural hair color, but the the hair color that we present to the world. That's going to become a big theme in this outline as we go through it, is that technology is a thing that is moving stuff from this immutable half of the matrix over to the mutable half. That is a huge dynamic in our modern world that's been operative over the last 300 years, let's say. And It's upending this picture that we're drawing. So technology, while itself the you know, technology itself has a lot of good uses and it's not a bad thing inherently, it also allows us to you know, in some sense pretend that we are in the place of God by changing the immutable. Um but anyway, yeah, I would say physical characteristics at the level of what's your natural hair color, what's your natural eye color, what is your height. These things are immutable, but they don't really carry any ethical requirements for you You know, it's like it's not like you have a different code of ethics because you're a short person than than a tall person. Um all right, what about this last square here? Things that are mutable and not normative. Things about you, right? Characteristics of of you that can change, but that don't really carry moral responsibility. You can do this, I know. Well yeah, I mean so so technology has kind of like taken some of these over here. And that's not That's not a bad thing. You know, it's not like I'm not railing against dyeing your hair. Um Yeah. Well shoe, clothes. I don't know. Yeah, clothes, that could be a good one, right? Fashion. That's a good one that I didn't think of. Yeah, that's mutable, non-normative. Hmm. That that's in a broader category. I'm sorry, what Um yeah, yeah. Uh I'd say like your circumstances Um what about the stuff that goes on inside you? Your emotions. That's a huge one in this category, right? Your feelings. Your feelings change all the time, but they are not normative. So so this is the difference between normative and um what would you call it? moral, right? Having having moral value. Like your feelings certainly have moral value. You can have evil feelings and good feelings. But th those are a response that's either sinful or righteous to to a normative requirement, right? It's it's like It's like a cause and effect relationship, right? Um your feelings don't place obligations on you. Right. Our our culture says you have to follow your heart. Right, yeah. It's how you respond to your feelings. Um that that has the moral content. Right, you're you're okay, so what places the obligation on you? Not your feelings, but the law of God how you feel about God's law is a moral response, but it but the feeling themselves feelings themselves are not what put the obligation on you or what define um righteousness. So normative means it it helps define righteousness for you. Your feelings don't define righteousness. Your feelings can be righteous or not, but they don't define righteousness. Right, so normative, that that's a key distinction here. Normative means it defines righteousness, not that it is righteous or not. Um like yeah, like your status as a parent or a child. It defines what righteous conduct looks like for you. Um it's not like but it's not like being a parent or a child is in itself good or evil. Um okay, yeah, so feelings, like this is a huge one in our culture. Our culture says you have to follow your heart. Like it makes it it it takes feelings and it puts it up up here into the normative place. Um 'cause it says You know, you have you have these desires and these feelings and these these attractions in your heart and you have to follow your heart. You have to live authentically. That is your moral duty It makes feelings normative. But that's not a biblical view of feelings. Um the Bible says that the heart is deceitful above all else and desperately sick. Who can know it? You have to you have to train your heart and you have to master your feelings and bring them under submission to God's standard Yeah, you have to lead your heart, not follow your heart. Yeah, so that that's another that brings up another thing is like modernity Modernity If technology wants to make the immutable mutable, modernity wants to flip-flop the normative and the non-normative. And we're going to look at this a little more in detail later in uh later in this outline. But modernity By which I mean like all of our contemporary culture. It wants to take stuff like this and and say that all this immutable normative stuff is oppressive So we gotta we gotta take it out of here, make it non-normative anymore, and we gotta put take stuff from down here And bring it up here. Right? Our feelings, our attractions, our inward sense of self is now normative. Even though biblically it's non normative. um our our ethnicity, our so-called race, is the lens through which we should see society. That's that's sort of the uh the the the critical race theory perspective on things Um so race and ethnicity become normative in in the view of modernity. Um whereas biblically they are non-normative. Does this make sense? Kind of as a way every time. It's a tough thing. Yeah, it is a tough thing to get your head around. It's like Yeah, because we're used to thinking of things as right or wrong. Um and that's true about our choices and our responses. This is not really about our choices and our responses normative versus non-normative. This is about what what shapes our um our obligations You know, what determines the very boundaries between right and wrong for us. Yeah, and you say, the Bible does. Of course it does. But the Bible draws these lines differently for whether you're a husband or a wife, or whether you're a man or a woman, or whether you are a a human or an angel, you know whether you're a believer or an unbeliever. The only command that the Bible really gives to an unbeliever is repent and be saved. Yeah. The the commands that the Bible gives to a believer are love one another as I have loved you, and all these things in the New Testament, right? So so um Yeah, how can I how can I explain this? It's like a normative category is one that the Bible would say you have a different responsibility depending on what uh what this what this category is for you. And being one or the other is not a moral thing. It's not like right or wrong to be a man or a woman or or a husband or a wife. Being the category itself is not right or wrong, but it has implications for what is right and wrong for you. Uh this is super important. Yeah, that's why I'm spending so much time like explaining it in in different words. Super important because it gets to the heart of what of the worldview clash between um biblical Christianity and queer theory that underlies LGBTQ uh issues. Okay. Questions about this? Feel free to ask. uh about this as we go through the outline. We're we're gonna be referring back to it a lot. Okay. So with this in mind, um Let's go through and analyze the claims that we hear primarily from the LGBTQ plus community. So one of those claims is I am gay, or like I am a gay man. That would be a claim that that you would hear from some people. What does that really mean You know, it's it's common in Christian circles to hear that as I choose to be gay. You know, and this has been the debate between Christians and non-Christians for the last several decades. It's a choice. No, I'm born that way. No, it's a choice. No, I'm born that way. But I think we need to unpack the claim a little more than that to get to more nuance, to really understand what's going on at a worldview level. So I think that there are three aspects to that claim. I am a gay man. The first aspect is a feeling, an attraction, right? I am attracted to men. That would be one one part, one aspect of the claim. Um the second aspect would be a behavior. You know, I choose to have sex with men. That would be a second aspect of the claim that I'm gay. And, you know, so we have we have that feeling, then part one is sometimes called same sex attraction. Um and then part two would be called homosexual behavior or homosexual acts. Um and so the the debate is often com confined to these two things, right? It's That second one, homosexual acts, is clearly a choice. I mean no one would say I was born having sex with men. That that would just be ridiculous. Um So clearly there is an aspect of choice there, but others would focus on that feeling. I am attracted to men, same-sex attraction. And, you know, as Christians we say, well, okay, but that's not right. You know, it's not right to be attracted to men. That gets to this third aspect of the claim. The third aspect of the claim that I'm convinced that most Christians don't understand or perceive is this aspect of identity. When somebody comes to you and says, I'm a gay man, they're not just saying I'm attracted to men or that I choose to have sex with men. They're saying This is part of my identity. My attraction to men is a fundamental part of who I am that I cannot change. It's immutable and it's normative Right? So this is what this is what queer theory is doing and and the whole LGBTQ plus movement is it's saying, we're gonna put a new thing here We're going to invent a category called sexual orientation. And we're going to say that it is immutable and it carries implications for how we should live. Because look at the other aspects here. It's not just that my attraction to men as a gay man is fundamental is a fundamental part of my identity that I can't change. It's that acting on that attraction is vital to my well being. That is the claim. That if I don't act on that, I am dangerously repressing myself. Right? I am not a full human being if I'm not allowed to act on this attraction. And not only that, not only do I require the freedom to act on it, being recognized and accepted by society for my sexual orientation is vital to my well-being too. Right. I'm convinced that these are parts of the claim as well. That it's um it's not just about you know, my same-sex attraction being fundamental to who I am, I have to act on it. It's normative, and I have to be recognized for it. Um and I think I think this is not a caricature. This is not a straw man. I believe that Um people who identify as gay would agree with those statements based on what I've read and who I've talked to. So they we have a new category up here that humans have invented and put in this immutable normative category and they have pushed it to to put this here you have to kinda take this one And move it. Right? Marriage can't be an immutable and normative category anymore. Right, that's why you hear people talking about heteronormativity. Have you heard that word? Heteronormativity? Has anybody heard that word? Bio. Do you know what it means? No? Okay. So this is a technical term in in queer theory and in its parent discipline of critical theory. Um heteronormativity is this idea that society as a social construct has made up male-female marriage. And it's just an arbitrary preference. And the fact that society holds this arbitrary preference for male-female marriage um is oppressive to gay people. It's it's heteronormative. There we get the normative thing again, right? Soci uh the queer theory would say that society has elevated this idea of husband and wife to a normative category and in doing so it's oppressing people. That's what heteronormativity means Um so part of the project of queer theory and critical theory more broadly is to tear down these normative categories, uh to tear down, to oppose heteronormativity. because it's oppressive. And to replace it with something that comes from within, you know, some an inward sense called sexual orientation, that's normative. That's what's normative for for everybody. Right? If you are attracted to men, if you're a man who's attracted to men, your homosexual orientation is normative, not the heteronormative ideas of society. Does that make sense? Are these are these new ideas like have you heard this before? I think it's useful to see, you know, like how how the world thinks in this because like if we don't know that this is what they're saying We we can't deal accurately with their claims. We can't respond biblically to them Well then things that too drive, you know, it's just an immutable if they believe it's an immutable normative thing that they have to act on with it. It makes those easy to be Yeah. We don't recognize it for being pushed the really push it on others to follow their Yeah, yeah. It does help explain the animus. Right. Um that you see from the gay community about these things, right? Yeah. To them it's like slavery, right? It's like heteronormativity, the society's preference for male female marriage, supposedly, is is enslaving them and tr and making them second class citizens. And that's what they think. You know, that that is that is why they see their cause as a civil rights issue Um and why they get so angry when like um a cake maker in Colorado refuses to bake a cake for a gay wedding. Uh so I just want to make abundantly clear, I don't agree with them, right? They they are wrong, but it's um it's one thing It it's still useful to understand, you know. It's still still useful to understand their motivations and understand them on their terms. Uh because then we can we can respond more effectively. We can pray for them more effectively because we see what's at at root is not just sin like not just a choice to sin, but a spiritual blindness in their minds. You know what I mean? Yeah. Alright, let's deal with this other claim. Uh the other claim that is uh you sort of hear from from the LGBTQ plus community is uh the transgender claim. The claim like if I'm if I were to stand here and say, I am a transgender woman, that would be uh another category of common claim you hear. So what does that mean? Well again, it's a feeling, it's a behavior, and it's an identity, in all wrapped up into that one that one sentence. The person who says I am a transgender woman means, first of all, I feel like a woman, even though my body is male. Right? That's so it's it's a feeling. But it's also a behavior. I choose to live as a woman. I choose to present myself externally as a woman, but in in the way I dress, uh and the way I I refer to myself. Um and most importantly, it is an identity. Right? It's The idea that not only do I feel this way and choose to act this way, it's a normative part, a normative part of who I am My inward sense of being a woman is a fundamental part of my identity, more important than my bodily sex. Right, so that's that's where you've got uh modernity, uh query theory inserting gender identity identity here as an immutable and normative category into human personality. And to do that, they have to subordinate this They have to say biological sex is not normative. Do you understand why you can't believe that both gender identity and biological sex are normative Why can't you? Because if it's normative, you have a moral obligation to live as working for. Exactly. Yes. Only they're mutually exclusive. Only one of these can dictate how you're supposed to live. Right? Either you are born a man and you have to conform your sense of identity to that Or you are born with an internal sense of gender identity that you have to conform your body to. Right. So this claim makes sex, biological sex, non-normative, and with the advent of surgical interventions technology makes it possible for it to be mutable in a sense. You know, not not truly you can't truly change from a biological man to a biological woman, but you can sort of simulate it with surgery and hormones and all these technologies. Um so that's what's going on here. It's um Oh, let me read the other two statements, right. Um so it's not just my inward sense of being a woman is a fun p fundamental part of my identity, more important than bodily sex It's also expressing my gender identity in dress, in speech, in bodily alterations, etc. , is vital to my well-being. Like if I don't do this, I will essentially die Um and this is the the claim is that that's the reason for the extremely high suicide rate in the trans community. Um is that this dissonance between gender identity and bodily sex, like the fact that they're not allowed to conform their bodies to this this inwardly normative gender identity leads to them wanting to kill themselves. Of course, as Christians we would say, no, it's your i the fact that you are deceived about human nature and about who God is and who God made you to be that is leading you to despair. Not your dissonance between gender identity and your body Yeah, maybe you can find actually anything I would say. Mm-hmm. Right, yeah. And then finally, there's the recognition piece. Being recognized and accepted as a woman is vital to my well-being. So don't miss this. This is why it's so important. This is why there's a controversy over pronouns. you know, I don't know if any of you have run into this yet, with like people at work uh or at school uh listing their their preferred pronouns on email signatures or whatever This is why there's a controversy about that because it is th um you know the a a person who identifies as transgender views being recognized and accepted for that as vital to life, vital to well being. And it's sometimes shocking the language that you hear people use, like, um If you question the the practice of using preferred pronouns, you'll you will almost certainly be accused of denying that that trans people exist Which is just seems like an absurd thing. You know, it's like no, I'm I'm talking to you. I I acknowledge that you are a human being standing before me. I just don't think that you are correct about the constitution of human nature, you know, and and gender identity. Um but they would say, no, you are trying to erase my existence. by denying the use of of these pronouns. Uh because they see it as as a struggle for for life, for existence. Like this recognition is is a vital need, like the need to breathe and to eat. Um so this is a recipe for intense conflict Alright, so just to finish it off, um well not quite finish it off, uh look at Part C, 2C. Here I've got this little table um that that summarizes these two different views of reality. We've got the biblical view of reality, which we outlined and drew up here in blue, and then the the view of reality represented by queer theory, which is in red here, and comparing the three aspects of these I of these claims about being gay or being transgender. Uh the one the first aspect remembers the feeling. Now queer theory says that that feeling, either of same-sex attraction or of um gender dysphoria is normal and healthy, right? Like this is there's no problem with that feeling, according to queer theory. Um but according to the Bible, those things are actually indwelling sin. Um does anybody know the difference between indwelling sin and active sin? Because the Bible talks about sin in a couple of different ways. And one of the distinctions it uses it One of the distinct senses in which it talks about sin are as indwelling sin and active sin. Does anybody know the difference between those two things? Did you guys check out that article that George drew? On the Slack channel. It was pretty good. Yeah, it talks about this in detail. And I think it's a actually a really important point. You know, you there's a lot of debate within the church about the question, is same-sex attraction a sin? Um and I used to think it was not. Um but after reading that article I'm actually convinced that it that it is an example of what is called indwelling sin. Um so indwelling sin is different from active sin. Like when usually when we talk about sin we we talk we're we're thinking of active sin. Like I chose to yell at my family or something and and and sin in my anger. That's an active sin where I made a choice, I performed an action, or I or I omitted an action that I was supposed to perform. And uh it was an incident of sin. But sin is not just bad stuff that we do. Sin is also what? It's a principle at work in our heart. Yes, it's something that lives in us. And Anytime we desire something with our heart that God has said, you must not have, that is sinful. That is indwelling sin. It's not an act of sin, it's a it's the principle of indwelling sin. Right? So same-sex attraction falls in that category, I would argue. It's us desiring something with our heart that God has said you must not have. Right? Or or feeling like a woman, even though my body is male That is indwelling sin. You know, it's desiring to be something that God has said, No, you are not that. Yeah. So that that is sinful. In not not in the same way as a sinful choice, but it is evidence of indwelling sin. Does that distinction make sense to people? So yeah, so that that's what the Bible says about the feeling uh aspect of these claims. The the behavior you know, look at if you look at the behavior, the choice to either have sex with men or to present yourself as as a woman even though your body is male, that behavior Queer theory says that's morally right. Like that's a moral duty, even. Our duty is to live our authentic self in in the eyes of queer theory. But uh according to the Bible, those behaviors are actively sinful. Those are those are the sins that we typically think of as sins You know, me choosing to have sex with a man would be the sin of homosexuality. Um And then finally the identity. Here's where it gets really deep. The identity claim Um queer theory says that uh you know these claims about identity that that appear above here are unquestionably true. You cannot question them. You cannot controvert them because they come directly from a person's inner experience and nobody else has access to that. Right? Like I Um, you know, if I say, as a gay man, I know that I that my attraction to men is a fundamental part of my identity and that it's normative. Like, how who are you to say that I'm wrong about that? You don't have any access to my inner experience. You can't tell. Um that's what queer theory says. Like these claims, they come from the ultimate authority of the self and cannot be questioned. That's different from what the Bible says, because the Bible says that these claims, these identity claims, are an enslaving falsehood You know, they are a deception. Uh they're a wrong thinking that actually puts the person in slavery to sin. It keeps them sinning because they think they're doing right And that's that's the biblical picture. And just you know, as a preview of what we're gonna study in a few weeks, um The difference comes down to a difference in epistemology, a difference in where you get your truth. Queer theory gets its truth from the inner experience of the individual. It treats the self as the ultimate authority. the biblical perspective gets its truth from the Word of God, treats the Word of God as the ultimate authority. So which one you treat as the ultimate authority determines how you answer these questions and whether you fall on the side of queer queer theory or on the side of scripture. So epistemology is is super important. It's the most fundamental thing that we can talk about. But in order to get there we have to first view this landscape. Okay, and just to close it out with this page here, part D We have to emphasize that these claims about identity here, they're not just personal claims. You know um are the world treats them as personal claims, right? Like the I am a woman in in a man's body. That the world treats that as a personal claim that like only applies to that person And so who are you to question it? Who are you to uh say anything about it? But it's not just a personal claim, because it's a claim about this, right? This whole thing, this is not just a personal truth that can be relative to each individual. If you put something up here in the immutable normative category, you're not just making a claim about what's true for you You're making a claim about what's true for all of humanity. This is how a human being is constituted. That's the claim. Right? So don't ever be fooled that These claims are a matter matter of like personal relative choice, right? No, they're not. They are worldview claims. They're universal claims about all of human nature. And we need to deal with them that way Yeah. Oh yeah. I don't really know. Sure, yeah. Um so there's uh in the last year or so there's there's been a few policies at work that have rolled out about like um For example, when when you go to a class, a training class at work, um, the new policy is that uh every every student and teacher in the educational program is to to be addressed by their preferred pronouns, their preferred name, uh their preferred title and and other gendered language. Right, and uh and that so-called misgendering, using uh a pronoun other than the person's preferred pronoun will not be tolerated and will be met with disciplinary action. So that's that's the policy now where I work. And Um some people sort of question ask questions about this policy on um one of the one of the forums. at my workplace. This is an online forum. And they were saying, like, well, you know, what if this conflicts with your personal beliefs about your religious beliefs about what gender is? Um and people just jumped on the the person who asked that and said, um, like, we're not nobody's asking you to believe anything. We're just asking you to to exercise basic respect and civility and using people's preferred pronouns. You know, just do the civil thing. It doesn't cost you anything to use somebody's preferred pronouns. But that completely ignores this whole picture. Right? I mean it's not there's no recognition in the world that these issues tap into all this. Yeah. You have to acknowledge my truth in the acknowledge. This? Like Yeah. Mm-hmm. It's a moral issue if you don't call me what I want to be called. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Right. Yeah, yeah. I mean I think it's part of Satan's strategy is to obscure the fundamental claim that sexual orientation and gender identity are immutable normative components of human personality Satan does not want that claim acknowledged or discussed. He just wants it to be assumed by society. So that when an individual makes a claim that I am transgender or I am gay Everyone assumes sexual orientation and gender identity as a given. and um responds from within that worldview. Right? So you'll that's why you'll never hear This question of whether gender identity is a normative component of human personality, you'll never hear that discussed It was only two years ago that probabilities to treat this. Yeah, yeah. It used to be very re until very recently treated as a um Yeah, as a pathology. Right, to be to be treated. Um there are huge revolution happening for the oldest generation. Yeah. Huge stuff