Um yeah, so I think there's a there's a difference between um revelation and illumination. I think those I think those are the the theological terms, right? So revelation is given to all. Even special revelation these days, right, because we have so many translations of the Bible, um, is available to almost everyone. Well, maybe two-thirds of humanity I think has has a Bible translation in their own language. So in that sense, a lot of people have revelation, but In order to truly understand and believe and and you know put into practice God's special revelation, you need the illumination of the Holy Spirit in your in your soul. Right. Yeah, it would still be still be special revelation. Oh yeah, no. No, it's a good that's a good distinction. And it's good to remember, right? It's not it's not like You know, we talk about the the clarity of scripture, but that doesn't mean like if you give someone a copy of the Bible and they read it, they're gonna be like, oh, this makes total sense and I believe it now. That doesn't happen with everybody. Right? Because it does take you know, we um in in our sin, you know, b uh in in humanity's uh condition where where sin has sort of cut to the core of our nature, we are blinded and not able to understand uh a lot of the spiritual truths that God expresses in Scripture. First Corinthians talks about this. You know the Uh it it makes the contrast between the spiritual man who's able to understand the things of God and the natural man who is not able to understand them and who thinks that the things of God are foolishness. Right. So just because scripture is clear doesn't mean that everyone's going to understand or agree with it. I mean we see this all the time. Um but it is really important to keep this structure in our epistemology. So what does it mean in practice though that that scripture's at the top and that these other three come underneath it Like what if you see something in nature that appears to conflict with your understanding of scripture? What should you do? Yeah, yeah. So you should you should first of all seek to seek to harmonize them, but there's a right way and a wrong way to do that Right, so some people seek to harmonize them by sort of revising their understanding of scripture to match what they think nature is saying. Um but you have to come at it understanding the scripture of the two is the more clear, the more easy to interpret one. So You know, you have to you have to get into the word, you have to do your work to understand from the context what it's saying. But once you're reasonably certain about what it's saying, then if there's a conflict between the two the one you revise is your understanding of nature. And that goes especially for other things like culture and tradition, you know, what your culture is saying or what your personal experience, what your emotions and your feelings are saying to you If you're getting something from inside yourself that that seems to conflict with what you understand scripture to say, um You know, you should remember we should all remember that the heart is deceitful above all else and desperately sick. Who can know it? Right, so so that's how this hierarchy kind of works out in practice when when we're confronted with questions. You know, we've got to consider the relative weight and the relative importance and clarity of the different sources of knowledge that we have. Um so we've been going through we started last week going through um some of the arguments that that we hear uh out in the culture for uh the LGBTQ position, you know, for things like um the existence of a normative sexual orientation that that uh determines how you who you should be attracted to or a normative gender identity that can be different from your your biological sex. People make arguments for these things. Last time we went over some of the arguments that you find where people try to come from the scriptures and argue for those. Today we're going to do the other three. Nature, arguments from nature, arguments from culture. and arguments from personal experience. And uh just as a a preface, you know, the world takes the world does not accept this epistemology. They take this epistemology and they flip it on its head. They say personal experience is the most authoritative, important source of knowledge. Like nobody has the right to question your personal experience. And then they pretty much discard discount scripture altogether. Okay, but so now um Before we look at nature, any questions on this stuff, you know, on epistemology generally? This is like a ten minute discussion of an entire College course. Okay. Yeah, let's go into nature. So this is here we're on page four now. Uh point C there. So Um we have to remember nature has to be interpreted, right? It doesn't speak in words. So as we're considering these arguments, we just have to be on the lookout for hidden assumptions that that are sort of lurking behind them. And there are two types of arguments that I've heard, at least, uh maybe you all have heard others. But there are two types of arguments from nature that I've heard uh from the LGBTQ movement. And the first class is positive arguments in the sense of like They are arguing that nature establishes sexual orientation and gender identity as a legitimate thing. And the other class are negative arguments where they're arguing that nature um denies the idea that that biological sex or heterosexuality is a normative thing Alright, so two two different kinds of arguments, a little bit contradict so you know mutually mutually contradictory. Um But we're going to take them one at a time. So first the positive arguments, right? So examples of these kinds of things would be like um you know, exam uh finding trying to find evidence of homosexual uh homosexual behavior or or transgender identity in nature. In the eighties and nineties there was um and even into the two thousands, there was a um a search, you know, broadly conducted by by the scientific community and popularized for uh a gay gene, right? People were the the scientific community was coming to understand the importance of genetics for uh not only physical traits of people, but like also behaviors. And so scientists were on the lookout for a gene that they could point to um that like makes somebody gay. And this was um you know the search for for a gay gene uh it it sort of waned a little bit as people realized that these things are more complicated than a single gene. You know, uh pretty quickly scientists realized that there wasn't going to be one gene. But you know, in in the two thousands um scientists got the ability to do what's called a genome-wide association study where they can look at all the genes in the human genome across a population of like a hundred thousand people and look for, you know, faint statistical correlations between like this set of a hundred genes and something like same-sex attraction. And that's what they did. And so in uh I don't know, it was it was like three or four years ago, there was a study published, um, uh one of these big genome-wide association studies that um found that if you look at, you know, on the order of hundred, two hundred genes, uh then you have you can use those to predict about eight to twenty-five percent of homosexual behavior. um you know based on a a questionnaire of of people's behavior. So the you know so uh this was this was trumpeted as a you know huge achievement like Um it wasn't people didn't exactly say we found the gay gene, but they there were articles like this article in in Nature that I linked to here. Um where people were arguing, okay, see we have now the biological basis for homosexuality, therefore it's normative. Right? Therefore it's uh there's n there's nothing wrong with it. It's it's perfectly natural. Um So there and you see this kind of argument um also on the side of uh of gender identity, uh where people and it's much weaker now because there's not been a lot of research into it, but a lot of people propose to identify gender identity as coming from brain chemistry. Um and that the technical term for that is brain sex theory. Um but that's that's still a very immature field. I think the um The example of the the genomic studies for homosexuality is probably the the best or strongest example of this class of argument that I found out there. Um yeah. So first of all What do you guys think of that argument? Or can you identify any hidden assumptions that are undergirding that argument Um yeah, I mean that's a great point. Like the the predictive power of genetics if if it's somewhere between eight and twenty-five percent, that's pretty weak, right? That's saying I even if you know everything about a person's entire genome, you cannot predict the majority of their sexual behavior. Uh-huh. Yeah, yeah. So what is that? Right. Yeah. So this gets to one of the big assumptions. Um what is the connection between uh genetics or like your your biology and morality. What's the assumption in this argument? about that connection. Um, yeah, what assumption is this argument making about the connection between biology and morality? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right, exactly. Or if it if it exists in nature then uh then it's right W what do you think of that assumption? It's wrong. Can you think of any counterexamples? Can you think of any any instances where we treat a biologically predisposed behavior as something that's bad. Yeah, pedophilia, yeah. Some some people do claim to be sort of innately attracted to children. Um yeah, we still treat that as morally wrong. Any other examples What about various um addictive behaviors? You know, I think there's been a lot of research into um the biological components of addiction. There's for example, there's a quote here in bullet 2A here the uh from a uh psychologist at the University of Pen Pennsylvania who sort of summarizes the research on smoking and nicotine addiction. She says when it comes to tobacco, genetics account for about seventy-five percent of a person's inclination to begin smoking, uh and genes also account for sixty percent of the tendency to become addicted and fifty-four percent of one's ability to quit. So, you know, that that genetic correlation is a lot stronger than the one found for homosexuality. Are we now arguing that it's morally acceptable and right to be addicted? to cigarettes, to nicotine? Or that there's no moral dimension to that? Or what about alcoholism? You know, are we would we argue if we found I haven't looked up the genetic basis for for uh alcohol addiction, but assuming that there that there is one, like for tobacco, if we found one of those, would we say, oh, you know, it's It's totally morally acceptable for a person to get drunk and um, you know, all the things that follow on with that, like driving, endangering the lives of others. Um you know, being prone to abusive behavior at home, that's all okay because he's genetically predisposed to that. Would that argument fly? No, so we don't treat we we reject the assumption that biology determines morality in other areas. So why would we accept it here? There are plenty of times when we recognize our moral duty to act against sort of our our predispositions. You know, especially as Christians, as believers, we know that, you know, our our human nature has fallen. We all have predispositions to certain sins. But that doesn't make those sins okay You know, that doesn't mean that they're not sins. Right? We ha it just means that we have to um we have to struggle against them. We have to pray to the Lord to deliver us from them and we have to avail ourselves of the power of the Spirit in the Word to conquer and overcome those sins. So Um I guess the conclusion to these to the evaluation of these kinds of arguments that I would say is like even if there were a biological cause for same-sex attraction or for transgender identity that wouldn't make it normative or morally right um any more than it would make addiction normative or morally right. Okay, so questions about about those kinds of arguments, right? Those that class of positive arguments that tries to find a basis a a biological basis for these things. Have you guys seen other arguments like this out there? Well if not we can move on to the negative R units, which I think are actually even more prevalent these days. Right? Because Because those positive arguments assume assume some kind of normative status of nature, which kind of goes against the whole the whole philosophy of um of queer theory and of the LGBTQ movement, which is that uh identity comes from inside you, not from outside you. So the positive arguments from nature don't really fit with the ethos of the movement, but the negative arguments uh fit much more closely with what with sort of the aims and the philosophy of the movement. And by negative arguments I mean like trying to argue that uh nature denies or overturns these normative categories of um heterosexuality and biological sex. So examples would be like um you know somebody might say uh homosexual behavior exists in the animal kingdom. Uh And therefore heterosexuality is not normative for every creature. Uh or another one, probab you don't hear that one quite as much anymore, but this this one you hear all the time, or I've at least heard all the time. at work, which is that some people are born with intersex traits. Um and therefore sex, biological sex, is a spectrum and not a normative binary distinction. Now who knows what an intersex trait is? Anybody ever heard that term? Yeah, that would probably be that would be the most extreme example of of intersex traits, like a true hermaphrodite who is born with both uh male and female reproductive organs. Those that is extremely rare. Um most of the time when people are talking about intersex traits, they mean um just like a single ph physical characteristic um that is, you know, in in an otherwise biologically normal male, um, that is female, right? So like a a man with uh pr with enlarged breasts or something like that. Uh or the most common one you hear about is is what's called sex chromosome anuploides. So just to talk about that a little bit, so you guys know We've got twenty-three chromosomes and then the uh or twenty-three pairs of chromosomes. The last pair is the sex chromosomes. And you can either have XX or XY, right? And or you know, in the vast majority of people have either XX or XY. And XX means you are a Female. XY means you are a male. So there are a set of disorders called sex chromosome aneuploides. where uh people are born with something other than xx or xy. Right? So you can uh there are people born with xxy or xx um you know, uh it gets increasingly rare to see the other combinations of these, but uh you know, these these two are the most common and then you have all the other possible permutations um and of of sex chromosomes getting more and more rare as you start adding chromosomes, right? So this is this is one of the big pieces of evidence that people that the people in the LGBTQ movement point to, they say, look, people can be born with something other than XX or XY Um therefore, even biological sex is not a strict binary, it's a spectrum. That's the ar that's sort of the clearest and strongest way that I can present the argument. Um let's Let's try to drill down and get at some of the assumptions behind this argument. What assumptions do you see at work behind an argument like that that says, hey, look at this biological sex is a spectrum. Yeah, so interestingly, right, if you if you interview or you know, if you pull people who claim to be transgender. There is almost no overlap at all with the community of people with intersex traits. So two completely different communities Uh so people who are claiming to have a transgender identity, they're not doing it because of this, right? They're not doing it because they've been born with different chromosomes, with sex chromosome aneuploidy. They're they're doing it for other reasons, right? Uh perhaps brain chemistry or something. But um that wouldn't stab a little effective Well, yeah, it would at least make this not an argument not a natural basis for transgender identity, right? 'Cause it's completely separate thing What about so so that's why this doesn't work as a positive argument, but does it work as a negative argument to to discredit the idea of binary sex, male and female? That's Um I think there's even more that we could say about that. What other assumptions are active? You know, if if you're s if somebody's using this as an argument to tear down the idea of male and female what assumptions are they relying on to do that? That's a great point. That's really perceptive, I think, yeah. Um because because our our our culture has spent so much time making trying to make men and women interchangeable, tearing down the distinctions that we see that are visible to us, then it it becomes much more plausible to build an argument about that erases the the biological distinctions. from a lot of like friends. Um they wanted to like use even use the Bible to um defend the homosexuality or defend um this idea of like um hyper femininity or like like the feminism but not physical feminism. Oh yeah, yeah. They They first go and they tear down what it means to be a man, what it means to be a woman by saying, No, it's okay for for men to you know just wear a dress, doesn't quite they they can do whatever they want because that doesn't define the man, right? That doesn't define the woman. The woman doesn't have to wear a dress in the room. And she can wear whatever she wants too. And that in itself is not it's not an issue. But then once they start building on top of it and saying like, okay, well, a man can do a woman can do anything a man can She could be just as strong, she could be this, she could be that. And they they don't use it it doesn't come outright at first thing that they're trying to defend from and um like homosexuality or they're trying to um damascula and anything like that. It's just little things at first and then all of a sudden you realize that you're all exercised in the spectrum because it just is building Right, yes. Oh, that's such a good point. I mean, yeah, like all these ideas start out as something that seems really innocent and kind of non controversial, but then over time they just grow until the implications are touching like the very foundation of how you think about people in the world. That's excellent. Excellent point. And I hadn't really thought about it in the context of this particular argument before, but yeah, you're right. As um y It's really predicated on the assumption that there is no substantive difference between men and women, that it's really just a minor biological fact And then even when even then when you look at it, the biology is all scrambled anyway. Yeah. And it it all goes back into this being Yeah. Which is rather like deconstructed the idea of what it means to be a word not inclusive of the very few people seem to have interception or intersex traits or whatever. Um they it's not inclusive to say what So then we need to be more exclusive. And then once they say that, that leaves room for more and more and more people to Yeah, yeah. Exactly. Right. And it yeah, that change of language is is really I mean it's really powerful, right? Because it sort of it it makes it it takes it out of the realm of of logical argument and debate and just puts it into, you know, if if you say this or if you do this, then you're you're bigoted, you're you're um discriminatory, you can't so you can't talk about it, right? You can't even you can't even object. Um but yeah, I think there's there's a good a good point here. Um if you if you put all these sex chromosome aneuploides together, what Uh what you get is um and you if you compare the the sort of incidents in the general population, it's it's somewhat less than about half a percent If you if you go with a generous estimate, it's maybe about half a percent of the general population has some form of sex chromosome aneuploidy. That's if you lump them all together. Right, so ninety-nine point five at least ninety-nine point five percent of humans uh exhibit the the male-female, the typical chromosomes of male and female. So that's that's red flag number one about this kind of argument is that you can Um you know, the idea that you can take such a rare thing and use it to build uh a a case about what's normative and what's not normative. Right? If you're looking at If you're trying to look at what's normative in nature, you have to look at what things are designed for and what the general pattern is, not the exceptions. Exactly. Right. I mean and it's it's very clear when you look at these that that these exceptions are pathologies, right? It's it's like it would be like saying um Some people are born blind. Therefore, sightedness is not a normative part of being human. Right? Would that would that be a good argument No. I mean some some people actually today would call that uh would call what I'm saying ableist, right? They would say even to even to say that sightedness is normative for people is is um discriminatory and and not inclusive But that's that's not the case. You know, saying saying that vision is a good thing for humans to have is not a not a bigoted statement. It's still it I mean we should still care for people who are blind, who are born blind We can exercise compassion and we can serve them and include them and care for them without denying that eyesight is good Right. And it's the same thing here. Uh people born with with intersex traits, you know, most of them actually never know it That's another thing we'll get to in a second. But some some for some of them it's actually a a very uh difficult reality that they have to live with. And we should have compassion on them and we should exercise care and concern for them and include them in things Um but we should do that without denying the what's clear from biology, that we have this normative binary between male and female that God created and that is good. It's essential for for human flourishing. Right, I mean I think that's the key assumption here is that is that like rare cases can be used to argue about what's normative. Right. So I I guess another analogy even outside the realm of of like human personhood would be, um, you know, if I if I'm carrying cash around in my pocket and I have a mix of coins, um, I got quarters, I got nickels, I got dimes, I go to pay for something And I hand the cashier some coins and I accidentally put like a Canadian quarter in in the in the pile of coins that I hand to her. And, you know, what would she say? She's gonna say Oh, you can't pay with that, right? So substitute another coin. Um that's the right response. Uh but this argument is saying like, you know, if you present a coin that's not like one of the standard American denominations, that care that cashier should say to you, hey, you've just invalidated the concept of money. Right? M the distinctions between between coins are no longer valid. So each of these coins is now worth you know, a dollar. And so it's just a completely um non non sequitur, complete non sequitur of an argument. Um but I think Another fact that that we need to consider that's even in some ways more powerful is that people who are born with these kinds of um sex chromosome anuploides, they often most of them don't even know it. because their physiology is normal, is is is male or female recognizably. And there's even a simple rule that you can apply to all these things. to predict reliably what a person uh will look like, a man or a woman. If there is at least one Y chromosome in here, that person will will look like a man If there's no Y chromosomes in in there the person will look like a woman. And so it's not that these things overturn the binary distinction between men and women. I if anything, it shows just how important and fundamental that binary distinction between male and female is and how robust God made our biology. uh to to preserving that male-female distinction even in the face of errors. Right? Like if I I I study communication channels a lot in my work and um You know, if you're trying to communicate uh a message over a noisy channel like a uh walkie-talkie or or the internet even. Um engineers build in what's called redundancy. Uh and they use these these things called error correcting codes uh so that you can transmit a message and even if uh Lightning strikes along the way or like if the internet drops drops some packets or something, you'll still be able to reconstruct the message And they do that because the message is important, right? That the the fact that there's redundancy and error correction in the communication channel shows that people think messages are important. I would argue that's analogous to here Right. The uh the male-female distinction is coming through very clearly, even when the channel gets garbled right, even when the message gets garbled through bi through the channels of biology. Well that means that somebody really wanted the message of gender, of sex, to come through very clearly in the design. And so he built in error correction, he built in redundancy into those biological mechanisms. So I think this can even be turned into an argument for God's design of male and female Uh because he made it so strong and so robust that it can even withstand um the these kinds of physiological pathologies Does that make sense? So I think although this is an argument you hear all the time, I think it's just fundamentally misguided. And you know, it's the kind of thing that that seems persuasive on its face. You know, when somebody phrases it like, oh look, there are all these other genders out there. Um It seems persuasive, but when you really dig into it, it actually has sort of the opposite implication. Uh okay. The creator's design, yeah, just in conclusion for that argument, the creator's design for sex and for male and female is one of the clearest and most persistent things about nature, even in the face of pathology and rebellion. How many of you guys have heard this kind of thing before? Like in I don't know, in the news, things you read from friends. Have you heard arguments from biology or People saying that like, oh, you know, sex is way more complicated than just male and female. Yeah, exactly. Right. Oh, that and that's so common today is like that that's the narrative is that any truth claim, you know, any any idea that's that has that's supposed to be normative in the culture is actually um a bid for the dominant group to control everybody, right? It's it's uh an example of hegemonic power as they would say. Um and Yeah, and that so that's a great segue into you know, part D, these arguments that are made from tradition and culture. Cause yeah, I mean I'm increasingly hearing that kind of argument too that not only are male and female cultural constructs they're cultural constructs of the West that um that didn't exist in uh like indigenous cultures and that we sort of in our colonialism uh enforced upon people. And yeah, these these are becoming um you know just because of the The world has flipped this epistemology. These arguments from culture are becoming even more persuasive in the general population than the arguments from nature that we just covered. Uh and yeah, so I think I'm hearing them a lot more Uh I guess I can't I don't know all of them. Like I hadn't heard about the um the Native American thing about it do you know if that's if if that's that the the language has um like male gendered nouns, female gendered nouns, and neuter gendered nouns? Or is like it a is it a linguistic thing or is it more of a I think it's I think it's I think it's linguistic Okay. Um when it comes to like linguistics, a lot of people point or at least a lot of my friends have pointed to um Filipino culture and the fact that when you identify someone as Filipino, there's no change in the last letter like in Spanish, it would be A for male and A for female. Um but identifying a person who of the Philippines, you know, that like they they just point to different key cultures that perhaps those like I think the linguistic um distinctions are more powerful than anything because that's what is popular right now, the pronouns. Yeah. Like you or um identifying yourself in a certain way. It's not really biological, it's more um social. Um be shown to other people and tell that positive way. Yeah, yeah, I think that um okay, that makes sense. Because like yeah when you look at um when you look at languages Hmm. Alright, so I guess if we can phrase that argument um you know in a concise way, the argument would be um Other languages uh identify you use use gender in the language, like gender in the nouns, and uh to either um identify men with with feminine uh nouns and adjectives or vice versa or even use neutral nouns and adjectives to identify people. Therefore people in that culture um recognize the fluidity of gender. Would that be a a way to sort of paraphrase the argument? So what do you guys think about that argument? Does it does it hold water? Or yeah, or that the use of of differently gendered nouns and adjectives implies that the people in that culture think of gender as fluid. I was interested because obviously if you look at um in way that there were still very specific gender rules in Germany in America. culture. In any other culture, if you look at how women are treated compared to Americans. Americans are are exploited by it. They're still treated as less than and the men is still to control the household and the providers and then if if you're just the one based off of the pronouns and then to look at how they treat them or how they hand handle things and how what the roles are for family or um how single women are looked at or how single men are looked at and how they're raised, what are women raised to do So even in the ways they're raised it's not it's not solid because it's just I I don't even know how to like correlate the the fact that they have the third gender to everything else that and how they live and how they function. Right. Yeah, I mean if you look at if you uh look at languages and cultures that have even this third gender, like German has has the neuter gender in their language. Um you don't see a rejection of the male-female binary in those cultures. There is no connection between use of gender in language and you know, fluidity of gender in the general social consciousness of that culture. Right? Germany is sort of the quintessential Western nation. So if if it's supposedly a Western idea that male female is a social construct, why do we find one of the most influential Western nations having an a neuter gender uh and in addition to the male and female in their language. I think there people who make that argument are just leaning way too heavily on the connection between um language and grammar versus you know the categories in which people think. Uh it's just yeah, it's kind of another non-sequitur. I think it is like a function. I think it is now. Language is powerful before. Right. I don't think it was as powerful, but I think that it's powerful now because uh um mass production of social media and the the ability to communicate with anyone and everyone else can come we think of at any point in time. And uh it I feel like it's also in our generation to be more um Like I I don't know how to explain it, but I feel like it's our our generation has like magnified it sort of this huge thing that it becomes became now now our culture was actually not as is Gen Z. I don't know what what that is, but language became such a big deal. And it's you can get canceled or you can get like Shane Curse or saying any any little Yeah. I think it's a big deal now, but it wasn't as big as a deal before. And I don't know what that is again really perceptive, I think. Yeah, because that it's true. Um M and and perhaps perhaps it's because uh you know, everything everyone has to be and everyone's statements have to be evaluated in like five seconds. You you can't really dig deep into anybody's argument anymore. Yeah, evaluated by anyone with there's there's no general and again it's it's hard because the reason why everybody can get canceled is There's no truth. There's no truth to compare it to. You're running off of everybody else's opinion. And so whatever society as a whole considers to be trendy considers to be right, that's what you're gonna get. Yeah. If if it's not in alignment with that, then you're wrong. Right. It doesn't matter what you're saying if you're wrong. Yep. Yeah. That's why our generation is so sensitive because it seems very sensitive because You can say anything and someone will say that you're not being inclusive, you're being disrespectful. Um you're like uh profit sometimes line and you need to Do some self-reflection to find your own trauma to understand why it's really challenging. Yeah. And then once you understand the trauma come join us on the other side of the rainbow. And be like fixed like the rest of the with us. Until something else happens and then we all crash again together and we drive together. So Well, this is really helping me update the terminology in my head. 'Cause like I d I've never heard all that stuff but that's yeah, man, I know. unpack your trouble. No. What? Oh, okay. I gotta be uh gotta watch out for that. It's okay just come have dinner with me and my roommate. Okay, okay, yeah. I I have a lot of trouble What's going on, man? Are you good? Um yeah, so wow. So it's like people aren't trying to They're not trying to take what you're saying and figure out what whether it's true anymore. They're they're trying to figure out whether it's like appropriate or whether it aligns with Um with their view or with the culture's view. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So that's why the Bible is out the door because God wouldn't do a standard. Yeah, 'cause like you were saying earlier, everything is defined from self. You can find happiness. In yourself, we said like a couple um months back we talked about uh fees and like yeah, you just find two within yourself. And then finding defining gender within yourself. So now you're also like figuring out why you're not happy and what oppressive thing that you've experienced that cause you to not be happy, to cause you to think like it's that whole like idea of being self-depression. Right. Internalized depression. Internalized or internalized depression. Yeah, okay, yeah. Uh it's a it's a reason as to why uh they would say that women still think that they should put motherhood as uh um something that's of value or um a valuable role. It it's like, oh, you're self-misogy, okay. Right. You're internalizing your You're just you've been taught these things for so long that you are now doing something that you don't even know. It's not your bad, you just fix it. And then Yeah, yeah. You don't even know that that you are like he you've internalized the patriarchy and you're you're now a shill for the five final It's all in a guilt. Yeah. How patronizing, right? Like true is more true for less weird. Because it's more woke. Yeah. It's more a trend and it's more popular and Well yeah, and even not even majority, but like I would say oppressed, right? The the lived experience of an oppressed person carries infinitely more weight than that of an oppressor in whatever categories you're an oppressor. Uh yeah, yeah. What's ironic is that a fundamental plank of that worldview is that all truth claims are power grabs Right, so you should be suspicious of all truth claim claims because if somebody's trying to convince you of something, it just means they want power over you. But that entire worldview is a giant power grab, right? They want you to believe what they're saying so that you will Essentially hate yourself and and repent of you know, believing all these things and give power to them. Um yeah, man, I Uh sorry that was a good that was uh really good good discussion uh to go down, but I hadn't didn't realize. So is trauma used in the sense of like this y you need to understand how you've been oppressed so that you can kind of become more M more of like a self-advocate or something? Then you can understand so it's like it's like an excuse for um why people are more traditional or more conservative in their views. Um for example, if I was to say like I think that um management and And I would make a statement like that. Someone would look at me and say, Well, you probably have some childhood trauma where you feel that you can't function without a man in your life, or you've always had men in your So therefore you are self-like that there's the internalized society right there. Because you think that that's what you think is right. And now once you unpack that trauma, meaning once you unpack the fact that no, that's not true, you don't need a man to survive, then you can understand like your your true self, like you can be in how important it is that makes you Except you can't be a biblical Christian after that. Right. The the the explaining away of other people's ideas. That's where uh that's that's the explanation. is we've gone from uh just go outright canceling people to being like, oh well you are the way that you are it's more condescending. Yeah, yeah. Um like what's the word? It's not direct. It's like it's like indirect. It's it's uh passive that's uh it's passive but it's it's like oh well I know you're I know why you're just easy. So unpack your trauma is something you could also say to an oppressor. Yeah. They're racist because they really have a town with like no diversity and races because how their parents raised them and I feel bad for them because They just don't understand the trauma that they've been through and then why they can just they can just confuse it. It's like making it, yeah. Have you guys heard of the genetic fallacy? Sounds familiar, but I don't know. It's a category of logical fallacies. Um I mean this is going to be completely irrelevant to somebody who who questions, you know, the val the value of logic. But like the genetic fallacy is a class of logical fallacies where arguments are refuted not based on their merits, but based on where they come from, you know, like or who they come from. Right? So it's it's um It's everywhere these days, yeah, yeah. It's um C. S. Lewis called it Bulvarism after a character that he made up. Um where who this character said um ha he like realized one day, oh, I don't actually have to argue against anybody's points. If I can just make up a psychological explanation for why they believe that, then I can explain away their belief and I don't have to worry about it. Right? That's that's kind of everybody today apparently Yeah. We as Christians we ha we have to resist this because it's a temptation for us too, you know, to r respond like the world and to use the world's weapons against against them. Like we can be tempted to really embrace this and say, oh, you they only believe that because um you know of these three hundred years of intellectual movements. you know, that are culminating in in critical theory and all that stuff. But like we have to be lovers of the truth. We have to be people who are able to reason, able to handle truth accurately and uh you know, take scripture, understand it grammatically in its historical context, and then reason from those scriptural principles and apply them to life in a logical way. Like it's so important. That's um even even more so now that the world is sort of forgetting how to do logic, basic logic. Uh oh yeah, wow. Okay, we're so we didn't quite get through uh I mean that that was mostly in the tradition and culture. Um So why don't we just stop here actually and then and we'll um break into men and women for prayer uh just briefly with the seven minutes we have left.