Alright. Um so yeah, turn grab a handout if you don't have one already. Uh turn to page three. So last week we kinda did a recap of uh of the first couple pages, like major bullets one, two, and three. Um by the way, did anybody see any movies or TV shows or anything that um were you you detected any of this um sort of propaganda from the modern worldview. Not not even necessarily about homosexuality or transgender issues, but just about like authentic living or um the the sort of self directed life, the the life aimed at inner psychological happiness Um and the fact that my identity comes from me. Anybody pick up on any of those themes and anything you saw this week? It's okay if not. I don't I think I watched like one movie this week, so Uh okay. Yeah, just uh, you know, as we go through this, let me know if anything uh triggers in memory for you. So Let's go to number four. So we talked about we talked about like how the message gets through on an emotional level in art and culture. But, you know, sometimes we do have to deal with the actual arguments that are put forward. Um there these aren't these don't come along as frequently as you might expect. It's not like you You're usually not reading like a five paragraph essay that somebody's written in defense of like homosexuality or transgenderism. Um But every once in a while you'll see people bring up arguments and you know we should know how to respond. Uh because there these arguments are presented very confidently Right, like you'll s uh there was e an article even in the journal Nature, which is the top scientific journal in the world, that was basically saying, um, you know, all The consensus of biologists is that uh sex is a spectrum, not a binary thing, male and female. And So this is presented with a ton of authority, right? Like here here's the world's top scientific journal saying that the the scientific consensus around the world is that sex is a spectrum. And um You know, so we need to be able to deal with these kind of things. Uh but before we get into any of the specific arguments, uh we have to do a little epistemology one-on-one. Who knows what epistemology is? I'm sorry. That would be like hermeneutics. Yeah. That's another important term. Epistemology has to do with the study of knowledge, right? How do we know stuff? How or how do you know what you know It's a term from philosophy, uh, but it's actually very relevant and important to how we go through life. Um, you know, because Uh epistemology relates to what what sources of evidence are you willing to recognize in an argument and how do you weigh those different sources of art of evidence relative to each other? A lot of people when they argue, you know, like if there's a Christian arguing against um someone uh who who identifies as transgender, like they're gonna be talking past each other most of the time because the Christian sees scripture as authoritative and the the person identifying as transgender sa sees scripture as like oppressive, uh not not God ordained, not God inspired. So they just have different categories of evidence and they're It's it's kind of impossible to um you know, to have have a a dialogue until you agree on um sort of what the evidence, what standards of evidence or what sources of evidence are out there and how they relate to each other. And that's really a major function of people's worldview, right? We study worldview in the fall. Um one of the major functions of worldview is is to tell you um like what's at the top of your epistemology? What what's the most important source of truth for you or you know for humanity? Um and so in the uh we're going to do epistemology one oh one and we're going to recognize that we have a biblical worldview, right? We don't have a a um you know secular worldview or a materialist worldview or a critical theoretic worldview, we're gonna we're gonna just own the fact that we're biblical Christians and say, okay, what should our epistemology be? You know, what is what is the highest um source most authoritative source of evidence for us? The Bible, yeah. So for uh for our epistemology in the biblical worldview Unsurprisingly, Scripture is at the top of the of the totem pole, the top of the hierarchy, right? And why is it here? Like why would we say that Scripture is more authoritative or more important, weighty as a source of truth than like nature, what we observe in the natural world. Why would we say that? Um yeah, Scripture is God's revealed word to us, but didn't God also make nature? Couldn't you say that nature is sort of God revealed in a way? So why should we privilege scripture above nature as a source of truth? I'll give you a hint. How do you how do you read those two things? Right. If you're if you're looking at scripture and nature as sources of truth from God, how do you read one versus the other? How do you get truth out of scripture? By reading it, yeah. And and like when you say reading, you mean literally reading, right? There's sentences on a page that convey actual ideas that are meant to be uh They're m they're expressed in human language, they're meant to be received by our minds. If you're looking for truth in nature, how do you get truth out of nature? Observation, yeah. Is that the same kind of thing as reading No, how is it different? Yeah, it's sort of it's somewhat subjective, you know, in in terms of how it depends on like who the observer is, what you are able to observe What about this? Like in Scripture a sentence like thou shalt not kill Would you would you ever find that kind of thing in nature? There's no there's no like rock or tree that you can go to and read the sentence, thou shalt not kill. There's no Um there's nothing in nature from which you can go to it like a book and read off a a moral command or moral imperative, right? It's Um if you wanna get like if you want to get some moral command or moral imperative from nature, what do you have to do? Well you have to first assume that um you have to first understand from Scripture that God designed nature, right? He designed us to be a certain way. And then you have to do the hard work of trying to discern whether what you observe in nature is part of God's original design or whether it's something that's been corrupted by the fall Right. So you have to do this hard work of interpretation to turn the things, the the facts of nature into like sentences uh that you can actually reason about and that can have truth value, uh truth or falsehood. Whereas in scripture, in the Bible, they're already there. You know, the the there's already statements there that are true. Do you guys see the difference how how like reading scripture is totally different from quote reading nature? Um So that's why that's why we prioritize scripture as a source of truth and knowledge above nature. But nature still does have a an important place in our epistemology in a biblical worldview, right? It's right under scripture. Because God did make it. God did make um He He did create the world and He designed it to function a certain way. Um And yes, it's been corrupted by sin, but in places where we can see God's design coming through, then we can use that to sort of infer things about uh what is true, what we should do, what our obligations are. Um You see this in Romans 1, where Paul talks about how even the Gentiles who don't know, who don't have the law of God, which is his term for the Old Testament scriptures Even those Gentiles who don't have the scriptures, um, they understand they're accountable to God because they should be able to look at what God made and know that He is transcendent, that He has eternal power and a divine nature. Right, so Paul expects even Gentiles without access to Scripture to know something about God by looking at nature. So so nature does have a place in our epistemology. It's just that it's harder to interpret and less clear than scripture. Um and it's really important to keep this relationship here. You know, I think in in the last couple hundred years, a lot of Christians have been tempted to sort of like promote nature up to alongside scripture or even above scripture in terms of um things like uh like evolution, you know, um Uh a lot of Christians would and and I used to be in this camp would call themselves theistic evolutionists because they'd say, um, hey good morning guys. They'd say, you know, we we go to nature and we we read the facts of nature. There you know, there's there's the confusion about reading nature. But they say we read the facts of nature to say that the earth is billions of years old and humans evolved from Animal forms. Um and so that truth is God's truth, and we read it from the thing that God made. Um Therefore, we need to go back and revisit our understanding of Scripture and of of the first couple chapters of Genesis. So that's inappropriate because they're not actually reading nature. They're they're interpreting nature. You know, they're putting a speculative interpretation that's actually wrong onto the facts of nature And they're assuming that nature takes priority over scripture. That's a total tangent. I didn't mean to get into that. Um But So for us here w uh in the biblical worldview, scripture is the most important thing in our epistemology, it's the most weighty source of truth, then nature if we can do the hard work of figuring out um what is what represents God's original design versus what has been corrupted by sin. And then we would put uh like tradition after that Why does this why does tradition and and say culture come third? And I'm talking like, you know, this could be tradition. There are many flavors of tradition, what you could mean by tradition. You know, we might talk about like the tradition of the reformers, things that Martin Luther or John Calvin wrote. And or we might talk about about secular traditions, you know, tradition traditional beliefs of of other cultures or cultural values, you know, like as Americans we value uh individualism and independence and and freedom. Um why do we put these things third? Yeah Jeff. Yeah. Yeah. Casting of lights, passing on code versus Right, so that's a good example of yeah, of place a place where there's different traditions that have been handed down in different denominations or different uh different lineages in the church. So why isn't this as important as as scripture, let's say? Yeah, they don't reveal absolutes, because where do they ultimately come from? On absolute. What what do you mean? So like all traditions. Yeah. Yeah, all all tradition and culture. Yeah, they exactly, yes. So um All tradition and and culture stem from man, right? From human society, from a from a um non-divine reference, right? A non-absolute reference. So Scripture and nature both have the virtue of coming from God, right? They scripture is inspired by God, it's the Word of God. Um He He is uh the one the Holy Spirit is the one who moved the prophets and the apostles to write what God directed them to write. Um so this is inspired by God. Nature was made by God, so both of these are divine in origin. Tradition and culture, as although they're sometimes correct and good, they come from man ultimately. So they have to be third. We have to put them below these sources of knowledge that come from the Lord directly. Um but that doesn't mean there's no value here. It just means we have to be very discerning about what we take from tradition and culture and what we what we believe from there. You know? Like if we're if we're trying to think through different ways to do communion, um should we just assume that any Any mode of communion that tr a major Christian denomination practices is valid? What should we do Yes. Yeah, compare it to Scripture. Go back, take those different practices and modes of communion and compare them against Scripture, against um the what scripture teaches is the purpose of the Lord's Supper and how the early church uh understood that and implemented it. So uh that doesn't mean necessarily that we're gonna end up with one right way to do it, but it does mean that Maybe some of the ways that it it's done out there are wrong and we need to reject those. Uh it just means that we need to take what we get from tradition and culture with a grain of salt and subject it to the scrutiny of scripture Right. So that's why that's why epistemology is a hierarchy, right? It's there's something at the top and the things below it are useful. They're not always wrong, but they need to be filtered through the things that are at the top. Yes. Uh-huh. Yeah. With the verse that on top on it it says, pray like me. Like this. So if I said something a little differently It's still the word prayer. Mm-hmm. It's traditionally maybe different. But essentially it's giving glory to God. Yeah. Yeah. So people can kind of even say the word prayer a little bit. Yeah. And there you know there can be value in reciting the Lord's Prayer. Um but what we all the other thing we know about prayer is that from Jesus' explicit teaching in Scripture is that it's not the words themselves that have some magical power over God. You know, it's not like you you go before God and you recite an incantation and and if you do it right, he does the thing you want him to do. That's not how God works. Jesus was like, that's how the Gentiles think about their pagan gods. But your Father knows what you need before you ask it. So don't multiply your words when you go ask him So, you know, there's nothing inherently wrong with doing something like reciting the Lord's Prayer. But we shouldn't think that we're like magically or mystically manipulating God into doing what we want by doing that. You know, he knows what we need. Uh and so if we're using it as a way to instruct our hearts in, okay, this is how I should pray, this is how I should organize my prayer, uh, then that that can be good But if we're saying, oh, if I just recite this thing, it'll be I'll get what I want, that's bad. Okay, and then finally we've got personal experience So why did I put this one last? Yeah, why is it the least authoritative? Right, we're not God. We don't have the authoritative perspective on reality. Yeah. Yeah. This personal experience is inherently radically subjective. Right. There's nothing objective about personal experience and by definition. Right. And uh y you know, you might you might put it this way. Um is it easier to deceive an individual or a large group of people? It's easier to deceive an individual. I mean certainly large groups of people can be deceived. Satan specializes in doing this, in deceiving entire societies and cultures. So I'm not Don't hear me say that, oh, you know, if you if enough people believe something, it must be true. That's not what I'm saying at all. But I'm saying it's easier to deceive an individual who's just reflecting on their own personal experience. than it is to deceive an entire group of people who are sharing experience and comparing experience and trying to reason together. Right. This is why, you know, I think some Protestants, especially in America, have a really individualistic approach to scripture and to doctrine and faith. And that's that's dangerous and that's bad. That's not a biblical way to approach faith. You know, it's not We should not be just taking the Bible, reading it on our own, and trying to figure out on our own what the truths of the Christian faith are. Yes, we should be reading the Bible on our own, but we should be uh in a body, a local body of Christ. I'm preaching to the choir here because you guys are all here on Sunday morning, but That's why it's so important to have the public preaching of the Word in front of the whole congregation. It's that's uh that way we all together are hearing the exposition of the same scriptural passage and we can we can all be focusing on the same thing, learning the same thing and talk about it throughout the week uh with each other. You know, like Jen and I when we go home, we talk about the sermon on the drive home and say, like, oh, you know and we compare it to what we've heard other um solid expositors preach on the same topic. Uh there's that community aspect of comparing um comparing notes from what we learn from scripture and from preaching that helps you guard against errors that uh that are so easy to fall into when you're the only one looking and and trying to interpret the scriptures. You know, so many heresies have started just by like somebody going off um on their own trying to read scripture, trying to come up with some mystical interpretation that explains everything, and surprise, surprise, they get deceived. and they come up with a heresy. Right. Right. So here's another thing. Just like we said with nature, you know, you can't you can't go and read nature like a book. You have to interpret it. Right. You have to you have to try out different interpretations and see what fits with the scriptures. Same with tradition and culture. You can't just you can't just take it at face value. And it's even more true with personal experience and things like your emotions and your feelings. Um let me ask it this way. If you feel pain, like if you're we we were talking about doing math this morning and how some of us hate to do math. Um if you sit down and and you just hate doing math, like is your your frustration and your pain true Always beware of questions like that. Yeah, your pain your pain is a fact, right? Like it's it is a fact that you are feeling uncomfortable doing that. Uh what if you were to take that pain and say, therefore, I shouldn't do math It's a fallacy, right? Yeah, because you you are taking something that is a fact, which is your your discomfort and frustration, and you're interpreting it, right? You're taking that and you're you're changing it into a moral imperative, an ethical command. That's an interpretation. Personal experience always has to be interpreted. Right. There is no there is no inherent like truth or falsehood in in your emotional facts that you experience. you you can construct interpretations of your feelings that are true or false. Which is easier to do? To construct a true interpretation or a false interpretation of your feelings? So which is easier to do? Construct a true interpretation of your feelings or a false interpretation of your feelings? False ones easier. How do you know? Because our heart. Our heart, yes. The Bible says the heart is deceitful above all else and desperately sick. Who can know it? So we should be very, very skeptical of our interpretations of our own personal experience. Like oftentimes we don't even realize we're interpreting our experience. We just think that our experien that our emotions, our feelings are telling us what we should and shouldn't do. But the first step is to recognize, no, we're interpreting our experience. to to b uh into that moral command or like that that should or should not. And we have to be very skeptical. We have to realize that often we're gonna get our own heart wrong We're not gonna draw the right lesson from what we're feeling. Oh yeah, totally. Yeah, I mean the the it's been very um you know, sort of common these days to talk about all these different sources of bias. And most of them trace back to this principle that we can't know our hearts. Right? Our hearts are deceiving us. Um, you know. So, yeah, even even in secular society they'll they'll sort of recognize this principle. in in some in some areas. But then in other areas it's it's to all follow your heart, you know, trust your heart. That's that's the mess. So it's a very sort of schizophrenic or bipolar uh message from society. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And just speaking Haha, from personal experience. Uh when when I was um when I was in grad school, I was depressed. I was I was legit depressed for like about two years, um, because I didn't really like doing chemistry and I I knew that like getting a PhD in chemistry only sets you up for a career in chemistry, or so I thought. Right. So I was looking at, here I am, started my career uh looking at like forty more years of doing something I didn't like. And so I was depressed and I was like trying to look for an explanation for how I got here. Like why am I depressed, you know And I in my mind I would like search around for an explanation. And I would hit on something like, oh, oh okay, well it's just this. You know, it's just like if I just changed my project a little bit, then I'd like it more. And then I'd feel so happy that I found the explanation and I'd go to bed and then I'd wake up in the morning and be like, Oh no, that's not gonna help at all you know, like it would be compl So I experienced the deceptiveness of my heart. You know, I was so confident many times that I was correctly interpreting my experience of depression. Um and then later, you know, twenty-four hours later I could see very clearly that my confidence was utterly misplaced Right, so this will lead you all over the place and and you know, get you lost in the wilderness. Um like the conclusion of that uh the conclusion of of my story. Um well yeah so w the concl um if you guys want to read it it's it's in it's in What's that yeah no I so So there were there were sort of two resolutions to that. There was the there was the sort of material or or like external um resolution to that, which is that um I I got into programming and statistics and data analysis and that that turned out to be like a much better fit with the kind of work that I wanted to do. But if I had just gotten there without having without like being changed in in my heart uh and my attitude towards God, then no no problem would have been solved. So the major resolution was the spiritual resolution where I had to essentially take this dream that I had from from childhood of being like a world famous scientist. That was my dream. My dream was to grow up and win the Nobel Prize. And use my Nobel acceptance speech to um share the gospel with the scientific community. And what so the What I had to do was take that dream and realized that it was a a selfish and prideful dream. I really just wanted fame. You know, I wanted glory for myself. And I I sort of coded it in this in this theological, God-honoring veneer um that oh I'm gonna use that platform for your glory. But really I wanted fame, I wanted glory. So I had to take that dream, I had to die to that dream and sacrifice that to the Lord and I had to um be ready to sort of receive whatever the Lord wanted to bring in terms of my career and my life. Um and once I once I got there it took like a probably two years for me to get there. that's when um I started getting out of the depression. Um and that prepared me to start a career in the government in in a you know, secret organization where I by definition will never achieve any fame or glory for the work that I do. So yeah, that's in a nutshell the resolution of that. Um Yeah, if you want to read more about that, that's I wrote this this testimony uh back in during the COVID lockdown and I shared it with the group like a year ago, but uh if anyone missed it, I can Oh I'll be happy to send it again. Um so this this is the biblical epistemic hierarchy, right? If we're talking about epistemology, how do you know what you know? What sources of truth do you trust and do you weigh highly? This is the biblical picture Um, what is the world's epistemology today? Yeah, completely flipped. Completely opposite, right? Personal experience is number one. Like you cannot argue with anybody's personal experience in this in this day and age. Like that that is their reality. Um that is that, you know, everyone is the ultimate authority on who they are. We do not have a fixed human nature that we share as all people in the world. You know, like You have your own nature and and you have to discern subjectively what that is, nobody can tell you what it is. You have your own nature and you have to discern that subjectively by yourself, nobody else can tell you who you are. And the point of life is to live in authentic accord with what you discern subjectively about your nature. Right? That's the message of today. So number one, here. Um tradition and culture, that's a little more complicated because you know people today um they would distinguish between like traditions and cultures of the majority of the oppressor group, and they would say, oh, that's all false, that's all worthless beyond worthless, it's actually unjust and oppressive, so we gotta throw that away. But they will exalt, you know, traditions and cultures that come from outside the mainstream uh and and treat them as as authoritative Uh nature nature gets demoted, right? Like like I mentioned, the assumption today is that we don't have a fixed universal human nature. Um that, you know, even as they they make statements that are that are universal about human nature, like we all have a sexual orientation or we all have a gender identity They they out of the other side of their mouth would deny that we have any fixed universal human nature. Um and often they'll they'll resist arguments uh that are rooted in nature and reject things like biological facts and and clear biological facts. And then of course scripture is just trite out for the world. So You know, but that this there's a reason we discussed all this before we go into the particular arguments and particular evidence that gets brought up because If you're talking with someone who has an epistemology that's the exact opposite of what we've written up here, they're going to go first to personal experience and they're going to think that they're making a very strong argument from personal experience. And, you know, for you, if you have a biblical epistemology hearing it, you're going to say, well, how do you know that you're interpreting your experience correctly? How do you know that your experience is reliable? Um that how do you go from an emotional fact of some pain that you experience to an a moral imperative? Like how do you do that exegesis of your emotions? Um Yeah, so it's it's I think understanding this helps us understand why often we are talking past each other in society these days. Um and hopefully Hopefully it'll help us get to a point where we can actually examine some of these underlying, go deeper and examine some of these underlying epistemic assumptions with people. You know, ask those questions like, well, how what what do you mean when you say I know that that I'm a gay man? Or what what does that mean? You know, how how do you know that Like, what what about your personal experience tells you that? You know, just uh I think by going back to how we know what we know, um Maybe that's a way that we can start to actually uh evangelize people. Um but anyway, in this class, for the rest of I don't know, twenty minutes we got, I I wanted to um talk about some of the arguments that you hear out there. And we're gonna go in order of the things we've written up here We're going to proceed in in biblical order and look at some of the arguments that the LGBTQ movement advances from each of these four domains. Um you know I would say most uh people in the LGBTQ movement reject scripture as authoritative and and give it no place at all in their epistemology. But there are a few people who who do um you know call themselves Christians and appeal to scripture uh or attempt to anyway in support of the LGBTQ worldview and movement. So I would sum up that argument this way here in uh if you look at four B one one that in italics there that this is my paraphrase of what I've seen um people argue like from within the the Christian camp about the LGBTQ movement. They'll say so first of all, scripture doesn't address homosexual orientation. You know, they'll say it addresses homosexual behavior, um, and they'll have various explanations for for why that's not uh relevant to our modern society, but they'll say scripture doesn't actually talk about somebody being gay or being lesbian. You know, th it doesn't talk about homosexual orientation. And they'll say scripture doesn't address committed same-sex relationships. It addresses homosexuality from the point of view of like abuse or rape or commercial sex or like um temple prostitution or thing you know they'll say well all the all the passages about homosexuality are about that stuff it doesn't address like same sex marriage. Um And the Bible doesn't address transgender identity specifically because like the biblical authors didn't know what we know today about how we have these internal categories of our identity like sexual orientation and gender identity. So they'll use they'll say like, well they were just so ancient in their worldview and they don't know as much as we know today. And finally they'll say so so they'll that's sort of like the negative argument that's used to to get rid of the passages of scripture that do talk about homosexuality, that do talk about talk about male and female. And then they'll say, on the positive side, we've got the general thrust of Scripture is um is love, right? Is the ethic of love. Love the Lord your God, love your neighbor as yourself. And that ethic of love is what compels us to accept people for who they are, including uh gay and lesbian people for who they are and transgender people for who they are. Right? So that's that's the argument in a nutshell that I hear from um you know, from from people who call themselves Christians advocating for the LGBTQ worldview. Right, so um We've got to respond to this. Uh and I think the first response to give is that um You know, the mm their negative argument that the scriptures that deal with homosexuality in male female are irrelevant is just false. Uh because the Bible when it talks about when it condemns homosexuality, homosexual behavior, it makes no distinction, it's not specifically limited to cases where like there's temple prostitution going on or there's or there's rape involved or um you know there's no there's no specialized cases there. It's just a general statement that all homosexual activity is sinful in the in the eyes of God. It's all sexual immorality. It's all the kind of thing that uh that for which God is condemning the world. It's not the only sin for which God condemns the world. It's listed alongside a ton of other sins, like greed and idolatry and lying and stealing. So it's not the only sin But it is categorically a sin. Um also rebellion against God's male-female design, that's condemned in scripture. Uh we've gone over this a lot in previous outlines, so I'm not going to belabor the point here. So their first premise is false. The The Bible does absolutely speak about these things. Um But more importantly, you know, even if we couldn't find a specific verse that says, you know, homosexuality is wrong or, you know, have a man having sex with a man or a woman having sex with a woman is wrong. Even if we couldn't find a specific verse like that, we would still know plenty from the scriptures to be able to conclude uh that sex is reserved for a man and a woman in the covenant of marriage. Right. Uh because we know from Scripture that God created us and that we must conform to his standard. Right? We know that um that our identity does not come from within us, right? Our identity is not these subjective categories that differ from person to person. We have the image of God. Everybody has the same image of God, right? Uh God created us and we must conform to his standards. Um last time we talked about mimesis and poesis. These are the two ways of conceiving of identity and human nature Right. Mimesis is that we we mimic, we we have to imitate something that's external, that's given to us by God. Uh poiesis is we express what comes out of ourselves, right? We create our own identity. Um the Bible is thoroughly mimetic mimetic not poetic. There's nothing in the Bible that says that hints that we are the source of our own identity. It's all our identity is given to us by our Creator. Right, so so look at 1 Peter 1 fourteen through 16, which I've got here in the outline. It says, As obedient children, do not be conformed to the former lusts which were yours in ignorance. So that's that's the things coming out of you. In your ignorance you had all these lusts coming out of your heart. He's saying don't be poetically conformed to the stuff coming out of you But instead what? But like the holy one out there who called you, be holy yourselves also in all your behavior, because it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. Don't just live what comes out of you in authentic conformity to your lust. You know, mimic the Lord. Imitate the Lord who created you and is holy. That's the basic message of Christian holiness in Scripture. And then we also know from Scripture that He created us, male and female. He created our body and our soul as an organic unity, right? He knit us together in our mother's womb. He doesn't he didn't just like create a a male body and then like take a soul off the shelf and accidentally grab a female soul and stick it in the male body Right. That's not how God creates human beings. That's not the biblical picture. The b biblical picture is that human beings are knit together uh as an organic unity of body and soul and they're not supposed to be separated um and they're there's they're they're intimately intertwined Right, yeah. I mean it's yeah, I have been realizing, you know, as I over the last ten or fifteen years, just how important Genesis and those first several chapters of Genesis are to the biblical worldview. They they explain so much, they they determine the direction of our attitudes uh so about so much of what we encounter in the world. Right. Yeah. Yeah, I think that that is um You know, if if you were to ask me like where where is the culture going to go now that it's torn down marriage, now that it's torn down or in the process of tearing down the distinction between male and female, um I think that you can see in like in the Ivy Leagues in the Academic Vanguard um people are starting to argue for the non-exceptionalism of the human species. Right? So they're starting to tear down the distinction between humanity and animals Um and you know who knows how that's going to actually work out in society, but I think that's the next frontier after after transgenderism. Yeah. Well, yeah, and arguably if you look at the flood, um, you know, and and what came before the flood As as uh 'cause remember God said he looked at humanity and he said, like wow. The intention of their heart is only evil from youth Uh they're completely corrupt, I'm going to destroy them. So if you look right before that at what the explanation for that corruption is, um arguably it is Uh it says, the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful, and came down and took as many of them as they wanted for for wives. And it's debatable what that passage means, but I think, you know, probably the best interpretation is that that means angels and humans were you know, crossing that boundary, tearing down that creative distinction and and procreating together. Um so it's kind of an echo of like the the reason why God considered that one of the reasons why God considered that society so corrupt was that they were tearing down created boundaries, like the ultimate created boundary of species. And who knows, maybe maybe we have to get there before Um before God will say, this society is completely corrupt. Um and and the events of of Revelation can happen. That's totally speculative. That's not an inspired interpretation of scripture, but it's just an echo of things that were happening in Noah's day that might be starting to happen now Um, and then okay, so that, you know, we gotta remember that God created uh body and soul as an organic unity. Right, there's nothing in scripture that would support this Gnostic idea that the body is wrong, like our my my body is the wrong gender There there's nothing in scripture to support that that kind of category error can happen when God makes a person. Um and then also we have to remember he created marriage as a lifelong covenant between one man and one woman. And he didn't just create sex as like some recreational activity that humans do. He created sex in the context of that covenant of marriage to be the what You guys remember we talked about this a couple months ago? The sign and the seal of the covenant of marriage, right, just like every other covenant God makes with us has a recurring sign, an action that confirms the covenant, so does marriage. And that act is sex. And that's what sex is designed for. It's not designed primarily for individual happiness. It's designed to to s be the sign and the seal of the covenant of marriage between one man and one woman. Um so the scriptural case against homosexuality and against transgenderism is not just like a couple of verses from the Old and New Testaments. Uh if there's an if there's one thing I want you to take away from this discussion, it's that it's it's a whole Bible case against homosexuality and transgenderism and four uh male-female marriage and the good created distinction between men and women. Okay, any any questions? I know we we've we've breezed through that, but I just went through it really fast because we talked about it a lot in the last few months. The weapons of our warfare are not according to the flesh, but they are divinely powerful for destroying strongholds. and speculations that set themselves up against the knowledge of God. Right? These are that's what it is. That's what the LGBTQ movement and worldview is. It's a a set of speculations um that are presented culturally as authoritative, that set themselves up against the knowledge of God. Um yeah, and we we are to respond to that by taking every thought captive. That's the passage that that that fame famous verse comes in. We take every thought captive. We have to examine every argument like this and take it captive to the obedience of Christ. So that's what we're doing in this class. That's uh yeah, you you f you figured out what uh what my purpose was here. Um yeah, other questions Yeah, that's a great question. Yeah, because the applications, so whenever just sort of a meta point, whenever you're doing like teaching the scriptures You have to make a clear distinction between interpretation of scriptural principles and application. 'Cause there's always with any scripture with any passage of scripture there's always only one interpretation. You know, the Holy Spirit meant something and one and one thing only when he inspired that passage. But there are many, many applications. So like If we open up the discussion to how do you apply this on your campus or in your workplace, um there can be many different ways. Uh and and I don't have one answer for that question. Um but like have you have any of you ever faced a a situation uh where this has come up in your social circles, in your workplace, on the campus. Um never had anybody who um was making was making an argument from scripture or you know, or like a a Christian case. supposedly, for uh for same-sex marriage or for acceptance of transgender identity. Yeah. Yeah, that's a very common argument to appeal to something like translation errors and say say like, oh, that doesn't mean what we think it means. Um but usually that that kind of argument is made by somebody who hasn't who like, first of all, doesn't know the original languages and hasn't actually made a thorough study of how you would translate that. Um but it also i you know like it ignores that whole Bible case of like this is what marriage and sex are for and there's no room for like male, male, female, female, um, in that in that definition that we get from all of scripture. Yeah, but it's it's hard to know how to respond to something like that. Um Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah. Right. And it's easy to um you know it should be sort of a cautionary tale for us, you know, because like I'm sure There are lots of scriptures where we do this to ourselves, right? We read it and we say, Oh, you know, that probably means something else. But we haven't really looked into it. You know, I used to do this with with Genesis when it said um you know day one, day two, day three. I used to say, oh you know, that doesn't mean day. It just means like long ages, right? This is this is all allegory. And um so I fell I fell victim to to that exact same kind of reasoning. Like we it takes a lot of hard work to actually do this, you know, to put scripture up here and to humble yourself and submit to scripture when it says something you don't like. Um And, you know, that's that's something we have to work hard at and we have to humble ourselves on. But yeah, all the people around us are uh who who claim to be Christians and have maybe a wrong understanding of verses like that, they're in the same position. They have to they have to be reminded about like we need to humble ourselves under the Word of God and not just like look for the most convenient, easiest interpretation that that lets us off the hook. Well, I don't think we're gonna have time to pray today, but I just wanna before we go, like Aaron, you mentioned love is love. That's kind of the slogan these days, right? That that encapsulates the ethic of our of our day, which is that All love is the same, right? All any affection expressed in any committed relationship um is equally worthy of uh of acceptance and admiration. That's not the biblical view of love. You know, and biblically we might respond, not all love is loving. Right? Love because biblically, what does love mean? Right, we see love in the example of Christ who laid aside his life for our sake, so that we might live. So a biblical definition of love would be love means seeking the good of another person, even at great expense to yourself. That's biblically what love means. But notice you can't seek what's good for another person unless you know what's good for that other person. Right. If you have a false idea of what's good for somebody and you seek what you think is good for them, you're actually going to be seeking evil for them, and that's hate, not love. Right? So it's easy for love to become hate without knowledge of the truth. And that's why um Paul says Uh in in places like Philippians 1, 9, and 10, this is on page 4 here. He says, And this I pray, that your love may overflow still more and more in what in real knowledge and all discernment, so that you may discover the things that are excellent or good, you know, so that you may be sincere and blameless for the day of Christ. So he Paul is saying If you want to love people, if you want your love to be genuine and to overflow, it has to be grounded in real knowledge and all discernment. Love is not love that ignores the truth. Uh or, you know, as I've written here, love that sins against another person's body, as in homosexuality, or affirms someone's false and damaging view of identity, as with transgenderism, that's not love because it's ultimately harmful. It's not aimed at the good of the other person. It's actually aimed at evil for that person. Does that make sense? We we have to be ready to respond to love is love. You know, like love is not love unless it rejoices in the truth. Okay. Um that's time. So let me pray first and uh oh here. I will