Yeah, so okay, pick up an outline if you haven't already. Um yeah, so this is we did start this um just before August, before I went away for three weeks. And um then we were continuing it last week, but I think I'll just go do a little bit of review uh from the top here So we're talking about queer theory and LGBTQ plus issues. And there's a reason I saved this for the end, is because um You know, it's really easy for us as as Christians to um sort of focus on the world and on the the very obvious and um and explicit sins in the world. And that can lead to a lot of um sort of internal self-righteousness, thinking like, oh, we're we're so much better than the world uh just because we followed the law. Which, you know, if you read the New Testament, uh, Paul is full of warnings against that kind of mentality. Good morning. Um so we don't want to do that. We don't wanna uh I didn't want to start with this, start with looking at the world and its obvious sins, um because Uh so that's why we started by going through first God's design for male and female and for marriage um and then looking at some of the issues that we face as believers with our own lust and our own um sinfully corrupted attitudes and and behaviors towards uh things like sex and gender. That's why we started with that. But it's important to talk about this stuff. Um So just a reminder, section one is just very brief bullets on what we've covered already in previous outlines. What's true, basically? God created us. He made us and we're accountable to him. Uh you know, we did we're not here by accident. Um we didn't we didn't just evolve as as the result of random processes. We were actually accountable to God he made us for a purpose. And second, he created us male and female. We spent several weeks talking about this. So you can go back to the first outline if you want a refresher on the scriptural basis of male and female. Third, he created marriage. Remember, it has a lifelong covenant. Uh it's not just a uh mutually convenient relationship or a contract. It's actually a covenant, biblically, between one man and one woman. And Following on that, he created sex as the sign and seal of that marriage covenant. Um to seal the covenant and to produce children So that's just what we have what we should have in our mind as the background from what we've been studying for the last several months before we start into analyzing the claims that are coming from the LGBTQ plus movement. And so the first the first time I uh went over this, uh I guess that was like five weeks ago now, I Um we spent a lot of time on this thing I called the identity matrix. Not not like the identity matrix from linear algebra, if you've taken that, but the matrix of identities. So you can when you're talking about human identity. Uh you can put categories on this matrix where immutable things can be immutable or mutable. That basically just means unchanging or changeable. And things can also be Normative or non-normative. Okay, so who knows what normative means? Um it's related to the word normal, but it doesn't just mean something that's typical It has it's not just a descriptive term, it's a prescriptive term. It's about what should happen. Normative means if something is normative, that means it has a morally binding effect or morally binding implication for how you should act. Alright. So uh what's an example of um like a n of a normative and immutable part of who we are, of our identity. Something about us that can't change and that has serious implications for how we should act. Our gender, yeah. Which I'm gonna I'm gonna write sex and gender, uh 'cause um in the biblical view Uh we use these terms interchangeably, right? Your biological sex and your gender are the same thing on the biblical view. They are something about you that's immutable, right? You can't change it Biblically speaking. And it's normative. It it has implications. Whether you're a man or a woman has implications for how you should act and you know what what you should and should not do So everybody see how that's that's normative, what what normative means in this context? So sorry, who was here when we drew out this this matrix? Alex you were here. Right. Yeah the rest I didn't think the rest of you were here. Um so this is good. This is new for most of you. Um anything else in this category? What what's up here How about our humanity, right? Just not even the fact that we're male and female, just the fact that we're human and not animals. Right? That's something immutable. It's not going to change. It's something that's normative. We have moral obligations as human beings that animals don't have. I mean they don't have any moral obligations, right? So our humanity, our species. Um, believe it or not, this is something that's that is denied in the halls of academia uh these days, that that there is this moral, ethical distinction between human beings and and other animals. Um What hey Josh. Uh what else is up here in this category? Is there anything else about us as believers specifically that's up here? Is there anything about us as believers that cannot change and that has serious implications for how we ought to behave? Yeah. Salvation, yes. Yes So I'm gonna um yeah, I'll write salvation at the very top here, because that's actually the most the most immutable and the most normative thing about us if we're believers, right? Because if we're saved Jesus said, no one can snatch you out of my hands. Like that cannot be changed. Like we might um yeah, we we might die, we might lose our physical life, but we're never going to lose our eternal life. And it's supremely normative. The fact that we're saved means that not only are we under all these commands of the New Testament, we're actually free and able to obey them. It's supremely normative and supremely immutable. So salvation is the big one up there. Um I would also add um like your status as a husband or a wife. Once you're married I mean this is a little bit tricky because um you don't start out as a husband or a wife. So it's mutable in the sense that you can become a husband or a wife, but the way God designed it, once you are a uh once you are married, that's for life. Uh and so it's supposed to be immutable once you're in the category. And it is normative, right? Because uh If you're a husband, you have certain responsibilities towards your wife by virtue of being a husband that you didn't have before. Alright, so these are the kind of things that are in this category. But there's stuff in all these other ones too. So let's take them one at a time. What's something that's normative but mutable? You guys think of anything? Something that can change that's temporary, but while you're in the category It has implications for how you should act. A job, yes, that's an excellent example of something in this category. Your job You don't uh your job is gonna change, right? You m you're not you're not born with a job. And once once you're in a job, you can leave that job. But once you're in that job, does that have implications for how you should act? Yeah. Yeah, you have a um a responsibility to show up on time and do your best work, um, you know, serve serve the interests of your employer, that kind of thing. And notice this is a good illustration of what it means to be normative, right? Say you're applying to work at different places and you apply to McDonald's and Burger King, right? There's no right or wrong choice between those. I mean some of you might be like super partisan on that issue, but um there's no right or wrong choice. It's not like It's not like there's a moral good and evil to choosing McDonald's or Burger King. But once you've committed to one Now that's normative. Now that's binding. Uh like if you choose to work at McDonald's, you should show up at McDonald's, not Burger King. to work. Right. So that I mean there's a crucial distinction here between normative versus like morally right and wrong. Think things that are normative they carry implications for the morality, but it but they may not be moral choices in themselves. Yeah, there's a lot of nuance here. Um okay, anything else I guess I'll just for the in the interest of time I'll put up here um the parent-child relationship. What's that? Oh yeah. Yeah, because this is mutable, right? It's gonna change over time. As as a parent, my kids are not always going to be under my authority. And yet it's very normative, right? I have certain responsibilities to my children while they're under my authority. And they have responsibilities to obey and and and respect and honor while they're under my authority. Alright, how about this one? Immutable but not normative. Something you cannot change about yourself, but that doesn't really have any moral implications for how you should act. Yeah. Your age Well, I mean I might put that in the m mutable well hmm yeah. This is kind of tricky because like your age is going to change, but you can't change it. Right? So it's not like it's not like you control your age. So yeah, I guess I would say in that sense it's immutable, but it's not really normative. Um Ethnicity. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, that's that's sort of the right? You can't change your ethnicity. At least not yet. I mean maybe the world will invent some way. But um it but it's not really normative, right? It's not like It's not like white people and black people have different moral requirements in God's law. Um yeah, things things like that, like your birthplace. Um certain certain physical characteristics, uh like I'm thinking like your natural hair color or your natural eye color. You can dye your hair, and there's actually nothing wrong, of course, with with changing your hair color. But, you know, in as far as what what your natural hair color is, it's uh you can't change that, but it's not normative for you. But this brings up a great point We now have technology to change our hair color, technology to change our eye color. And in fact, technology has the effect of making immutable things mutable Right? So I'm going to write that under here as sort of a as sort of a an effect or a trend. Technology tends to take things from this column and shift them over here. And that's what we're facing now in in regard to like sex and gender. Now we have surgeries and uh hormonal treatments that can take something like your biological sex that's immutable and actually attempt to change it. Uh and so, you know, sometimes technology plays a good role in helping us change things. Um But sometimes it's actually not good when technology allows us to change what is immutable and normative. Um but yeah, just keep that in the back of your mind. Let's fill in this last quadrant here. What's what are some things that are mutable and non-normative? Something Yeah, your circumstances. Excellent. I mean some of your circumstances are normative, but most of them are not, right? Like um the place you live, the house you live in. You can change that. And it doesn't really carry any any moral distinction or moral obligation for you. Um anything else Yeah. Um yeah, clothes. Anything clothes. Uh yeah, I'll just put possessions. What about inside you? Anything internal that falls in this category. Yeah, your feelings, right? I'll put that up here. A really important one. What's that? I was gonna say like fine parts or what the Yeah, I'm talking about um like your psychology, right? Like your feelings or your Your preferences you might say. Like yeah, preferences. Your your interests and your hobbies and that kind of thing. All this all these things that are all about like your internal psychological life. They Your preferences are not normative, right? And we make this mistake all the time of assuming that our preferences are normative and and binding not just on us, but on everybody else Like you know, we have to we have to lead worship this way. We have to play this style of songs. That's my preference, um, but we don't recognize that it's my preference, we think it's the right way to do it Um so that's a this is a mistake, a ca a category confusion that people make all the time. But feelings and preferences are not normative, and they can change, of course. Right? So when we're thinking about identity Which of these uh squares, these quadrants, matters the most in terms of how we think about our own identity? Yeah, the top left, the things that are immutable and normative, the things that we can't change and that have uh a binding implication for how we should act how we should live. These are the most important categories of our identity. So what uh What we've got happening here, when we're thinking about LGBTQ uh claims and and issues, what the movement is is trying to do is trying to basically exchange These rows. Exchange the normative and the non-normative. By taking your sex and your gender and saying your your biological sex is not normative anymore, right? It's not the fact that I was born a man doesn't have any uh any bearing on on who I who I feel myself to be. Right? So that and I need to change my bodily sex to align with my internal gender identity. So Uh what this ideology is doing is it's taking sex and gender, moving it down to this quadrant, and replacing it with something called gender identity. And It's doing a similar thing with this. And this is broader than than just homosexuality. This is like the sexual revolution in general uh says, well, you know, the fact that I've entered into this marriage covenant, that's not really morally binding on me anymore. And it's not immutable either. I should be able to change it by getting like a no-fault divorce Uh right, this was a thing that came about in the eighties where the legal framework started to say, you know, before that it was hard to get a divorce. You had to have uh demonstrable grounds for the divorce like uh adultery or abuse Nowadays, pretty much if if the parties agree to dissolve the marriage, even if one party sometimes uh wants to dissolve the marriage, it it can be over. legally. So that's called no-fault divorce. That has the effect of moving the husband and wife category down here too into something that's changeable and not really morally binding anymore. And instead, this is replaced with sexual orientation and sexual expression. These are the things, this is what the world now considers normative. you know, my sexual orientation, my my internal sense of being attracted to men or to women or to both. That's normative. That's what determines how I should act. on the on the world's view now. And that's something that's immutable, right? Notice the claim uh that, you know, I'm born with my sexual orientation. I'm born gay or I'm born lesbian, and I can't change it. And I shouldn't try to change it. That's that's the claim that's being made here. Um so really, you know, when when we plot identities on a matrix like this uh it helps us understand the claims that are being made in the LGBTQ movement that it's taking cr um categories that God has created uh that are the most important identity markers, the most important categories in which we think about ourselves as human beings, taking them and moving them, demoting them to the least important category and replacing them with man-made concepts. So that's what's going on here. It's not really just about um it's not just about sin or individual acts of sin. Uh it's about claims about human nature and it's about uncreating what God has created. Uh so I think it's really important to to have this have this sort of global view of things when we start talking about these identity issues. Okay, so any questions on the identity matrix here? And you see how technology is really enabling a lot of this stuff. uh the move from here to here. The move from from top to bottom, uh that's enabled by the last three or four hundred years of um of philosophical development that we're gonna uh that we overviewed last week and probably won't get time to to overview again. But that's a really interesting subject to study. I'm reading a book right now called um The Rise and Triumph of the Modern Self. If you are interested in tracing the intellectual lineage of the LGBTQ movement, that's a good book to read. It's pretty dense um but worth worthwhile. Okay, so um then we talked about s when when we when we look at claims that are coming from within the LGBTQ movement, claims like I am a gay man or um I'm a transgender woman. There are fundamentally three aspects to each of those claims. Let's take the uh the claim about being gay. That is fundamentally a claim about a feeling, about a behavior, and about an identity. Um We as Christians are used to hearing the distinction between, um, like, oh, you know, it's a lifestyle choice or uh versus I was born that way. Uh that's the way we're usually used to thinking about um those things. And that kind of covers the first two claims, the feeling and the behavior. Um they mean I'm attracted to other men sexually And um so you know that I I could certainly see that some of that same-sex attraction would be explainable by natural uh biological heredity. And You know, I think that doesn't really uh have that that's not really determinative for whether it's for whether the act of homosexuality is right or wrong. Uh but We'll talk about same-sex attraction a little more later. The second aspect of the claim is a behavior. Right? When when somebody says I'm a gay man, they're they're not just saying I'm sexually attracted to other men, they're saying, in most cases, I choose to have sex with other men. Right? And that's a choice uh very clearly. But there's an a third aspect to the claim that's even more important, and it's this identity aspect. I the identity aspect of that claim is that not only am I attracted to men, but my attraction to men is a fundamental part of my identity that I cannot change. Um and acting on that attraction on my sexual orientation is uh is vital to my well being. It's fundamental to me living the good life and achieving happiness as an individual. And not only that, but not only is it important and imperative that I act on my sexual orientation, it's important that society and other people recognize me for that Right, being recognized and accepted for my sexuality is vital to my well-being. That's that's the claim that's going on here. Um and and similarly for um someone who claims to be transgender Uh it's it's both a feeling, you know, I I feel like a woman even though my body is male. Um it's it's also a behavior, like I choose to present myself as a woman instead of a man. But most fundamentally it's a claim about identity Right, this my um my gender identity, my internal sense of uh feeling like a woman is a fundamental part of my identity and it's more important than my biological sex And so acting on it is vital to my well-being, and being recognized by society for it is vital to to my well-being. So this is really the claim that's at stake, right? This is really what's what's going on, what people are saying when we talk about being gay or being transgender. So just, you know, if you look down at the table here under under point C, um, it just summarizes these things. We've got the feeling, the behavior, and the identity aspect of each of the claims Um for for queer theory, which is sort of the intellectual foundation of the LGBTQ movement, it says it says that the feeling uh like same-sex attraction is normal and healthy Right, this is this is a a totally normal and healthy part of being a human being. Um but the Bible would say that this feeling either of same-sex attraction or of gender dysphoria, discontentment with your your bodily sex, that that is indwelling sin. Do you guys know the difference between indwelling sin and uh what you might call active sin or acts of sin. Um not really. That's an important distinction too. That's exactly right, yeah. That's exactly the distinction. Um You might you might not choose to lie, but the fact that there is some natural inclination inside your heart to distort the truth in service of your own interests That is that is indwelling sin, right? Anything that lives in our hearts that desires to do something that God has said we should not do is sinful Even if we don't act on it, even if we don't choose it, it's the principle of sin that's at work in us. Right? This is why when people talk about original sin, the the sin nature that entered humanity with when Adam uh sinned and fell. That's what they're talking about. It's not that every it's not that all babies are born choosing to lie. It's that we're born with the natural inclination to distort the truth in service of ourselves. Right? We're born with the natural inclination to lust after other people and use other people for our own selfish gain. That's indwelling sin. And same-sex attraction and gender dysphoria, those are examples of indwelling sin. Right? They're somebody m may never choose to act on their same sex attraction and in that in that sense they're avoiding the act of sin. But Um we're but somebody who who is inclined towards same-sex attraction is stri is dealing with indwellings in. Just like me When I'm inclined to lustful attraction to someone who's not my wife, I'm dealing with indwelling sin there. So I think that's an important distinction to keep in mind. And it's a really it's a huge difference between what the Bible says about these things and what uh what queer theory and our our modern culture says about these things Um but then if you look at the behavior, queer theory says that acting on these things is morally right and and it's even morally imperative, right? Um you should act in a way that fulfills your your sexual desires. But the Bible says that acting on these things is actually sinful. And these these would be acts of sin. like the way we're used to talking about sin, a sinful choice to go and and have sex with someone uh who who are you're not married to. Um or to go and and try to change your biological sex that that God made you. And then with respect to the identity, so queer theory is saying that these identities, sexual orientation, gender identity, are unquestionable truths. Uh right. If somebody says, I know as a gay man that my sexual orientation defines who I am and is immutable, you can't question that, according to queer theory. There's no higher source of authority on uh on somebody's sexuality than their own personal experience. But the Bible says that these identity claims are actually enslaving falsehoods. They're lies, their deceptions um that are in some sense engineered demonically uh to enslave people. And you can see how it does that, right? If if somebody grows up thinking that, hey, my sexual orientation is a fundamental part of my identity that I can't change and that I have to act on in order to be happy. then they're not going to be very open to the gospel, to a gospel that says, here's a transcendent moral standard from the God who made you Um and you have it means dying to yourself and acting against your um your sexual desires. So it's an it these are enslaving falsehoods. Um and You know, I think I think this whole like uh the whole picture of queer theory is designed to build a wall between people and the gospel. right, between people and considering um the claims of Scripture and who they are, who they were made to be by God. So notice this is this is the last point D. Um these claims here about identity, they're not just personal claims. They're always And they're always presented as personal claims. Like like, oh I know this is this is my sexual orientation, this is my gender identity, you don't have any right to um to vote on my gender. You don't get a say in in what my gender is. It's always presented as a as a personal issue, a personal truth. But these claims here are universal claims about how human nature operates. Does that does that make sense? Right, so the claim you can't claim that I have a homosexual orientation without claiming that sexual orientation is a category of human identity That's immutable and normative for everyone. Yeah, I just wanted to make that clear because that I think is lost completely in contemporary debates about homosexuality and gender identity. is that these are not just personal claims, they're universal claims about how human nature works. And at the core of that, of the difference is um this these concepts of called poiesis and mimesis. Right, so these are these are sort of two ways of looking at ethics and morality. Uh Poiesis says each individual is the source of their own normative identity. Right, our our who we are comes from inside us. Um mimesis is the opposite. Mimesis is Uh we our s the source of our identity and our moral obligations comes from outside of us. We're supposed to mimic something. That's why it's called mimesis. Um So like we the Bible is very mimetic, it's it's based on mimesis. We are supposed to imitate God uh and his and our moral requirements and who we are comes from God, from outside of ourselves. Uh but LGBTQ um ideology is is counter to that. It's poetic, meaning it says our identity comes from within ourselves. But when you sort of put it this way and compare it against the biblical worldview, it's pretty easy to see that the LGBTQ movement is a religious doctrine Right? It's just it's another religious doctrine. It's similar actually to an ancient religion called Gnosticism, uh, which many of you have heard of, I'm sure. Um It's not a fact of life. It's not an unquestionable truth relative to each person. It's a religious doctrine. Okay, any questions here? So we're going to skip page two. We've we covered that last week and it's not it's not actually the most important thing, but it is kind of helpful to understand um how these ideas have grown throughout the last three or four hundred years and what streams of thought have contributed to it. So You know, you can either pick up the book I mentioned or go back and listen to the the last sermon or or just take my word for it that that these things didn't just come up come about in the last several decades. They've they've been developing for hundreds of years Um and they're nothing new. And really they were anticipated even before that in Romans one, uh, where you see the basic principle that that uh a lot of these these um sinful actions like homosexual practice or um attempts to change your own biological sex. They're they're actually consequences that God has decreed for people who refuse to acknowledge him. So check out when you have time that that's point F there on page two about Romans 1. But the other thing we talked about last week was if you go over to page three, major bullet three, recognizing propaganda. Because it's rare, it's actually really rare. these days to see a logical argument in favor of uh homosexuality or or transgenderism Right? Usually you're not you don't see people writing like five paragraph essays where, you know, because of these three pieces of evidence, I believe that that people have a sexual orientation that's immutable and normative. Right. You don't you don't see those kind of intellectual arguments typically being made. They are there there are some out there and we'll deal with them probably uh next week. But what you mostly see is um what what I'm calling propaganda. And I'm not using that just as a polemic term. I'm saying Propaganda is is anything that tries to do sort of an end run around your intellect and target your emotions directly. Um and we see this in a lot of um a lot of popular culture, like movies and TV shows. Um you you see on the one hand uh a you know, a lot of characters who are um sort of presented as representative of traditional views or Christian views or the biblical view, and they're associated with all these negative traits like um you know, repressed sexuality and uh they're they're bitter and judgmental and miserable and they're just trying to pull everyone else into their own misery. Um things like that. And then on the other hand you have uh these days a lot of protagonists, a lot of the heroes of of the movies and T V shows are uh people who have this this sort of personal identity that the world doesn't like. Or something something about them, some hidden aspect of their personality that the world doesn't like. And they have to triumph by um sort of coming out of the closet, owning their identity and living as their authentic self. And that becomes the key to to um triumphing or or solving the problem in the story or whatever. Um and what I gave as homework, I guess Uh Chris, I think you were the only one here last week, but um so I'm gonna put you on the spot. I gave you homework to to see if you could uh see if you um notice any of these themes in like movies or TV shows that you watch this week. Did you notice anything? Oh okay. Yeah, well I I guess I guess that's a good reason not to do your your homework first. Um, but does anybody know um can anybody think of any examples like off the top of your head? And from movies or TV shows or or pop culture of um of these kinds of portrayals, these kinds of like emotionally targeted portrayals in in support of LGBTQ identity and against um you know Christian or biblical worldview. Oh no, I mean I mean old in the sense of no, like a lot of stories with a lot of like a super old traditional story. I heard they said well, but now Yeah. Even from a historic point. Well that's actually a great example of I mean, I didn't know that that it was like a millennium-old Chinese uh legend, but Yeah, so I I even just comparing the old one from the nineties versus the new remake, the live action remake, it's really interesting to see the change between the two Uh I don't know, it sounds like most of you have not seen the live action one. I wouldn't necessarily recommend it. But it's the same thing you're talking about, Lily, with the it's not there's no explicit reference to homosexuality or transgender identity or anything like that in there. It's just Mulan in the new one. Um Mulan is a girl who um who is able to use qi, which is something that only men can do. And so she has to disguise herself as a man, but then she's fighting against um this this witch who is a new character that was introduced, uh was not in the um Yeah, yeah, they took out Mushu and they introduced this witch. Anyway, so she's fighting with the witch, and the witch is like, you are you're weak because you're suppressing who you are and you won't be strong until you accept who you are and live it out for all to see. Essentially. I mean it's I'm paraphrasing. But but it's that it's poiesis, right? It's It's this idea that who I am comes within from with inside me, and my moral obligation as a human being is to live my authentic self. Right. That is the main message you see in a lot of pop culture today. And it has it's not explicitly about homosexuality or transgender identity, but it is laying the foundation for this transformation of identity Wow. Yeah. How if you don't mind me asking, how have you been navigating those? It's like You know you want to speak the truth. Yeah. But you know if you speak the truth, you're not gonna get this off. Yeah. So the question is How do I answer this question that's like true to what I believe not doing it? And I think that's kind of the line. So it's more of a I like kind of twisted to say like, oh, as a doctor I must be respectful of people not necessarily agreeing with all their demands because there's a we have a professional obligation as practitioners to maintain a patient's doctor bound Yeah. So it's just try to establish kind of things they would agree with as well. Right, yeah. Yeah, yeah. I know. I it's that is really tricky. I didn't even think about that. But it's probably just for the image right. Yeah, you're gonna say it's a little bit more. She just graduated from recent school. Yeah. They had her take a uh gender inclusive or gender like class that was understanding how she's in the pediatric IC and so uh she's still on moms giving their kids and whatever and so instead of using mother or um she her pronouns have to be For a new person to be more inclusive and to change your whole legate. Yeah. Make sure that whoever comes in uh Yeah. Man, the changing language is huge because language is how a worldview is conveyed, right? I mean so the attempt to change this language, yeah, too to like birthing person or what was the other thing? Like gender affirming care. That's that is I guess the the medical name for like um sex reassignment surgery or or hormone uh treatments. Like that's such an Orwellian phrase, right? Gender affirming care. It's It's gender destroying hair. Like so but it's but if they change the language, they can do sort of an end run around rational argument and just get it into the public consciousness uh without having to argue for it, right? Also in like um they'll bring up case studies make you emotionally charged by it. Yeah. So in order to attract it like, okay, so in that effect There's a lot of discrimination and a lot of pressure, which is true. The problem is then you're cherry-picking case studies like, oh but it's a particular pay personal transgender person. How do you feel about this? Do you have a moral obligation to stand up for that? Because they're being fully depressed. Which that is true, but but then they're suddenly implying like you need to support everybody because you're a support of person. Right. Support doctors are the best doctors. Yeah. The technical term for that is emotivism, right? Your your emotions determine your ethics on on this view, emotivism, right? If you if somebody is is in a uh vulnerable position or if they're a victim, your empathy for them uh trumps every every sort of logical consideration that you would have in favor of um of deciding like what's best for them. Like, oh this is really hard for you to understand this thing like the worst time you ever got bullied by someone, it's the exact same thing for that person. Um you would do the same thing. Yeah. I know. How do you lovingly point out that Yeah, uh right, you should not be being bullied. Like nobody should be like mean to you about this. But There, you know, your your it's not your innate identity that's the cause of this. It's it's being deceived and and and being deceived into rebelling against God's design. Yeah I mean it's really helpful, I think, to look at the compassion of Jesus, right? Because his compassion doesn't look like the world's compassion Right. You remember in John six, which I think was the last chapter we studied before moving into this um unit on on manhood and womanhood. Uh in John six he had just fed the five thousand because he had compassion on the crowd. Right? He looked out at them and he saw they were sheep without a shepherd. And so he had compassion on them and he fed them, he met their material needs. But in the the very next day, he was relentless in confronting them about their spiritual blindness Right, they were spiritually blind to their true need for real food and real drink. And he kept on presenting this hard teaching about himself, like, My flesh is true food, my blood is true drink to the point where a lot of his disciples even turned away from him. So, what did Christ's compassion look like? Yes, he went out of his way to meet their needs. He allowed himself to be interrupted and to serve uh the people, but he did not shrink back from delivering to them the truth that they needed to hear Uh I think it's it's just so informative. Like the world's compassion does not look like that at all. The world's compassion says tr throw truth out the window, just comfort people's emotions, you know Um, it's not it's ultimately not compassionate, not loving. Right? 'Cause it's just confirming them in a deception that's going to lead to eternal damnation I think there's a lot of confusion about this. You you will hear that a lot, like, oh, Jesus hung out with sinners. The implication being Jesus accepted sin, right, and their sinful practices. But it's very clear from what he said. You know, he said, Your righteousness has to surpass that of the Pharisees to even enter the kingdom of God. He was uh very clear in his rejection of sin um and but in his acceptance of people who repent of sin. Right? So People fail to distinguish between they they think there's two categories. They think there's the Pharisees who, you know, are self-righteous, and then there's sinners, and Jesus is the friend of sinners and the enemy of the Pharisees He's definitely the enemy of the Pharisees, people who think they're righteous on their own. But there's a third category there. There's there's not just sinners, there's repentant sinners and unrepentant sinners. And Jesus said, um you know, when he was talking in Matthew eighteen about church discipline. If your brother sins against you, you know, go and confront him and then bring two witnesses and then bring it to the church. And if he won't listen to the church, treat him like a tax collector or a gentile. Right, those were the categories that he used to talk about unrepentant sinners. And he was saying You know, there's this group of unrepentant sinners who yeah, they are on the broad road that leads to destruction and and they don't even care Um, so he was not the friend of that kind of unrepentant sinner. He was the friend of the repentant sinner, the sinner who was broken over his sin. uh who was poor in spirit, realizing he had nothing to offer God. Right? So which we need to be very very careful to maintain that that distinction in our mind when we're talking about Jesus because it's really easy just to say like, oh yeah, Jesus he was so compassionate, he just accepted everybody's sin and and accepted people the way they were But that's not that's not accurate. It's very easy to to make God in your own image. Well, I think In conclusion, I don't think we're going to get to number four dealing with the actual arguments today. We'll have to save that for next time. Uh but in conclusion, I would Uh I'll just repeat what I what I said last week. Um uh and how do we respond to propaganda like this, emotiv emotivism, things that that present these these sort of feelings derived cases for um LGBTQ positions. Uh well number one, we have to do what we're doing now. We have to spot the lie Uh right. And I this is this is a game that I play with my kids. Like when we're watching movies at home, we have family movie nights and so we'll be watching a movie and something like this will come up. Um You know, that's that's not overt. It's not like um you know, some some things are overt. But like we'll pause the movie and I'll say, Hey kids, can you spot the lie? And You know, my my ten year old is pretty good at uh at recognizing things, even the eight year old is. Um but it's to the point now where they're like, Uh dad, yes, of course that guy shouldn't do that or like, you know, this is this is wrong. But can we please get on with the movie now? But but we have to get in the habit of doing that. And you know, if you're watching a movie with your friends, maybe you can't pause it in the middle, but like after the movie's over, just say, hey, did you guys notice that one scene where the guy said um you know, you just have to be who you are or whatever. Uh what did you guys think about that? What's was that true? What is the truth? Yeah, and start a conversation with your friends about about that if if you're watching a movie and you uh come upon something like that. But maybe even more importantly, we we need to be really discerning about um the types of entertainment that we consume. Um you know, it's not uh it's we don't need to be legalistic about it. There's no like boxes to check. It's not like you're You're sinning if you watch a R rated movie or something necessarily. Um it's I'm not talking about that. I'm s I'm talking about seeking out art, seeking out entertainment, seeking out stories that represent the true, the good, and the beautiful. You know, seek out uh movies that convey that maybe they're not even Christian movies, but they convey themes um that are in line with with biblical reasoning and the biblical worldview. Probably my favorite example, like I uh I only watch kids' movies these days. Um so my favorite kids movie is actually Planes, Fire and Rescue. It's it's the sequel to Planes, which is itself a spin off of cars. So it's like really improbable that y you know, going this deep into spin-off and sequel land you'd find a good movie. But it's really good. And the reason it's good is because, you know, the the original Plains movie is is sort of the standard narrative of like um you know the main character uh wants to be a racer, but he's actually a crop duster and so he has to like overcome all these barriers to succeed and all that stuff. So you know the first movie's kind of meh but the second movie starts with he's already achieved his dream And it gets taken away from him. And so now he's he goes uh on to like a second career as a firefighter to help out some friends. Um but what he starts as kind of like a um you know a fun side side gig, it become it comes to the point where he is um faced with a choice to either to either s preserve himself and his own life or sacrifice himself to save other people. And um you know, he spoiler alert, he chooses the latter, he chooses to um sacrifice himself. I know, right? And my coward It's a plane. No, but it's seriously w um yeah. I I can't believe I'm talking this way about uh about a kid's movie. But it's I like uh we so we bought the DVD and we watch it, um you know, pretty pretty frequently with my kids, and I'm like, okay, this is this is good. You know, this these this is the themes that I want my my kids to internalize. Is that um you know the honoring of self-sacrifice, the honoring of uh placing others' interests above yourself and not just achieving your own dream and making it all about your your personal fulfillment and living your authentic self and all that stuff. Um so, you know, these are getting harder and harder to find, but if we really have to seek out these kind of things.