Well, uh this is one of the few times when we've got something in all four Gospels. So if you want the one with the most material, it would be John 13, verse 18. But it's also Matthew twenty-six, Mark fourteen, and Luke twenty-two. So I'm going to be reading from the um blended account we have here. And remember last week we were in the middle of the Passover meal, and uh Jesus at the very end of our time last week uh Introduced the Lord's Supper as a memorial going forward, right? And so here in section 169, as they were reclining at the table and eating, he, Jesus, said, I do not speak of all of you. Well, what's he talking about here? If you go back to the previous section, um uh Uh he talks about the the uh ordinance of the Lord's Supper and its purposes and its symbolism and so on. But here he's saying, I do not speak of all of you I know the ones I have chosen, but it is that the scripture may be fulfilled, he who eats my bread has lifted up his heel against me. From now on, I'm telling you before it comes to pass, so that when it does occur, you may believe that I am He, that is, the Messiah. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who receives whomever I send receives me. And he who receives me receives him who sent me. When Jesus had said this, he became troubled in spirit and testified and said, Behold, the hand of the one betraying me is with mine on the table. True lands say to you that one of you will betray me Now it's interesting that this subject is something that's covered in all four of the Gospels. Anyway, the disciples began looking at one another at a loss to know of which one he was speaking. Being deeply grieved, they each one began to say to him, one by one, Surely, not I, Lord. And there was reclining on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples whom Jesus loved, that is, John, who was writing that account. So Simon Peter gestured to him, John, and said to him, Tell us who it is with whom he is speaking. He may have done it in sign language. Tell him. And he, that is John, leaning back thus on Jesus' bosom, said to him, Lord, who is it? And Jesus answered, It is one of the twelve. He who dipped his hand with me in the bowl is the one who will betray me, the one for whom I shall dip the morsel and give it to him. For indeed the Son of Man is going to go, just as it has been determined, and is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had never been born. And thus, they began to discuss among themselves which one of them it might be, and so they're still kind of clueless, and who was going to do this thing And Judas, who was betraying him, said, Surely it is not I, Rabbi. And Jesus said to him, You have said it yourself. So when he had he, Jesus had dipped the morsel, he took and gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. After the morsel, Satan then entered into him uh apparently a second time. There's reference to him having entered Judas uh back at uh time a few days earlier when uh the the woman uh anointed Jesus Jesus for burial. And anyway, therefore Jesus said to him, What you do, do quickly Now, no one of those reclining at the table knew for what purpose he had said this to him, for some were supposing, because Judas had the money box, that is their resources, that Jesus was saying to them, buy the things that we have need of for the feast, or else that he should give them give something to the poor. So, after receiving the morsel, he, Judas, went out immediately, and it was night. So uh a fairly familiar account here. Um The disciples on a lot of topics were pretty clueless about what was going on. Jesus is talking to them about his coming death and this commemoration of his sacrifice in the Lord's Supper and and to a large extent they were clueless. Uh but here he's telling them in advance that one of them, one of the twelve, is going to betray him, even uh Uh I don't think he says it specifically, but uh even that night. So he tells Judas to to go Well, um at the end of last week I gave you some homework to read through the material in this lesson There's a lot of material here to try to answer the question, was the Lord's Supper instituted after Jesus, after Judas, left the upper room? Now that may seem to you to be a pretty trivial question. But there are people who are very serious about the need to get this answer right. And the reason they have the question is various places, the accounts of the Last Supper Record that Jesus said to them, This is my body shed for you, or broken for you, and my blood shed for you. And he was speaking to them directly. The twelve and um one of the tenants of Calvinism is limited atonement. And so in under that teaching, he wouldn't have died for all twelve of them because one of them was the devil, Judas. And if he was present when Jesus said that, that would have created problems for their understanding of Christ's sacrifice. So I belabor that point here because it's not at all clear to me from the text. And again, it gets back to what I was describing at the very beginning, that when you're blending the four gospels together, it seems to make the most sense to follow the chronology of Luke. Because he specifically said he was going to be laying out these things in chronological order. And so it's not an easy question to answer. I mean if if you go by the um chronology we've presented here It's it's a pretty simple answer. Judas um or Jesus introduced the Lord's Supper for us last week in the previous section, 168. And now here he's talking about the the betrayal and and then at the very end it says Judas went out. But you could read any of the four Gospels in and of themselves, and you wouldn't necessarily come to that conclusion Because none of the synoptics mentions when Judas left. Only John does. And the synoptics mention the Lord's Supper, but John doesn't He mentions the Passover, but not the Lord's Supper um instruction and and and so on within that. So I don't want to read through all this, that's why I kind of gave you the assignment. Does anybody have any questions about that? You can ask a question if you read it all. No questions. I have a question. Okay. And and and that is this. Um I don't see I don't quite see why it is as big of a deal for those people that contend that is. Because um when when we say limited atonement there are several other times when Christ has said something to the to the twelve. Okay, addressing them as though they were all um able to benefit from what he was saying and yet Uh there was always that understanding that Judas was going to be the Ottawa and Africa. And that didn't sing no consequence, so why would it be a consequence Yeah, he even said reign on twelve thrones over the over the twelve tribes of Israel. Right? How do you even make sense of that? Quite apart from limited donut. Um other questions? Anyway, I I agree. You need to look at the entire context of of scripture to make sense of that, right? Oh well, I think he says the same all of the false city. So if I were gonna limit it, then it shouldn't require us Yeah, I don't think anybody would disagree with that, but the point that is the words he used were not um this is my body shed for all Well actually in some cases he does say for many and so on. Um but of course Uh not not everybody um it's say not everybody responds but the sacrifice is there it's them is only uh applicable to the person Yes. But this the same sacrifice covers the whole world. I don't have a problem. I have a problem with Calvin. Not a problem with Jesus. No, that's very good of me. Yeah. That's what I'll end up. Yeah. I I read through it. I'm not sure that I absorbed all of it and read it thirkling. But basically the whole Bible Church agrees with the L and Tulip that as far as limited Actually, um if you read our doctrinal statement, there's no mention at all of limited atonement. Right. Um there's very specific reference to the other four of the five major tenants, but we're silent on limited Uh which means that and well the reason for that is well, there's lots of reasons for it, I guess. Um It's not as explicitly taught in Scripture. You have to put pieces together to come to that conclusion. And In our doctrinal statement, we didn't want to explicitly put those pieces together. We let people come to their own conclusion, including elders. So um uh we're just silent on it. And and we're silent on lots of other issues as well. And so um Um seems hard to believe. It's so long a doctrinal statement, right? Yeah, Larry. Against unlimited atonement is that people are in hell for whose sins have been paid already by Christ. So why are they why is there double jeopardy here. If Christ has already paid for their sins, God is unjust by Panishiva for sins and father. Yeah. Yeah. There's I'm I I don't think anybody who disagrees with limited atonement would disagree with the logic. I don't think. I think the argument is actually the other way. The fact that they are still in hell is proof positive that the atonement is limited Yeah, I'm I'm not so sure. But my my my position on it is that um Like many other things in Scripture that are hard for us to understand, if something isn't um uh clearly taught in Scripture, we need to leave room for God to be God and for us not to put him in a corner. Um I'm not saying that this is the case, but most if not all of the heresies the church has dealt with, particularly in the early church, have been because people have applied logic to what God has revealed in his word and um come up with conclusions that are not consistent actually with God's word Like, it doesn't make sense that Jesus could be both God and man. So you've got heresies on both sides of that Until you realize that scripture, no, it's it's actually teaching us that he's the God-man, 100% God, 100% man. There is a saying that men think logically to the wrong conclusion. Happens all the time. Yeah. It doesn't mean that the logic is inherently wrong. God created us with minds to use logic and apply everything to scripture, but um We need to be very careful if we go into Scripture with constraints. That limits what Scripture is teaching because we've placed those constraints on it. And I'm not saying that's necessarily the case here, but we are all prone to that We are all prone to that. Yeah, Larry. I I think it's it's helpful um if we realize that um to accurately um uh comprehend the Bible, we've got to create different categories of thinking. Categories where man can't Categories where I can die in order to live. We've got to create categories that aren't there international life in order to do justice to structure. For sure. And that needs to be guided, of course, by Scripture, what God has revealed. Not, okay, I'm going to start with what makes sense and impose that on Scripture. But given the weight of all of Scripture, conform my tendency to pigeonhole God Put that on the side and just say, well, what does Scripture actually say? What does it teach? And so there are lots of things where we're going to come to the point where we say It doesn't make sense. What do you mean God is one? God is three? I mean you're used to that conclusion, right? I believe it because I see it in Scripture It doesn't make complete sense, but why should the essence of God make sense to me of mere mortal? Right? You you're sort of comfortable with that that thinking. Yeah. Would you say that all the humans in the world that God makes sense to them? Possibly. Possibly. They created him these completely logical quarters. Yeah, the natural mind of course, and this is what's true of all other uh non-biblical religions They come to the conclusion that I need to appease God. I need to please Him. I need to show myself to be worthy. That's a workspace Salvation. And that's that's what comes naturally to people. And that's where they all get unique. But the basic underlying thing is I need to um it's it's a religion of work. And that's what comes natural to people. Yeah, I was just gonna say I don't think it's all a non quote unquote Bible-based religion. I mean the Catholic for instance is basically the whole thing on on change too about how you know not only do you have to have faith but you also have works to to be justified Yeah, but picking and choosing which verses to interpret out of context of the whole scripture is not really a Bible-based religion. Very true Okay, well, I wasn't intending to convince anybody, but what I wanted to lay out here was a hermeneutic. Where we're letting the scripture speak and fit all the pieces in our case, fit all the pieces together from the four gospels and to some extent, other accounts like an axe, and proceed uh based on what is actually said And when I do that, following the chronology of Luke, I get the chronology that we were just going over, which puts Judas in the room when Jesus said that. And then he left uh right afterwards. Um so that may not have a lot of um The conclusion there may not have a lot of impact on your day-to-day life, but the hermeneutic does. Let's see what the scriptures actually say. Let's not discard inspired words of God. And if the four accounts or up to four accounts in the Gospels appear to uh appear to be in conflict Then look at what's actually said, take the four together, and I think you'll find that there's really not a conflict, unless it's a conflict with our presuppositions. And that's dangerous if we believe our presuppositions more than our careful reading of scripture. Okay, yes, Anne. came from the mind of God whose mind is so far above our little minds to figure things out. And we try, we want to figure everything out Yeah, but I I think we have to accept certain things by faith. You know, that's that's what it says, that's that's what it gives. One day maybe when we get to heaven God will make it claim to us maybe he knows. He doesn't owe us anything. Right. Yeah. Um I I would agree with that completely. I I want to make sure that our application of that though is not to just give up We need to continue searching the Word, and we can grow in our understanding as we see progressively over time more of what God actually has revealed Yeah. Okay. Well, how's it going? Yeah. Right. And there's non food all over the place. So how do you when somebody talks to you, well, I don't understand that and you don't understand that so we're in good shape. You know what I mean? It's the same kind of mindset that um this it's nonsense and to us Like the Trinity is nonsense, but there's nonsense to us that's truth and there's nonsense to others that's complete without that's why. And so how do you combat How do you answer someone who says, Well, you don't know any more than I do. Right? It's a mystery, that's a mystery. Yeah, well the the key there is what are we basing our thinking on? If we're basing it on what God has revealed in his word Um then if it doesn't make human sense to us, that shouldn't bother us too much. Um most of what he's revealed does make a whole lot of sense. It's like what Mark Twain said. It's not the things that I don't understand that convict me, it's the things I do understand about Scripture that convict me And in scripture the main things are the plain things. For sure. And um it does highlight though the need for faith. And so Jesus said, Suffer the little children to come to me because the kingdom of God is is for those who come to me like a little child, which is to say what? Trusting. Trusting. Trusting. Trusting. Faith. Right. Larry. Inevitably it comes down to the question of who is Jesus. That is the advisor of my tweet. And by what authority do we come to that conclusion? Scripture. Right. And that's how many Muslims come to Christ with a challenge. Um just ask Jesus to reveal themselves to make a mist read. And God has done that over and over again Yeah, it actually helps that I I would say most Muslims are ignorant of the Quran. That's not a good thing. Maybe the ones in America. No, I think I think I think pretty much worldwide. Would you say, Victoria? Well but they did they did agree that they seemed an option and but then they accept that, you know. Well it's not like they have options. Well don't they spend the entire child food deciding that the Qurans have options Yeah, but that's not the entire Quran. It's just passages. And most of them don't know Arabic. Yeah. Yeah. Yes, right. Is that a hand, Rebecca? Okay. He said that like there was a lot of things that friend would tell him about Islam that he was like, No, it doesn't say that and then she was really Yeah. Um James White wrote a very good book on on what every Christian should know about the Quran. That's really, really But it wrestles a lot of these issues. We also have here a couple final church on Musa Well yeah, I thought maybe this would be a good time to announce that the next quarter, actually the next two quarters, uh I'm going to be teaching again that class, Understanding Islam and Evangelizing Muslims. So we're going to go into detail about what the Quran actually says, and you'll come out of it with more understanding of Islam than most Muslims. Oh is that the same one you had online during the COVID time? Did you have a um Um I did a short version of it for DBI gamma? But this will go in depth. Okay. It lasts longer. Yeah. How did we get on that? I don't know. Section 170. Um top of page two thirty-two. And this blows me away. There arose and this is right after Jesus has instituted um the the Last Supper where it's fulfilling everything the the Well not everything, but all the future pointing things that the Passover was about. Um and he's Leaving, he's being betrayed. And there arose also a dispute among them, the disciples, the eleven remaining ones, as to which one of them was to be the same. Doesn't that just blow you away? It's still going on in the church. But you know what? If we were there, we probably would have done the exact same thing. You know, w don't point your finger too quickly at those guys. Um they were Clueless. What's that? They've done it several times. I've made a mention here of s uh sections ninety nine and one thirty nine earlier. They've been at this for a while. Oh no, that's great. And Mother Whitman. Anyway, he said to them, does this tell you something about the patience of Christ? Uh-huh. He said to them, The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who have authority over them are called benefactors. But it is not this way with you. But the one who is the greatest among you must become like the youngest, and the leader like the servant. For who is greater, the one who reclines at the table or the one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at the table? But I am among you as the one who serves. Remember, just a few maybe hours, maybe minutes beforehand He washed their feet to make that very same point, right? You are those who have stood by me in my trials. And just as my Father has granted me a kingdom, I grant you that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom. And you will sit on the thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Oh, so that did come after Judas left. That's cool. Um I think he did. I think he did. Yeah. Um it's it's amazing that they're still fixed on on uh hierarchy and uh title and privilege and and position. And Jesus of course is um Trying to teach them Yeah, just put your play put put yourself in Jesus' shoes if you can. That's hard. Talk about what's hard for your mind to get your mind around. But here you are, you're on the verge of being handed over to the ruling authorities so that you can be crucified for the sins of the world And these guys are quibbling about who's the greatest. And if If I were in his shoes and if I were not sinless, you know what I would do? I would let him have it. I would zap him. Yeah. And say, you idiot! But he's patient. He teaches them correctly, but he's patient with them. The other thing that blows me away is in Matthew 28, right before he gives them the Great Commission They've seen him in the resurrection. And this is his parting words essentially to them. It's not exactly, but close to. And it says right up to that point, some of them doubted. Now this was a larger crowd, not just the eleven. But some of them doubted, and here he is. handing over the the ministry essentially to them and many of them are still now I don't know if that's true of the eleven disciples but many who were Believers, that's why they were there, that's why he was appearing to them. They still doubted what's going on. Alan, and when I when we speak about leaders in the church, to this day I judge them on how Well they serve the body before I would ever say that person makes a leader. Well that's what Jesus said. If they don't serve the body I'm just wondering if when he gets to the Lord's Supper and he says, you know, I won't drink this with you um until the kingdom of God comes. God, you know, in in their minds, oh the kingdom. The kingdom is he's ready to establish the kingdom, you know, and so It's just just moments away, you know, or days away getting ready to do this finally. Yeah, because uh you know, we need this establish our position. That's clearly been their mindset all along that it's it's it's more imminent than what turned out to be the case. Um But even so, they should have gotten this point. Particularly with his washing their feet and belaboring the point of the greatest among you must be the servant of all. Remember, you're coming from the opposite side. You're convinced he's who he is. Well, Peter was thought he was convinced. He's about to say Once in a while you're more dedicated than others. But but to be honest, to be honest, uh I would have to say that after I became a believer, I found that every now and then some doubt would rise up in my heart. Not sure though because I chosen not to believe it. But yeah, I have to deal with the fact that every now and then they stop so I I don't think that it's unusual compared to what we were going through. I mean this didn't literally saw Christ. It's amazing. So the fact that I experienced it in a sense it makes me realize the effect of the call is so much more uh impactful than what it's been Yeah. Yeah. And we're so conditioned to interpret things through our experience and so on that yeah, I mean like I said, you know, if we were there we probably would have had the same problems. But the disciples were slow. Come on, don't you think you're smart. Jesus said plainly to the And they said, who's going to betray who? Well, the one that I dipped the stuff out and they're going to take. And then he did it. And Judas was at one. And and they didn't get it. But only John saw that. No, they didn't hear the conversation, see? I don't think so. I think if they were all in the case, Well you remember the picture they had of the composite officers? And and besides And none of the others got it. That's true. That's true. I'm going to say it I think I'm going to be back out of it. Yeah. Well anyway. Um like little trees. Okay. Uh yes. I also I was thinking of the the culture, the competitive culture in discipling under a specific rabbi in that culture where you would um compete to be accepted to actually learn under a certain rabbi. And I and M my understanding is that the rabbis had a had a order of competition like Gamaliao was the the rabbi to be chosen to um to be under him. And I'm I'm thinking that there's there's always going to be like a structure of um who is the who is the best disciple under rabbi and that will become known that you're the you're the top decisive and that you'll probably graduate become a a respected rabbi or yourself and have your own disciples. So just the whole idea of being disciples under a rabbi in in Israel It's like like in our in the United States there's certain schools that you you do everything you can to get into that that college or that university. And Can you have it paid um after after that? Yeah. Um Yeah, I I think there are probably a lot of reasons why if we were to put the apostles here in the room and ask them what were you thinking? They would explain the context and their frame of mind and their experience and and those kind of things But and we would too. We wouldn't have been a whole lot different. But it doesn't discount the fact that Jesus on multiple occasions was trying to get this lesson through to them. And it was clear that it wasn't getting true. Um in fact he even said, you know, in in I think all of those accounts He gave examples of how uh worldly leaders lord it over those in their charge and they seek to be c given titles and and all sorts of things Um and that he contrasted what God was looking for, you know, against that. And he even illustrated it through his own personal example of washing their feet so that they would get it just moments before. So while on the one hand it's perfectly understandable from a human perspective the frame of mind they were in The reality is we also can be in a frame of mind where we're not hearing what he's saying. And not applying what he's teaching. So we need to be careful. It's pretty easy to point the finger at them, but um We have our own issues where we are not obedient. And we're jumping to conclusions and so on. We need to be careful. Okay. Yeah. Section 171. Luke and John Are picking up here, and I'll read the blended account on page 233. Therefore, when Judas had gone out Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified. And God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and will glorify him immediately. Little children, I am with you a little while longer. Do you think he was calling them little children because John often used that term or because they were acting so childishly just a minute ago? I am with you a little while longer. You will seek me. And as I said to the Jews Now I also say to you, where I am going, you cannot come. A new commandment I give to you that you love one another, even as I have loved you. That you also love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Simon Peter said to him, You gotta love Simon Peter. Lord, where are you going? And Jesus answered, Where I go, you cannot follow me, but you will follow later. And Peter said to him, Lord, why can't I follow you right now? Talking about preschool or whatever. I will lay down my life for you. He's talking about love. Well, Peter loved the Lord. And Jesus answered him, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And you, when once you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. But he, Peter, said to him, Lord, with you I am ready to go both to prison and to death. And Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, Peter, the rooster will not crow today until you have denied three times that you even know me. And he, Jesus, said to them, When I sent you out without money belt and bag and sandals, you did not lack anything, did you? And they said, No, nothing. And he said to them, But now whoever has a money belt is to take it along. Likewise also a bag. And whoever has no sword is to sell his coat and buy one. For I tell you that this which is written about me, or this is which has been written, must be fulfilled in me Quote, and he was numbered with the transgressors. You remember in the Nazvi, the all caps is a direct quote from the Old Testament. And he was numbered with the transgressors. For that which refers to me has its fulfillment. And they said, Lord, look, here are two swords. And he said to them, It is enough. Okay. Well, there's a lot here, as it turns out. The primary thing, of course, is Jesus is is emphasizing his departure. He's going to be leaving leaving them alone. Um they can't go with him And um that prompts Peter's um Heartfelt, I'm pretty sure, claim that uh he loves the Lord so much that he's willing to to go wherever he goes, to go to prison if it needs that. If it means dying for him, he's he's he's ready for it. Bring it on. Um and we see some evidence of this in the garden later, right? Um I think it was heartfelt, but on a a more a deeper level he he didn't know what he was talking about. And he didn't know his heart as much as he thought he did. Jesus understood and told him. Um this night is not gonna be over until you've already designed me three times. And that must have come like a ton of bricks on Peter. You know the one of the most interesting things for me in this passage here is who besides Peter had a sword Yeah, it doesn't really say, does it? No. Yeah. Yeah, now the thing about the swords, you might be wondering, because in the garden, Peter tried to use a sword, right? He cut off the ear of Malchus and and um Yeah, Christ healed it and Jesus said, Put away your swords. If if I needed to, I could call down legions of angels. You know, it's it's it's not about force here And so if that's true, why did he tell them he who has no sword is to sell his coat and buy one? Everyone do that? For future. For the future. There's a time and place for everything. There's a time and a place for everything. But look at the context here. He says, when I sent you without money belt and bag and sandals, did you lack you did not lack anything, did you? What's he saying? You are you are. Well no, what was what was happening then? When I sent you out without money belt and bag and sandals, you did not lack anything, did you? That's when the way preached because he was there Because God was meeting their needs, but Jesus was there. Jesus was seeing to their their um their welfare and and and so on, which would include um you know what they're gonna eat. You know, some of them came most of them probably came from jobs. And And uh they're not earning money, but God was going to be providing for them, and Jesus um uh was Shepherding them during this time. They were walking by faith, which was good. But Jesus was seeing to it that they didn't have any of these basic needs. Um you do not lack anything, right? Yeah. Uh I've heard patients make long summaries about Peter going back to systems, oh no, we don't sit you know, less than no back either. But if I were a fisherman and I were hungry and yeah, and I knew how to fish, I would go fish because I had So they use fishing as like a secular profession in the investment industry, but it really is a need to go together. Yeah. Yeah. And in this context we're saying, yeah, you're going to have to spend Um that's true. I mean that's basically what he's saying here is that there's going to be a transition. Once I'm gone, things are not going to be the same. Right. Um however later, particularly after Pentecost, and he commissions them to go out, um Um they weren't doing that while they were fishermen or tax collectors or whatever, right? They were making the shift formally into a uh um uh a life of ministry and faith uh depending on the Lord to provide. Um and of course that brings in the whole um uh church age and uh those who are being ministered to are supporting the needs of those who are ministering, right? And all those principles we see play out in the New Testament But here he's he's saying the the provision I've given you, the protection I've given you uh is going to be taken away from you and so things are going to be back to normal in some to some extent and for some period of time not necessarily always So Peter um I guess last on to that and uh disciples because oftentimes you know you think you're strong in the faith and and you're you know you want to be bold. But you know there are times and I've had this happen, you know, where where something comes up and you want to say something but you're trying to think of what to say and then you don't. And you just feel like a complete failure, you know You know, like I'm I'm and so grieved by it, you know, that that you know I didn't speak when I had an opportunity. You know, and when y when you think about afterwards and you think about all these things you could have said said but in the moment you don't. You know, and so it's just it it's good to see the you know, I mean these disciples they aren't perfect. You know, that and Jesus, you know, he's gonna restore Peter. Part of the reason I think Peter goes back to fishing is because he feels like he completely failed. He's like disqualified To be part of it now, you know. He's just he's he's denied the Lord, he just completely feels like a failure Yeah. And that was also between uh the resurrection appearances and Pentecost. After Pentecost, I don't see any reference to him going back fishing. Yeah. Is there anything that's an instruction for us today as far as the um the sword and uh selling your your coat to buy a sword You don't have a sword? Sword of the spirit. I think you're well armed. Yeah, no the the principle here is he's he's talking about they've been so dependent on him for everything up until now. Now he's leaving and they need to um adjust their expectations at this point a little bit. And things are going back a little bit to normal, but not forever. Things are going to be a whole lot different after Pentecost Um so prescriptive though. No, that's right. Not everything's pres well and not everything that he prescribes to them. even is prescriptive for us. Not always. uh a a possible application of the full third endorsement of the American Second Amendment uh It doesn't mention swords. I'm sorry. I I would say well I I suppose in America the the um arms would be came to store. Right. Uh but would this be a completely out of Yes, because this Jesus is talking about the time when he will be gone and the Holy Spirit not yet come And for that time it was as Morag said a prescription what they should do. For us it's a description, it's describing that time. But now we have the Holy Spirit. See they they were going to go through a period of time without either Jesus or the Holy Spirit. Right. And the the more uh the the the fundamental I think uh takeaway here We're going to get to when we get to the garden in that scene where Peter was wielding his sword. And Jesus is saying, no, the kingdom is not to advance. by the sword. And his testimony before uh Pilate, um I think it was Pilate or Harry, one of the other, um, was was saying the same thing, that my kingdom is not of this world. If it were, my followers would take up arms, right? But that's not the case. And so when we take all of Scripture into account, we see that uh Um he wasn't talking about using swords to advance the kingdom, but rather it was just their personal livelihood and protection. Like it was before he came along, really. Um, at least for a while. But yeah, it it's pretty common that we end up focusing on uh some aspects and uh blow them out of proportion and don't realize that you know what the context is here. But any other thoughts, questions there? Yeah, Larry? I think there's uh one real encouragement for believers that Christ um said to Peter, I have prayed for you that your faith might not fail. I think just like Henry, you shared some of the doubts that we have as Christians. And Christ has a promise to all of us. He's praying for our faith that we enough feel. He always loves every And we we'll have our doubts. But he's he's going to be there for us. Amen. Yep. Yeah, that's a comfort. What and Jesus shared with Peter. He said the devil has requested this. Now that means he's God. Because how would he know what the devil had requested? And we missed that completely And how would he be able to combat that through through his intercession if he weren't God? Yeah. Good point. The other thing is that Jesus' prayer was answered. It was. Real good. Real good. Um I think that's all I have here. Um except if you look on page two thirty-four, uh the application From a human perspective, Jesus would have had every right to be discouraged in the upper room. One of his close followers was about to betray him to the Jewish leaders, another was about to deny him publicly in spite of being in And his disciples generally were still concerned with their own greatness rather than being humbled by Christ's example and teaching. So how does Christ's patient preparation of his disciples affect your commitment to discipling others, even when discouraged about their progress? What should you do to overcome any potential discouragement? You know what it comes to mind is self-changing on the minor Yeah, I think there's also uh Um the realization that you know all of us is a work in process, even people we're seeking to disciple and train up and so on. Um but God is sovereign over that process. And um you know it would be tempting to think that we are the ones Responsible to show progress in someone else's development as a believer. And yeah, we have a role, but ultimately God's at work in them too. This stor this whole story I never read it, but I think of how Jesus is a in control of this situation. He's eating with them. He's in control. He's going to be dead in less than twelve hours And he's not saying to them, you know, you've got it good. You know what's going to happen to me? He's washing their feet and he's not drawing attention to what he's about about to do. And I just think that's beyond belief to me. That he cannot insist you're a bunch of jokes I just want you to see how wonderful he's in control. He's not worried until he gets to the garden where he drops sweats drops of blood. In this moment, just ours Yeah, it's pretty impressive, isn't it? Very impressive. Yeah. Any other thoughts, questions, applications Yeah. Speaking of the sword, I was uh flying. Didn't read a fly out of an airport and I put my carry-on bag to the x-ray machine and I noticed that the attendant picked it up and went over to a table and began to look through it You had your sword in there. They brought it back to me. I kind of quizzically said, you know, what are you looking for? She said, We were checking out your sword. And I thought, a sword, you know, I don't even have a knife. You know, and then and and I looked at her without saying anything, but very quizzically, and she said And I still didn't say anything. And then she said, Your Bible. And of course, immediately I said, I got fellow believers here. I carry Scott my Bible has places where you put things and I have pins and you know that sort of thing in there. And I guess they showed up on the extra machine. I'm sure she was um it was she? Yeah. uh was trying to put you at ease but uh they had to do their job but um they recognized your your reliant how how many people have their Bible searched, right? Uh hopefully um it's all for the good reasons, not for bad Bad reasons. Well let's close in prayer