I think I mentioned last week that this week is sort of a freebie. We've been doing this study for the last year And normally it's organized, as you saw last week's lesson was lesson 52. But this year we've had 53 Sundays. Today is the 53rd And the reason that worked out is we began the class on September first year at the very earliest opportunity, and today is the thirty-first of August, so that gives us an extra week. So I have two things I want to accomplish today. One is I think we rushed through kind of quickly the end of the last lesson, and I wanted to be sure we didn't leave anything anything there. Uh primarily I was uh thanking the um uh the ascension of Christ. Um we've talked pretty um pretty extensively about the various appearances of Christ after the resurrection. Um and I couldn't remember, did I actually read through the Acts One section? We did, but we probably didn't have a lot of time to talk about it. Um let me read it again and um uh think through uh after all we've covered about Christ's ministry and then most recently his resurrection appearances, think through the um um well, the mind of Christ and also the the uh state of mind, let's say, of the disciples. Um so I'm on page three oh eight, Acts one, one through twelve. Uh the first account I composed, of course he's referring to what? the book of Luke that he wrote earlier. The first account I composed Theophilus about all that Jesus Began to do and teach until the day when he was taken up to heaven, after he had, by the Holy Spirit, given orders to the apostles whom he had chosen. To these he also presents himself alive after his suffering by many convincing proofs, appearing to them over a period of forty days. And so that forty days from Resurrection Day to Pentecost would be fifty days. That's the Penta of Pentecost, fifty days after the Passover. And so uh forty of those he was with them before the ascension, and speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God. You remember we read last week that one of the things he did is he opened the scriptures to them, the entire Old Testament. to um show how his coming, his his ministry, uh, his death, his resurrection were all um uh foretold and for the most part people didn't understand and so he had to open their minds and and so on. Um and then verse four gathering them together he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem. So he had been with them in Galilee for a little bit, we saw last week, after the uh resurrection. Now they're back in Jerusalem and he tells them to stay there, uh but to wait for what the prom what the Father had promised Which, he said, you heard from me, for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. not many days from now. So when they had come together, they were asking him, saying, Lord, is i is it at this time you are restoring the kingdom to Israel? So what was on their mind They can't get over that. I I can't blame them, right? They they're they're psyched, they're ready to go. Bring it on, Lord, right? But w what was in their mind was the earthly kingdom that was um foretold, promised to David and and so on. And that um one of the bonuses, one of the byproducts of that would be, um, presumably, they're thinking, the overthrow of Rome And they'd be free from those shackles and um have Christ the Messiah as their king. And so that that was quite a great prospect to them. i it's possible that he didn't really clarify that when he opened the scriptures to explain all that had happened, right? And so there's probably still, in fact apparently, very still um in that mindset of and the earthly kingdom starting now. But they put it in the form of a question at least, is now the time. And so he said, it is not for you, verse 7, it is not for you to know. I'm sorry, we're on page 308. Um just wrapping up from last week's lesson, reading Acts uh one, one through twelve. So verse seven Uh he said to them, It is not for you to know the epochs which the Father has fixed by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you should be my witnesses both in Jerusalem where you are, and in all Judea, the the entire province Judea uh Jerusalem was in, and Samaria, the province up north And even to the remotest parts of the earth. That's right, I remember recognizing Maryland as that at that point last week. Verse nine. And after he had said these things, he was lifted up while they were looking on, and a cloud received him out of their sight. Can you imagine that? Just rose, ascended. And after he Uh out of their sight. Verse 10. And as they were gazing intently into the sky while he was going, can't blame him. Behold, two men in white clothing stood beside them, and of course, again, two angels appearing as men. Um, maybe the same two who were at the tomb. Telling people he's not here but he's risen. Right. Stood beside them. Verse eleven. And they also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into the sky? Well, duh. I would be too, right? Um this Jesus They said, who has been taken up from you into heaven will come in just the same way as you have watched him go into heaven. And Apparently that's all they said. Um and while that's um definitely true, I mean it We see that in um uh the Old Testament prophecies. Um it probably didn't really satisfy their their um curiosity, their their expectation that n basically now was the time, or at least when would be the time The angels are saying, well, he is going to return, just in the way you saw him go, and Jesus just told them earlier that it's not for you to know. when all these things are going to be fulfilled. And so if you process all that, and if you're one of them, what should you be concluding? Jesus says, stay in Jerusalem, wait for the Holy Spirit to come on you. They're thinking the they they ought to be thinking, okay, finally, this is not what I anticipated, but we have our marching orders, right? Um let's see what happens So why do you think Jesus left it that way without I mean he could have been more explicit, presumably. Um We don't know that what's recorded here is everything he said, but I think if he had been more clear, those details would have been included here. Um I think like much of what God does when he gives instructions to people is He doesn't give everything. I mean you look at the Old Testament and the prophecies, there's a lot of uh what? Um a lot of gaps. We have a lot of questions we say, well what about this and how do you fill in uh how does it all work? And they clearly had the same uh limitations. He left a lot of blanks out that in in our to our benefit, we get a lot of those blanks filled in from the rest of the New Testament. Uh but still, particularly with regard to the future, we still have lots of questions about how it all works and and what the details are. So Why wouldn't God be more explicit in those details, do you think? Yeah, I think that's it. He's expecting that people are going to need to walk by faith, to trust him Right? Yeah, and and so what would happen for most of us if he gave us all those details? Probably. We'd still be confused. How could that be? Like like Mary was asking Gabriel. We'd like putting things in boxes, right? And people had already done that putting Jesus into a box, assuming that he was going to take the throne now and it's all and and it's hopefully for them during these this interval of ten days before it all began, um, the church and everything. They had they did a lot of soul searching and reviewing the things in scripture that Christ had been opening up for them. Um probably a pretty humbling time, I'm thinking. I think ultimately the point is that uh he is expecting people to need to trust him, to walk by faith. Um good chance that If God were really explicit about details, people would either grumble or um try to argue with him, kinda like Abraham arguing God down you know, fifty to forty and whatever. Um anyway, I think the lesson for us is that's still the case that we need to walk by faith, even though he's given us enough all that we need to know in Scripture Um we need to walk by faith as well. We don't have all the details. We're not in control. He is all of that. Oh yeah. Well he said you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. So the Holy Spirit is not just some impersonal power, but he is the third person in the Trinity. And got by God's design and you remember Jesus said in the upper room that um it's better for me to go because then the Holy Spirit can come and he will not only be with you, but he will be in you Um and so by God's design, that's how the church would be um established. strengthened, energized, directed. A lot of people, commentators have said, you know, the the book of Acts is called the Acts of the Apostles, but when you really look at it, it's really the Acts of the Holy Spirit working through people like the apostles. Come alongside to uh encourage, to strengthen, yep, to direct You know, it's interesting. No, I'm gonna get back to that later. It is interesting, but I'm gonna hold on. Be patient here. Yeah. Um it's very clear that uh the Holy Spirit is um a person and he's God. That God has eternally existed in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Um anyway, I haven't finished reading here. He will come in just the same way as you have watched him go into heaven, but no explanation as to when, right? But um And Jesus, when he told them to hold on here in Jerusalem until the Holy Spirit comes, he didn't say how long that would be either, right? But anyway, in verse twelve, they returned to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives, which near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away. And if you continue in the book of Acts, actually it's down at the bottom of the page. When they had entered the city, they went up to the upper room where they were s staying, that is, Peter and John and James and Andrew and all the eleven. Um And these all were with one mind continually devoting themselves to prayer, uh, along with the women, and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. Um and so we know from 1 Corinthians 15 that Jesus appeared to James, his brother, James, the author of the book of James, his half-brother. Um it pr probably the same with his brother Jude, who wrote the book of Jude, uh, because it says here his brother's plural. But he had other brothers as well, and who knows, maybe others of those um had become believers by this point. Presumably um because Christ appeared to them as well. We don't know that for sure, but uh there's an indication here that The well w we know from the earlier accounts that his brothers were extremely skeptical of him. By the way, how would you like to be a younger brother of Jesus growing up? Think that would be a challenge? A lot of negative. From your own personal perspective. I'm not looking too good next to that guy. You remember just the story of of um Joseph and his brothers and they're looking at him as goody two shoes, right? Or goody colorful jacket or whatever it is. Um And Joseph in many ways is sort of a type for Christ in terms of how God used him and uh the um uh salvation of of the Israelites. But um yeah, if you've got Jesus as your brother, you're probably convicted more than most children are. You know, and maybe a little resentful. And so it's not it's not too hard to understand why they would have been skeptical, if not skeptical, at least begrudging. Um but his appearing to them, at least to James and probably others, uh after his resurrection, probably was like it was for many people, a big Turning point. Wow. This is this is bigger than I thought it was, God's work here. Um but again, those ten days, what turned out to be ten days, is there waiting in Jerusalem. It says here they were devoting themselves to prayer, but probably it was a pretty humbling time. And they're preparing themselves in their hearts and their their um um their mindset. Okay, Lord, uh we're yours. You're in control. And um so when in Matthew twenty eight we read uh last week or the week before where it says, you know, right before the Great Commission, uh it says they all assembled where Jesus to the mountain in J Galilee where Jesus had directed them. But it says Many of them doubted, or some doubted. And you know, if if I were Jesus and I were on the threshold of leaving and leaving my whole ministry to this crowd of characters That would be pretty discouraging as a human. But as God, He specializes in using the least usable people. Yeah. I mean look at us. Um look at all. Exactly. Just the complete opposite of what you might be looking for. Right? Um and Paul admits that, yeah, persecutor of the of the saints, so on. But God specializes in using the um the least, the least shall be first. And um those who think they are first will be last. Okay. Well, um anything else about the Ascension or What's related to that? Okay. Well, it occurred to me that what we have in the in the notes here takes us all the way up to the ascension. And we call it the life of Christ. Um and often when we think about the ministry of Christ, we think of what he did that we've looked at in the Gospels and what he will be doing when we think about the end times and this return and and everything. But we don't often think about what's in between. What he's doing actually right now, what he has been doing. And so I did a little survey of scriptural passages that speak about what kind of things Christ uh did after the ascension, either did or is doing. Most of it's what he is doing. And uh I thought this might be helpful for us. This is our our freebie for the freebie week. So, uh Jesus' post-ascension ministry. Well we already looked at the first thing he did Uh he sent the Holy Spirit to comfort and empower us. And so you remember in the upper room John fourteen he says, I will ask the Father and he will give you another helper, another helper. Who is the first helper? Christ Himself. Yeah, we're going to get to that in a minute. Um that word helper in the Greek, some of you know what that is. Yeah. Or if you want to say it in English, paraplete. Yeah. Um one who comes alongside to assist and and help. That he may be with you And then he got explicit. That is the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it does not see him or know him, but you know him because he abides with you even now as I'm speaking to you, disciples, and he will be in you. And then later John 15, when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, that is, the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father He will testify about me, and you will testify also because you have been with me from the beginning. And then a little later that same evening in the upper room, John sixteen. But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And we just read from Acts 1. 8, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come to you. So priority number one, I think, in the Ascension Ministry of Christ was to uh together with the Father, send the Holy Spirit. Um and what's key there is Um well w was the Holy Spirit active in the Old Testament? For sure. Um what's the difference here? Well in w what Jesus is saying he will come. Yeah. So it including now, but particularly starting that. Yes. Yeah, so as Jesus said, he is with you, but he will be in you, and we learn from Romans eight. that uh Paul said, you know, if if you if you don't have the Holy Spirit dwelling in you, then you're not of him. You're not a believer. Um the Holy Spirit indwelling a believer is something that is true of every believer, and that began on that day of Pentecost when the church began. Yeah. Uh yeah, yeah. Um not not a uh not a necessary um it wasn't because he was king per se, but because God had chosen to use him to accomplish his purposes. And so it would be true of prophets. Um and and yet David was sensitized to the fact that it was obvious that God had taken the Holy Spirit away from King Saul And David knew that his sin he says this right after his his sin with Bathsheba, and not only that, but killing her husband He knew that he was he was a fair target for the same thing happening that happened to Saul. And so he's asking, pleading God not to do that. We don't have to do that because the Holy Spirit is given to every believer at the moment of salvation for Forever. And we talk about um good news, and that's what Jesus is referring to, it it's much better that I go. So you'll actually have the Holy Spirit residing in you to fulfill God's will in your life and his purposes and so on. Um so that was job one to Send the Holy Spirit. And uh of course that happened initially was fulfilled on the day of Pentecost, which was just ten days after the ascension. Um so by the way, why do you think He had them wait ten days, or more particularly, why on the day of Pentecost? What was Pentecost? It was one of the three ri feasts in uh the nation of Israel where God commanded them all to always come to um the place he was assigned, which eventually became Jerusalem from many years. So it was going to be a crowd of people there. Do you think that was a good thing or a bad thing? A lot a crowd of people from a lot of from all over there were coming to worship. There were Jews from a lot of places they had been dispersed to A lot of people coming to Jerusalem, do you think God had any designs here? No. So as you read as you read Acts two, you realize that There was a captive audience there. Peter preached a sermon that was very strong, convicting Um, actually pointing fingers at people, you know, you're responsible for the death of this Messiah. Um and God used it to convict a lot of people. And he got their attention, how? So they they heard this good news, we don't know exactly what what the content was, but uh was proclaiming the the the work that God was doing in their own language You know, they come from all over the place and Acts two just lists many of those places. And it was clear that the people who were doing this were not linguists They were not from those places, they were just from here, locals, and yet all of them heard the gospel essentially in their own language. And It was clear to them, and it should be clear to us, that that doesn't happen unless God is orchestrating it. And if God's orchestrating it, we better listen to what's the message. Right, like with any miracle. Um and so yeah, I think he was very deliberate to time this on Pentecost because of the crowd being there. And how many responded At least five thousand that first day and uh I forget how long later, mu not much longer later, another occasion it was Three thousand I think, something like that. Um well I was just gonna say I you know i if if if I were God and I'm glad I'm not, but if I were doing it, I probably would have started smaller. Go with quality first and then let the quantity take care of itself. God can right and the Holy Spirit is is leading this and and so He knows better. Uh yeah. Yeah, I'm not aware of any place in scripture that again gives us that detail. Um that can be on our list, right? Here are the things Lord I want to explain to me when I get there. And of course when I get there That's going to seem so trivial I'm not going to be interested anymore. Um but you're right. We we do know that uh A they walked with God like um you know, in close fellowship. They were not they had no barrier between them and their creator. Um they were facing it. I'm not sure The word the term face to face is used in that context. They're walking together. What that means, I don't know, but so actually if you read Genesis, it never says that God walked with Adam and Eve. It says that Adam heard the sound of God walking in the Eve. And they clearly communicated with him. They had that close fellowship and there was no separation, whatever that looked like, um, for sure. Um yeah, one uh part of me i thinks for what it's worth that there's really no difference between being indwelt by and being filled by the Holy Spirit and what Adam and Eve experience. whether the Holy Spirit was residing in them or not, they had a hundred percent fellowship with God. Um yeah, yeah, it's in interesting to speculate But I I'm not sure what the difference is between having complete fellowship with God like Adam and Eve did before they sinned, and the fellowship we have through the Holy Spirit indwelling and filling us now. How do you compare those? Never thought about that. Um I don't think we can project back to that time what we experience now necessarily. Um anyway, job one was to send the Holy Spirit, which of course he did. Um But then look at the other things that Scripture tells us about his active work for us even now. And um he is our advocate with the Father 1 John 2, my little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. You know what that word is for advocate? Uh you cheated, right. I I put it in there in the parentheses. It's periclane, it's the same word Jesus is our advocate with the Father. He is he comes alongside us to make our cakes and so on. He's doing that in heaven while the Holy Spirit indwells us, he fills us, and and comes alongside us as well. Hebrews 9 refers to this For Christ did not enter a holy place made with hands, a mere copy of the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. So Um you can begin to see the advantage Jesus was thinking of that he go, because now he would be our advocate in the presence of the Father And the Holy Spirit is our advocate and comforter and helper, uh actually residing in us. Um God designed this, planned this very well Related to that, we see that Jesus intercedes for us. Romans 8. Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is he who died, yes rather who was raised, who is at the right hand of God who also intercedes for us. Now that word, you know, often when we use the word intercede and intercession, what are we referring to? Prayer. Prayer. Um and I guess you can think of this as prayer, but it's probably broader than that. He's interceding like an advocate. He's in he's our go-between, right? Paraclete. Paraclete, exactly Um and Hebrews um seven, I haven't read that yet, right? But Jesus on the other hand, because he continues forever, holds his priesthood permanently, therefore he is able also to save forever those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. So I don't think we'd have a complete picture of the scope of that interceding for us, but we know it's a good thing He's our representative before the Father. When the Father looks at us, what does he see? The righteousness of Christ, not us And then he holds us securely. Jesus said in John 10, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me And I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. Often people are thinking, you know, in fact I've heard songs about holding on to Jesus. Well No. If we were holding on to Jesus, that's probably not going to work out too well. But he's holding on to us, right? And he won't let go. Moreover, he says in verse twenty nine, My Father who has given them too many is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. So we are held in the grip of the Father and the Son kind of a double grip, he holds us securely. And that's an ongoing thing. And what are the implications of that? His holding onto us securely. Can't lose our salvation. We see that from other passages as well, but this is one reality of that, that we can't lose our salvation because we didn't earn it to begin with. And he's not taking it away. When does eternal life end? It doesn't, right? It's eternal. And so he holds us securely. And as he said when he did give them the Great Commission in Matthew 28, he's always with us. Jesus came up to them and spoke saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples. of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo that's why some people don't like to fly. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. But he's promising, just in the context of his giving that command, he's promising that you guys are not alone. I am with you always. Right? Uh when he was on Earth, um prior to his um ascension, he voluntarily, temporarily put aside the prerogative of omnipresence. But now that he's been glorified and sended, he is omnipresent and he will be with us always, even to the uttermost parts of the earth. And even if we go outside of Earth's boundaries probably. I d I think you can assume that Next, he answers our prayers again in the upper room. You see how he was preparing them for what was coming, right? John 14, whatever you ask in my name, that I will do. So that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Um so when he says in my name, is that just sort of uh uh Yeah. So his name speaks much of who he is. His his standing with the father, his standing as Messiah, and we're not going to God in our name, in our authority, in our position, but we're going to the Father in the name of Christ, through Christ. Um and so if we pray um with that mindset, even without the words, you know we're we sort of have a habit of saying in Jesus' name, Amen, right? As if It's sort of the prefix to Amen. But what's he talking about here is the heart, right? The understanding that we're our access to the Father is only through Christ. It's only through Christ. Um and I guess I didn't read the second one, right? John sixteen? But he says the same thing. In that day you will not question me about anything. Truly, truly I say to you, if you ask the Father for anything in my name, he will give it to you. Okay. Flip the page. We go back to Hebrews and see that he sympathetically comes to our aid as our high priest when we are tempted. So Hebrews 2. 18 For since he himself was tempted in that which he had suffered, he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted, so he can empathize He understands those temptations, right? And he can come to our aid. Uh and then Hebrews 4 15. And we We do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are yet without sin. Um do you find that encouraging? Yeah. Have you ever relied on that when you were facing a temptation? Lord Jesus help me? Yeah. Next, he leads and protects the church as Her chief shepherd. First Peter says, For you were continually straying like sheep, but now you have returned to the shepherd and guardian of your souls. And later in that same book, it's clear who he's referring to. When the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. He's speaking there to uh the uh elders as under shepherds in the church is if you looked at first Peter five. Um but of course Christ is the shepherd. He is the good shepherd, right, of the flock. And And part of that role, in that role, he he leads the church and as it mentions here, he protects But also as uh the head of the church It's really the same thing. Ephesians 1 22. And he put all things in subjection under his feet and gave him Christ as head over all things to the church. Which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. So he's the head of the church. Is that speaking of the universal church or the local church? Both If he's head of the universal church, he's also head of the local church. Yeah. Um ev uh Ephesians four. Ephesians is big on this But speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up into all aspects, into him who is the head, even Christ. from whom the whole body being fitted and held together by whatever joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual part, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. So he's as head um orchestrating, if you will, the growth of the body. And that happens through The individual members doing all their parts, but ultimately who's calling the shots? The head. Right? Ephesians four, fifteen. Uh I just said that Ephesians 5, 23. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the Savior. of the body. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also wives ought to be to their own husbands in everything. So uh he's using the relationship of Christ to the church to help teach husbands and wives, but the underlying principle here is in reality is that Christ is the head of the church, and as the head of the church, he leads And that's not a theoretical thing, that's an ongoing thing. He's building the church. He's leading the church. He's causing it to to to thrive and grow and fulfill his purposes. And then Colossians 118. He is also the head of the body of the church, and he is the beginning the firstborn from the dead, so that he himself will come to have first place in everything. So Christ as Head of the church, among other things, means that he leads, and we're following him. Next. He is building the church as her cornerstone. Right, in terms of his role with the church. So, yeah. So I think your question is, if Christ is leading his church why do some seem to have gone astray? Um I think there are there are two categories that may be in your mind there. Um some of the lost are referred to in scripture whether it's individuals or churches. is because of apostasy they fall away. Uh and over time it's probably different people. Maybe it wa maybe it started out well? But it becomes apostate when it's just a complete falling away and people are no longer uh the people who are there and who are supposed to be shepherds or actually lost themselves and so the whole thing just caves in. Um so that's one category, apostasy. And so he's abandoned them already. Another one would be um genuine churches that because of a lack of good teaching and shepherding have not grown as they should have grown, have not matured as they should have matured. And that probably has a mixture of people who are genuinely saved, but maybe misguided and collect with others who are not saved, it may be hard to distinguish some of them. Uh but it's it's uh well like in the book of Revelation, he'd rather we be hot or cold, not lukewarm, right? Yeah, so over time that just gets worse and worse Unless God um intervenes, takes hold, and one of the reasons why we've got that record as a warning, but also here's the solution and and so on Um I think getting back to your original questions, if if Christ is leading the church, why would this even happen Right. Well, um we we've recognized that God's design was for the um the church, the local church to be led by under shepherds, subject to the chief shepherd. And those under-shepherds are called in Scripture elders, pastors, overseers, shepherds Uh it's all the same thing. But how does God lead through those people? How are they led by Jesus? Both right. By through his word and understanding it through the help of the Holy Spirit, right? Um He doesn't I don't know if it's fortunately or unfortunately, he doesn't sort of speak to us and give us marching orders every day. He's given us his word as to not only what is true, but actually how to function as a church. It's in Scripture. And if we're not following Scripture, what's going to happen? We're led astray Right? So, you know, from a human perspective, that's a lot of what's been going on over the many years. Um and it's man's natural tendency left to himself. The point is we're not to be left to ourselves, we're to be guided by Christ and His Word through the the empowering of the Holy Spirit to understand it and to apply it, to have the conviction to apply it. Um but what we see in in um in history is if a church gets completely apostate and falls away, what does God do? Raises up another one. That's what the Reformation was all about. Um and you know we have a responsibility to conduct ourselves as God has designed it and as He has revealed in His Word uh with him as head, not as us as head. But it's so easy in our humanity to fall away from that. So we need to be vigilant lest we go the same way. Okay. So he is the head. Uh next he is building the church, he himself being the cornerstone. Uh Matthew 16, Jesus Well, after Peter said, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God, when Jesus asked, Who do you say that I am, right? And Peter obviously got it and says, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona. Barjona means son of John. His father's name must have been John Because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my father who is in heaven. So Peter didn't come to this conclusion out of his own human thinking God had to open his mind to the truth of who even Jesus was. Um but he got it. And I say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it So what is the rock? Is it Peter because Peter he's using this wordplay? We call him Peter because it means rock, stone No, he's not building the church on Peter. He's building the church on what Peter's testimony was. You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And as people come to understand that, who Christ is his church grows and is established. Um then back to Ephesians five where it's got this comparison of Christ and the church and the husband and the wife relationship. In Ephesians five twenty five We see husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her, so that he might sanctify her. What's that? Sanctify, make holy to make holy, uh having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, that is the bride of Christ, right? Having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that is completely sinless Holy. But that she should uh well be holy and blameless. So, in the same way, husbands ought to also love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church. Because we are members of his body. So that's maybe a fitting way to kind of summarize everything we've been looking at here. Because he loves his bride He nourishes and cherishes and purifies the church. And that's present tense progressive. I mean it's happening. It's not completed It's still ongoing. And that's good news too, right? Anyway, I'm sure there are probably other things that I missed, but I think these are an encouragement. He's still active. He studied the life of Christ and the ministry of Christ Let's remember not to end just with the ascension or think only of the future, but the here and now is key. Maybe I'll add this as a fifty-third lesson going forward. Who knows? But let's pray. Father, what a what an encouragement it is to see how Christ, even now, is active. He is uh loving us. encouraging us, uh interceding for us, building his church, making us progressively more holy, more like him Help us to not lose sight of our ongoing relationship with Him, both individually and as a church, so that we may be as Paul wrote in Ephesians 5, presented to you without any spot or wrinkle or any blemish of any kind, but holy. Thank you, Lord, for that ministry we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.