Father, I lift up two dear saints to you this morning for your special touch. And that's Colleen Cummings and Sally Myers. Lord, you know each one of them and and their dear saints of yours, you know their bodies, you know what's wrong with them. You made them after all And I just pray that you will touch their bodies with your healing power, if that's your will, Father, that we can all rejoice in the miracles of your healing. But for the present, I just pray for comfort for each one of them. May they feel your arms wrapped around them and your closeness and nearness to them Knowing that you care for them much more than we do, Father. You love them And they are in your hands. And I just pray that they will sense that in a very, very real way today Pray for Lauren and her family as well in the same way, Lord, that they would sense your presence in a very real way. It's hard getting that positive COVID result and then having to quarantine. And so I just pray not only for healing for them that they would be able to come through this uh the symptoms of this virus uh without it being anything deadly, but also that they would just sense your presence and that you would be at work in their minds and their hearts in spite of their circumstances is to draw them closer to yourself. And I pray for Raymond as he's going through the various transitions in his life right now, Lord, that He would cling to you, that he would cling to your word, and that he would approach each of these transitions in light of his knowledge of you. And so I just pray that you would draw him in closer as well into a deeper knowledge of you. And that you would give him grace to respond to each transition and each circumstance in a way that brings you glory and that grows him spiritually. In Jesus' name. Amen. Father God, I lift up Karsten Miller and his family, his mom, um, his grandmother who was Now on a ventilator, Lord, I pray that you will surround them and give them the comfort that they need um during this time, no Lord, not knowing um which way this is gonna go and s apparently so far it looks like were you gonna call her home. So Father God, I pray that um You just surround this family. You give them the comfort and the peace in knowing um who you are and um who she belongs to, Lord. I thank you, Lord, that um You have um continue to watch over all of us, Lord. Everyone that's on this on this call this morning um have come here, Lord, to um grow in your word, to um Seek the truth and Father, I just pray that you would continue to watch over us and and our family members that um have come close to COVID and and waiting on test, Lord, may they have peace while they wait, Father God, and may you continue to um surround them with the love and the peace that they so need, Lord, and that we all need, Father. We just thank you, Lord, that um you have brought us here today, Lord, and that we are able um to sit here and and to listen to um the truth of your word, Lord, and that we had the right and sound mind to get out of the beds, that our limbs moved. Um So many things that we um take from granted from day to day, Lord, um you have provided us with. And I just thank you that I pray for Pastor Plumley as he um facilitate this lesson this morning, Lord, we thank you for him that he has um fell in love with your word many years ago and he continues to um want to learn himself and want to teach. us um the truth of your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Father God, I lift up our nation as it goes through the difficult times. For health reasons, for political reasons, I ask that you would um uh draw our attention to you and thank you Lord for those you are calling out of this world to be a part of your church and be a part of your family. May we be unified around you and not around ideas and and people. Father, we do thank you for Um the great privilege we have of knowing you, of being uh led by you, protected by you, fed by you Um you are our great provider. And uh we thank you especially for the fellowship we can have with one another as we grow in Christ, as we serve you together and serve one another Pray that our time here this morning would be edifying for us, and in so doing that would be honoring to you. Pray likewise for our time of worship later this morning that you would be pleased with our hearts, with our words, with our interactions with others. our dependence upon you. Thank you, Lord, for this season of the year in which we are reminded of your intervention. in human history, particularly with the advent of Christ and his incarnation. And may we um understand and appreciate afresh the significance of that, the miracle of that, and the grace that you demonstrated by that. Well thank you for this time and uh pray that uh we would um uh Be able to encourage one another in your word. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well good morning everyone. So uh uh I'm hoping everybody has by this time gotten a copy of the notes. in electronic form anyway, and uh some of you I think have been printing out what you need. Uh hope those have been helpful for you. If you have not uh been able to download the notes yet if maybe you're new. Diane, could you put the the link to those in the chat Or do you need that? Um to be honest, I have a hard time with the link. Once you've put it in, I'm able to copy and paste it. But for some reason I'm not able to do it myself. Is there anyone who needs the notes? Okay. Hi Mark and Greer. Uh all right, give me a second here and I'll get your uh link. Marth, are you the Doctor Calendar from Hope Academy? Yes. Mm-hmm. Very nice to see you. Have you this morning in our class. Thank you so much. I'm glad to be here. Oh Diane, it was like that just went to you. I sent the the link in the ta in the Um chat? Okay, I got it. I'll post it to everyone. So last week we Kind of had an introduction, um uh introduction to the gospels the life of Christ haven't gotten didn't get uh much into the text yet of the Gospels. Except that um We peeked ahead to today's lesson, which is lesson one, and looked at the purposes that Luke and John provided in their Gospels of why they were writing. And if you remember, um and here I'm on Page thirteen, is that right? Page twelve Lesson one on page twelve. Luke writes that he wanted to make sure his readers had all the facts. about the life of Christ, or at least the the key facts, and he mentioned that he was providing them in consecutive order. And so because Luke is the only one who makes a point of saying he's writing them in chronological order, consecutive order, and that you would know the truth. It's basically his order of events that we're following Now he doesn't include all of the information from the other Gospels, but we're using his account as sort of the backbone and others as we get cues about what comes first, what comes next. uh fit them within Luke's timetable. John gave his purpose uh pretty much at the end of his account. And of course his purpose was very evangelistic. And was writing much later to uh basically to the whole world And he says, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that in believing you may have life in his name. So those two purposes from Luke and John are sort of uh the um Segue here, kind of setting the stage for the actual account of the life of Christ. So if you weren't with us last week, I would encourage you to read the notes there associated with it, as well as all the introductory material. Mark, were you able to get those? Alright, good. So prologue. Could someone uh read the prologue from John 1 for us this morning? I could do that. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word is with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being through him, and apart from him, nothing came into being that has come into being. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. There came a man sent from God, whose name was John. He came as a witness to testify about the light so that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but he came to testify about the light. There was the true light, which coming into the world enlightens every man. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him. He came to his own, and those who were at his own did not receive him But as many as received him, to them he came he gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory, as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth John testified about him and cried out, saying, This was he of whom I said, he who comes after me has a higher rank than I, for he existed before me. For of the fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace, for the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten God, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has explained him. So John's introduction or or prologue um is not just a A nice little context uh setting. Um he comes in very powerfully uh demonstrating, claiming anyway, the uh deity of Christ, the um The fact that salvation is not of works of the flesh, but rather the grace of God by faith. And did you notice there that his even in the prologue his reference to John the Baptist comes to a highlight when he said, John testified about Christ and cried out, saying, This is the one of whom I said He who comes after me has higher rank than I, for he existed before me. So he's John is saying That Jesus was coming after him not just in ministry, but Jesus was younger than John. How much younger? Six months. Remember Mary went to visit Elizabeth when she was six months pregnant and um actually left, I think, around the time of John's birth. And John was the older cousin of Jesus, and yet John says he existed before me. And so he understood the deity of Christ and that he was he became man, but he's always been God. And uh right in the very beginning, John is just laying out so powerfully the uh reality at least of uh the beauty of Christ. He's hundred percent man, hundred percent God. Um And so the rest of his gospel lays out a lot of the evidence for that. And he very methodically provides that evidence. Alright, well, Matthew and Luke each provide a genealogy of Jesus And you've probably noticed that they're not the same. And so there are several differences between them. Uh one obvious one is that Matthew um ends with Christ And Luke begins with Christ and works backwards But another key difference is that they're actually two separate family trees. From the time of David to the time of Christ, obviously between Abraham and David, it's the same family tree But between David and Christ, if they they follow two different paths. One of them is through um Uh as you see in Matthew here in verse uh six, David was the father of Solomon. So it follows the kingly succession through Solomon, all the way through um uh the the kingdom period, the exile, all the way through and down to Um Joseph. That is the the um You might call it, in fact, theologians have called it, sort of the legal family line. Particularly from David to Dow all the way down through to Jesus. So Jesus had um uh legal right to the throne of David, uh even though it was through his um Stepfather, Joseph. It wasn't a blood relationship between Joseph and Jesus. But that genealogy goes all the way from David to Joseph And Luke's genealogy goes backwards in times. It starts with Joseph. It says Jesus himself was about 30 years of age, being as was supposed the son of Joseph. Of course he wasn't um by blood, uh by the flesh, he wasn't the son of Joseph He was the son of Mary, who was conceived as a virgin, and the Holy Spirit, of course, will we read that in the account, I believe, next week. Um, but the line here now is the line between David and Mary. And where it says Joseph, the son of Eli. Eli was apparently Mary's father, so it was his uh father-in-law, apparently. And it goes back through a different set of people back to David. And then of course From David, it goes back not just to Abraham, but all the way back to Adam. Luke, I guess, was a stickler for detail, being the fine historian that he was. And um so there are some interesting peculiarities about those genealogies. I've highlighted a few here. I have them side by side on page fourteen. One thing to keep in mind is that these um are not necessarily exhaustive. In fact, we know they're not exhaustive. We know, for example, Matthew, if if you're looking on page fourteen, those shaded cells there are the kings of Israel or of Judah, the kings of Judah, from David down to Jechaniah But the shaded ones are the ones that Matthew includes, but he excludes four of the kings that we know from other passages of Scripture. And that's not terribly uncommon with genealogies. They're not necessarily always exhaustive. Uh and when it refers to a a father, it could be any um uh ancestor, uh could be a generation, two, three, uh prior. And when it refers to uh uh son It could be a son, it could be a grandson, it could be a great-grandson, and there are usually no clues in some of those lists as to which it may be In this case, the documentation in Scripture of the various kings of Israel makes it clear that Matthew skipped around a little bit, and um that was a fairly common thing Another thing to mention mention here is that many of these names Are um common names. And so when you see the name of someone like Joseph, it's not It shouldn't be too strange for us to realize that there were lots of Josephs, even in these genealogies And Joseph is actually more common, but there are others like um A key one that may trip us up a little bit here is Xiaotiao, who had a son by the name of Zerubabel. Well, as it turns out, both Matthew and Luke include a Shealtiel who had a son named Zerubabel But they're not the same people. They're in two different lines. One of them traces back to David's son Solomon, the other one traces back to David's son Nathan. They're just different genealogical lines But they're common enough names in those times, not so much today, but um And I've got some notes on I think on page fifteen with uh other examples of common names and and that sort of thing. So don't read too much into uh trying to match the one genealogy with the other because they're actually taking different lines from David's sons. Um The other thing I'll point out briefly, I'm not going to cover it in a lot of detail here, is note number seven on page 15. Um there's a Kanan, someone by the name of Kanan. who was supposedly the son of Arpaksad and the father of Shela. And uh that appears to be um um An error. Not in the original text, but in What's that? You froze on us for a moment. Sorry. You froze on us for a moment. I there now? You're good now. Okay. Could you please repeat about number seven? We didn't hear that, what you said about note seven. Yeah. So um Luke's geon genealogy goes all the way back to Adam. And so it includes This guy named Canaan, this is not the Canaan who is Noah's grandson. This is another Canaan Um and scholars, very conservative scholars, uh have observed that That's an insertion later into the Septuagint. It wasn't in the original Septuagint. It's not in the Hebrew text. Um Luke picked up on it probably because it was the Septuagint that was around when he was writing. That's what they're supposing. Um but you can read the details there in item number seven. Um and um There's not a lot really that that um of significance about it other than the fact that um there are cases where where scripture itself shows us that uh uh Copying errors sometimes happen. And um this would be an example of that. The other interesting thing here, uh that's more of a puzzle than anything else. Why is it a problem that it's there? Why is it a problem? Because it appears not to be correct. And it um as best we can tell it's not correct. It was an error that crept into the copying of the text. of the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Hebrew much later than the original Septuagint And so, you know, they couldn't photocopy text. Um, it was painstaking work. It was a very serious disciplined work to copy the texts of Scripture. And the Dead Sea Scrolls convince us that they did a fantastic job. Um The Dead Sea Scrolls included um I think pretty much all of the the book of Isaiah And um it shows that from the time the Dead Sea Scroll documents were written, which was um before Christ to about a thousand years later, those transcriptions, copies didn't change at all over a thousand year period. And by projection backwards in time, uh they must have been very consistent that same way even prior to the Dead Sea School So we can have great confidence in the accuracy of the original text, but even of The copies, there there are little um examples of things like this wouldn't be in the Old Testament, but an example of In the New Testament text, we often see the name of Christ as Jesus Christ and sometimes as Christ Jesus. And if a copier were to invert those, it's no big deal. But um And in this case, it's no big deal because there's there's no doctrine that's hinging on the existence or b any of the facts about this guy Kanan, who apparently didn't exist. Um so uh I hope that helps Yes, thank you. Okay, so um the on page sixteen I've got the note number eight there where Matthew makes reference to this rather um what structured Layout of time into three periods of fourteen generations each And Matthew makes a bit of a point about that. And those three periods were first between Abraham and David. second between uh David and Jeconiah, that is the first king of Judah, to the last one And then thirdly, the time between then and price. Um In actual chronology or in actual um uh calendars, that first period would have been around Uh 2100 BC to 1010 B. C. So we're looking at about 1100 years-ish. In that first um period and then From David to Jekoniah would have been around 400 years. And then from Jekoniah to Jesus would have been around 600 years. Um the word that Matthew uses here of generations can be used to refer to a specific point in time, like you know, the current generation, this generation. Jesus often used that term. Or it can be used as Matthew's using it to mean successive generations across time. And even conservative scholars, theologians are not exactly sure how to piece all this together what it really means doesn't really hinge on uh no doctrines really hinge on it. Um But it seems pretty clear that Matthew is not using this term generation to mean every successive father-son um kind of um meaning for generation like uh a grandfather to a father to a grandson would be um three generations as in three different um uh um families, but they would have been maybe two generations apart, right, depending on how you count them. And it's clear that Matthew, even in that list here, excludes some of the kings, some of the generations of the kings of Israel And so it seems pretty clear that he's not meaning this to be a literal count one father and another father, his father and his father in a comprehensive sense, because Matthew doesn't do that. And yet, by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, Matthew is indicating that there's some sort of symmetry or uh continuity here uh across these three major epochs, if you will, of time I don't think we can say much more. We're not given a lot of other clues in scripture And um maybe someday the Lord will clue us in a little bit more in what he what he's getting at here. The key thing, the takeaway from it though, is that God is sovereign through human history. And uh these generations were not just by accident And the coming of Christ was, of course, foretold. God knew it uh from the beginning. And um Um Matthew appealing to the role of Jesus as King of the Jews That um God was sovereign over all that. And um so it's an interesting little puzzle But there's some more pressing things to discuss, and I start those on page 17, if you're still with me. So why was it important that the Gospel writers were eyewitnesses of the life of Christ or that they carefully interviewed eyewitnesses? Well I think uh you know it's pretty clear, I mean we give more weight and credibility to eyewitnesses account, just like in a court of law, eyewitness account carries a lot of weight in the testimony Right. And if the eyewitness accounts differ from each other, is that a good thing or a bad thing? That's a bad thing. Well, if they're in direct opposition to each other and they contradict each other, yes, it would be a bad thing. But what if they don't contradict each other but they have different perspectives on the events? Oh right. There's th yeah, definitely there can be different viewpoints, you know, people standing in different locations uh at a scene of something that happened, you know, have different perspectives and when you take all the perspectives together you can get a more full picture of what actually took place. Exactly. And so isn't it very helpful to us that we've got four gospel perspectives? Right? That are either eyewitness accounts or based on eyewitness accounts And by taking them together we have a more full picture of the life of Christ. I think um another benefit is that If their stories were identical, you would think conspiracy that it's all rehearsed and not the way people um really see life. Um Uh Jeff Vine did a um very cool experiment with the kids in Iwana. He had um three of us come through the room. Um, and then had the kids tell what they saw and each kid noticed different things, but it was all true. Mm-hmm. Good point. Yep. I think also along those lines, um there's so much content in the Gospels That uh is words that Jesus said in private to like a small group of disciples. Um and so if the authors were not eyewitnesses, then they wouldn't have had access to that. And in fact if you look at uh John and Matthew who were among the twelve disciples, they include a lot more of that kind of content. Yeah, fortunately, um This and that's all true, and it's very helpful to have that inside experience and perspective and testimony. Uh but there are also times when Jesus was um Let's say in the Garden of Gethsemane, praying, and those who were closest to him were asleep. Right? And so some of the material they got the way any prophet would by revelation from God. fitting in the pieces and filling in the holes of things where they did experience and they they saw and they heard. So there there's some of that, but um yeah we are we are so so much benefited by having that eyewitness Um an ear witness uh account. Okay Number two there on page 17. The Gospel writers make it clear at the outset that Jesus was 100% man and 100% God. So why was it necessary that he be both? Well, if he wasn't God, then he wouldn't be perfect, I believe. But like he would just be An ordinary man. No and he would not have been able to perform well, he probably would have been able to perform miracles, but he wouldn't have been as perfect and not think 'cause what man can resist the temptation to sin without heavenly help? Good. So uh he had to be without sin in order to accomplish his purpose, right? John spoke about the purpose of uh us having life in his name, right? Um why did he need to be man Well it would've number one I think that Uh if he hadn't been oh if he hadn't been man, he wouldn't have had a claim to the royal line, number one. And number two, if he hadn't been man he would have just been a spirit and then he couldn't have actually physically died on the cross breath. Yes. There had to be a Death on uh to satisfy God's wrath against our sin. And that death would be would involve the shedding of human blood to satisfy God's demand for um um the payment for sin. Now So a related question is, why did Jesus have to be born to a virgin? So he wouldn't have the sin nature. Yeah, if he had a human father, he would have the sin nature. But he had to have a human mother to be a hundred percent human. So um Uh why is that important that the virgin human did not um the sin nature didn't go through him through her? What we see in the rest of Scripture, like in Romans, is that the sin is through Adam. And the um uh it's carried down from generation to generation through the father, but not the mother. And so in being born as a hundred percent human being, the normal way in the womb of a mother didn't give him a sin nature. Um but he had to be human. If he were just a spirit, if he were um an appearance of God, as he appeared a few times, like to Abraham and others. It wouldn't be human blood that was shed on our behalf. It wouldn't be a perfect human being taking on the sin of sinful human beings. There are other benefits that we see to his having been 100% human. We see many pieces many times in scripture. uh the New Testament that um um um he understands our temptations because he's been he was tempted in always just as we were, right? And that kind of comfort that's given to us knowing that he understands he's been there. And he didn't come as a human being at 30 years old. He came in the womb like all the rest of us. and uh lived out a complete human life so that not only are our sins transferred to him But his righteousness is transferred to us. And what is his righteousness? A f a life A complete life lives in perfect harmony with God the Father without sin. And it's that per perfect life that he lived that God credits to our account That when God looks at us in judgment, what's he seeing? The righteousness of Christ. So our sin has been transferred to Christ to satisfy God's wrath. Christ's righteousness has been transferred to us by his grace. And it's in that righteousness that we stand and we have any standing whatsoever before the Father. Um that's good news. That is good news Pastor Pumley? Yes, ma'am. Um isn't it also uh that uh the line Joseph Kingley line was cursed? So He could never be a natural king in that line. Solomon's line of kingship was cursed. Um What's important there is that that uh the human kings that uh preceded Jesus, uh were all fallen, even as David was. Um uh Um but Jesus the God unconditionally promised to David that he would have a king on his throne forever. And of course he was referring ultimately to Christ. And it it is the throne of David. And as I think we'll see next week When the angel Gabriel came to Mary and revealed who it was who was going to be born in her. Gabriel said very specifically that he would be reigning on the throne of his father David. That was his he was fulfilling that promise to David. Um but yes it is important that he was not physically a descendant of the um um those those kings who were all fallen. And so God had to make sure that he was born of a virgin and didn't have a sin nature. I think um sh she's talking about um zekaniah or somebody that God said would not sit on the throne. That's Okay, so um Question number three here, to what extent did Jesus use or lay aside his attributes of deity? And this is important for us as we go through the Gospels to wrestle with, okay, Jesus is 100% man, 100% God. He's doing some things that only God could do, but he's doing some other things that are just typical of people, right? He had to sleep. He was tired. He was hungry. He was thirsty. He experienced all the limitations that human beings experience. All the while being God. And so Philippians 2 gives us a little bit of insight here where it says, have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men. Being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death, on a cross. So that term emptied himself Um is it it gives rise to this doctrinal insight about um the kenosis of Christ. Kenosis is the Greek word there. And it refers to his uh voluntarily setting aside the prerogatives of deity, at least the full the full-time enjoyment and and use of those prerogatives when he took on human flesh It doesn't mean that he stopped being God, but as a human being, he willingly stepped into a world of um Space and time. Right? And all the limitations that brings with it. So he wasn't omnipresent in his um humanity. Uh he was he was in Very much limited in space and time. And that that just goes for the turf when he became a human being. Now He did do some miracles, right? And the gospels record a number of things that he did. Some of which were not entirely unique. I mean he raised people from the dead. I don't think any of us have done that. But other prophets had raised people from the dead as well. Clearly, it was the power of God in all those cases that would raise someone from the dead. In the case of the prophets, like Elijah. It was clear that they weren't God, but they had the power of God working through them, right? In the case of Jesus, we know that he is God, but he also had the power of God working through him, even in his humanity. Right? Um and references we see in in the Gospels Was that the miracles he did were sometimes described as in the power of the Holy Spirit. Other times he was calling on the Father. Um and it's clear that the U. again We just have to remember what the last word is. And so in that sense, it was very similar to all the other news. Um go around Um he he could have, but those miracles were very um uh strategic, God ordained, and um for the most part, I mean we we see only a snippet of his actual life and a lot of his miracles come out in that But for the most part, he was just living normal human life and uh with all the limitations and and so on with that encompasses. Pastor Pomley, I can I ask a quick question? Yeah. So, you know, Jesus was omniscient, you know, since you know I guess in the pass some passages he said he knew what was in the heart of man I was just kind of curious if uh you had put together I didn't see it in the notes, like a table of sort of which uh attributes, like in his humanity. You know, like obviously he wasn't everywhere at the same time 'cause, you know, he was in his the human body, you know, in kind of one location, but kinda studying like put a table of like which attributes may have been like more kind of active and present than I was just kinda curious if you'd Yeah. Um his omniscience is something that's hard for us to um nail down the extent to which he was drawing supernaturally on his divine omniscience in order to um do and say the things he was doing. We'll we'll talk about that in some of the the events and places where it makes reference to things like that. I think some of them, not necessarily all of them, some of them maybe that he just understood the context well. He was reading nonverbs. He didn't have to read everybody's mind to say everything he did about their motives. It was clear what their motives were But sometimes he may have. And I just don't think we have enough data in in the text to to say one way or the other in any given event, whether he had to draw on supernatural divine knowledge in order to have the discernment that he did, or Whether it was purely because his discernment and his mind were not corrupted by sin. Pastor Allen, that could probably be said of other writers of scripture as to how they could uh speak with certainty about uh certain events, um including the motives of people's hearts, in order to call it out as sin and to repent from it So that would be like miracles that other prophets did. It's by the enablement of God, and in the case of insight or knowledge, it would also be by the enablement of God Um which is also miraculous because that's not normal. Um but it it is sort of an open question to what extent Jesus Drew uniquely on his deity in order to have these insights versus like the miracles When they happened, it was for a specific purpose and uh he grew on his deity. Um at that moment for that purpose, but not necessarily, you know, he's walking through a crowd and he's reading everybody's minds necessarily. That wasn't relevant, right? So let's keep that in the back of our mind as we go through the various episodes and we can get a little more discernment I think about um whether that's an an illustration of his deity or just his wisdom. Um and maybe some of both. I mentioned his um righteous living There's several references here in item B there. But this raises the question that there is some Some uh uh various views on, even among conservative Bible-believing theologians, and that is We know it would have been impossible for Jesus to sin as God, but would it have been possible for him to have sinned in his humanity? Uh and we've got very conservative commentators and theologians on both sides of that question. It's those hypothetical questions are real tough ones, right? But what we do see from Scripture is, for example, in Hebrews For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. And then earlier in Hebrews, he had to be made like his brethren in all things, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for sins the people, for since he himself was tempted in that which he has suffered, he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted. So it raises the question, if it were impossible for Jesus, the God man, to have sinned, even in his humanity, Was it possible for him then to have been tempted to sin? Like as we do are. Um I don't really um I don't really mind if you all come down on that question in different sides. Personally, I believe that And this is getting us into item number four here. Jesus is referred to as the last Adam, right, in 1 Corinthians 15, 45. The first man, Adam, became a living soul. The last Adam, and it's referring to Christ, became a life-giving spirit. So in what sense was Jesus the last Adam? Well, what did Adam and Jesus have in common other than that they were both They both came into the world without a sin nature. Everyone else who has come into this world, apart from Eve, Has come into this world with a sin nature. And so Adam had his opportunity to live before God a righteous life, always doing the right things, even in his thoughts. But he blew it, presumably fairly soon. Jesus came into this world without a sin nature. He was 100% human being. He had no sin nature, but he did not sin. And so the question is, did he not sin because he was also God, or did he not sin because he was obedient as Adam should have been? And that's what I believe. He was a hundred percent human, and in his humanity I think, could have sinned, and therefore was tempted in every way that we were, but without sin. And became the last atom by uh not uh by coming into the world without a sin nature, but in his case not succumbing to sin But I don't believe that means that Jesus in his deity could have sinned. And therein lies the how can you understand the 100% God and the hundred percent man coexistence anyway? Uh that's a bit hard for us as finite human beings to get our mind around. But um be that as it may, that's a another um theological riddle that even very uh conservative, God-believing, Bible-believing um theologians continue to wrestle with. Pastor Blumley. Yes, sir. Yeah, I was thinking about this last night and and something else occurred to me and tell me what you think. I think another thing that um another um thing that um made um Christ another similarity between Christ and and the first Adam is they both They both passed on life. The first Adam passed on a life that would not continue for eternity because we all die, obviously. But Christ passed on um um a l a a life that continues in a spiritual life if you would. What did I write here? I think I wrote it down uh uh yeah spiritual life. So I I think that's another similar that that's another way in which Christ well, the scripture actually did say it's life giving spirit. Exactly. That that's that's the whole point of First Corinthians fifteen. Right. Right. Can I add a comment? Yeah. So I think it's referred to as the impeccability of Christ. Right. And so so the problem with um could he have sinned or not is if he could have sinned then that means all the prophecies of the Old Testament were invalid, they they were incorrect, they were wrong. So so that would make God a liar, you know, that he wasn't telling the truth in the prophecies of the Old Testament. So based on that line, it seems like he could not have sinned because the Old Testament, the prophecies were valid, you know, they were true. And so th they were fulfilled just as they were for foretold. So it seems like prophecies about his being incapable of sinning or prophecies concerning his not sinning Just be in him the Lamb of God, being the Redeemer, because if he sinned, then he couldn't be that. Exactly. And so so it seems like it would make the prophecies of the Old Testament invalid if If he could sin, then then that means the process could have could have been made invalid, and that just doesn't seem possible But it's exactly true that if he had sinned, it would have invalidated all of the prophecies about him But he didn't sin. Right. And I think the the place where we would say, well, okay, the the tempt the I guess the question comes in to the temptation, you know, being tempted And what does that what does that actually mean? And so, you know, if we if we look to the garden, I would say that's the the biggest place where we see the temptation, you know w in what way was he tempted not to go to the cross? Well, you know, he didn't want to necessarily go through the suffering, but it was he never had the temptation of disobeying the Father I mean he he prayed to do the Father's will, but yes, it was the Father's will that the cup would pass from him. So it was never a question of whether he would be obedient or not Can I see something? Yeah, I think I lost Reg. Oh, sorry. Did you did you Did you find I think I lost the album? Uh Victoria, you had something? Yes, I wanted to say there's a difference between could not sin and would not sin. If you look at them as Adam, Adam gladly sinned. And he he had the option not to sin and not to throw humanity into the chaos. But I think uh from from what you're saying, I'm I'm beginning to see that Christ would not sin and that's why he can be the the Adam for us. Right. Yeah, and so that's that's all these things are the gist of the debate that goes on. Um but it's all about hypotheticals anyway, right? The important thing is that Jesus did not sin. He accomplished the purpose of God because um he was always obedient to the Father. And as Philippians 2 goes on, it says, therefore God exalted him above every name. Anyway, I wanted to at least introduce that. And I think we'll see as we go along the um In fact, I'm uh in in the notes as we go through um uh particularly uh after Jesus' childhood and get into his his public ministry. Um uh I I'm asking you to look for evidence of um the humanity of Jesus, the deity of Jesus, uh the character of Jesus. And not every instance is going to have insight into all of those, but to the extent we can see what the scriptures are telling us about his humanity, his deity, his character. Um I think we'll we'll learn a lot. Anyway, we better wrap up here today and um So I'll close in in prayer. Father, thank you for your word and uh that you've given it to us. Both for our instruction, for our correction and training in righteousness, Lord, we pray that as we go through our uh observation of the life of Christ, that we would um certainly learn much, but we would also apply much And be convicted in our own hearts about how far short we fall the times, and yet, Lord, that it would prompt us to come to you in faith. uh for the uh the power to live with Christ living through us Lord, thank you for that great opportunity. Pray that as we do so, we would be honoring to you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.