And we begin with the feeding of the five thousand. Okay, so I'm going to go ahead and read the blended account. But the apostles returned They gathered together with Jesus and gave an account. Well, they returned from where? Do you remember? Yeah. So he had sent them out, right? And given them authority to not just preach, but even to evil and so on. And so when they returned, they gathered together with Jesus and gave an account to him of all that they had done and taught. After these things, when Jesus heard about John, heard what about John? Jesus said to them, Come away by yourselves to a secluded place and rest a while For there were many people coming and going and they did not even have time to eat. Now this is a Rather common problem, logistical problem that Jesus was facing for most of his ministry. People were naturally drawn to um come hear him, but perhaps many of them first just to uh be healed or to bring somebody who needed healing or just to watch the spectacle of it all. And so lots and lots of people, I mean many of these accounts you hear about the crowd, right? And he's teaching to uh the large multitude and um and it was very hard for him Um not so much just for his own uh balance of because he would often spend the whole night in prayer after a very long day of ministry Um but he needed some time alone with his disciples to teach them, to prepare them, to uh to train them, answer their questions. There are a few of those times that they have excuse me, when, for example, he tells a parable and they don't quite get it and they ask him. But he needed some time alone with them more frequently than that. So um verse thirty two And they went away in the boat by themselves to a secluded place on the other side of the Sea of Galilee. That is the Sea of Tiberias, to a city called Besseda. Now, I think at this point it would be helpful to look at the maps in your pack If you can still see those in your PDF version map nine dash five It's on page two hundred eighty-five. Maybe I do. All I have here is a lice hole. Oh but you see the Sea of Galilee there and if even if you don't if you can't bring up the map, you can kind of picture this kind of pear-shaped Sea of Galilee. Capernaum is where? Kind of the upper left, northwest um part of It's almost to the northern tip, but not quite on the west side of Sea of Galilee. And Besseda is kind of just opposite that, also under the north end, but on the east. edge. So they weren't really all that far apart. Which explains, well we'll read in a minute, people would run along the shore and beat them uh in the boats. So uh that's where we're talking, the north end of the Sea of Galilee. Okay And by the way, um the Sea of Galilee is and we'll see it even today, being named various ways. See of Galilee was, I guess, the more common one that we see in scripture. I guess it's John who refers to it also as the Sea of Tiberius. Tiberius being the emperor. the honorary name. Later we'll see uh the lake of Gennesaret. Uh Genesar was The um uh kind of the plain, the very fertile plain on the western edge of the sea. Okay, so Verse 33. But the people were aware of this, aware of him going by boat, and saw them going, and I guess seeing where they were headed, not all that far away And many recognized them and followed him because they saw the signs which he was performing on those who were sick. You see, they're just following the spectacle, right? This was before uh uh social media sort of instant uh connection with things. Thanks. One colour one pat. Normal one? So um They followed him because they saw the signs which he was performing on those who were sick. They ran there together on foot from all the cities and got there ahead of them And when Jesus went ashore, he saw a large crowd and turned around and went back, right? I mean his whole point was to Have some secluded time alone with his disciples. And the people kind of changed that plan. And so they're they're leaving a place where there was just a crowd of people and they're getting to a place where the same crowd of people beat them there. And so he saw a large crowd and he felt compassion for them because they were like sheep without a shepherd. So the very thing he wanted to do wasn't going to be possible, but you see his heart here, his compassion. met their needs. And welcoming them, he didn't send them away. He said, Can't you see I'm busy? Welcoming them, he began speaking to them about the kingdom of God and curing those who had need need of healing. And it seems like every place he goes there's going to always be some people who are sick and need of healing. Many of those who did that heal. When it was evening, the disciples came to him. Then Jesus went up on the mountain. And by mountain here, this is not going to be terribly high at this point. It's just up on the overlook. Went up on the mountain and there he sat down with his disciples. Now, the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near. John makes a mention of that. I think he's the only one, if I'm not mistaken. Yes. Each of the Passovers that took place in Christ's ministry are mentioned throughout the gospel records. And it's because though those are really the only time markers on an ongoing basis. Where we kind of see the unfolding of time, in this case one year after another, and it's because of the passage of those um Passovers that we know that his earthly ministry lasted just a little over three years. And And it seems in the context here, like, you know, the fact that the Passover was near doesn't have a lot to do with the actual story here because they're way up in Galilee. in uh Jerusalem or anything. But it does help by by the providence of God for us to have these little markers and we can kind of see the progress of time through the Gospels. Is this the second to the last Passover? I think this would be one year ahead, yes, of his his uh precipation So on. Well your note says Passover number three. Yes. So that's not the last Passover? No. Okay. No, uh um You need four in order to get three years span. Okay. Right. Okay. So um Verse 5. Therefore Jesus, lifting up his eyes, and seeing that a large crowd was coming to him, Said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these may eat? Now this he was saying to test him, for he himself knew what he was intending to do. And so you you can see he he intended to spend time with disciples, training them, building their faith, and so on. And so he says, Well We have an opportunity here for them to learn something about faith. Right? And so he asked Philip and his disciples came and said to him and said Perhaps Philip actually went and discussed this with those disciples as well. But anyway, his disciples came to him and said, This place is desolate And it's already quite late. Send them away so that they may go into the surrounding countryside and villages to buy themselves something to eat Which seems like rather rational thinking, right? But Jesus said to them, I'm sorry, uh Thomas, do you have a but Jesus said to them, they do not need to go away. You give them something to eat. Philip answered him, Two hundred denaria worth of bread is not sufficient for them, for everyone to receive a little. And he said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and look. And when they found out, one of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a lad here who has five barter loaves and two fish, but it's always that butt. Right? But what are these for so many people? And he, Jesus said, bring them here to me. Jesus said, have the people sit down to eat in groups of about 58. And they and and so here they've got how many? Uh seven five boats, right, and two fish And they're sitting down in groups of 50 each. And actually it says verse 15, they did so in groups of hundreds and of fifties. And so what are the disciples thinking at this point? Okay, I'm not sure what's going on here, but um It's pretty clear that this amount of food isn't going to feed that many people. But it says now there was much green grass in the place. So the men sat down In number about five thousand. I'm sure the the women and children sat down too, but they were counting according to the the men who were there Jesus then took the loaves and looking up toward heaven, he blessed the food, and breaking the loaves, he kept giving them To the disciples, kept giving them. And the number he kept giving them went beyond five, six, seven. He kept giving them to the disciples. And the disciples distributed them to the crowds to those who were seated. Likewise also he divided up the two fish among them. them all as much as they wanted. And they all ate and were satisfied. When they were filled, he sent the disciples to the disciples disciples, gather up the leftover fragments so that nothing will be lost. Why do you suppose he told them to do that? It's all biodegradable. They needed to see right the what God had done here in more more explicit terms. So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets With leftover fragments from the five barley loaves and also the fish, which were left over by those who had eaten. And there were about 5,000 men who ate, besides women children. So um twelve disciples, twelve baskets, all filled with leftovers And the leftovers were more abundant than what we started with. And clearly they had witnessed and actually participated in a miracle And you would think that this would have left a very um Deep impression on them. A lesson about trusting in God's providence, not um not relying on our own strength and wisdom and resources, but uh trusting in God's provision, lessons like that, right? And it and the way he that the Lord Jesus provided, it wasn't like some bakery cart was going by and broke down at just the right time. I mean he literally created something. out of nothing. I mean he had five but he he didn't just use a timing of something he actually did a creative miracle Right. Like an impossible miracle. Right. Yeah, you reach into the basket to pick up another loaf, and you pick up the fifth one and distribute it. You reach in again, there's another one Number six, reach in again, there's another one, number seven, which wasn't there originally, I think. So I see from this that we we have a biblical mandate to save the left old. Yeah. Yeah. Waste not, want not Well there's certainly some application of that here, but uh I think that the main reason he wanted the disciples to be involved in the distribution and also the cleanup Is that they would be very graphically clearly reminded, aware of what just happened And that um uh God can provide and God will provide. Um and They need to have more faith in answers. Part of me wants to say, you know, they would never have to But there is example neoclassima of the woman in the oil in the jars. The oil didn't run out until they were all filled. So And here we are with these examples that we need to apply to our lives and I feel like they felt the same way we do, I do. really gonna do it is now it's not that you know God can't it's if he's willing. Right. Right. Um There's also the example in the Old Testament of God providing the manna. That's right. No leftovers there, right? Uh but you're right, that that the lesson here was not about what God or even compare relationship with Jesus, what Jesus could do, although maybe it was partly that. But what they needed to learn was um that they can trust him and rely on. Yeah. So how is it since they're not aware of what he's about to do, that John says that he said this He's being tested in uh Um how how did they respond? How did the disciples respond? They said, well, in a very natural sort of way. Too many people, not enough food, let's send them away to to fend for themselves in in a sort of a realistic way. And um so he wasn't Necessarily faulting them for acting and thinking logically, but he knew he wanted to challenge their faith So Larry says um we do make an account. They understood that uh Um place is desolate, send them away. But then he says you give them something to eat. So based on what you said, I can see now I I we can't do it. Right Right. So what should their response have been at that point? When he says, okay, you give them something to eat. Andrew says, well we have five loaves and two fishes, but what should he have said? We're at the end of our resources. We can't do it. Yeah. Yeah, we can't do it in and of ourselves. Um but we know that you can. How would you like us to proceed? So that's what we put them in a situation to confront them to recognize they can happy to me. And not only that they they already would have known that they couldn't beat the need, that's why they're coming to it. You know, let's send these people away. But what they weren't connecting was That Jesus was capable and they could rely on him and And uh not that he would always do a miracle, let's say, for every meal, but this is obviously a unique occasion and it's an opportunity to uh be compassionate to the people, but also an opportunity for them to learn to rely on him, to trust him. Well we really never know what they're speaking of today. Yeah, you may never know until may in fact you may ever may never know, but sometimes we just we learn later oh that was I failed that's been I um Pastor Allen you could you could take this story and superimpose it on the David and Goliath story and if Jesus had been there, Jesus may have asked David, Well David, what do you have for this? situation. So David would say, well I have a sling, I have five smooth stones, I have developed some skill in in actually fighting a lion and a bear And so he kind of took stock of what he had and didn't necessarily focus on what he was lacking But so he he put those resources um including his his courage that he had developed over time And he had seen how the Lord had uh helped him to develop some courage over the years and some skill in him. sling and then he he used that he put it in God's hands and it was enough to to kill. Yeah yeah that's a that's an interesting parallel there. Daniel and Goliath. But people but before this we we said um they returned, so they did have experience with God's power using them So they did experience that now they're in a situation again that he's testing them testing them in a different way. It's just hard to I mean understand what we're saying in hindsight with the reconcile that he said this testing them. Yes Yeah. So when he sent them out just prior to this and to to to preach and and to heal and so on, he specifically gave them authority and instructions to do all that. And they did it. And And uh he God worked through them and they had they were very excited when they came back. But they didn't translate that into, okay, um We're with the Son of God. And we have this physical need which is even less um critical than a lot of these diseases and demon possessions that we already just um overcame, um they should have been thinking um about a spiritual solution that God um meeting their their physical need here um lessons that they should have learned by some of that they they did. Um and so he was testing to see how whether they were to respond in fate or with uh uh normal human logic and and everything. And uh Yeah in David's situation, he even uh in in Several of the comments I think he made to his fellow soldiers and to Goliath himself made the point that um you know you're You're defying the Most High God, and I'm going to slay you and cut off your head So that the world will know that there is a God in Israel. His focus was on honoring, glorifying God Yes, he had those resources and he was willing to use those resources, but he knew ultimately that it was all about God and God's protection. So there is some parallel there. I was just thinking about another aspect to this story and that's the response of the people. I mean, they're also aware of the miracle and you know, they they see him as the great provider, so they want to make him king. Yeah, we're not the gift for that. Not the gift of that. But but that's, you know, w That can be a typical response is, you know, we just want him to provide for us for our needs and you know set aside the aspect of faith and and walking in trust and obedience You know, as he talks about he's the the man that came down from heaven, you know, he's the bread of life. So it's not this physical bread that's gonna give you life, it's the more important spiritual bread that he is. So yeah and yeah it's it's very clear that uh everyone involved is is very slow to understand. Now you know we can point our fingers at them But uh we probably would have been in exactly the same situation. Yes Uh pastor, yeah. So I um Jesus is intent on testing his disciples at this point just after they came back from this rather exhilarating experience they've had, you know, uh uh pre uh going through um uh Galilee. Uh it's not that he did not know that their faith was not as s as as strong as it needed to be. It seems to me that the test was to help them see that they were not where they needed to be yet as far as their trust in him and that they had a long way to go. Because um I would imagine that Christ himself he knew already I mean if you already know that somebody um is not up to par for what you're testing them for, I mean unless you want them to know that that fact themselves, there's no point in you testing them except you just want to give them additional instruction Right, exactly. And I think a lot of our tests, you know, we take tests in in classes and so on. Not primarily so that the teacher will know how much we do or don't know, but so we know whether you know the extent to which we measure up And particularly in those earlier tests, man, I got this wrong, this wrong. Um you want to respond to those things, learn them. Um so that the next time it comes around and the final and so on, um you'll you'll have mastered that. And so a lot of these tests are of that sort for sure. And we're about to see another one. Um Yep. But what's interesting is later we will see the feeding of the 4,000. They are two events. He actually is right after the feeding of the four thousand when he um tells him to beware of the Leven of the Pharisees and do things It's because they didn't bring enough bread. It says, wait a minute, wait a minute, guys. You were there when we fed the 5,000, how much was left? And they told it. You were there when we fed the 4,000. How much was left over? And they told him, how is it, right, that you're still so blind to see Yeah. Just one other quick point is the fact that there were leftovers shows that everybody ate until they were f full. Specifically cessable. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um this this event, the feeding of the five thousand Is the only event recorded in the Gospels prior to Passion Week that appears in all four Gospels. When you get to Passion Week, there's a lot that overflows or overlaps across all four Gospels. But prior to Passion Week, this is the only event that made it into all four. And so I think we can conclude that eventually they saw how pivotal this was. And they're thinking and that it would be helpful to uh convey this in the lesson you know if if I were Matthew or John, who were both there. I might feel a little bit embarrassed to air my dirty laundry here about how lack of how much lack of faith we disciples had. point but um their account was was accurate. Is this a turning point where was this where they minnie s turned away and followed him no more I thought it was John 6. John 6. Yeah, that comes later. Well I mean it's on the heels of this, isn't it? It's on the heels of this, yes His gift but that was more about his teaching about him. It all flowed out of this because they didn't accept the miracle. He made instead of making it easier, he made it more difficult, you know, it's like Yep. Yeah. If I can push them in the direction they were going. Yeah. Okay. Well let's go to section eighty. And this is kind of a transitional thing here. I'll read the blended account. Or actually someone else could who'd like to read. Kirk goes Therefore when the people saw the sign is this the right paragraph? Yes. Therefore when the people saw the sign which had been performed, they said said, this is truly the prophet who is to come into the world. So Jesus, perceiving that they were intending to come and take him by force to make him king Immediately made his disciples get into the boat and go ahead of him to the other side to Bensaida while he himself was sending the crowd away After bidding them farewell, and he had sent the crowds away, Jesus withdrew again up to the mountain by himself alone to pray. Now when evening came, he was there alone, and his disciples went down to the sea. Okay, so uh We noted earlier that the people who were fed had sort of that that natural human response. Um we like this guy, let him uh rule over us. And in the ruling over us in their context would have meant what Free flu. Making him king. Free flu. That was their political situation. Overcoming Rome. Rome, right? And so if they want to make him king, that's basically treason. Right? They they wanted to revolt against Rome and they were looking for a a messiah, a king who would do that. They were thinking just um earthly kingdom here. Because they did quote Moses there, this is truly the prophet. has come to the world so it is seen as the the message like it didn't seem for who we really want Or the nature of the kingdom that you would establish, right? It's something even unbelievers know I mean Jewish people of course, but Um they knew to respond this way to what had happened to make him king. Yeah, well even Satan of course quotes scripture quoted scripture to Jesus out of context. Um weird that they're making the decisions. I mean he's the king. Wouldn't he be making the decisions? It's almost like, yeah, we we're we are congregationalists here. We're gonna decide Right. Yeah, well, it does say they were desiring to take him by force to make him king. It's clear that it should have been clear to them that uh that That wasn't his intent. He was more humble than that, and he wasn't moving in that direction. You would think that someone who had great power like that and wanted to rule politically and Would jump at that chance. Now he's got everybody in his pocket. Right? And he jumps at it and says, okay, now here's here's what we're gonna do, but he was withdrawing. And uh so they had to take matters into their own hands. So doesn't he get it? Greg? I I think he's also protecting his disciples. I think his disciples are in in danger. Um as Henry was pointing out, you know, they're weak and this would have been right in line with their thinking that oh, it's time for him to be declared king And to protect his disciples, he immediately sends them away, gets them removed from the situation, and then he deals with the crowd himself. So I think it you know it's his protection just just of them because they are vulnerable to exactly that mindset. Right. They could easily fall into that same trap. And maybe we're starting to So right. I guess it was a a pattern in the Old Testament that the king may not necessarily have known that he was the the chosen and until a prophet uh was appointed to anoint that person and then they then they got it that yeah okay I am supposed to assume The position is changing. Yeah, um David certainly got it. It's not clear that Saul got it quite that quickly. Um But just trying to reconcile the mindset of the people. Yes. Maybe maybe Jesus doesn't know that this is Yeah. They're putting two and two together and they're wondering why he can't do that. Yeah. Yeah. So uh he puts them in the boat and he goes up to the mountain and um I've often wondered, so what are these disciples now thinking? Um they're going just a little ways down to toward uh sedava, which is not very far away. Um It doesn't record here what he might have told them as he sent them away. You know, you you go on ahead of me maybe to Betsa, which is between where they were and Capernaum. Um and uh I'll send the crowd away and I'll meet you in the save that he could be easily walked this way Um so he may have said something like that and said, okay, whatever you say. Um So it got dark. He was there alone. He was up on the hillside. praying and the cycles were down the boat. So um It seems clear that he wanted to test them again. Again, he he didn't want the crowds around and a nighttime lesson might be ideal right now. There are two mentions there are two evenings here. So it's not the same day. Because before um the the Uh the crowd came during the evening. So the first album of people. There's an evening there. Yeah. And then there's another evening. Yeah, no, I I've always thought it's the same evening, but where is that first reference? I remember that Good record, Chris. You wanna? Uh verse fifteen on page one hundred nine When it was evening, the disciples came to him and that was the reason why they said, hey, it's supper time, you know, we need to I couldn't tell whether it was the same or not because the evening came Yes. Um I I think what that means is When it was evening that it's when um when basically it's it's supper time, you gotta make a decision here. Are we gonna feed them or send them away? We don't have food, let's send them away. Okay, so that it's not like it was dark yet, but they knew it was gonna get dark pretty soon. And we've got to do something with these people. Um I I don't see any reference here to them sort of camping out a whole night and another whole day. So I'm thinking that that was sort of supper time, evening was coming, and um They had to make a decision. And then he feeds them. That's dinner. And He sends his disciples away, uh sends the people away And now in verse 16, now when evening came, it was there alone in his disciples. Went out to sea. Now it's actually night. And the people are going away samples around the boat at night. Uh I I think it's the same evening You know that it is interesting that the people who come about Post and make him king, they declare that he's a prophet, but he sends them away You know it's not really a big hoopla for them, he just sends them away and okay that didn't work so to speak or uh it happened a few other times when he wanted to make himself be someone something or um or I think we get there but these events or uh when people are hype or feeling good they want this to be the way and God rejects it in this sense in a way in this um to show that we can't be so you know uh inspired to do something and then in reality it's there's nothing really Yeah, I I think if if I were in Jesus' position, knowing what little I know My ministry strategy here would have been, all right, we've got all these people who I've got their attention. Let me now teach them and and and challenge them and And direct them into what it is we're doing here and not just be so superficial about the meeting the physical needs and so on Um so you've got people who you've got their attention and now would be a great time to go deep with them But he sends them away. And I think it's because he realizes uh for the most part Like what was mentioned in the text, their interest was all in the superficial. All the the the uh the the physical, the here and the now, and meeting their needs. Uh mm and their heart wasn't quite right Can we even be aware of that within ourselves about how your frights force died overall or if we're just responding to uh a feeling with circumstance and just want this thing to continue and go on You know what I mean? Yeah. I I I think it's probably yes and no. I think we need to be uh aware of where our heart's at, what our motives are Uh but our heart can be deceptive too. Yeah, but we gotta be careful. But for whatever reason, Jesus uh sends them away. I think one of the reasons is not only that they weren't quite ready yet, but he knows they're going to be back again, he'll have more time with them. He really wants this time alone with his disciples. And so he's setting this up. Let's go ahead and read the blended account. Section 81, Jesus walks on water. I can someone read that. Whatever evening. And after getting into a boat, they started to cross the sea to Capernaum. It had already become dark And Jesus had not yet come to them. But the boat was already a long distance from the land in the middle of the sea, battered by the waves But the strong wind was contrary, it was against him, he was alone on the land. And in the fourth watch of the night Seeing them straining at the oars, he came to them, walking on the sea, and he intended to pass by them. When they had rode about three or four miles The disciples saw him walking on the sea and drawing near to the boat, and they were all terrified and said, It is a ghost And they cried out in fear. But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Take courage. It is I. Do not be afraid Peter said to him, Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water And he Jesus said, Come. And Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came toward Jesus. But seeing the wind, he became frightened And beginning to sink, he cried out, Lord, save me. Immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and took hold of him And said to him, You of little faith, why did you doubt? So they were willing to receive him into the boat. When they got into the boat, the wind stopped, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were coming or going. They were utterly astonished, for they had not gained any insight from the Incident of the lowest that their heart was hardened. And those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying, You are certainly God's son So um interesting that Matthew, Mark, and John have this event following red on the heels uh put back that look But clearly he was testing them again, trying to help them see um their own lack of faith, their lack their own lack of understanding who he really was. And At the end of it all, they worshipped him, saying, You are certainly God's son. So that's a good sign. Unfortunately, we're gonna find that they still are struggling even after this to understand And uh who he is, why he came and and so on. But this clearly made an impression on them. Yeah. Peter particularly. Right. Peter being the the impulsive one. Yeah, if we didn't have a booker back, this would be pretty disliking. Yeah, y uh it seeing how slow to learn and scripture actually says hard of heart, the disciples were it could be very discouraging. You know what I would have found discouraging? You look at Matthew 28 in the verses preceding the Great Commission, so they're all assembled together, but some doubted After the resurrection. Um so I guess a part of the language works. Slow to learn, slow to believe So it's not necessarily being a state of unbelief. It it could entail Just well he often chides them, owe ye a little faith. Right? The issue is is faith. And also where where they are placing their faith? Are they placing their faith in God or in their own resources. What's that? Well you asked as a believer. tiny being uh being shaped but is uh Not well developed. Pastor Plumley. Yes, sir. Oh yeah. So I I find this I find this account and I guess several others um scary. And I and I and I I find it scary because I don't think that we're much different than the um disciples back then Even after seeing everything that they saw, experienced everything that they experienced, and even some of the some of the miracles that they did, they still had problem with faith You have to wonder what does it take to have the kind of faith that Jesus evidently expected them to have? And I I find it scary because I don't know that we we can we can do it better than them. I mean I mean sure we're reading the a an account of what they you know what they went through I don't know, I think it's it it is meant to be challenging to us. Um And it's even more so because we can look back on his entire ministry. We know about the crucifixion and the resurrection Um they didn't. In fact, he told them and they it it didn't compute. Right? We can look back at that and we've got the bigger picture. We've got all of the New Testament unfolded before us. We have less excuse than they do. Right? Yes. Well, yeah, it's um that's a good point Victoria mentioned that that one advantage we have as believers is the Holy Spirit's indwelling us. Convicts us of sin, builds our faith, comforts us, all those things. This was before Pentecost, and so they didn't have the Holy Spirit. Uh not in at least quite the way that we do. Apparently the was working through them in those earlier the earlier outreach so on, but those were temporary anointings, not a full time indwelling. Jesus said he was with you, but now he will be in you. Right? Yes, and. Pastor, um I think we're a little hard on the disciples, just blaming them. I think this is the natural human tendency of everyone because I'm thinking back to the man who said Lord, I believe. Help thou my unbelief. Even believers, you know, there's these certain little doubts. And I just Don't think it's entirely true of the disciples. Well it's not true only of them, yes. Well that's true. Like Henry said, this is um the implications for us are clear. That um uh we're not inherently a lot different from them. And The scriptures have been given to us, these accounts have been given to us to build our faith. And that faith is also a gift of God. And so he he gives us faith, he builds our faith. He uses scripture to do it. He uses answer prayer to do it. Um he uses our stepping out in faith and seeing him provide to build our faith. And Jesus was putting the disciples through a series of experiences to do that very thing. Yeah. Um there ought to be a challenge to us, but yes, we're we're no better than they are. I I always find it I mean Peter is uh obviously an example here, you know. I mean he get he does get out of the boat, he steps out in faith But then he starts looking at the situation around him and the danger he's in, takes his eyes off the Lord And it's interesting that he doesn't just plunk under the water like off a diving board. You know, it's it's like he begins to sink. And then he he reaches back out to the Lord, you know, he puts his eyes back on on the Lord. And I think that's we do that often, you know, we we get in situations we we begin to think And we have to turn back to the Lord. Yeah, and his example is um is a great one for us in a very way. And it seems clear that he must have realized this is only happening um by God's power and my trust, my faith. And he must have also realized that when we started to sink, it was because um he was lacking in faith, yeah, doubting this kind of thing. Taking his eyes off the Lord and saying, you know, as soon as he says, oh look what I'm doing. Right It's instructive that Jesus assesses their faith harshly. And he doesn't Jesus doesn't coddle coddle unbelief And it's like we're saying it's a hard lesson to learn for us today too. And uh a repeated lesson. And we'll see eventually as we go through more examples of uh him chiding them for not having learned the lesson already. Um but they're very much like us That doesn't mean we should be satisfied with that lack of faith or slowness to trust the Lord. Um I I feel the same way. I mean I I've I'm I'm also challenged by this passage every time I read it, but it's also encouraging For several reasons. One is just a reminder that our faith is always in process. It's never going to be perfected until um we're with the Lord Second, that God promises that he who began a good work in us will complete it. Um and so they're being tested and they're being tited, but they belong to the Lord, you know, and He is going to complete and we have the scriptures to see how that process Um and then the last thing I think of is Hebrews 12, uh where the writer of Hebrews says God disciplined those he loves. So the fact that our faith is being tested And we're seeing the reality of it and being reminded of how how far we had to go um is evidence that we belong to him, you know, and that he loves us because he is going to keep disciplining us and he is going to keep training us and growing our faith. So it's encouraging too um to know that I belong to the Lord and He's going to keep doing whatever needs to be done to grow our faith in him. Good summary. Yep. He's committed to our our um sanctification, which includes building our faith. Yep. Well, let's uh go ahead and close in prayer