Some of the others do a pretty good job of it. And whoever says, you fool, shall be guilty enough to go to fiery hell. Why they're doing maybe the right thing for the wrong reason. I I've been thinking a lot about the idea of rewards and how my view on rewards is ever changing. Yeah, I see that in our lives. But I I think the lesson that we can take from all of this is that we just go out and do the commandment regardless of what we think the consequences It it seems to me he's um really attacking the gods of the world. What is your wealth or your comfort or health? we can expect something to respond. Least among believers. But many were falling away because they were following for the wrong reason. Pastor, you know, uh, you should be the bigger person, you're the Christian. Yeah, speak louder than her words. weeks ago with the different soils and everything. And right. Not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. If your right hand makes you stumble, cut it off and throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to go into hell. Right then. And as we live, our goal is to honor him who has given us this great gift. But you know, in in taking these a little further, isn't that why I I think Christ was more critical and describes it very Focusing on God on this. An angry God. You know, when I when I read through these these encounters Jesus had with his disciples and those around him, I often wonder, what must have they have been thinking when they heard this? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. relationship that I was so shocked by the righteousness that she was living by. by people asking her questions and she's coming back with a response as to why, you know. To a fault. It was some combination of what we have in Matthew and Luke, but we're following Luke. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife like that, particularly, except for the reason of unchasteity, makes her commit adultery But let your statements be yes, yes, or no, no. And whoever takes away what is yours do not demand it back. You know, we're good we're going the extra mile. Yeah. myself and call on the Holy Spirit to that I can walk in him. Yeah and make us more. Twice. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. don't use meaningless repetition when you pray and yet this example of a prayer has probably been the most often repeated prayer in the world in history. talking about, you know, everything working for good and we know that good is being performed in Christ's image. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. focus is that when God provides, oftentimes he provides just enough. piece of sparrow. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for their fathers used to treat the false prophets the same way. You need to be thinking long-term. But he says we need to get away from that and think about eternity. Isn't there something more? But therefore are good and for God's glory. So he says in verse 13, you are the salt of the earth. Nor does anyone light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on the lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house But by the impact it has on others to glorify God. that when when we can fall through with with that um cause these people to glorify us, we got it wrong. But if we are a fork in the road, we should expect both responses. They'll be attracted to the gospel too, if by God's grace he's drawing them to himself, right? It's going to be glorifying. out um and even in his last words of you know preach the gospel to all nations it's um the consequence of that is not something he focused on not we accept either one and that's God's providence and that's God's working and the decision now may not be the decision in the future. might be probing a little bit just to try to figure out what makes us tick. doing after everyone was gone. you know following Christ and um Jesus um didn't just go to the synagogue to preach he would help the most Do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. Shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. What hope did that give to anybody? Jesus' works. Because it's simply allowing him to live his life through us. But if we do it because our heart is transformed by Christ and He lives his life through us, our righteousness is because of him and him Because Luke is the only one who said specifically he's laying it out in chronological order. But once we're in the Sermon on the Mount, we're actually following Matthew's chronology of the sermon itself. You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. Then he says to verse 29, if your right eye makes you stumble, tear it out and throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. And then come and present your offering. Or is it getting our heart right with God so that we do the right things for the right reason? either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by earth, for it is the footstool of his feet, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king, nor shall you make an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn and offer the other cheek to him also. Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with him too. It provokes a response that people ought to wonder why we're so abnormal. For he causes his son to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. Therefore, you are to be perfect as your Heavenly Father is perfect, but love your enemies and do good and lend expecting nothing in return. And your reward will be great. um convicting and just lets us know how spirit though we have to be. Yeah, uh those watching eyes um will take something away from that. that's what that's what the message of the gospel is is against in its entirety. Jesus alone and his death on our behalf satisfy God's wrath because he bore our sins. Otherwise, you will have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. God being pleased with us. But when you pray, go into your inner room, close your door, and pray to your father who is in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. For they suppose that they will be heard for their many words. Probably so. Do not put on a gloomy face as hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance, so that they will be noticed by men when they are fasting. But by who? But if our righteousness is coming from the right heart attitude, the right heart submission to God, then it's going to be pleasing to God rather than man-focused Dan. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break into steel, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. The eye is the lamp of the body, so then if your eye is clear, your whole body will be full of light. For this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for the body as to what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Are you not worth much more than they? And why are you worried about clothing? But if God so clothes the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith? Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things, all what things, food and clothing and and so on, will be added to you So do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will care for itself. actually not faith, you know Lord you need to give me a one year supply now because I don't I don't trust that you're gonna help me tomorrow. Just picking up in the middle of reading the uh Beatitudes on page 81 where we left off last week things. And even though that may, from a world's perspective, seem like a weak position now, that's actually where strength comes. The whole Sermon on the Mount here, and he's really starting with the Beatitudes, is to shift people's thinking and certainly comfortable, you know, we evaluate our circumstances by whether we're comfortable, right? Right? Yeah. We would do well to adopt that eternal perspective and evaluate things on the basis of how godly they are rather than how You're being in some of those situations, but the warnings also when uh you think that everything's going well from that worldly perspective Some people are gonna just dismiss it and rationalize and they're hardened, right? And that's a good thing. For me, maybe this is the pragmatic approach I take is you know you give the message no matter what. Or the dialogue. On the inside it's full of dead men's dead men's bones. The ones that are in gray are not in chronological order. Well some but in the big scheme of things, but in the fine tuning of it, uh and you could see in your your um And so he's helping people to see that righteousness is not just keeping the letter of the law, it's doing the right thing for the right reason. you know, by God or by the temple or or something. Um that's certainly a a challenge. Verse 38. Right? When he says he holds you up, he wants your wallet, and you end up giving him the wallet and says, here, take my coat also, what's the response likely to be? It's the it's the byproduct of that relationship, yeah, for sure. itself. Look at me, I'm obviously fasting. If then the light that is in you is darkness, how great is the darkness? Good lessons. Right? Blessed and good. Away from what we would normally think of as good and right And so this, one of the main themes of the Sermon on the Mount is understanding and applying true righteousness. What is good, what is right, and what will be the long-term consequences of what is good and right. We see that from both perspectives, that the warning of of of well the reassurance and the blessing concerning Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Others, however, will be able to glorify God because of our good works, including what we say. He got real sensitive. one time with a parking situation and somebody was telling me you shouldn't park here and they got in an argument and all this and then another person went you know and said you know you shouldn't apologize then I think I was able to see through to what the source. The reason we do what we do and we say what we say ought to be unambiguous. But that's okay. Right? And the heart is deceitfully wicked. We're doing it out of love for Christ, a love that he put there. But if we do that in our own strength, in our own capacity, that leads to nothing. how this goes here. But I say to you, Jesus said, that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court, and whoever says to his brother, You good for nothing, shall be guilty before the Supreme Court. and upsetting the the sort of the the the norm, the the normal way of thinking. You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. They're looking in the wrong place for the solution. our our obedience to and our reliance on God alone. And then um this last sentence has actually been um are all good things to focus on as we're praying for the uh the power to to live uh as we should the the difference between doing something to be seen by men rather than doing something um humbly, privately, to be pleasing to God Yeah, God, in his goodness, often does give us a little encouragement along the way. builds our faith. Do not worry then saying what will we eat or what will we drink or what will we wear for clothing, for the Gentiles eagerly seek for all those things, for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. We have a responsibility to work hard, right? And we're not acknowledging God's sovereignty, his care, and so on. Rejoice and be glad in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven. Woe to you who are well fed now, for you shall be hungry. And then Luke particularly goes the other way around, and presumably Jesus did as well, making the contrast. And serve. Is there fulfillment in that? And so Jesus' words here are uh a challenge. comfortable they make me. Introducing and starting to think through the practicalities of this whole uh teaching on righteousness. He's talking about righteousness, right? The people, the regular people. That was okay because when I had the opportunity to tell them why I was doing it, I had that answer and the minute I would talk about things like that was more cheese when approached For I say to you, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. And he says, woe to you, you Pharisees, you're like whitewashed tombs. You know, somebody very wisely said that the Christian life And I'm flipping over the discussion and application questions, which I'm sure you delve in Okay, so the blending in this case of Matthew and Luke is on page 85. Wasn't legit. God's authority. uh rudimentary system of justice that was definitely embedded in the old testament law What makes this person tick? Let me let me double the requirement so that I can prove that I'm extra good. If our testimony is we respond the same way the world responds, then we're not that fork in the road. Bless those who curse you, and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? If if we're focused on doing something to appease anger is our perception and focus on that, we take away from the relationship that God hurt us Is what's gonna bring benefit not only to us but to those around us and glory to God. Pray then in this way. Is uh out of faith depending on him. And uh that's again he's getting at the heart, not the works. Blessed are you when men hate you and ostracize you and insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you and scorn your name as evil for the sake of the Son of Man. There we're seeing a uh a series of conditions, I'll say, that most people Usually we get that wrong. And where it seems to be lowly, that's what gets exalted, is godliness. Very long term, not just short term. Right? And what is righteousness? The intent here is that they would glorify your Father who is in heaven. What do you, just in your experience, what do you believe unbelievers see or how they how they interpret the godliness coming out of us For some people, it's going to turn them off. Two paths that people take, right? The way that they think leads to my happiness, which is actually destruction, or the way that leads to life. So I guess so for those who have a positive response, um, do you think that they actually But that doesn't preclude the usefulness and mandate really to be as explicit as we can be. Back to Matthew 5. That got their attention, I am positive. I mean, if you were to name anybody who was righteous, you'd point to the Pharisees. This was not a a um a warm fuzzies message here. By the way, Jeff mentioned last week that our overall chronology of the life of Christ, we're taking from the Gospel of Luke. And so, but this is all in one occasion, so it fits the the right chronology. Where does it say that? But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her already has committed adultery with her in his heart. Therefore, if you are presenting your offering at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering there before the altar and go. My right hand did that, but my left hand is clean. But I say to you, you hear him saying, but I say to you, he's speaking with authority repeatedly here, right? And whoever marries a divorced woman in the same way commits adultery. Indeed. We're not trying to meet any letter of the law. No, if he asks you to do something and you do it with excellence and then more, what's he going to think? And I don't want to be a stumbling block to that person seeing the goodness of God. The hate your enemy part was more the tradition of people, yeah, we love our neighbors, the people who are like us and and can do good for us, but we hate our enemies What more are you doing than anybody else, the others? Um me self preservation, revenge, uh whatever. But the supernatural thing is to approach the situation the way God would. We put on the righteousness of Christ. And our children or grandchildren are watching you if you do great work. But he's also patient and gracious. And and uh so whenever even in our examples where we say, look at us, this is what we're like before God, imitate us, it it's um it takes away or puts in place us instead of you know. Definitely has wrath toward all sin, all sin, including ours. separation from God. On our behalf. So, yeah, if people want to appease God's anger, that's in and of itself, that's impossible, except So when you give to the poor, do not sound the trumpet before you. Um verse five. Men, again, it's it's trying to please men rather than God. Again, it's not about pleasing people, it's about pleasing God. And then verse 14 he says, For if you forgive others for their transgression, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. Then your father will not forgive your transgressions because you're hard-hearted, right? outspoken against hypocrisy. That the b the benefits of being obedient to him with right motives I view myself as seeing that conformity being the reward because that helps to strengthen my faith. Is it anxious because we're worried? And it it gets to our heart, doesn't it? Speaking of those conditions where we would be attracted to these circumstances, and yet God is warning them, no, that's not really what is And God can use that to um influence those people, to draw him, to draw them to himself. The whole thing was go out, preach the gospel, give the message, and God sets out you know what happens after the effect. Living out his righteousness through us, that brings God glory. and challenging. And that's mostly because when we think of Sermon on the Mount, where do you go? But he was intentionally challenging their thinking in all these ways level the their level of commitment and s and and the purity of their intentions and so on by by uh swearing Right? Encouraging, comforting, yeah. Right. What we would consider to be blessings, conditions that are that are nice and good and happy. Um what's in it for me? That should be a theme verse for us. That if we're if we're doing the right things, we're gonna have two responses. Perhaps because it's convicting and that's not a bad thing, but it will be something about which to glorify God to others recognize the God in us or do they just say, okay, so you know Fred's a really nice person. Is this a workspace salvation? It's important that we do the right things, which they were doing for the most part, but what's more important, that we do the right things for the right reasons. Who was the only one who led a righteous life? But he continues, and this is picking up Matthew 5, verse 21. And that right reason comes from the heart. You see what he's saying here? Okay, where are we at? Um okay. You need to be trustworthy. Letting our light shine before men that they would see our good works and glorify the Father who is in heaven. Doing the right thing is in stark contrast here with doing the natural thing. Submit ourselves daily because in a lot of these situations the flesh is going to just take over otherwise. because they were every religion in the world basically is it has a basis on appeasing an angry God. Things that really matter that have eternal value. Alright, let me real quick number section 52 here on page 86 What's in it for me? But we're not immune from that. Then that's glorifying to God. And it's from the heart. And we're not like whitewashed tombs that look good on the outside, but we're full of dead men's bones on the inside. So he's using hyperbole here. Be merciful so that just as your father is merciful. Yep. Amen. Let's see if we can uh delve into some depth here. You know, we don't like being persecuted. They would then search for what we have. If we're not a fork in the road, what does that mean? And he's called us to be that fork in the road so that people are challenged to decide which direction am I going. Yeah I I guess I guess part of what um I love both response. Some of them, we'll see when we get to John 6, some of them couldn't handle the teaching and left. Are we openly identifying our places education to use outside that's where that people have been able to use? Even if nothing more than to say, um I'm I'm doing this Notes at the very beginning where it lists all the different uh sections we're going to cover and which gospels they come from, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And what our in other words what our motivation is. And make no provision for the flesh means get your heart right so that you won't do those things. And not to self. Go ahead. The solution is to accept his solution, which is Christ taking that punishment for us. Beware of practicing your what? So Jesus, of course, in his teaching, as we'll see uh repeatedly, um was very He doesn't he doesn't promise to give you abundance. Um but that's just what he's talking about. Um, that's powerful. And that's what the scribes and Pharisees were kind of doing. Probably not. Uh for if oh by the way, before um I continue here, do you find it interesting that Jesus is specifically saying Well, actually, Matthew starts summarizing the kind of conditions that we would not think as blessed, but God does think are blessed. People are generally not used to a Christ-like response. Now, someone who is new to observing these things and maybe God's working on their heart to soften them. Mark, but especially Luke, especially Matthew, had didn't have any interest in chronology, apparently. But if you're committing adultery in your heart, it's just as evil, right? But I say to you who hear, love your enemies. For someone who um didn't make God angry, who was sinless And it goes on having been firmly rooted and now being built up and established in your faith, just as you were instructed. But when you give to the poor, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. Very thoroughly last week on your own. And and that's the measurement, that's the ruler that we measure by. But the key the key for me is morning. Let it be in secret. By the way, that reward is that gonna be um financial? Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. But here in the Beatitudes, he's challenging them. Okay. We can delve into the bits and pieces of that, but I think that's the main lesson here. He says, woe to you who do all these things and yet neglect the more important things. is impossible to live. But you gotta know when they heard this, they said, whoa. So we're enabled to do the right thing for the right reason. Truly I say to you, you will not come out of there until you have paid up the last cent. When it's not required even by this ungodly person who's requiring it. Fork in the road thing. Yeah. But what's the solution? At adoring, adoring God, uh exalting God, right? If we didn't see the fruit of his working in us, that could be discouraging. He doesn't give them a big cache of of seed. It's Jesus' works. What's Jesus saying? He was in my previous class. Why would giving her a certificate of divorce cause her to be adulterous? If I'm walkie, oh, it's a tornado. Alright, let's pray. You know, we get so used to these ideas because we read them over and over and over again. Um but picking up in chapter five, again, he's he's They're keeping all the laws, not only keeping all the laws, but all the the traditions they came up with to apply the laws. You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Your father who is in secret. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Okay. We even have to identify with Christ. Again, remember he's he's introduced this topic of righteousness, doing the right thing, with the right right heart attitude. But I say to you, he's going to a higher level here, but I say to you, do not resist an evil person. Okay. And he actually continues that same thought. Yeah, you know, it's that's interesting. Yeah. And so going back, how people say this is quite slight to be enough for that there. You know, like Paul said in Philippians 3, he was a Pharisee of Pharisees, and he counted all that but rubbish. It might have been very discouraging to them to hear that be perfect as my father in heaven first. And this whole passage puts a focus back on be merciful as your father is merciful. Right. Like you said, someone said, Oh, we're Christian, shall apologize. The chronological placement of the Sermon on the Mount we understand from where Luke places it in the chronology. You might not be able to put yourself in that position to kind of think what would I do in that situation? I'm going to attempt here, we've got one more page, 86. We see him at work in us and through us, and that's a good thing. Um and so seek first, not seek only, seek first. Um you mean it's good to be poor? And we know um that authority is And our supernatural responses to some of these things can do just that. Yet we're not immune, right? That's very discouraging in one sense because it makes you realize that that's me out. Is it that the ultimate expression of sin is not accepting God's solution? As the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they be be may be honored by who? Yeah. Supplication, asking is is uh legit, but you've got to realize that God knows what we need even before we ask him. Is Jesus saying that we should just kick back and let God supply all our food and clothing and we'll just be recipients of that? Um, so that's a little comment in there. Thousands of them. added in to Luke's account. Right? I would just go right back up to verse 10. in obedience to and for the glory of God. So with that, let's actually start today's lesson, shall we? For in the same way their fathers persecuted the prophets who were before you. He started crying. Yes, and you make a good point that the It is pleasing God, but seeing how I'm being conformed to Christ's image to me is part of that reward. Joe. A couple years ago, so we started this seven day for the community. The gospel is not just that he took our sins, our sins were placed on him, but also his righteousness was placed on us. The marriage is still intact. And it gives opportunity to show that our heart is committed to Christ That's how you worse. What's he saying in this prayer? What is eternal? How comfortable am I? Do these things. Yeah. Yeah. And that's and that's all the reward. Well, yeah, good question. And um I mean obviously see that as well to the agriculture. Make no provision for the flesh. There's quite a tradition at this point in time for people to uh uh affirm the the um And so when Jesus said, let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven, doesn't mean that everybody It's not just checking off a box. And if they didn't believe he was God in the flesh, they would have been offended at him saying, I say to you, you know, you hear this in the law, but I say to you I mean if if if we respond impulsively, sort of in the natural way. Observe how the lilies of the field grow. John, for example, does, but they don't always overlap. We had that phrase because it's right here. We don't like um um having various kinds of needs and so on. This isn't fulfilling. So I think as we s started observing last week, uh between Matthew and and Luke here. It's doing the right thing. Your integrity needs to be such that people are not going to need any other kind of assurance or whatever. That's the problem. Exactly. And then one of the good things Peter ever said was, Lord, where shall we go? Okay. Is it gonna be f uh fame and fortune? Right. Yeah, um, I can attest to that because I was one of the ones who was drawn by my pre-wife. In fact, there's only one person who's ever lived it. Make friends quickly with your opponent at law while you are with him on the way, so that your opponent may not hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the officer, and you be thrown into prison. It's not on us. I think in at least my perspective within the gospels when Christ talks to the disciples about going out We're just uh uh motivated to to love our enemies And you will be sons of the Most High. Right? 33. He asked me a bunch of questions and politics and so forth. That unless your righteousness, that what is righteousness? It seems like he's really challenging um and expressing the um high view of man that they had and the low view of God and how he was trying to When you pray, you are not to be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners, so that they may be seen by Let's flip to page 82. Doing the right thing. And and that was our our response to him. Even in Scripture. So that will be one response. And the more the more we can do that. He's he's challenging their thinking very much in those ways. We can't appease his anger, his wrath against our sin. It's like, be like us because we're doing something to appease an angry God. I'm a good example to you. Right? Right. Right? Verse 31, another one. Right? One leads to destruction and the other leads to life. It didn't give hope to non-Pharisees. And who of you, by being worried, can add a single hour to his life? And so the common three theme here is that from our worldly perspective That worldly, selfish, what's in it for me, mindset. That was kind of a quick summary, kind of put all that in perspective. And he says no one's ever apologized to me before. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. But whoever keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. Right? Even as Christians. And your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. So I wanted to throw that out there because sometimes we get the spirit thinking, Well God, what is this? Yeah. Um she went back, you know, and apologized that he appreciated the fact that Now what what made your right hand do that? We are placed. Their heart is not in it. You not you need to be thinking not about here and now Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. They came for the the the spectacle of the miracles and maybe even some selfish reason to be healed, right? Doing even doing the right thing. Um the irony is that God Yeah. Leave the results to God. Jesus. Is our motivation just to check the box and say I'm good enough in my uh in my estimation? Um. And and so Jesus gave us a wide range of such If if there's something that helps me to become more godly, we ought to think that's a good thing. Yeah, think about the life of Christ. If you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Right? What is God-honoring? I think I'm picking up in verse 17, right? First of all, he says this is the kind of approach to prayer you ought to have, not the words. All these different things that the world says this is what you are here to pursue. Um that kind of thing. But it means that some will. Sometimes in our life out of the church, we don't even see we are Christians at all. Now, the love your neighbor part is there, but you see that that's in all caps because it's a direct quote from the Old Testament. Pretty challenging, right? But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face so that your fasting will not be noticed by men If you wave one die, I think the part that can be discouraging to post if you know. You know, why are we different from what they observe out in the world? You know, if someone takes our our shirt, we give them the code as well. So walking in. And um here he just illustrates Each day has enough trouble of its own. Not usually. Yes. So how are we going to do the right things if our heart is wrong? And um what Jesus is saying is people need to be able to trust your word. Yeah, John. Righteousness. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. That's the yeah. Why would we be worried? Is our heart um greedy and and and um Right? Let your works let them see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. But um blessed are those who are going to be persecuted for the sake of righteousness. And so it's um humbling, it's um It's placed upon us as His righteousness so that we're perfect What's he getting at? So do not be like them, for your father knows what you need before you ask him. Do you think this is challenging to them as they're hearing this? Get out of your normal mindset. By God's grace that can He can use that to draw them to Himself. We need to be a fork in the road where because of they've encountered us Jesus did. I did this, I did this, I did this. So you see this pattern again. Give to him who asks of you, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you That person knew the lady is a Christian. No sin whatsoever. Right? We're going to be persecuted. Ten Commandments, right? You know what hyperbole is, right? Therefore, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so while walking in. You ought to do this too. And she went and she apologized, and it touched that God. So unless your righteousness And then let's see here. And I I I just come back in all the discussion this this morning is that It's not about uh our reputation and and it's it's all about Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Yeah, and a lot of times our actions before. They do not toil, nor do they spin. He doesn't promise to give you for the next day on day one. We're so much like the world that they don't notice any difference and who cares? Right? And he wants to use us as a stimulus to draw other people to himself. They gotta go out every day and get it. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. And um I guess hopefully it heats to that in a sense and speaker. What's in your heart? Again you have heard that the ancients were told, you shall not make false vows, but shall fulfill your vows to the Lord. Um but I say to you, make no oath at all. Um it's intentionally provocative. And so rather than see the solution as trying to appease him, which is impossible Right. It's all about doing the right thing. Exactly. What is he getting at, though? Think about what is godly and right. Um I think the reality is Think about that. And Matthew has the most of them that are gray. Anything beyond that is of evil He's all about righteousness here. Right? Those things that that you would put your hope in to to and and and would drive what you do And if we're doing the right thing, representing God well, people will notice. Yeah. For He Himself is kind to ungrateful and evil men. Um when we call a guard to do something like this I've just given to the poor. Um that it kind of like shock shocked me out of my atheism. We're doing it in in submission to him as he lives his life through us. Do not even the Gentiles do the same Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them You mean it's good to be persecuted? So um Because everybody knew that the Pharisees in particular, and I guess the scribes I'm sorry, we're following Matthew for within the sermon itself. We go the extra mile Um what is someone's response gonna be The flesh, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. No one can serve two masters Do not even the tax collectors and sinners do the same? This is a a re-establishing the original relationship of God and uh fellowship and they were establishing a religion of a peace message Right. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. Okay. Right? And allow him to live his life, his perfect life, through us. Just like he did with the Israelites. Part of it was just navigated into the head of Which is very comfortable. But if the things that we do can't be explained except that God is working through us Yep. If anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, let him have your coat also Probably not. Right? We have responsibility, but in the end, it's just like in evangelism, the results are up to who? No matter what the um the consequence on the other side is, like you said, you know, you have a fork in the road, either it's accepted or So, yes, God is very much interested in righteousness or doing the right things You've got to figure out where John's things fits in within Luke's chronology Our manner of life ought to bring glory to God, not just because of its inherent testimony. The other response is the people will glorify God. Unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes, how did uh scribes and Pharisees, how did Jesus respond to and challenge the Pharisees? But today we're picking up as Matthew 5 You've heard it said. And so that tells me that every single morning I need to remind you. What's your motive? Because we're thinking it depends on us Exodus 20. Right? That's this this um Um I would I would add Yep. You are the light of the world. Always did the right thing. It was said, Whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce. Why? But what must have they have been? And here we're dealing just with Matthew. But um just perspective uh thinking about Sean. On page 82. But what And it has everything to do with our testimony. But if the salt has become tasteless, how can it be made salty again? And he didn't really have a response to that, but Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments, and teaches others to do the same It didn't give hope to the Pharisees either. And they're both from Matthew. For yours is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Certainly not in the eternal perspective, but even in this life, it usually leads to Do people even know we are Christian? I'm I'm a righteous kind of person. Righteousness on our own strength is like filthy rags. And that may open doors, it may close doors. And he said, why are you doing this group? Doing the right thing. Right? Yeah, for sure. And so And in fact, he says, most people go on the one leading to destruction. Right? Essentially, yeah. Right? Uh Which of us naturally would um But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. Do you think he had any followers who were superficial and uh in it for the wrong purposes? Ayo. But that's kind of prologue. Do good to those who hate you. Opening their eyes to reality and the truth And and so yeah, it it kind of all fits in. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away On the other hand, the Christian life is so simple Um What's your motives, your internal motivation? We're going to pick up on this later. That's not the point at all. Uh the need for confession, the need for forgiveness And um But it's from the heart. It's just as sinful. An exaggeration to drive home a point. Right. It's like, don't be like you know, these people, be like the Father, be like God. Whenever you fast And we'll see later in the Sermon on the Mount that there are And when they see it, they can't explain it by natural means. What Jesus is saying is So So it's it's not You cannot serve God and wealth So What is godly in terms of character, right? If the works that we do have them Well that in and of itself is a work of God in your heart to be able to notice that That's a real compliment, right? And it's those people who will see the kingdom of heaven That's all they're going to get. Everything he's saying here is is very convicting Um And if we go through life with that as our standard But is that person going to think that's a normal response? What's that mean? And then um Um I think we could relate Ricardo's question a little bit back to the message of the epic You have heard that the ancients were told, you shall not commit murder. Not to try to earn it. And if you don't do this, then He's going to be angry at you. What's that reward? Pleasing what's pleasing to the Lord And I see But, woe to you who are rich, for you are receiving your comfort in full. I mean But then of course then the that's where the gospel comes in. And when you are praying, do not use meaningless repetition as the Gentiles do. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from evil But he does, by his grace, do that. And one of the officials in in Wild Lake asked me, why would I How he actually communicated it within that sermon. Where does it say you shall not commit adultery? Verse 43. Think from God's perspective. Matthew 5, right, 6 and 7. Where's our heart? Doing the right thing. Okay, I haven't committed adultery. So you can't have an excuse that says, well So that your giving will be in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. I I really I really love Fred because I I love his responses and so forth and so forth You bet. Because that certificate of divorce That's the truth. But you alone have the words of eternal life, right? You gotta be kidding. And it's good to be ready to give a defense for the faith that's in you, right? I mean we have to intentionally We know we're right. Beware of practicing your righteousness before men, to be noticed by them. Where's your heart? But if you do not forgive others Um Unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothes himself like one of these. They were probably shocked. Jeff. There are many forks in the road for people. It's dishonoring to God. And getting them to see that what's important here is what's going on in the heart Any other thoughts there? So hey Why do we turn the other cheek? And let's see. That's essentially what we say, isn't it? So sometimes our actions It's coming from your heart Only by God's grace. He's going to put some flesh on the bones here as he proceeds in the in the Sermon on the Mount. That can be convicting, right? If they earn any any admiration of people, good luck with that. It ought to be challenging to us as well. The natural thing is all about Right? Right? That's hypocritical And thinking And you have heard, whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court. So um And we're going to see this a lot as we continue today. And it invariably is all sort of self-centered. I was just gonna ask about how what what they would It's like filthy rags in God's sight, right? Diane? A city set on a hill cannot be hidden Do they know you're a person of faith? And I said, well I'm a believer Page eighty-four. You have heard that it was said Right. Blessing. So that when people see the good works, they can say, oh, that is Christ's life. And there's comment on that at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. Yeah. The just consequence of that is death. Glenn? It's my heart is wanting to reach out to this person But Jesus is saying that no, you need to think not about Yeah. Right. So beginning in Matthew 6, verse 1 To meet day one on day two you give it to me. Yeah. Jesus expands on this when we get to Matthew 19. Amen. We'll be a fork in the road If you greet only your brothers I have said to others, you know, only perfect people go to heaven. He's feeding us just like he feeds the birds. Matthew, of course, included lots more from the Sermon on the Mount than Luke did. It will be an offense to some However, the reason I say that is Now God is a wrathful God, and sin will be punished. We have to do something to appease an angry God But um Executing our own justice or whatever. But what is the approach? You see, he's always thinking eternally here, right? Right? I think about Roman A twenty eight. What is a whitewashed tomb? The more we can do that and just show it's just the love of Christ. So uh pause there And he actually did satisfy the wrath of God. Right? Even sinners lend to sinners in order to receive back the same amount. And Right. What are our pr what's our priority? But usually those are the hard things, right? They want to impress people. Do you openly share I'm a person of faith that this is my And what is the point? Should expect to be persecuted Again, dealing with the law, right? Well so in our as a Christian Right? And so So I I do appreciate all the all the um And That's good. No. And um And it's from the heart Yeah. So our asking him is Yeah And Wow, he's speaking with authority. He compares us to Well, it looks great on the inside, Jesus said, but what? Do you think it's it's become meaningless for a lot of people? Start with And God. Um And I Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. But Um First, be reconciled to your brother. But Right So Exactly.