Well, welcome to our third lesson in the life of Christ. Uh uh sorry I wasn't able to be with you all last week, uh being I was in the membership class, but uh here uh Jeff was able to cover things well and get you all oriented. Today we're on uh lesson three. I'm on page thirty in the notes. It last week you covered um uh the the prologue material in and a couple of the gospels as well as uh genealogy in a couple of the gospels. And so today we're getting to more of the narrative of the uh preparation as well as uh the birth of Christ. So I'm gonna go ahead and read from the account here. I may pause a little bit as we go through, but to have some conversation. So I'm on page thirty. Gabriel announces to Zacharias the birth of the forerunner, John the Baptist. In the days of Herod, now this was Herod the Great. Well, he thought of himself as Herod the Great. King of Judea, there was a priest named Zacharias of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughter of daughters of Aaron. In other words, she was also a Levite, and her name was Elizabeth. They were both righteous in the sight of God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and requirements of the Lord But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both advanced in years. Now it happened that while he was performing his priestly service before God in the appointed order of his division According to the custom of the priestly office, he was chosen by Lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And the whole multitude of the people were in prayer outside at the hour of the incense offering. An angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing to the right of the altar of incense. Zacharias was troubled when he saw the angel and fear gripped him. Probably a pretty natural response, right? But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zecharias, for your petition has been heard. And your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you will give him the name John. You will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. and will drink no wine or liquor, and will be filled, he will be filled with the Holy Spirit while yet in his mother's womb And he will turn many of the sons of Israel back to the Lord their God. It is he who will go as a forerunner before him in the spirit and power of Elijah. to, and here he's quoting from the Old Testament in a few places, to turn the hearts of the fathers back to the children. and the disobedient to the attitude of righteousness, so as to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. Zacharias said to the angel, How will I know this for certain? For I am an old man, and my wife has advanced in years. The angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and I have been sent to you to speak and to bring you this good news And behold, you shall be silent and unable to speak until the day when these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which were which will be fulfilled in their proper time. The people were waiting for Zacharias and were wondering at his delay in the temple. But when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute. When the days of his priestly service were ended, he went back home. And after these days Elizabeth his wife became pregnant, and she kept herself in seclusion for five months, saying, This is the way the Lord has dealt with me in the days when he looked with favor upon me To take away my disgrace among men. So God is Um intervening, right? Taking the initiative to set in place, set in motion the events um leading up to the incarnation of Christ and of course the ministry of Christ. Before I continue, any any thoughts, questions so far? Anything pop out at you there? Well when we were reading it I I this and then there's a note down here which you may forget to but this that's uh the idea that pre-born uh the preborn are people, human souls, etc. Yeah. Not new to us, but just another yet another scripture. Well I mean so. Right. Yeah, yeah, that's encouraging. Um also I I think it's interesting that um Gabriel says to him Your petition has been heard. And um He's tying it seems to be tying that to the birth of a son. Whether he was praying for that actively or not, I don't think we're specifically told. But um Instead of being fearful, that was certainly a a uh a note of encouragement from uh Gabriel. So what do you think about his response to the angel? Go ahead. I find myself doing that all the time is I I fo focus too much on the situation and not on the God who is in charge of this. Yeah, we often think about the things from a human perspective. Yeah, Lauren? I like how Michel kind of addresses that even though these response seems normal, like something that we would say like you know how how how is you know, I'm I'm old, like I was but really what it does is the angel knows the peace of the Lord told him uh that there's disbelief and doubt in his heart about whether or not this can come out and that's why he was happy that he was silent. surface it was completely normal, but in reality there's a heart matter that had to be addressed. Yeah, definitely. A heart matter. Um I find it interesting that uh even biblically Zecharias would have known that there's some precedent for this. And um that wouldn't necessarily have been the first thing in his mind, but but um fairly soon he should have re realized God does that. He does what to us seems impossible. And who am I to doubt? But that wasn't exactly his thought train, was it? Yeah And we'll see in a minute that uh Mary's response was quite different. A similar kind of answer or uh uh question, but very different because she wasn't under she wasn't saying, um, I don't you know, prove it. She was saying curiously Explain more to me. I'm lost. How is this gonna happen? Yeah. Yeah, what's going on with that song is he said the angel said that you're gonna be muted and he was. And so it's It's interesting how God dealt with with him and just where he was at and what he needed and how he needed to see. um the Lord at work and and the I I I would be in one sense I'd be sort of like kind of upset that I couldn't speak, but in the other hand be like, Wow This is mind blowing. Yeah, so we might be tempted to To think that um that kind of challenge to us isn't gonna happen probably to any of us, you know, with an angel announcing something to us and us being in disbelief. But where is the parallel to us? We have God's word, right? We have promises, we have commands, we have even explanations, right? And Uh sometimes we treat God's word that way, even though it's from God, that we are functionally anyway, in disbelief and disobedience. And uh this oughta be uh A wake-up call to if God says it, we need A, take it seriously, right? And B uh believe and obey. Zachary was a priest. He had the word he knew what was in Genesis because he was he was performing the rights for that year. It was a very elect position very hard to actually guess that you have a lot has to fall on him to get there. So of all people who should have known the precedents, it would have been sacrificed. But he still had that doubt in his heart even though he had been petitioning The Lord, he still didn't believe it even when the angel told him. 'Cause back in Genesis you can even make the argument we don't know for sure, but Abraham didn't exhibit a doubt when When the angel said it, he asked a very similar question to Mary, how's that possible? I'm I'm old, like how would that work? Whereas Sarah definitely had the adult and they called her out on it. Right. So I thought that that was interesting Right. Okay. Right. Yeah. Awesome. Oh, I would think about him being a priest and uh Levite in the history of Israel. They got a long history up to that point. And in their history, these events have already occurred. with Rachel, you know, if you go back and Abraham and Sarah, it seems like God said a precedent in the Old Testament. So we'll be no doubt about it that this is God that's doing this and we have a precedent already This is not out of the ordinary. God has already done this. Well it's it's out of the ordinary but not out of their experience. Completely. So we had all of the Old Testament. Jewish history to draw from. And like you say, us as Christians, we have a lot of history to draw from too. Even more so. Even more, right? We have the New and the Old Testament. Right. And then we have the the personal Jesus Christ. So we got a lot of history to draw from when we face difficult situations or circumstances come up. Just gotta Yeah, God's given us his word and um Uh our role is to understand it as best we can and to apply it, right? Karen, was that a question? Yeah, I think I'm confused on something. Okay. Um when we were talking about the response from David About he knew it was a heart problem. I didn't know angels knew our hearts. Um I thought only God knew our hearts Well I mean I'm just asking so I don't know. Yeah. Um he says And behold, you shall be silent and unable to speak until the day these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their proper time. What we're not told is How Gabriel knew his heart. He might not have had to have known, like in an omniscient sort of way. He probably could have told by the manner in which um Zecharias responded, the tone of voice, the nonverbs, the actions in one way or another, that We don't have the benefit of those details here. But it could have been it could have been obvious. But angels don't know our heart, right? Yeah. Um yeah, I wouldn't I wouldn't say they are omniscient enough to know our heart, correct? Yeah. But yes. So reflecting uh on the scenario. I'm praying that God would give us a hassle in these and sustained faith Because when things initially happen to us we believe but like yeah because we're gonna do it and based on history we keep on believing. Then things start going down even though we are praying The belief system goes down. Just like some of the hands dementia, then goes to Alzheimer's and end stage and we keep praying, Lord let this person behave And at the end we're like, okay, he's already there, it's not going anyway. And God says it'll restore memory back. You're like, really? Never happened even though you had historical knowledge or God has this Rakola to do it. It's like God knows to do that This question always has almost there. So I want to say that something is still real to us today. And praying that God will really sustain our faith Mary on the other hand she was not expected to be pregnant. If God now tells me I'm gonna get my ten million dollars, I'm like, yay, come tell me where she's coming from. You know, I'll be so happy because I wasn't expecting it. I've not been praying for ten million dollars. And so if he comes, I'm like Like okay, come on. I mean bring it all. So um I'm just encouraging us all that in our trials we should just still pray to God's trust in our Because even with knowledge our belief system can still waver. So like it is all done. If it's what that allows for Syracuse, you decrease that everything is still human. Yeah, so it's a it's a good uh wake up call for us because um There's a good chance if we were in his position we would have acted the same way. And um Uh there's a good chance that many of us very frequently do essentially the same thing when we take God's word, and when it really comes down to it, we don't believe what he said. And um that should be convicting. We should change that. Okay. So we move on to page thirty-one, section four, Gabriel announcing to Mary. Now, in the sixth month, and here we're continuing in Luke, in the sixth month, that's not the sixth month of the year, that's the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy. The angel Gabriel, Sam Gabriel, was sent from God to a city in Galilee called Nazareth, to a virgin engaged to a man whose name was Joseph. And of the descendants of David. And the virgin's name was Mary. And coming in, he said to her, Greetings, favored one, the Lord is with you. But she was very perplexed at this statement and kept pondering what kind of salutation this was. And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall name him Jesus. He will be great, and he will be called Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end. And Mary said to the angel, How can this be since I am a virgin? And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you, and for that reason the holy child shall be called the Son of God. And behold, even your relative Elizabeth has also conceived a son in her old age, and she who was called baron is now in her sixth month For nothing will be impossible with God. And Mary said, Behold this bond slave the bond slave of the Lord. May it be done to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. Now at this time Mary arose and went in a hurry to the hill country, to a city of Judah, and entered the house of Zecharias and greeted Elizabeth. When Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby in her womb, the baby leaked in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, and she cried out with a loud voice and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. And how has it happened to me that the mother of my Lord would come to me? For behold, when the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby leaped in my womb for joy. And blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what had been spoken to her by the Lord. And Mary said, My soul exalts the Lord. And my spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior. Notice that Mary recognized she needed a Savior. She was not sinless, as Catholicism teaches. For he has had regard for the humble state of his bondslave. For behold, from this time on, and all generations will count me blessed. For the Mighty One has done great things for me, and holy is his name And mercy is upon generation after generation toward those who fear him. He has done mighty deeds with his arm. He has scattered those who were proud in the thoughts of their heart. He has brought down rulers from their thrones, and he has exalted those who were humble. He has filled the hungry with good things, and sent away the rich empty-handed. He has given help to Israel, his servant, in remembrance of his mercy. And he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and his descendants forever. And Mary stayed with her about three months and then returned home. That three months would have put her at what point in time? About the time of the birth of John. So we don't know if she was there at the birth or vacated just beforehand or so, but around that time. So what's interesting here and and and critical really is uh among the things that Gabriel told Mary was not just that she was going to be uh uh a mother of a child uh miraculously And that this child was going to be uh God incarnate. But he's very specific about some of the role of Jesus here. The Lord will give him the throne of his father David. Does that just come out of the blue? No, I mean that that's right. I mean that's that's part of the full this is now putting in motion the fulfillment of God's covenant and promise to David. Right. Um and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. Um You know, there there there are a lot of believers today who believe that the church has replaced Israel. Israel blew it. God went to plan B to bring in the church. That's not what this is saying. Right? God has a plan for Israel. He will reign over the house of Jacob forever. Again, part of the pro the um fulfillment. of that that promise to David. And his kingdom will have no end. Um She understood very clear, I'm sure, that um this I mean the part of this this This explanation to her was to make it crystal clear that this is the Messiah. And she shouldn't have had any any question at all at this point because it it was just explicit that this is the promised Messiah. Okay. I think a couple of weeks ago uh when we we talked about some introductory things about Christ. Um and that he's the the the the God man. He's both um God and he took on human flesh. Um And there are some significant prophecies in the Old Testament that attest to that. Um one of them we're gonna get to here in in um uh Mica. That predicts that the Messiah will be born in Bethlehem. Do you remember that? And um The um the religious leaders remembered that portion of the passage, that the the the king of the Jews would be born in in Bethlehem. because he's of the line of of David. But what they tended to ignore was the second part of that verse which said his um He he's he's from eternity past, essentially. Right. And uh this child who was born had already existed from eternity past Who can that be true of other than God? And had they dwelt on that, they probably would have given a little bit more significance. to uh the fulfillment of this in Christ. Anyway. Um So Mary's response was indeed a lot different because was there any precedent for this? I mean she had a legitimate question. Right how okay, explain it to me uh if you can. Um And and her response was clear, may it be to me, as you have said. And uh a good example of Even in in the in the face of of um a lack of information, uh perhaps, um uh She understood it being the the word of the Lord through his angel and believed. And not only believed, but submitted. So it's a very good example. Okay. In some ways you kind of like submitted before really completely sort of understanding. Mm-hmm. And she said, may it be if you that's sad, it it kinda it kind of sa to me that kinda says I ain't committing to you, you know, I don't really understand Yeah, I'm not sure she ever completely understood. I I'm not sure I could understand it. But um yeah, it w her her response was was clearly one of Faith and submission. Curiosity for sure. And that's that's good. We don't need to have all the answers in order to believe. That's the whole point. We just need to take God His word. Yeah. Okay, continuing on. Still in Luke. Back to uh Zecharias and Elizabeth. On section 5 on the bottom of page 31. Now, the time had come for Elizabeth to give birth, and she gave birth to a son. Her neighbors and her relatives heard that the Lord had displayed his great mercy toward her, and they were rejoicing with her. And it happened that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they were going to call him Zacharias after his father, that is, the relatives and friends and so on. But his mother answered and said, No, indeed, but he shall be called John. And they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by that name. And they made signs to his father as to what he wanted him to be called. And he asked for a tablet. That's not an iPad, by the way. He asked for a tablet and wrote as follows. His name is John. So fortunately Gabriel had communicated even the name. to bo to to him and he conveyed it to Elizabeth apparently. And they were all astonished. And at once his mouth was opened and his tongue loosed And he began to speak in praise of God. Fear came on all those living around them. And that's I'm convinced is part of God's reasoning here, not just the temporary um consequences for um Zacharias to be mute, but people could see this is uh God's working here. And and th they they saw that. Now he'd been mute for th uh nine months, right? And uh picking up then 65, verse 65. Fear came among all those living around them, and all these matters were being talked about in all the hill country of Judea. Word is getting out. Um so all who heard um All who heard them kept them in mind, saying, What then will this child turn out to be? For the hand of the Lord was certainly with him. That's about all most of the people knew. It's hard to know how much Um Zecharias and Elizabeth might have communicated with people about what the angel had told them or even that an angel told them. But at this point, people were understanding this is significant, right? And his father Zecharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited us and accomplished redemption for his people. Accomplished! Redemption for his people. And he raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of David, his servant. You notice he's not talking about John the Baptist here. The house of David is it's referring to Jesus. That's the house of Judah, right? Tribe of Judah. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. to those uh to show mercy towards our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. The oath which he swore to Abraham our father To grant us that we, being rescued from the hand of our enemies, might serve Him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before Him all our days And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High, for you will go on before the Lord to prepare his ways. To give his people the knowledge of salvation by the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God, with which the sunrise from on high will visit us to shine upon us or to shine upon those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. And the child continued to grow, to become strong in spirit, and he lived in the deserts until the day of his public appearance to Israel. So At least from Zacharias's prophecy there, whoever was around at the time probably got a little bit more glimpse of, wow, this is definitely significant. God seems to be at work here and there's reference to uh preparing the way for the Lord, the Messiah. Um That was significant. I'm not sure, well, it's hard to speculate. But if if Zacharias had been as believing as Mary and hadn't been mute for nine months Um how this would have played out could have been very same. But I think the f he got the at God got the attention of the people even through Zacharias's unbelief and therefore being mute and therefore coming out of that at the prophesied time Um God used even Zecharias's unbelief to undergird the message that was going out at the time of the birth. Okay. Any other thoughts here, questions on that passage so far? Yeah. Yeah, um there was a tension in the Old Testament when Because in the Old Testament makes it very clear the forerunner of Jesus Christ is supposed to be Elijah. But then it also makes it clear, and then when John the Baptist comes on the scene, he may He's the former. Jesus straightens all around when he says John the Baptist comes in the spirit of Elijah. He's not the Elijah that's supposed to come, but he comes in the spirit of Elijah. And um but when Christ makes his second coming, the Elijah's that the Old Testament is talking about we'll reappear. So we already know he was taken to heaven without dying So he's gonna reappear again on the earth in the tribulations and preach the gospel. You know how the whole tribulation unfolds And the witnesses and everything and then Elijah will come back, the real Elijah. But John the Baptist came in the spirit of Elijah, so a whole pretension that Jesus Well actually Gabriel did when he announced it to Zacharias back in section three here, Luke 1, uh Gabriel said to to Zecharias, It is he, the son who will be born, who will go on as a forerunner before him in the spirit and power of Elijah. Right. Jesus said Elijah has already come. Right. Right. So it's no contradiction or anything like that. It's just that certain things were not made clear to the Old Testament Prophets because in the Old Testament the Bible speaks of the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ, but it speaks of it as as if It's just one event. Yeah, it would have been hard for most people to sort out the two. Yeah. And what the Jews came up with in their religious system that there's two messiahs, Ben Joseph and Ben David. that Ben Joseph died, but Ben David were losing for eternity because they had to, as religious leaders, resolve the tension that was going on And so that's what they came up with. Yeah. Interesting how it all comes together, right? Well, um that brings us to Matthew. So far we've only been in Luke. But uh we read in Matthew after the genealogies that you looked at last week, starting in verse 18, I'm on section six on page 32. The angel announces to Joseph the birth of Christ. So it says, Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit. And Joseph, her husband, notice that he's betrothed to Mary. Here it's referring to her as a husband. That betrothal in their custom was basically the same as marriage but without being um actually together. It was more than an engagement the way we understand engagement. It was a commitment, but then there was a process whereby it became official. I guess that's the word to put it. Anyway. So so if a closed couple ended up not getting married, is that considered a divorce? That's what Joseph actually was contemplating, yes. Oh exactly. Yeah. So um So when his mother, Mary, had been betrothed to Jesus Before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit. And Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, what would be disgraceful? Yeah. People know that they were betrothed not yet the marriage hadn't been consummated. They were in a betrothal period. Everybody knew Everybody knew that that um that was prior to the official marriage, right? Um Being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her. So that would have been that would have looked bad for her, would have looked bad for him, for sure. Um but he planned to send her away secretly. That's basically a divorce. Yeah, cutting off of that that uh contract. But when he had considered this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife. For the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you will call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, behold, the virgin will be with child, and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. And Joseph awoke from his sleep and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary as his wife. But kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus, as he was commanded. So that name, you know, Emmanuel means God with us. The name Jesus is basically the name Joshua in Hebrew It means Jehovah is salvation. And um The name is actually used even today, right? You know people who are named Jesus. Yeah. Uh what about Joseph's response here? You see some good things there? Mm-hmm. He did. stone and what the law called for. And uh I haven't uh been present without them consummating marriage. And you you already noticed as they had the control the patrol took about a year. They gave us that gave the the bridegroom, that gave them time to set up a home and everything for his wife to bring it to because they would think it Take them for the home up to get it all set up, but Jesus used the same language when you talk about coming back and go to my father's house. Right. prepare a place for you the way I am, you may be out so that's the that's a wedding manual George. Right. What's going on here? So it would take a year to set it up and everything and then he had settled a home on his father's ranch or whether And then when the accepted time came, they had that procession through the street as we see in the Tim Burgens as part of the the floor. So they had that what is perceptive And all the family was will participate in that, uh in this incident here, that hasn't happened yet. No family members have been involved in any consummation of the marriage between Joseph and Murray, so it becomes real clear on the outside that Murray has committed adultery. And Joseph recognized that he's a righteous man, and as a righteous man, the first thing he should do As follows of Mosaic law, if you take her before the council of the Sanhedrin, and then the Sanhedrin pass that she should be stone as an adultery But like the text says, Joseph didn't want all that to come off before he decided to take the hallway secretly. And I I think the timing of Gabriel's visit um is tied to that chronology. Um you might have thought, wouldn't he have um been told to um announce this to Joseph the same time he was announcing it to Mary, but apparently not. Um And she was found to be with child. And then Joseph said, hmm. He he was clueless at this point. In fact, Mary had been away for three months. And um um what would have been the natural thing for Joseph to think at this point when she comes back after three months pregnant. Wait a minute now. So Joseph gets gets straightened out by Gabriel about what's going on. Um Probably hard to understand, right? Um And he's being told right at the time where he's contemplating what he needs to do. Right? What's the right thing to do? And um His response is all the more a good example because Um he's joining with her in being subject to at the very least You know, ridicule, uh, ostracism. Um it doesn't say here that they explained to people what they were told by Gabriel I mean who would have believed them anyway? Right? Yeah, right, right, right. Um but man, his response carried with it um the almost certain ostracism and ridicule and so on that he would get from those around yeah. I I I think it's very interesting that the angel didn't appear in person to Joseph either time. He appeared in a dream. And Joseph didn't even um yeah, Joseph didn't even question it at all. Like he woke up, he was like, Why are you something before that no she she wanted like oh that explains everything and then just like goes with it which I think also goes to prove that his you know his belief in the Lord was solid. I think the other thing that that sometimes we don't think about is that it may not have just he may have may have considered that she was the fault of it and that it wasn't her fault There may have been like a kindness there, like maybe she's embarrassed because that happened and he wanted to send her away quietly so as not to embarrass her or to embarrass him and to numb her to death for something that could have potentially not been her fault. And so I think that that it's very interesting that these these these cultural things that come in are are just fascinating on the surface. These these scriptures seem very straightforward, very simple. Like, oh, you know, this is Christ. He's coming. It shows up in a dream age She didn't cheat on you. Fantastic. And then go along the very way. It's it's these very deep rich information and you kind of just you see people's hearts get out. actually being stated. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes if you put yourself in their position, uh, knowing what they knew at the time rather than what we know now Um sometimes that can be convicting. Joseph is a good example of um of faithfulness and uh faith. I don't know for sure. But it seems pretty clear that from his response and his his his tentative plan that Mary hadn't communicated really anything to him A because she was gone for three months, pretty much right after she got the announcement. Um but B from his His response it seems like he was clueless about the whole what was going on. But yeah, another uh Claire. time just how Joseph kind of was like a type of Christ and that he took on the shame um it was called upon to take on that shame as you as you described and so So I just look at that as like how are we called to do that at times where we may have to we may be called to do something where it may be looked at Or you know, whatever. We know that we're doing the right thing, we're called to do it Right ridicule and so forth. Yeah. Obeying the Lord is not necessarily always going to be easy, right? It's very interesting that in each of these three deliverance messages, each the first situation is like You should believe this. He's in the holy of holies. He's in a place where no one's gonna be. No one should be there. He's like, I've messed him up. Well you can't listen to your message, whatever you want, sir. Um but then immediately he he doubt and then he gets kind of like a sign or a like re But this is true again we need the namework. So he's in the place where he should believe. Absolutely. Does it get to kind of like a sign that No, you're gonna be Mary's like chilling in her house, maybe. And do calls and was like, I got a message, she's like, Okay, cool. And then he says that her cousin's pregnant because of She travels and gets that kind of affirmation there. Joseph has nothing. He's dreaming. That's like the dream and it's a dream. And then he doesn't get a sign until I guess after Maybe. Or maybe he has to wait till Jesus performs the first miracle and then he has that affirmation. It's possible that at this point uh Mary communicated something to him. And now the the the messages they both got from from the angel sinked and now they both are stronger in their faith because they're both getting it. Possi we we don't know. I mean it was speculation but yeah go ahead. Yeah, no, that's it's just crazy how you've got a priest who's in a place where a dude shows up and it doesn't say that he's like over war, but he's an angel. Angels sometimes appear as like radio people. Or just people that you you don't unless you're late, you know, in the know. He should have just known because no one's supposed to be there. And then you go all the way down to Joseph and he has a dream and he's like, Oh Ab absolute faith. Don't have to tell me anything anymore. I don't need to sign them. So it's it's just interesting. Really commendable, right? Yeah. Actually a technical point. Um Zacharias was not in the Holy of Holies Uh he wasn't the high priest. He was the only one. He's in the holy part just in just before the holy apparent. You might not have actually seen version of any of these miracles. Oh right. Yeah, it's hard to know. He probably didn't see any miracles that Christ performed. Um but he saw the miracle of God in the birth of Christ. Right, right, right. For sure. Yeah. The um the the other thing with Dakar is I mentioned that the high priest not mean a high priest, meaning priest that there's consequences for leadership in in certain situations that do not extend to other people. Like for example, when Moses lost his temper and struck the rock, there was a massive consequence. speak to it and because of his disbelief and he hid it and he also lost December, he didn't get to enter the ho the the the promised land. There was there was that was a massive consequence. And for Zachary speech He's he's being almost face to face with God and his disrespect and disbelief is is quite more of a sin than you could argue someone that just has like a little bit or just some doubt in general when there's messengers. And he's he's almost face to face before. He is the almost in the holiest of holies. And his act of doubt was almost more egregious and then you see these other people who aren't in high levels of of priestlyhood who just Sort of like Jesus commenting that um who were the ones who had the strongest faith that Jesus commended for their faith? Gentiles. Most of them were Gentiles. He says, I've never seen such faith among the Jews, right? It's it it's it's similar to what he's saying. I mean, they weren't in a position of having all the the history and and the promises and so on. And yet they believe. Was there another hand? um because faith comes by hearing the word of God. I believe that when Joseph heard about um Mary being pregnant, she must have told people that hey, it was the Holy Spirit and they didn't believe her. He must have said that she got pregnant and she said in the Holy Spirit, like what? How could that be? But he had heard and then the Lord or the accepting in the dream and said no um this is me with the Holy Spirit. I thought that hearing first and not totally deleting that's why you talked about saying that And then God repeated and affirmed that it's me. But he decides his words to make him believe when he woke up and obeyed And um that's how it is in cruise syndrome as well. You've spoken to somebody and the person has not, didn't believe the person heard it again, or God revealed himself now to that person's talking to So the power of repetition and follow up, you spoke to somebody before, you could repeat it again, get over through the your utter message or just continue to follow with prayer that God would actually open up and part and that your word will be passed in either through spirit, in the dream or through somebody else. Just emphasizing the power of that Yeah. Um repetition certainly does help to drive it home, right? Um with another hand. Yeah. Oh yeah. Um when I was looking at the life of Christ many years ago, um one big thing came up. up in is that somehow Nazareth, his community that he lived in, it got out like you said, that Mary, that Joseph wasn't Jesus And the rules spread about that within their hometown community. And matter of fact, the Pharisees used that again Jesus plan was talking about something told Jesus We be not born of fornication. Addressing that Jesus. It was all spread out within the community. Time went on and got out, like you said, that Jesus Joseph was not Jesus' father, so that makes Jesus illegitimate in a sense. In their view. In their view, right. So they told him he was talking about Abraham or something like that And this is thirty years later after that. They held on to that. They used that again. He was despised for more reasons than one. For sure. Yeah. Well, let's go to um Uh back to Luke. I'm on section seven, page thirty two. So from from Luke chapter 2. Now in those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that a census be taken of all the inhabited earth. This was the first census taken while Corinius was governor of Syria. And everyone was on his way to register for the census, each to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem because he was of the house and family of David, in order to register along with Mary, who was engaged to him, in other words, betrothed still. um and was with child. And while they were there, the days were completed for her to give birth. And she gave birth to her firstborn son. And she wrapped him in claws and laid him in a manger because there was no room for them in the inn. So um this might be a good opportunity to direct you to the maps. in the back. If you've got a hard copy it might be easier to flip, but if you're not, it's on page 312. Uh you've got um basically a a map here of of um the holy land. There are two yellow boxes indicating two locations in this particular map. One of them is Gabriel's announcement to Mary, it's pointing Do you see it at the top, just below the Sea of Galilee? It's pointing up to Nazareth. That's where Nazareth is. And then Bethlehem is down by this second yellow box near the bottom, just opposite the Dead Sea. That's where Bethlehem is, just a little bit south of Jerusalem. So um when they traveled from Nazareth to Bethlehem Uh it's pretty clear that they didn't go on that red line. They didn't go the direct um route. They would have gone over to the Jordan River, which flows from the Sea of Galilee to the Dead Sea, and then up from Jericho up to Jerusalem. Um that's the custom that the Jews had to avoid Samaria and the Samaritans. Uh that trip in her condition probably would have taken them um um several days for sure. Um Anyway, so uh continuing in Luke section eight Page thirty-three. In the same region around Bethlehem, there were some shepherds staying out in the fields and keeping watch over their flocks by night. And an angel of the Lord Notice An, angel of the Lord, suddenly stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terribly frightened. I would be too. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy, which shall be for all the people. For today in the city of David there has been born for you a Savior who is Christ the Lord. This will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger. Why would baby lying in a manger be a sign for them? Babies don't lie in mangers. A manger is where you get food for cattle, right? And so seeing it, they'll know they have the right one. Right? And suddenly there appeared with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts, more angels. Praising God and saying notice they weren't singing sweetly over the plane. They were saying, probably in a loud voice Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among men with whom he is pleased. And when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, The shepherds began saying to one another, Let us go straight to Bethlehem then, and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. Pretty good response, wouldn't you think? So they came in a hurry and found their way to Mary and Joseph and the baby as he lay in the manger. And when they had seen this, they made known the statement which had been told them about this child. And all who heard it wondered at the things which were being told them by the shepherds But Mary treasured these things, pondering them in her heart. The shepherds went back, glorifying and praising God for all that they had heard and seen, just as had been told them. Luke's account is the only one that gives the the um uh the the account of the shepherds and so on. Um why do you suppose God revealed that to these shepherds? Any thoughts We're s we're so used to the story. But would God have needed to? Yeah, Rex. Nothing is basically considered factual about two or three witnesses. So they would have been witnesses to this account for further when the gospel being written that there were actually witnesses to this and where it took place, the time it took place. Good point. Yep. And the other box, yeah. Because the shepherds have been symbolic as well. Like why did you choose shepherds instead of fishermen? Does that have to do with Uh there could be some symbolism there. Um, I think more significant is the station of life of these people. Um what was the station of life? Pretty low in the order of things, right? Uh Mary and Joseph themselves were poor and and you know not wealthy and not prominent citizens and so on. And these shepherds would have also been humble And yet God is revealing this momentous point in time of God intervening to bring about his salvation to just regular folk. It's all a humble thing. And being born and being placed in a manger of all places as a child, it just speaks of humility. Right? So um continuing, got a couple more minutes, section nine. Continuing in Luke. And when eight days had passed before his circumcision, his name was then called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. And then flipping to page thirty four Again, continuing in Luke 2. And when the days of their purification according to the law of Moses were completed. Here we're talking about several weeks after the birth. They brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As is written in the law of the Lord, every firstborn male that opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what was in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons That was the requirement if you're poor, which they were. And there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ, the Messiah. Wouldn't you have loved to have had that told to you? And he then he then came in the spirit into the temple And when the parents brought brought in the child Jesus to carry out for him the custom of the law, then he, Simeon, took him in his arms And blessed God and said, Now, Lord, you are releasing your bondservant to depart in peace, according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. His eyes had seen the promised Messiah who, well actually his name was Jesus, right? Even by this point, uh bringing salvation to his people. And verse 31, your salvation, which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples. a light of revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. So the salvation here was not just to Jews. And it was understood and and um Uh Simeon was clear about that as well. Of course his heart was was for the Jews, but um the understanding that this was not it was worldwide in scope. Verse 33. Um And his father and mother were amazed at the things which were were being said about him. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary's mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rise of many in Israel, for a sign to be opposed. And a sword will pierce even your own soul to the end that the thoughts from many hearts may be revealed. And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Fanuel of the tribe of Asher and she was advanced in years and had lived with her husband seven years after her marriage and then as a widow to the age of eighty four. She never left the temple serving night and day with fastings and prayers. And at that very moment, she came up and began, and and uh Jesus may have still been in in uh Simeon's arms at this point. She came up and began giving thanks to God and continued to speak of him to all those who were looking for the redemption of Jerusalem. And so verse 39, when they, Mary and Joseph, had performed everything according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee to their own city of Nazareth. So both Mary and Joseph had been given uh significant information directly by an angel sent by God They had confirmation of it from Elizabeth, confirmation from uh shepherds who came to visit them. uh confirmation from uh prophets and prophetess in Jerusalem. And um You can just imagine all of the all the pieces so far that they're experiencing bringing confirmation but just awe about what God's doing. This is not their doing, it's God's doing. And um Mary treasured these things up in her heart. Um yeah, I'm sure she did. Um Okay, well each week as we go through and we see these accounts, um I have as part of your um processing this uh a a little table of all the participants we looked at in that week and think through their example to us, whether a good or a bad example, and what implications that might have in our lives. And some other questions as well once we get into the character of Christ. I better close. Let's pray.