So, for lesson one, I'm on page twelve. Scripture affirms that Jesus, the Messiah, is God. So he's fully God, fully man. Let's look at his deity first. Some of these passages, I'm sure, are familiar to you, but we may gloss over them because they're so familiar. But in Psalm 45, we read: My heart overflows with a good theme. I address my verses to the king. Which king? Well, we'll find out as we keep reading. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. You are fairer than the sons of man. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor in and your majesty, and in your majesty ride on victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness Let your right hand teach you awesome things, your arrows are sharp. The peoples fall under you. Your arrows are in the heart of the king's enemies. And then verse 6, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of joy above your fellows. Now, if you didn't have the New Testament revelation as we do, you might find that especially hard to understand. Right? So at one point he's referring to this king as God, but then also God, your God, has anointed you. So fortunately from our understanding, as we see the life of Christ unfolded and the and the apostolic teaching and so on. Um we see this is it's always been understood to be messianic as a as a prophecy But uh how to really put it all together has not really been clear until you understand that Jesus is the God man. He's fully God, fully man, and he reigns. So when we get to Hebrews in the New Testament, we see reference to that very psalm. Hebrews 1, right at the very beginning. God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers in the prophets in many portions and many ways, in these last days has spoken to us in his son, spoken to us in his son. He is the word, right? Whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. And he, Christ, is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature, and upholds all things by the word of his power. When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High, having become as much better than the angels. And as and he has inherited a more excellent name than they. For to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you And quoting from Psalm 2. And again, I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. And when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, and let all the angels of God worship him. And the angels and of the angels, he says, Who makes the angels wins, and his minister is a flame of fire. But of the Son, he says Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. And the righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness. Therefore, God, your God, has appointed you with the oil of gladness above your companions. So the writer of Hebrews, referring back to Psalm 45, is saying, yes, this is messianic, but think about its implications. The Messiah is God, the Messiah is eternal, but he's also human. Um go back to Isaiah nine six for and again a familiar passage. For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called wonderful counselor. There's no comma between wonderful and counselor, by the way Wonderful counselor, mighty God, eternal Father, Prince of Peace. There will be no end to the increase of his government or peace on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish and uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. So the Messiah is called mighty God. And That mighty God, it says, is a son who will be given to us, born. Right? Well when Gabriel announced the the the birth or the the uh incarnation of Christ to Mary. In Luke 1, it says, now in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God. The sixth month, that was that's the sixth month of uh Elizabeth's pregnancy. So she was six months in, pregnant with John the Baptist. Gabriel was sent from God to a city in Galilee called Nazareth. to a virgin engaged to a man whose name was Joseph of the descendants of David. And the virgin's name was Mary. And coming in, he said to her, Greetings, favored one, the Lord is with you. But she was very perplexed at this statement and kept pondering what kind of salutation this was. The angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. For you have found favor with God, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall name him Jesus. He will be great, and will be called Son of the Most High. And the Lord will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end. Mary said to the angel, How can this be, since I am a virgin? And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. And the power of the Most High will overshadow you, and for that reason the holy child shall be called the Son of God. So Gabriel here is is referring back to the well known um Prophecy given to David that he would have a descendant ruling on his throne forever And um Mary would have understood that immediately. And that this is the fulfillment of that So scripture affirms that the Messiah is God. Secondly, I'm on page thirteen Jesus himself claimed to be God. I know a lot there are a lot of detractors who say, well, he never claimed to be God. Well that's not true. In John 10, for example, Jesus said, I and the Father are one. Was he saying, well, we have the same purpose or um were one in in in spirit, if you will, one in purpose. That's not how the Jews understood it. They understood very clearly what he was saying. And in fact it says in verse 31, continuing The Jews picked up stones to stone him again. And Jesus answered them, I showed you many good works from the Father, for which of them are you stoning me? And the Jews answered, For a good work we do not stone you, but for blasphemy because you being a man make yourself out to be God They understood very clearly what he was saying. Luke twenty two. Sure, that's right. He he uh he affirmed it and um made um uh made the Jews all the more angry, right, jealous. Exactly. Luke twenty two. This is during the um uh the time when Jesus was being tried. Um When it was day, the council of the elders of the people assembled both chief priests and scribes, and they led him away to their council chamber, saying, If you are the Christ, tell us. But he said to them, If I tell you, you will not believe. And if you I ask, and if I ask a question, you will not answer. But from now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand With the power of God. And again, he's quoting from Daniel here. And they all said, Are you the Son of God then? Point blank. And he said, Yes, I am. And then they said, What further need do we have of any testimony? For we have heard ourselves from his own mouth. Which They weren't saying, oh, you're the Son of God, let's worship you. What were they saying? You claim to be the Word of God, that's blasphemy. You're out of here. Right? John 19. Similar context. When the chief priest and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify, crucify! Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. The Jews answered, We have a law, and by that law he ought to die because he made himself out to be the Son of God. Uh what's interesting, and we'll get there next summer, at the end of at the at the uh The end of the Passion Week. Uh what's going on here is is one of the tactics the Jews were trying to make in order to get Christ executed by Rome. was to make him out to be a um um insurrectionist. He was um advocating and would be advocating insurrection against Rome and Pilate they said had to deal with this decisively and Pilate of course was having none of it The next chapter, John 20. This is after the resurrection. So the other disciples were saying to him. We have seen the Lord. I think this is referring to Thomas, right? The other disciples were saying to Thomas, who was not there when Jesus um uh appeared to them initially. We have seen the Lord, but he said to them, Unless I see in his hands the imprint of the nails and put my finger into the place of the nails and put my hand into his side, which is where he sustained the s the wound from the spear of the soldiers. Unless I can do that, I will not believe. And after eight days his disciples were again inside, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, the doors having been shut. And stood in their midst and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, knowing what Thomas had said, Reach here with your finger and see my hands, and reach here, your hand, and put it into my side, and do not be unbelieving, but believing. Now we don't really know whether Thomas actually had to do that, but he could have. But what it does say, Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. And again, Jesus didn't say, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, you misunderstand, did he? What did Jesus do? Jesus said to him, Because you have seen me and you have believed, blessed are they who do not see and yet believe. So he um it's a little bit of a scolding, not for the worshiping, but for the unbelieving. Um but it was uh receiving that worship. Right. Yeah, go ahead. You can um contrast that to how the angels responded to that type of Several places, particularly in Revelation. Angels, you know, John the Apostle who should have known better. Um was just such in in such awe of everything he was seeing, hearing, and the the magnificence of these angels um started to to worship the angels and the angels said, No way, no, don't do that. And Jesus would have done that. Had he not been correctly um recognized as the object of our worship. Good point. Okay. Thirdly, biblical evidence that Jesus possesses the attributes of God. Not only does Scripture affirm that he is God, Christ Himself has affirmed that He is God, but there's lots of biblical evidence that Jesus has attributes that belong only to God. So omnipresent when you're familiar with the Great commission passage that Jesus gave in Matthew 28 before his ascension into heaven. One of the things he said to you to us is I am with you always, even to the end of the age. So um uh Just affirming his deity and his omnipresence right there. And then flipping to page 14 He's not only omnipresent, but he's also omniscient. Several passages you might go to here. Jesus at one point challenged his detractors when he said, uh Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why are you thinking evil in your hearts? Another example in John 1, Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We have found him whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. And Nathaniel said to him, Can any good thing come out of Nazareth? So that was the prevailing uh opinion Philip said to him, Come and see. And so Jesus saw Nathaniel coming to him and said of him, Behold an Israelite indeed in whom there is no deceit. Nathaniel said to him, How do you know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. Nathanael answered him, Rabbi, you are the son of God. You are the king of Israel And Jesus answered and said to him, Behold, because I said to you I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than these. So we don't have the entire context there as to what he was doing under the fig tree and how he made that very quick assessment. If Jesus knew that, only God could know that, he must be God. Now I want to come back to this later, but maybe I should introduce it here. On the right hand side I've I've introduced some Some commentary of my own. So right now we're focusing on the deity of Christ. We're going to speak in a minute of his humanity. But um in his deity, of course, Jesus was omniscient. In his humanity, he voluntarily laid aside some of the prerogatives of his deity. Obvious things like um he was not omnipresent when he was in a physical body on earth. And yet he did miracles. He did things that only God could do Um but he wasn't willy-nilly going around flaunting his deity. He lived out his life in as a man, um actually as an example to us, right? Not an example of doing miracles and stuff, but just living a normal human life. And it's not always clear when he was drawing on his omniscience And when he was drawing on just observations that any of us could make. Um and as we get to some of those episodes, as we travel through the gospels, we'll get maybe more insight of that. But there are times, and it could be here in Matthew nine, what might be one example, um Where everybody around him would have made the same conclusion looking at how the Pharisees, for example, reacted to what Jesus did or said. They're looking at the Pharisees and Is they you can read them like a book. They're skeptical, they're doubting, uh, they're challenging, and you know it's in their hearts just by their nonverbs. Some of that, uh maybe all that Jesus is actually drawing on in s in his um uh interactions with people. Uh but there are other examples where he actually is drawing on his deity and omniscience to uh to say things, to do things, and to understand the context better than we could have. Yeah. This is within his in his humanity is perfect. So it's even different in his humanity than us. So it's maybe even more difficult sometimes for us. distinguish human energy from Yeah that's a good point because he could be more alert, observant, uh more capable of interpreting those nonverbs. Um but Yeah, that that it do it does get a little bit hard to distinguish what is his deity coming through versus what is his perfect humanity coming through. Yeah Okay, omnipotent. You see examples of that in the miracles, right? The walking on water, the calming the storm, the raising the dead. Um but Jesus himself affirmed that all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. And the verse we read earlier from Isaiah 9 refers to him as mighty God, the Messiah. It is Almighty God. Eternal. Now this is interesting. Again, that same passage from Isaiah 9 refers to the Messiah as eternal Father. And of course it's referring to a a child that would be born to us, a son. And so why is it referring to him as eternal father? Well the eternal part you can understand, right? He always existed from eternity past. Um what's the father part here? Well, a better translation of that is um our eternal creator, the the the father of all people. He's he's the one who created us. He's the father, he's the The Father of all eternity as our Creator. What's also interesting is the other key passage in in the Old Testament about the incarnation of Christ, the birth of Christ. In Micah chapter 5, it reads, But as for you, Bethlehem, Ephra, too little to be among the clans of Judah. From you, one will go forth for me to be a ruler in Israel. His goings forth are from long ago and from the days of eternity. Now what's interesting is when the Magi went to Jerusalem and asked the the leaders there Where is the King of the Jews? Well that went over really well with King Herod, didn't it? Where is the King of the Jews? But when they understood that he w they were referring to the promised Messiah What did the religious leaders tell him? They quoted this this verse, but they quoted only the first part of it, uh, which gets to the geographic location. But as for you, Bethlehem, Ephra, too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you one will go forth from me, for me, to be a ruler in Israel. So they quoted that and said, Well Go look in Bethlehem, which is just a stone's throw away from where they were. What they didn't read was the next part. The next part says, his goings forth are from long ago from the days of eternity. So here's somebody going to be born who existed from eternity past? That's hard to get your mind around, and they have basically just It was over their head they didn't even think about it. But it's not only significant that he was born in Bethlehem in fulfillment of this prophecy, but that he was eternal and stepped into time as a baby. Okay. We've touched on it a little bit, but the next aspect of his deity is creator. You're familiar with John 1, opening up the book of John. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being through him. And apart from him, nothing came into being that has come into being. Who is this word? Well, verse 14. The word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. So, just a very strong, direct affirmation that Jesus Christ as the God man created everything. Everything was created by him, through him, and for him. And in fact, if you read Colossians 1, which is also here For he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, for by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on the earth visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. So it's very clear in Scripture that Jesus Christ Was central to the whole creation. As it turns out, as we read in Genesis Um God the Father and God the Holy Spirit were also very active in the creation. But um Um the point is that as God, Jesus was very central to our creation. And then lastly, we've also touched on it a bit. He is to be worshipped. It's interesting again from the the birth account in Matthew 2. Uh we read, now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, Magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem saying, Where is he who has been born King of the Jews? For we saw a star in the East and have come to worship him. And then later in verse 11, after they uh came into the house where where Jesus was, they saw the child with Mary his mother. And they fell to the ground and worshipped him. Then, opening their treasures, they presented to him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. And as I comment on the right here, it's sad and ironic that Gentiles would have worshipped Christ even at his birth But the Jews who should have known better didn't. It's a shame. But then there are various uh uh Events in his ministry where Jesus received worship. And consistently he received that worship he didn't rebuke. Right? So Peter walking on the water. And when they got back into the boat, the wind stopped, and those who were in the boat worshipped him, saying, certainly you are God's son. And uh Matthew twenty eight. And they left the tomb quickly. With fear and great joy, and ran to report to his disciples, and behold, Jesus met them and greeted them, and they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. They were bowing down, worshiping him. And he didn't say don't do that. He says, don't be afraid. But go and tell, take the word to my brethren and leave for Galilee, and there they will see me. Later in Matthew 28, as they met in Galilee, it says the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had designated. And when they saw him, they worshipped him. But what I find really interesting is what says next. But some were doubtful, even now. Uh they saw the resurrected Christ. Uh he's he's about to leave. He's already met with him several times uh uh as after his resurrection, but some of them were still And here he is going to entrust the entire ministry to them. Right? Um John 5. For not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son, Jesus said. So that all will honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Right? So that honoring him means worshiping him. Yes, he deserves. And other examples as well. Okay. So here on the bottom of page fifteen, we move into um Jesus being fully man, in addition to us being fully God. So, as you know, as a man, Jesus fully exhibited all the physical characteristics of human beings, yet without sin. So he was born in the usual way, even though his conception was not at all usual, but his his birth was just routine. He grew up Like we do. He had flesh and bones. Um he grew up in the usual way, although without sin. Have you ever thought about what it would be like to be one of Jesus' siblings? Very difficult. Kind of convicting, right? Uh or maybe hardening their hearts in some cases, but um uh What we know is it probably it it seems like from scripture that it took the resurrection for them to really become believers. He was hungry. He was thirsty. He was tired. He slept. He became weak. And he died. Right? Just like we do. His spirit, soul, uh, left his body when he died. So the fact that Jesus is the God man is a miracle. Right? God intervening to the normal Course of events to um usher in his plan of redemption. And what it required was that God Himself, the Son of God, would take on human flesh, live a perfect life, and become um The sacrifice for sins that we should have paid. So I've inserted here what our doctrinal statement says about the incarnation. And maybe I'll look at uh read through those real briefly. In the incarnation, by the way, incarnation, you know, the carn there is the Latin root is referring to what? Flesh. Right? If you know Spanish, what's meat? Carne, right? Incarnation is taking on human flesh That's what it means. So in the incarnation, God becoming man, Christ surrendered only the prerogatives of deity, but nothing of the divine essence. either in degree or kind. He laid aside his right to the full prerogatives of coexistence with God and took on an existence appropriate to a servant, while never divesting himself Of his divine attributes. Secondly, in his incarnation, the eternally existing second person of the Trinity accepted all the essential characteristics of humanity, and so became the God man. Jesus Christ represents humanity and deity in indivisible oneness. So one person, two natures, divine nature, human nature, and um That human nature is untainted by sin, and so when we think of human nature, we think of fallen human beings. But his human nature was was um Unstained by sin. Okay, so an important point we need to grapple with here is what theologians call the kenosis. So you're probably familiar with Philippians 2, 5 through 8. I'm on page 16. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God as a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men. Being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. So that Greek word for emptied himself is kinoo, and it gives name to the doctrine of kenosis. What's it mean? It's referring to Christ's voluntary and temporary laying aside of the prerogatives of deity during his earthly ministry. He didn't exchange deity for humanity He merely set aside the use of and display of most of his divine attributes most of the time, although there are exceptions, the miracles, right? So that he would stay fully God, but also fully man. That sounds good, it's hard to get our minds wrapped around. Right But it's what we see in Scripture. It's fully God, fully man. But that raises the question: to what extent did Jesus use or lay aside the attributes of deity? Well, we see in his miracles that he would regularly, through healings and other kinds of miracles, display Acts, deeds that could be explained only by God. In fact, what did Nicodemus say when he confronted Jesus at night He says, teacher, we know that you have come from God because what? No one can do the things that you've been doing unless God is with him. And uh like with the prophets beforehand and the apostles afterward those miracles were attesting miracles to say, this is God working here, fellas. Listen to what he's saying. And the same was true of Christ. He didn't do miracles willy-nilly in as a as a package. They were there to convince people. That this is God at work. Listen to what he says. Right? But he didn't perform miracles continually or indiscriminately. During his earthly ministry, Jesus generally laid aside that prerogative and some of his divine attributes like omnipresence or transcendence. And was limited by normal human limitations of time and space. Yet, it was the Father's will for Jesus occasionally to perform miracles to accomplish God's purposes. When it was necessary for him to perform miracles, he did so in the power of and under the direction of the Holy Spirit. And we see that very clearly in the Gospels. He's calling on the Father as he did these miracles. And these miracles affirmed his divine authority of his teaching. Okay, then there's the question of his uh righteous living, his sinless life. Jesus lived a perfect life without any sin. He always did the right thing. The word for that is righteousness, doing the right thing. Scholars are divided, however, on the theoretical question of whether, as a man, Jesus could have sinned. But successfully avoided it, or whether being God, he never could have sinned Referred to as the impeccability of Christ. Not just as sinless, but he was not able to sin. And I write here that it seems possible that some or all of these are to some extent true. He didn't sin because he successfully chose not to sin, providing an example for us Scripture makes a point of that, right? If it were not possible for him, in his humanity, for him to sin, then it would seem impossible for him to be tempted as we are, yet Scripture is clear that he was. Hebrews 2. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. Therefore, he had to be made like his brethren in all things, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest. in the things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for sins of the people. For since he himself was tempted in that which he has suffered, he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted. Note also that Scripture refers to Christ as the second Adam or the last Adam. So in what way are Adam and Christ alike? Well maybe I should ask ask the question this way. In what ways were Adam and Jesus alike? in ways that we are not like. Uniquely alike. They don't have their sinful nature. No sinful nature. Right. They got their start with no sinful nature. Now how do they differ? Adam. Adam blew it. Jesus didn't. Right? Yeah, that that's a very technical term. Blew it. We understood it though. So everyone since then, except Jesus, has had a sin nature from the beginning, and so they could not sin in the likeness of the offense of Adam. But 1 Corinthians 15, 45, the first man Adam became a living being, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. Romans 5. Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world and death through sin, and so death spread to all men, because all sinned. For until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed where there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam who is a type of him who was to come, a type, a foreshadowing of him who was to come, who is who? The second Adam, Jesus. Right? And the righteousness of Christ is our inheritance. If we're saved. So Jesus came not just to die, he came to live a perfect life. And our sins are transferred to Him at salvation, and His righteousness is transferred to our account. At salvation. Um and that righteousness is his perfect life. So, yes, his death was key, but his life was also key. Both to be eligible to die and to be our righteousness. Philippians 3, one of my favorite passages, Paul says, I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ, and may be found in him not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, righteousness being good deeds. Not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but what? That which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. It's the righteousness of Christ applied to us. And that's by faith, of course. We enter into that relationship by faith. Okay. We've got a few minutes. I want to I want to open up to some questions, but before I do, I want to be sure I cover some other concepts here that are going to be helpful to us as we go along. On page 18, terms used to describe Jesus that are often misunderstood. You know the term only begotten, right? John 3. 16, God's only begotten Son. That's a compound word in the Greek from manos only and genomai, to be or to become And it refers to the unique intimate closeness of the Son to the Father, which has always been true from eternity past. And so John, both in his gospel and in the first epistle, uses the term only begotten pretty frequently in reference to Christ. Um and uh at his baptism Of course, this is one of the several times when God the Father spoke and said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I'm well pleased. And he tacked onto that at the Mount of Transfiguration. Remember what he he said in addition to that? This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. Listen to him. was the encouragement. Okay. So um that term Is use of other people as well. And so in Luke seven twelve, now as he approached the gate of the city, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother. We read that, doesn't make That makes sense, right? But the term is only begotten. The only begotten son of his mother. And she was a widow, and a sizable crowd from the city was with her. Luke 842. For he had, I think this is gyrus, for he had only had an only daughter about twelve years old, and she was dying. Again, only begotten is the term that's used here. Luke 9, 38. And a man from the crowd shouted out, Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only boy, my only begotten. Then in Hebrews, with reference to Abraham and the sacrifice of Isaac says, by faith Abraham when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises, Abraham, was offering up his only begotten son. And what's interesting is when you read that account in Genesis 22, it says, Now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. And he said, now take now your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him up there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you That was written, of course, in Hebrew, not in Greek. But Hebrews, ironically, the book of Hebrews Uh when referring to that refers to Isaac as his only begotten son. Why? Because the concept, your only son whom you love, was Isaac his only son at that point? No. What other son did he have? Ishmael was like twelve years older. In fact, Abraham was pleading, God, clearly you can do what you want to do through Ishmael, right? No. Isaac Right, the son of promise. Um the concept here is only begotten. What is that concept? It's um Most favored. Pretty much the description that's given here in Genesis about Isaac, your only son whom you love. It's the most favored one. It's the not necessarily the only one, but this is now the favored one, the most favored one. That's what it means. But then, to make it a little bit confusing, the word begotten is use of Christ separate from only begotten. The actual word begotten, which is the typical word for, you know, all the uh genealogies so and so begat so and so But it's use of Jesus in the sense a a sense that's different from only begotten. And On page 19, the first box on page 19 has an excerpt from Psalm 2 at the bottom. If you see that? I want to read that. Psalm 2 is very messianic. And so in verse 6, God the Father is speaking, and he says, But as for me, I have installed my king, he's making reference to the Messiah. I have installed my king upon Zion, my holy mountain. Then we switch. God the Son is speaking. In verse 7, I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord. He, God the Father, said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will surely give you the inheritance of the nations as your inheritance. And so on. And of course, that is quoted several times in in Hebrews and I I think elsewhere. Hebrews 1. 5 at the top of this box. For which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you? The question is, what does it mean, today I have begotten you? Does it mean that God said this to Jesus the day he was born? No. What day was he referring to? Well, the context of Psalm 2 is all about installing this king as king in Jerusalem, and that the the the kings of the world ought to shudder because of it. When did that happen? Well, the ultimate fulfillment of that is when he returns a second time. Right? But uh Go down to the bottom of page 19. There are several references to sort of preliminary evidences or fulfillments of it. Acts 13. 30. Speaking of Christ. But God raised him from the dead, and for many days he appeared to those who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, the very ones who are now witnesses to the people. And we preach to you the good news and the promise made to the fathers that God has fulfilled this promise to our children in that He raised Jesus, He raised up Jesus. As it is also written in the second Psalm, you are my son, today I have begotten you. So there's a connection here between today I have begotten you and the resurrection. So, in what sense is the resurrection a part of God begetting, begotting Jesus? Well the word begotten means not just to um be born or to ha to cause to be born It also means to, in a more general sense, to show forth, to bring forth. So in birth, you're bringing forth a child, but in the more general sense someone can be brought forth and just put on display, like in Psalm 2, put on display on the throne in opposition to all the the the kings of the earth who are snickering. Um but the resurrection was the first installment on that. defeating sin and death, rising victoriously, announcing to the world that this is my son. Right? He put him on display. He brought forth the son even from death. Romans 1. 4 says, speaking of Jesus, who was declared the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. So did he become the Son by being raised? No, he was just being declared. He was brought forth, put on display for the world to see. what he had accomplished, both by his death and his resurrection. So um Begotten, as is used of Christ, it's not speaking of his his um his incarnation, it's speaking of his coronation. Okay? Put being put on display. And early evidence of that, early down payment of that, if you will, is the resurrection. But ultimately, it's when according to Psalm 2 But today is when he's actually installed as king in Jerusalem after he returns a second time. That's different from the term only begotten, which is favored one. Okay? Hope that helps. And we sort of touched on it maybe, but on page 20, the third term I wanted to touch on. is firstborn. We've read it from some of the passages. Christ is referred to um in Romans eight That he would be the firstborn among many brethren. Colossians 1, he's referred to as the firstborn of all creation. Hebrews 1, when he again brings the firstborn into the world. Uh Revelation one refers to him again as firstborn of the dead. What does firstborn mean? It's a place of privilege. Right? The firstborn in the family was given um uh a double portion of of the inheritance. He was in a position of of uh uh higher standing than anyone else. It has everything to do with preeminence, not physical birth. Now in among humans it had a lot to do with birth order in the family, right? But it's used of David as well. In Psalm 89, I have made my covenant with my chosen, I have sworn to David, my servant, I will establish your seed forever, and will build up your throne to all generations. Then later in verse 20, I have found my David my servant with my holy oil and so on, with whom uh my his hand will be established. And then later in verse 27, I also shall make him, speaking of David, my firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. My loving kindness I will keep for him forever, and my covenant shall be confirmed to him. So I will establish his descendants forever and his throne as the days of heaven. Where was David in the birth order of his family? The youngest. Out of what, seven or Um and yet from God's perspective he was going to exalt him as um having the rights of the firstborn. And so when it's used of Christ, it's referring not to his incarnation, it's referring to his preeminence, being above everybody else. Okay. It's a good thing we have another hour. Um but that's gonna have to be at a different day, I think, right? I've got for you on page twenty-one some prophecies, some messianic prophecies about Christ, where they're found and where their fulfillment is is found, in case that's helpful. But we better wrap up now. And I'm looking forward to walking through the the um the gospels together to uh appreciate in the fullest sense of the term more deeply uh this God man, Jesus. And the the my hope, my prayer is that this is not going to be just an academic exercise where you're putting facts into your head. But rather it's going to be transforming our lives. Okay, let's pray.