I'm sorry I forgot to turn it off. So we're on section one hundred sixty-six. Sorry about that. When the hour had come, he came with the twelve disciples and reclined at the table, and the apostles with him And he said to them, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer, for I say to you, I shall never eat it again until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And when he had taken the cup and given thanks, he said, Take this and share it among yourselves, for I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine from now on until the kingdom of God comes. So um I think most of us tend to think and tr sort of interpret this last supper, this Passover meal they're having, uh, as the um the Lord's Supper that we now commemorate. Whereas um they were having just the regular Passover Seder And he um built into it the Lord's Supper that we now commemorate. But um That wasn't yet. What they were doing here is just the regular Passover Seder. And um he's talking about uh uh the the symbolism of the Seder and of the Passover being fulfilled and uh They're probably still scratching their head a little bit. What do you mean fulfilled? We're looking back on time, right? About commemorating what happened. And Jesus is saying, no, there's there's no fulfillment here yet So then John having a knack for adding additional material that's not in the synoptic gospels. Gives us here in chapter thirteen a very important part of that meal So during supper, that's what the Satyr was, during supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray him. Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come forth from God and was going back to God. Got up from supper, and laid aside his garments, and taking a towel he girded himself. Then he poured water into the basin and began to wash his the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded. Now what was the point of feet washing back then? Dirty, dusty. Um so uh most people walked around with you know they didn't have um um Nikes and and uh boots or probably even socks, right? Um sandals are good for traction on on the soil and and keeping your uh yeah the the soles of your feet uh protected from whatever you might be walking on. But your feet get dirty. Particularly if there's no very little pavement and and a lot of dust and dirt and so on around. And so the polite thing to do when uh you're invited into Um someone's home uh was that uh they would uh uh provide the means and often a servant to wash your feet so that you would be uh um You know, washed for dinner, as it were. And uh but it was usually a servant who would do it. You can imagine how lowly a task This would be, right? And this was the very lowest of the load job. Yeah. So it's it's maybe the even the trainees, right? Yeah. So uh Jesus gets up and and washes their feet. In verse 6, he came to Simon Peter. You gotta love Peter, right? And he, Peter, said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? Jesus answered and said to him, What I do, you do not realize now. Boy, is that an understatement. But you will understand the hereafter. Peter said to him, Never shall you wash my feet. And Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no part with me. Boy, that hit hard, right? Simon Peter said to him, Lord, then wash not only my feet, but my hands and my head. And Jesus said to him, He who has bathed needs only to wash his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not all of you. For he knew the one who was betraying him. For this reason he said, Not all of you are clean. So when he had washed their feet and taken his garments and reclined to the table again, he said to them, Do you know what I have done to you? Kind of saying, you know, do you get it? You call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then, the Lord and teacher, washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I gave you an example that you should also do as I did to you. Truly, truly, I say to you, a slave is not greater than his master, nor is the one who sent. who is sent greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, you are blessed if you do them. So um was he telling them to wash each other's feet? No, he was he was telling them to follow his example of humility and servanthood, right? Serving uh not just each other, but generally being a servant rather than a um uh a boss. And you know, we've seen on multiple occasions here. In fact we're going to see it very soon again, ironically. Where they're arguing who's going to be greatest in the kingdom, you know. And multiple times Jesus would say, He who is greatest among you must be the servant of all. And Th he he knew this was an issue going on in their hearts, even as he spoke. Um and I think he realized that maybe what they need is a visualization of this principle. And Peter's initial reactions suggest that they understood that there's a message here, even if he wasn't at the moment getting what that message is. Um it kind of proven up in certain things, not just the evidence. It it just proves it, you say? No one will have Yeah. Yeah. So he he was just not um saying You know, he who is greatest among you must be the servant of all. He was actually doing it too. And of course, the greatest example of his servanthood. is as the suffering servant who gave his life for the sheep, which is about to happen in the in the course of events here. I was just thinking how this this is like the example of, you know uh practicing what he preaches. And you know, I think also about uh Judas, you know, we it's easy to love those who love us, but here is Judas who he n says you are not all clean. He he knows what Judas has planned, you know, and what's in his heart, and yet he's worshiping his feet too, you know. He turns the other cheek, you know, he prays for those who persecute him. Yeah. You know, he he really humbles himself and and even reaching out to Judas who is just looking for an opportunity to to train Excellent point. Meaning that our servanthood needs to be what? Unconditional. Yeah. Pastor Allen. Yeah. It um it seems like there's a transition that comes up in the church or after the birth of the church where The originally trained apostles needed to make a transition to deacons to do some of the dirty work. that they have originally been trained to to do. So I and maybe it's just a um a like you said, a a disposition of the heart of humility. Whereas even if you're a leader and a equipper and teacher and preacher, it's still a servant part that you're That's your motive, even though you're not washing feet or waiting on the tables. But there there was a transition that that happened later uh after the birth of the church. Right. Yeah, so the actual outworking of that will be different depending on people's uh circumstances and and roles and so on. But the principle of Particularly for leaders, the principle of servant leadership, which seems like a contradiction of terms, but is exactly what Jesus modeled. is is key. And so people are to well as Jesus said, you know, um out there in the world those who would seek to be great just lord it over those under their supervision and so on. And he says it's not that way. in the kingdom of God, but he who would be greatest among you must be the servant of all. And so it that's essentially it it starts with having the right hard attitude. I'm not in this role for people to serve me. I'm in this role for me to serve others. And that's so easily missed because of our sin nature. But Jesus was a great example of that. Okay. So uh Section 168, back to the Synoptic Gospels, Jesus now actually institutes the ordinance of the Lord's Supper. Verse 26 of Matthew. While they were eating, Jesus took some bread, and after a blessing of thanks, he broke it. And gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Now What do you suppose they were thinking? He takes some bread and says, This is my body which is given for you. They're thinking, I don't understand. That's weird. That's weird. Um actually it's it's not quite as bad and direct as John Six, maybe. I think it's six. where he talks about unless you eat my flesh and drink my blood you have no part of me. And a lot of people left him at that point. Whoa, this guy's off off the cliff, right? But clearly they they didn't yet understand the symbolism of this. And but they would not have They would not have thought it was anything other than symbolism because it was just regular bread. It was not actually his body that he was giving to them, right? But it wasn't regular Well it was unleavened bread. Yeah, it was a normal bread for the the Seder. Um But but I make that observation here because of course Catholics and maybe others think that the the um the the bread becomes the body of Christ when it's blessed and everything And that clearly was not happening here, because it was his body, his hands, that was the that was giving it to them. And so they understood that it had to be some kind of metaphor, some kind of symbolism, even if they didn't yet understand what that symbolism was. That's that's the point. Yeah means he's going to be gone and they're going to Yes, it's a memorial. Exactly. There's some symbolism here to remind yes. Yes, well it would have been unleavened bread as part of the Passover Seder anyway. And the symbolism there is um the Um haste with the U. that's the sort of the the um didn't have time to rise. Yes. Yeah, it's both of those things. It was instituted um back in Exodus after the uh the first Passover. Um and it was to be a memorial ever since to remember that they were making bread quickly and um if you have yeast in it it's going to take longer. But there's a bigger symbolism here, and that leaven is used even by Jesus as an example of how things spread. Usually not a good thing, like sin. And so it takes only a little bit of leaven to leaven the entire dough, a lump of dough. And so being unleavened, it's a symbol of his sinless body. That was broken for us. Yeah. Thank you. They wouldn't have necessarily understood that at the time. But um like he said about uh washing a fee, you'll you'll get it eventually. Um Verse 27, and in the same way, after they had eaten that, when he had taken uh a cup and given thanks. And they drank from it. He said to them, drink from it, all of you, for this is the cup For this cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you and for many for the forgiveness of sins. But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on, until that day when I drink it with you in the kingdom of God my Father. So um here he's he's Making use of the Passover meal uh context to introduce a new Now the Passover itself was a memorial looking back at what God had done, delivering them from bondage to Egypt. And now he's he's instituting out of that a similar but different memorial That uh at this time when he's doing it is looking ahead, at least a few days, where he's going to be sacrificing his body, shedding his blood as the ultimate fulfillment of that symbolic deliverance from Egypt, now to be the broader deliverance from what? From sin. Um passover. Is it a redirection of the Passover? Because then it was just once a year for supposed in the Passover. Now there really is no um Yeah. Yeah, First Corinthians eleven says as often as you do it, without telling how often it should be. Yeah, because the thing is that we But it's not. Is there a redirection of that new I guess? No, I I I don't see this as substituting for the Passover Seder specifically, but it was built on it as a new memorial for Christians. And so it's not the entire Passover Seder It's it's just this element of it, the the the breaking of the bread, the um the drinking of the the juice, the wine, um, as specific symbols of the sacrifice of Christ. Now that itself was a fulfillment of what God was picturing Um you remember w uh back in Exodus, um how they f what they first had to do to prepare for the The meal? Yes. Put the blood on the the lintel at the top and on the two sides. A lot of people have observed that that's sort of s symbolic of uh the blood of Christ shed, you know, on a the crown of thorns and also his his arms. I don't know if that's exactly the intent God had, but uh clearly that Passover lamb Is symbolic of the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, right? So he was the fulfillment of the Passover. Um but uh within a bunch of iterations that Passover is gone. I mean the first church was entirely Jewish. Yes they have their Passover But within a bunch of gener generations, that's gone. But to me it looks like we don't celebrate it. So yeah, it's used to but then perhaps Well the a lot of Jews do it now culturally. They'll have savers. No, no, that's right. But they're they're continuing that Jewish tradition. Um just because it's tradition. Yeah, and tradition. What's that? Correct. Correct. They understood very soon, even in the first generation, right after he died, because when they wrote the episode Epistles it says Christ our Passover is slain for us. So they understood it. Oh yeah. Yeah, I'm not disputing what the understanding is. We don't carry it out as a church. We don't celebrate. Well we're not Jewish ceremony. We're not Jews. I know Jewish believers who still self-expecting. Yeah, so the the point is here he w he wasn't saying uh we he wasn't co-opting the Seder um as it was given by Moses well by God to Moses and so on and celebrated um it wasn't all that they weren't all that consistent celebrating it even um in most of Old Testament history either. Uh the Passover went into um What do they call it? Disuse, is that the right word? Um but by this time it had it had resurfaced and the temple was there and it was all um part of their their normal experience. Uh but he took that context because it was very appropriate um with him being the ultimate fulfillment, and took a part of it and focused on um His fulfillment of that original symbolism and isolated that piece of it for the church to remember. And That's what we do. Nowhere in scripture are we told how often to do it. And um just as often as you do it. Yeah. Do we have any indications about the early church as to perhaps how often we might have been doing it. And also the institution of this memorial was not really in a church Um and is there anything about it that precludes it from being done outside of all the original We've got pretty good direction in 1 Corinthians 11, where Paul gives added instructions and hearkening back to what Jesus did and so on. Um the context there is when you gather. Um so it could have been as often as every time they gather. Um and probably was in some cases. And I guess it is in many cases even today. But um there's no command that it would be any kind of frequency. But um it does seem like the um um the overall Teaching there, particularly in 1 Corinthians 11, is that it's it's something to do with the gathered church. Not something we would do ourselves or just even in our own family, but something we would do in the gathered church Wasn't it like in acts when they were house to house each week, breaking bread and other things? Yeah, it it could be that. It it's not specific about whether it's just Um celebrating the Lord's Supper when they get together or whether they're actually sharing meals together. Which is it's probably both. Which is what Jesus was doing with them. And so I don't know that there's a lot of insight there about the frequency of doing it, but um Um you know when we when we started the church here, one of the things we did is we had a fellowship lunch every single Sunday. And when you have only just a few people, it's kind of easy. And we got bigger and bigger, we said, well, let's maybe make it once a month. It was still very good, very helpful and and and so on. And so I I I can visualize the early church doing that very same thing. Yeah. Okay. So um Okay, you can read the notes, I think. Well that's basically all I have is then. Um I I've printed out here the section from 1 Corinthians eleven Where Paul says, For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And in the same way he took the cup also after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. That was Paul's uh commentary on the his quoting Jesus. Here's what Jesus meant by that. Right? So when you when you do this When you eat the bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. So we're um Reflecting on the past, which is what Christ has done for us on the cross, and we're also looking ahead. at his next coming and fulfillment of all the plan of salvation and and so on. Yeah, Henry. We we agree in the gospel that Jesus instituted this reward. Paul here is saying, I received from the Lord. What is he talking about? Is he talking about Uh the revelation explaining what the word is the night of of Passover? Or is this what are they talking about? What do you think? Yeah, that's that's kind of my question. What do you think are you doing? You remember, yeah, Paul wasn't there. Um and he didn't get his gospel, Galatians 1 says he didn't get his Gosh, uh his Colossians. He didn't get his gospel. from men, but directly from God, directly from the Lord. And uh he um he talked about uh spending um uh extensive amount of time directly uh with the Lord, training him, uh teaching him uh getting his mind out of um all the presuppositions and things he had counted on before. Um And basically the Lord put him through personalized seminaries the way I think of it. And so um Um he he talks in in Galatians of um him going off to Arabia, which wouldn't have been very far. A lot of that area was called Arabia. Uh but in seclusion he was um uh being protected from all the people who are out to give him. Um and God was Well, uh do you know Examples of a celebrity, whether it be maybe a movie star or a politician or um sports celebrity who rather um visibly Um, has a conversion. Born again. And he's already in the limelight, and or she. And Um everybody expects that everything they say about Christianity must be true. But they are just young believers, if they are indeed believers, right? Um and the last thing you want to do is to have someone like that being quoted about what is What is sound doctrine? Because there are just infants in the Lord at best. Paul would have been kind of like that. Paul would have been very notorious for some good and some bad reasons. Uh neither the Jews nor the young Christ the the church, the Christians, wanted much to do with him. They couldn't figure him out. Um and God I think wisely used a lot of that early time to um uh um to teach Paul what he needed to proclaim. And um so I think that's what he's referring to here. It's amazing that God does see that. I mean he has all the time and all the No. Like you missed the classical videos that you have. It's like wow, what a credit. Yeah. I was interested just this morning after listening to you past a read from the gospels, then when you read the Corinthians, it was almost word for word at some point, exactly what Jesus had said, and then thinking he wasn't What that's what I was thinking I was wondering as well, because the words are almost identical. Now when he says I receive from Obviously and like you said the brother might have in that when he was a radio Some of the way. It's also possible, and I don't know this for a fact, that the Lord had taught him about this from and then he also heard from the other apostles or disciples who were there and then put all of that together the practice is his experience, the revelation he gave him, his own words It's just uh it's for me I just have to wonder, wow, this is this is amazing, I you know, I've seen quite before and everything is almost obeyed about what the Lord's gonna be. Well well, it was the um inspiration of scripture. Yeah, God's superintending that revelation, right? And part of that in in Paul's case was um a lot of um personal training that he was getting um before um I don't I don't know that this has to be a special revelation that he's speaking of. I mean, all scripture is read by God, and so he obviously spent time with the apostles as well. They would have informed him about What took place in the upper room. You know, I mean he would have had a ton of questions, I'm sure, and when it like tell me everything that happened you know, I want to know. And you know, and so I think it, you know, what they revealed, you know, that that's coming from the Lord, you know, through the through the disciples through the apostles, you know, I I don't think it it necessarily has to be a special revelation. I mean it can just be revelations of It could be received from the Lord. Yeah. He says, I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you. Um looks like we have some time. Go to Galatians. Yep. Galatians one Paul, an apostle, not sent from men, nor through the agency of man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead, and all the brethren who are with me, to the churches of Galatia, and so on. Uh, verse five. Um uh no, let's go to Start with 11. For I would have you know, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man. For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ For you have heard of my former manner of life in Judaism, how I used to persecute the Church of God and go beyond measure, try to destroy it, and I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries among my countrymen being more extremely jealous for my ancestral traditions, but when God, who has set me apart even from my mother's womb and called me through his grace, was pleased to reveal his son in me so that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me. But I went away to Arabia and returned once more to Damascus. And then, three years later, I went up to Jerusalem to become acquainted with Peter and stay with him 15 days and so on. Um but even in those early days, people weren't sure what to make of him and uh the Jews were um uh protesting him and Barnabas uh helped him escape again. Um anyway. So yeah, he makes testimony there of you know of um Receiving the gospel and the basic message, we don't know all the details that the Lord revealed to him at that point. I would have think that you're right. Clearly at some point he compared notes with with the other apostles and may have filled in some things that the Lord didn't cover. But um So maybe all of the above. Yeah. Pastor Allen, is there anything wrong with former Jewish people continuing to to become Christians to continue celebrating a certain Passover or certain piece or even those who are Gentiles, is there anything wrong with with us participating in some of those celebrations, especially if it's in the it's being presented in the context of New Testament revelation. um looking back on those Yeah I tradition I don't personally see any problem particularly with the Passover which has such significance for us, Christ being the fulfillment of the Passover. Um and if someone is is Jewish, comes to Christ, and has a strong affinity for all the God was revealing through the Old Testament law and practices and so on and understanding how they're uh being fulfilled, have been fulfilled, and and so on, um, can be very blessed to commemorate those things with a fuller meaning than he ever had just as a Jew Um I think that's that's sweet. Um not so sure about the Day of Atonement Again, that's something again fulfilled in Christ, and we see in Hebrew that in contrast with the sacrifice that's being made year after year after year in a remote cost of uh reminder of sin, Christ's sacrifice is complete once for all. So Um I I'm not saying it's not possible to celebrate the the um Day of Atonement, but um Uh that was a harder one. But Passover for sure would be special. I guess Hanukkah kind of fits since it's based on inner testimony. Yeah. Um revelation. Yeah. But it's not as questionable as a Christmas tree. Yeah. May have some symbolism, but it's tradition. And yeah. Yeah, Larry. Uh when did I visit any uh I've gotten to know the SA new police for the leader that and Zai and then um One of the really significant parts of their their case to keep their um services with many of the traditions of the uh uh Jewish traditions was to show as a testimony that you can still be a Jew and be a Christian um evidence to you know use those continuation of those um you know like Seder and many of the other things that uh Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there's there's particularly when these things are fulfilled in Christ, they can be all the more special. for people whose whose um ancestry followed those traditions and so on. For us it was that TV because that was uh an all-day affair. Yeah. Yeah. Something you have to get used to, I guess. Well I if I was a little bit password, I'm not remembering my candid uh being delivered for me. So It makes no sense. But from a teamic use it makes sense. Yeah. It may also I thought where you were going with this is that there um rationale would have been that they could be all that more attractive to um other Jews who are not believers. Okay. I see. I did say, well, then you have the dutyizers who know who could be a Jew. But they wouldn't necessarily have that mindset. No, in order to become all things to all men and it would be easier for them to say don't abandon your ethnicity in order to become a Christian. Yeah. Yeah. Um for a bunch of generations because it all falls apart within actually generations Yeah, it it it got resurrected though later. Um And it kind of morphed a little bit, but and and uh the to the point where now people who would choose and uh whether they're um um Oh after conversion, okay yeah. Right. Well anyway, even even the the Seder um among Jews is just something that's done and it's it's connected with the release of of the Israelites from Egypt, but why they do what they do, they're clueless. And it's not until you see its fulfillment that it puts all that in perspective anyway. Um yeah Okay, well, good stuff. Let's close now with uh a word of prayer.