Well, good morning again, everyone. We are on lesson eleven today in our walk through the Gospels and the Life of Christ. It's page seventy four of the notes. Turns out that um As you probably are quite familiar, many times in Christ's public ministry he um was at odds with and even offended uh the religious leaders of his day. Um And the the f the flashpoint often was the Sabbath. keeping the Sabbath or not keeping the Sabbath, right? Um so maybe before we dive into these uh accounts from scripture it would be helpful to uh review um Where the concern of these religious leaders comes from. Why were they so concerned about this? And so what was the w just at a very basic level, what was the Sabbath requirement? Okay, to to rest. The word Sabbath is all about rest and ceasing, ceasing your work and so on. Um and and why was that an issue? Why would they do that? Okay. I mean one. Sure, I mean this is I'm I'm sorry with some very obvious questions here. So it was in the law. Right? In fact, it was in the Ten Commandments You remember which one? Five. No four. Four. Yeah. So the first four, you know the the greatest Commandment was what? Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And the second is what? Your neighbor as yourself. Love your neighbor as yourself. And so Jesus affirmed that those two commands really summarize everything in all of the law, right? The first four of the Ten Commandments are all about that first one. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. You shall have no other gods before you and so on. And the fourth one is to demonstrate that by observing the Sabbath, taking a day off of your normal working activities and devote yourself to the worship of the Lord. Um And by the way, the remaining six of those Ten Commandments are all about loving your neighbor as yourself. Right? So all the thou shalt not are in there. It's all about uh moral relationships with other people. So it's in the law. And when God put it into the fourth commandment, he gave a reason for it. He didn't always do this in the Ten Commandments, but here he gave a reason, which was, as Husan mentioned, uh the pattern was set by God himself in creation. Right? So he his creation took place over the course of six days, and it says specifically in Genesis 2 that he rested on the seventh day. Uh we're not told much about why or what was happening on that seventh day, but when we get to Exodus twenty and the Ten Commandments Um God explains that that was a pattern. So our week has how many days in it? Seven. Seven. Why do you suppose that is? It seems like a weird number. It's because God created this pattern where there would be a cycle of of work and rest over a period of seven days. Um and So he created that pattern, but why make it explicit in the law, in the Ten Commandments? So there would be some accountability. It's making it explicit now, okay? There was worship beforehand, right? Um, but this is now part of the law Any other thoughts, Glenn? Yep. I'll give you a partial hand. Okay. Um Well I mean the law was given primarily to demonstrate how we break it. Okay. Our need for So when you think about the um the the Old Testament law, the law of Moses Um you realize that there were uh some moral requirements and there were some um um ceremonial religious kind of requirements. But all of them Serve to emphasize several key things. One key thing, all of that stuff emphasizes, is that God is holy. And we are not. Right? God is so holy, and we are so not that even approaching him Has to recognize our our some provision for our sinfulness because our sinfulness is incompatible with God. Right? And so only the priests could do certain things in the worship of God. Only the high priest could do even the the most important things. And the preparations, the the the cleansings and and and so on that they had to go through just emphasized that God is holy and we are not In any approach to God has to be by God's standards, not just willy-nilly. Right? And so God emphasized that both by the commands he gave them and by uh events like people who were sloppy and God zapped them. Um And so it should have been driven home to them that God was holy and we can't approach him just casually. And then the fact that we are not holy, i. e. , we are sinful, was driven home how In the law. Sacrifices. There had to be some provision for our sin. And the provision was through the shedding of blood of a substitute, or in the actual practice of it, multiple sub uh substitutes. It had to be repeated. It had to be repeated. But um as Hebrews teaches The very fact that it had to be repeated, even the f the very formal things once a year, but other things repeatedly throughout the year Was to be what? A continual reminder of our sin. Right? And that there had to be a provision for that sin. And it should have been obvious, and it was to some, but probably not most, but it should have been obvious that Those sacrifices as a provision for our sin was not the final uh provision. It was insufficient because it had to be repeated, right? Um and yet God promised a messiah Who would be the the um the ultimate satisfaction of God's wrath against our sin And those who understood that and believed it did the required sacrifices out of faith rather than out of duty. From the heart rather than just superficially. Right? Some got it. Most people didn't. And so it became for them a A works based theology, which all people naturally fall into, apart from God's Intervention and and uh revelation. Uh it's just natural for people to fall into a works based salvation where I earn salvation by what I do. If I keep all the rules, I don't break any of the rules, I'm in. That's the mindset, right, of most people. And the law was very naturally and easily interpreted that way by the Jews But God would repeatedly say, you need to be circumcised of heart. Right? Um and uh I I'm not anywhere near as interested in sacrifices as I am a contrite heart. Right. I was thinking also um the Jews didn't not every one of them had the Holy Spirit in them all the time. Yes. And so God was in his town Holding place. So we it was external too, so that added to the works kind of. Whereas We sort of don't have any excuse and and features that we've had far more revelation and w so there we're therefore we're far more accountable. Yeah. Um but that didn't mean that the law was was uh wrong or um useless, as Paul writes um uh in several places, particularly in Galatians, um The law had a purpose to point us to God's ultimate solution, God's ultimate provision, which is Christ. And um as I said, a l a lot of people got it. Most didn't. And so even when Jesus was uh ministering on earth, most people were in that work mindset, right? And Jesus had to um sometimes gently, oftentimes firmly Tell them that no, that's not what it's all about. You know, um it's all about doing the right thing, yes. But doing the right thing for the right reason. If you do the right thing for the wrong reason, like I'm earning my salvation, that's my hope, then you're not going to be Um you're not gonna be approaching God with a contrite heart. Which is what God's looking for. So was the Sabbath good? Yes. Served a purpose like the rest of the law. as as we said, to kind of get people in the habit that life is not all about me. I need to reserve, carve out time. to um worship, to not pursue um Well what would be some benefits of having a day off from instead of say seven days of work nonstop There's some obvious benefits. Um one would be you can give more full attention to guys Whereas if you're busy with the daily activities of work, yes you th you think of God but you you're not hundred percent devoted. Okay. So um it's it's easy to get distracted by the affairs of life. Sure. And rest. And we get to rest like that. Okay. So it's it's our mindset, it's also physically there are benefits, right? To to rest and not not be uh burned out, if you will. What would be some temptation for working for economic gain seven days a week? Are there some advantages to that Try to get ahead. Try to get ahead. time in our culture, but most people were eking out a living from the land. Um and the temptation would be, you know, if I don't work it, we're not gonna eat Right? I don't suppose any of us have really had that temptation to think that way. But it would be a very natural thing if you're eking out a living from the land. Yeah, you know what's interesting is that God in the law required not only that people rest, but that the land would rest. If someone is tempted to say, well, you know, I I need to do this just to feed my family, right? Being commanded to take one day off a week might be a challenge to that mindset. And so obeying it ought to reflect what? Trust. Trust. Faith in God that because God said it, He knows better, taking a day off and not pursuing financial gain on that day Ought to be a step of faith. Like the manna. You only took enough like the manna that he provided. And what happened on the Sabbath? Or the day before the Sabbath. You got double. Um and if they were to hoard manna overnight, what would happen? Yeah, it it it'd just be worthless. They actually had that experience and so they I guess they stopped doing it. Except on that one day when the Double provision was given for two days. What was that teaching them? God provides. And If you learn a lesson that God provides, then what? Step out in faith, obey. Right? He's faithful. He was driving home these lessons to them in very practical ways, right? Um Turns out that all of the Ten Commandments are repeated in various ways in the New Testament. But the Sabbath one is not. Um it also turns out, as you read through, for example, Sermon on the Mount Which I guess we're getting to pretty soon here, um, that Jesus frequently Would say, you know, you have heard, like in the law, you know, don't kill. But I say to you what? Don't even be angry with somebody. Right? You heard in the law don't commit adultery, but I say to you, even if you look at a woman in lust for her, you've already committed adultery where? In your heart. So he's trying to teach them, yes the law is good, but you've got to think beyond that. What is the principle? What is the application, right? That's what he was trying to do here with the religious leaders particularly, but even his disciples, with regard to the Sabbath. Um so we'll pick up on some of these themes as we go along, but I'm on page seventy-four. I don't think it was just the Pharisees. I think there were a lot of religious um writings and um regulations and traditions that were established primarily uh between the two testaments And so by the time you get to Jesus' time, uh a lot of those traditions which were ways of applying the law, which aren't necessarily bad, to be a little bit more specific about you know how to how to obey them. But if you're already in this works mentality, it just adds to the load of what you need to do, right? Um and so they would have, for example, um some allowance for travel. On the Sabbath, but you could only travel a Sabbath day's journey. Otherwise it's work. And it would violate the Sabbath And a said a Sabbath day's journey distance uh wasn't very far So, you know, Jesus stayed in Bethany with um Lazarus and Mary and Martha. That was just over the other side of the hill from Jerusalem. But it was farther than a Sabbath day's journey. So yeah they kept adding not just about Sabbath but about the all of the law they kept adding um regulations and traditions. It's and it like any tradition, many traditions, most traditions are actually well founded I don't know that all these were. But what happens with a tradition when it becomes repeated and inherited and always followed? It's it takes on the stature of a law Right. And certainly that's how it was when Jesus interacted with the religious leaders of his day. Even even today it it gets reinterpreted into different ways of well what really does not doing work of the Sabbath mean? Yes. And um there's some just unbelievable things that uh what adheres are. And of course tradition and legalism really go hand in hand. Right? It becomes like a law. So on the the idea of the Sabbath. Um there's a cultural, I think aspect of that too. I'm actually old enough to remember when department stores were not open until I third days, along with other retail establishments This thing like today, if we have a retail establishment that is closed on a Sunday, it's kind of unusual. Yeah Like what's the big deal? What'd you call it? I remember going to Chick-fil-A on a Sunday oh I forgot. So it might flip it the other way around now. It's so unusual for things to be closed, you know, especially retail gaps. Right. Yeah, we can make a buck, right? I didn't realize you were that old. Yeah, yeah. No, that's a good point though. Um Well, with that intro, let's go to um page seventy-four. Jesus heals the lame man on the Sabbath, and this is entirely from the Gospel of John, right? John 5. And this should seem somewhat familiar because Pastor Gabe was here not too long ago, right? And preaching through John. One of these days we're going to pass it. Um so John five. After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. And again, up is referring not to north south east west, it's referring elevation. Jerusalem is high relative to everywhere else. Now, there is in Jerusalem by the sheepgate a pool which is called in Hebrew Bethesda. Um probably why we have a Bethesda here, actually. Having five porticos. And in these lay a multitude of those who were sick, blind, and lame and withered. And then you notice here in brackets it's got waiting for the moving of the waters. For an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool and stirred up the water. Whoever then first, after s the stirring up of the water, stepped in, was made well from whatever d disease with which he was afflicted. End bracket. That portion that's in brackets is not in the earliest manuscript. Oh, the Gospel of John. Um it's an accurate reflection of what people thought was happening. But it's not inspired revelation, as I understand it. And well as we see here, the the man who Jesus healed certainly thought that this was what was happening, this was what was true, and that was his dilemma That was the prevailing um tradition, right Um but it's not in the earliest manuscripts. There's probably some copyist who put it in because that to provide context. Right? Otherwise you read it without that And this man says there's no one to take me down into the water. I'm I'm last because I can't move. That's why I'm here. And um If you didn't have the background and the context of what people were thinking, that might not make as much sense. So Somebody probably just added it in later. So it's not in spio. That's my understanding. So it's an early commentary. It was an early commentary. Well a context setting, which was helpful maybe But it's not like this is actually the truth. That an angel would come down stir up the waters and the first f first one in gets it, right? That's that was just somebody's mythology. Okay. Verse five. A man was there who had been ill for thirty-eight years And when Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been a long time in that condition, said to him, Do you wish to get well? How would you have liked to have been asked that question if you're sitting there probably for most of those thirty-eight years? Um The guy would have said, duh. Right? And the sick man answered him, Sir, I have no man to put me into the pool When the water is stirred up, but while I am coming, another steps down before me, which of course I can't do because I'm laying. Right? And Jesus said to him, Get up, pick up your pallet, and walk. And immediately the man became well and picked up his pallet and began to walk. Now it was the Sabbath that day. Uh-oh. Right? So the Jews were saying to the man who was cured, It is the Sabbath. It's not permissible for you to carry your pallet. But he answered them He who made me well was the one who said to me, pick up your pallet and walk. Now, if you heard that, What would you think? Really? Somebody made you well? You've been there all this time? And somebody made you well? That would be a conversation pivot point. Right, exactly. That ought to be. But no. Um and so they asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Pick up Who is the man who healed you? Who is the man who picked up who who uh told you, pick up your pallet and walk? But the man who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had slipped away, hadn't identified himself, slipped away while there was a crowd in that place Afterward, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you have become well. Do not sin anymore, so that nothing worse happens to you. Jesus is talking here about his spiritual condition, not just his physical condition, right? And the man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who made him well. For this reason the Jews were persecuting Jesus because he was doing these things, including the convicting of sin, on the Sabbath. But he answered them, that is, the Jewish leaders. My father is working until now, and I myself am working. Now why would he say that? It's on the Sabbath, and God the Father is working on the Sabbath. Yeah, and he Jesus says, I'm working too on the Sabbath. Um and here he's again. um identifying himself as the Son of God. Right. For this reason, therefore, the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him Because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but we he was calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. You know what's interesting when um the disciples asked Jesus to teach them to pray And he taught them to pray not so much the words of what we call the Lord's Prayer, but he said, Pray in this way, this kind of way. He starts right out by saying, Our Father. That we even can call God our Father. And yet they, the Jews, rightly actually understood that when he said My father is working, he was identifying himself as the Son of God, which according to their presuppositions couldn't be true. Right? This is just a mere man. Therefore, Jesus answered and was saying to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself is doing, and the Father will show him greater works than these. so that you will marvel. For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he chooses. For not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son, so that all will honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Truly, truly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For just as the Father has life in himself, even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself. And he gave him s gave him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs Will hear his voice, and will come forth those who did good deeds to a resurrection of life, and those who committed evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment. Pause there. So um Jesus is explaining that well let me back up a little bit God made us as two part beings. We have a physical being, right, our our flesh and bones And we have an immaterial part, which is the real us on the inside. Scripture refers to that as our soul, our spirit, our heart. um interchangeably. There's just references to the immaterial real less on the inside. So when someone dies, what happens to the material part? Buried, um disintegrates, whatever. What happens to the immaterial part? The real life It goes to one of two places depending on whether they're saved, right? Um what he's talking about here, the resurrection is the resurrection of the body. Okay, so we know that even today as believers, uh When a believer dies, his spirit, soul, goes immediately into the presence of Christ. Right? Um that's clear from multiple passages in the New Testament. Um but his body's still down here. And so what happens uh at the resurrection, uh which comes in stages, as it turns out For believers, if you remember in uh First Thessalonians four Uh Paul explains to people uh that they shouldn't be discouraged That loved ones who are in Christ have died, they're not going to miss out on eternity with Christ. Um but what he says is that they will be when when Christ takes up the church We who are still on earth at that point will not precede those who have already fallen asleep, he says, that uh been dead. If they're in Christ, they will rise first. Their bodies will rise be rejoined with their soul. There'll be they'll those bodies will be um glorified bodies, like Jesus' body. uh after his resurrection, uh we're told we'll be like him. Um but that's only believers. When will the unbelievers bodies be resurrected? No, right white throne judgment. Right before the Great White Throne Judgment. Yeah. Revelation twenty So uh what he's talking about here is the general principle that everybody's body is going to be raised to one place or another. And as it turns out, one time or another. Uh so where was I? Uh verse thirty Let me back up again here. 29. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs, that is their their bodies, will hear his voice, will come forth That is, be resurrected. Those who did good deeds. Now, does that mean salvation is according to works? Yeah. The good deeds he's referring to can't be ours because we can't earn salvation. Whose good deeds are they? Christ. Christ. It's his righteousness that we have. And he enables us to actually do good things once we're saved. None of those things are the cause of our salvation, however, right? to a resurrection of life. And those who committed evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment. And so in Revelation 20, when you look at the Great White Throne Judgment Um everyone there is an unbeliever and are all cast into the lake of fire because of their evil deeds. So by the way, technically you can say that salvation is by works But it's not our works. If it depended on our works, we're with them going to the lake of fire. Our salvation is not just our sins are paid for by Christ, but his righteousness, his good deeds are put on our account. So that it's i man, that's quite a trade. And that's good news, right? That's the gospel. Those are the works that you prepare for us. Both the righteousness of Christ and the opportunity for us to live out a lot of those good works because He's enabling us to do that. We're still um we're still wrestling with sin. Right? Um but by God's design he's making us more and more like Christ as we Follow him and obey him. Okay. Um verse thirty. I can do nothing on my own initiative. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I don't seek my will, but the will of him who sent me. If I alone testify about myself, my testimony is not true. There is another who testifies with me And I know that the testimony which he gives me, he gives about me is true. You have sent to John, and he has testified to the truth. But the testimony which I receive ultimately is not from man. But I say these things so that you, even though he knew they were trying to kill him I say these things so that you may be saved from that judgment. He was the lamp. He's re referring back to John again. He was the lamp that was burning and was shining, and you were willing to rejoice for a a while in his light, but the testimony which I have is greater than the testimony of John For the works which the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I do testify about me that the Father has sent me The the purpose of the miracles of Christ ultimately and the miracles that the apostles were able to do later We're all to authenticate the message. And uh Yes, there was a lot of compassion in Christ's healings and so on, but the miracles primarily were to authenticate that this is now God Um even if they didn't come to the conclusion that this is God Himself, they would come to the conclusion that this is God working through this guy. I need to listen to him. And it was the same with the prophets in the Old Testament. those those uh miracles that they did, like Moses did and so on, were um were there to authenticate uh his leadership, his teaching, and so on. Okay. As coming from God. Yes. I I wonder if it's not written, but if if some did believe if you did believe Well, we have evidence of a few. I we don't know if they were present at this time. Right. Nicodemus, um Joseph of Arimathea. We have references to in Acts to some of the Pharisees being saved. That we don't know names of. So yeah. Just like in the Old Testament where some did understand and believe, uh it's also true here. But unfortunately A minority probably. Yeah. Okay. Um Verse 37. And the Father who sent me, he has testified of me, and you have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his form. You do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe him who he sent. That's me, he says. You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life? It is these that testify about me. And you are unwilling Unwilling to come to me so that you may have life. He wasn't pulling any punches here, right? I do not receive glory from men, but I know you that you do not have the love of God in yourselves It's not just what you do, it's whether it's motivated by the right heart. I have come in my father's name and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. How can you believe when you received glory from one another and you did not seek the glory that is from the one and only God? Do not think I will accuse you before the Father, because the one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have set your hope. For if you had believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. But you do not believe his writings. But if you do not believe his writings How will you believe my words? They weren't banking on that, were they? But um He used as a uh as an opportunity to challenge. As we'll see in in multiple opportunities, he was challenging them whereas others were basically scared of them. Um that there in uh verse thirty six where we where it says, The work which the Father has in me to accomplish, do you think that would could go beyond just uh miracles and the authority could also be perfect sinless life, going in the cross, resurrection. Sure. Yeah, his his whole life. The whole package. Yep. Okay. Um, Any other thoughts or questions here? In general, how did they respond, you think, to this? We're not told in this at the at the uh end here how they responded to that little sermonette directed at them They already wanted to kill him already. They dug the heat of the dug in deeper probably. It's like today. Today people respond by putting it aside, uh disavowing it. Right. Yeah and Pride is a big factor for sure. Um It's it's kinda like belief in evolution, let's say You know, that we evolved out of slime and gotten to the point where we are. Um and people really believe that Because if that weren't true, then what must be true? That there's a creator, I'm created, and therefore I'm accountable to him It's a whole lot more convenient to believe a lie and to convince yourself that it's true than to face the possibility that I'm accountable to a holy God And I think that's partly what they're dealing with here, except that these religious leaders knew their position. They were the authorities on all things God. Right? And um Elsewhere in other passages in interacting with Jesus, it becomes obvious that they're jealous to maintain their position. So that's again pride. Um there's also a practical aspect to it, that position it provides for that. Yeah. They're the authorities. How dare you disagree with us? Like it it seemed like it's not so much they didn't take what he said to be the truth. They didn't want to be override by his authority being more powerful than theirs. So therefore they took it upon themselves. I don't believe they even realized the confidence of what was going to happen. to them. They they were so indulged in their own uh standard um that they wanted to just Make sure the people didn't go this way, didn't go Jesus Christ's way, didn't believe what he did, even though they believed it. But they were so jealous. Yeah. And they didn't want anything in their way. Yeah, and uh that's all true. We see that unfold, right, through the ministry of Christ and it comes to a head um at at the end of the gospels, but um They're actually a the the religious leaders at the time, as they interact with Christ, as a group They're very much an example of Any person who is an unbeliever, hardened heart. They were not capable of believing anything different Because God hadn't opened their eyes. And left to their own devices. I mean that's where we would be, right? Without God intervening to soften our hearts. uh open our eyes to the truth and um bring us to repentance. Jesus I don't think Jesus ever really presented it this way, uh but it one of the things that I would have said is, well how many people have you raised for the dead? How many people do you how many people have you know, how much weather have you you know? It it just seems so obvious. It's like of course they did address it when they were follow calling him. They had to rationalize one way or another. Yeah, I think in several places Jesus said my works speak for themselves. Okay. Um let's go to the next one. Forty-three on page seventy-five. Now this one's back to the synoptic gospels. So I'll work through the blended account here at the bottom Now it happened at that time that he was passing through some grain fields on a Sabbath. And his disciples became hungry and began to make their way along while picking the heads of grain Rubbing them in their hands and eating the grain. But when some of the Pharisees saw this, they said to him, Look, why do you and your disciples do what is not lawful on the Sabbath? lawful according to their traditions, right? And Jesus answered them and said, Have you not even read what David did when he and his companions became hungry, how he entered the house of God in the time of Abbeathar the high priest. And took and ate the consecrated bread, which is not lawful for any to eat, except the priests alone, and he gave it to his companions as well. Or, have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple break the Sabbath and are innocent? Now, how would the priests be breaking the Sabbath? They have duties, they have work in order to accomplish what God had commanded. Right? But I say to you that something greater than the temple is here But if you had known what this means, I desire compassion and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the innocent. And he was saying to them, the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. So he gave some examples um emphasizing the need to get the heart right. It's not just external conformity to rules and regulations that God's looking for, right? What he's looking for is a heart doing the right thing but for the right reasons Doing the right thing for the wrong reasons is a stanching God's nostrils. And so he says, uh, we were not there yet, but in the Sermon on the Mount, um If your righteousness what is righteousness? Good works, doing the right thing. If your righteousness doesn't surpass that of the Pharisees, you'll not see the kingdom of God. And those who listened to him were thinking, I'm in trouble. Who can surpass The righteousness of the Pharisees. I mean they've got this down pat. What was Jesus saying? You gotta do the right thing, but you've got to do it for the right reason. And so the whole Sermon on the Mount was about Doing right for the right reason, doing it from the heart, not just to check off the box. Right? It's not about works, it's about faith and faithfulness. And so he quotes here, I desire compassion and not sacrifice. You see that repeatedly in the Old Testament. Um to obey is better than sacrifice is another way it's put, right? And to obey and and so somebody who has a heart and heart, but to sacrifice is obey. No, what's he saying? To obey completely for the right reason, from the heart. Um God's looking for a contrite and humble heart, not just checking the box. So the Sabbath was made for man, and we've talked a little bit about some of the benefits of of uh the Sabbath being a part of the law, to get people conditioned to uh walking by faith and not not being so focused on financial gain that we lose sight of our dependence on God. So it was made for man to teach those kinds of lessons, right? Uh but man was not created for the Sabbath, like it's a a yoke on his neck. Um And of course the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. Any other thoughts there? Questions? Well we got one more. Section forty four on page seventy six. Again from the Synoptic Synoptic Gospels. I'll read the blended account. Departing from there, on another Sabbath, he entered the synagogue and was teaching, and there was a man there whose right hand was withered. The scribes and the Pharisees were watching him closely to see if he healed on the Sabbath. They want a gotcha moment, right? So that they might find reason to accuse him. And they questioned Jesus, asking, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? Now they wouldn't have asked anybody else that question But it seemed relevant to be asking Jesus. Verse 8. But he knew what they were thinking. Now, personally, I don't think he was drawing he needed to draw on his divine omniscience to know what they were thinking. I think everybody in that synagogue knew exactly what those guys were thinking. Right? And he said to them, What man is there among you who has a sheep? And if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will he not take hold of it and lift it out? How much more valuable then is a man than a sheep? So then, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. And he's probably looking around, looking at their eyes. Or they kind of looking down at the ground. You know? Right? Then he said to the man with a withered hand, Get up and come forward. And he got up and came forward. And Jesus said to them who The scribes and the Pharisees, Jesus said to them, I ask you, is it lawful to do good or do harm on the Sabbath? To save a life or to destroy it? But of course they kept silent. I would have too, I think. After looking around at them all With anger, a righteous anger here, grieved at their hardness of heart He said to the man, stretch out your hand. And he did so. And his hand was restored to normal like the other. But the Pharisees themselves discussed together what they might do to Jesus, to Jesus. And filled with rage, went out and conspired with the Herodians against him as to how they might destroy him. Very good. Yeah. Um I wonder if they went more than a Sabbath day's journey to go find the Herodians. Um so the Herodians, you know Herod. There are multiple Herods mentioned in Scripture. Most of them are descendants from Herod the Great, took that title. The Herodians were, as I understand it, they were Jews who were aligned with that kind of political setup with the Herods and so on. And they really couldn't care about the law. They were all about politics and working within the system to kind of uh gain whatever advantage they think is is possible. Conspired with the Heronians against him as to how they might destroy him I mean that's intense. How they might destroy him, right? There's your answer. Yep. Fascinating. So all three of these, and by the way, um as best I know, these are all Chronological. I mean these ones in the synoptics are uh taken from the chronology that Luke gives us. And he was the one who said he was dedicated to laying it all out chronologically. Um but they they fit into a nice group here today about um the purpose of the Sabbath. So um Just thinking practically, what about today? What about us? As I mentioned earlier, there's no uh counterpart or or at least command in the New Testament to keep the Sabbath as was a very explicit part of the Old Testament law. The principle, however, doesn't change. Right? The need for us to um be diligent to set aside the time necessary to worship God, to serve Him, and not be so uh focused on financial gain that we fool ourselves into thinking we have to do that seven days a week. And so it's an act of faith to set aside all that, at least for one day a week. That's just a good principle. And um early in church history, starting with um uh very early in the the book of Acts, you see this pattern that those who followed Christ set aside the first day of the week to devote that to the Lord rather than the last day of the week. And it's in part connected with the resurrection of Christ on the first day of the week. Um And became a tradition. I mean we're we're following that today, right? Uh became a tradition Uh and can carry the the negative baggage that any tradition can But that's not the point. The point is that our hearts is are right, that we are definitely focusing our attention um And uh stepping out in faith really to um not be so burdened by our our our need to uh eke out a living that we don't set aside time specifically to Worship and serve God. So excellent principle, but Attempts to tack onto that principle, specific do's and don'ts, is legalism You know, you can you can do things on six days of the week, but you better not do them on Sunday. That's legalism. That's not the heart of what God's getting at here But it's just as much legalism to think, well, I've got to go to church Otherwise I'm gonna lose my salvation. Well that's nonsense. Um where is your heart? Right? And maybe this would be a good opportunity to mention that it's very Well, easy, very common for us to evaluate our time of worship and our time together on Sunday morning to evaluate that in terms of what did I get out of it. But that's not the right approach. Our gathering together is all about what God gets out of it. Right? That's the nature of worship. We're worshiping him. Um you know if Moses went up on the mountain And had that one on one interaction with the Lord. And on the way down he's thinking, Now what did I get out of that? He probably didn't get the right thing out of it, that's for sure. Um it's very easy to To evaluate, you know, I didn't get anything out of that sermon. Well, where was your heart? Why you were supposedly listening to it. Uh what's God teaching you? Um But our singing. It's not about what songs do I enjoy, it's about Giving worship to a holy God. Right? He's the one who deserves it. And we should be far more interested in what he gets out of it. That is, is it coming from our heart Or are we just checking a box? So it's easy to point our fingers at the Pharisees and and religious leaders, but um we have those same tendencies if we're not careful We need to do the right thing for the right reason from the heart. Make sense? Well, let's go ahead and close in prayer.