Uh we are on lesson twenty-four, page one hundred forty-eight. I the this first section is from Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And he came home. Now where's home? Oh Capernaum. Capernaum, at this point, you have relocated to Capernaum, right? And he came home and the crowds gathered again to such an extent that they could not even eat a meal The day here is probably especially Jesus and his disciples, but probably everybody around them as well. Could not even need a meal. And when his own people heard of this And who are his own people which do it? The Jews too. Disciple. Disciple Oh it's money. His family. His family. Yeah, it could very well be his family. Um his mom, brothers, sisters Anyway, when his own people heard of this, heard of what? Things were so crowded that they couldn't even eat. Yeah, they're taking care of not taking up his welfare. Uh they went out to take custody of him. That is uh for those benefits to kind of uh bring some order out of this. They were saying he has lost his senses I I meant to mention here, you know, the topic of this lesson generally is division. And we've seen a lot of of division already, right, with uh the Pharisees and the other religious leaders Challenging him and questioning his his uh authority and this kind of thing. kind of thing. And yet many in the crowd is following him for probably a variety of reasons. But This division is getting sharper and sharper at the point. And so even his own family apparently is uh Bewildered, thinking he's lost his senses. Verse 22, then a demon-possessed man who was blind and mute was brought to Jesus. And he healed it. So that when the demon had gone out, the mute man began. He spoke and he saw. And all the crowds were amazed and were saying, This man cannot be the son of David, can he? But when the Pharisees and scribes who came down from Jerusalem heard this, some of them said, This man is possessed by and cast out demons only by Beelzebel, the ruler of the demons. Others, to test him, were demanding of him a sign from heaven. And knowing their thoughts, Jesus began speaking to them in parables. Any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and any city or house divided against itself falls and will not stand How can Satan cast out Satan? If Satan casts out Satan, he also is divided against himself. He's finished. How then will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by the ultimate. If I by the ulcible cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? For this reason, they will be your judges But if I cast out demons by the finger of the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Or how can anyone enter a strong man's house and carry off his property unless he first finds the strongman? When a strong man fully armed guards his own house, his possessions are undisturbed. But when someone stronger than he attacks him and overpowers him, he takes away from him his all his armor on which he had relied and distributes his plunder. He who is not with me is against me. And he who does not gather with me scatters. Therefore, truly I say to you, any sin and blasphemy They utter her, shall be forgiven people, but blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven. Whoever speaks a word against uh the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it shall never be forgiven him either in this age or in the age to come. He is guilty of an eternal sin. Because they were saying he has an unclean spirit Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit You brood of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak what is good? For the mouth speaks out of that which fills the heart The good man brings out of his good treasure what is good, and the evil man brings out of his evil treasure what is evil But I tell you that every careless word that people speak, they shall give an accounting for in the day of judgment. For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Now When the unclean spirit goes out of a man, it passes through waterless places seeking rest and does not find it. Thus it says, I will return to my house from which I came And when it comes, it finds an unoccupied, swept, and put in order. Then it goes and takes along with it seven other spirits, more wicked than itself. And they all go in and live there. And the last state of that man becomes worse than the first. That is the way it will be with this evil generation While Jesus was saying these things, one of the women in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you. And the breasts at which you've nursed. But he said, on the contrary, blessed are those who hear the word of God and observe it. So quite a lot of um topics here that he covers And um it's a very similar reaction that he got when he um passed out the the or it was healed the uh the man with uh who was mute and blind it kind of divided some people said this is And others are saying, you know, he he casts out demons by the ruler of the demons. Jesus just challenges the logic of that, right? So uh he he in a rather extensive response here he explains that The illogical nature of that argument and speaks of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. Which is essentially what they were doing. Jesus was doing this by the Holy Spirit, and they were attributing the whole thing to Satan, essentially. Jesus says that can't be free of him. That's that's an eternal Um the impact of that is just enormous. Any thoughts at this point? Questions? Esther Plumley, could you could you talk a little bit about the kingdom of God? You know, Jesus s says, um if I've cast out the demon with God's power, then the kingdom of God is upon you. Yes. Well uh Often he would say something like that, that the kingdom of God has come among you for in this case coming. And I think mostly what he's referring to here is he himself being the king If they would recognize him as the king, they would see that God is building his kingdom before their very eyes. Uh we will see in the next section, actually where um people are unbelievable that he compares himself to people like uh Jonah, Solomon, uh whom people were uh responding correctly to like repenting Because he's greater even than Jonah, people should repent all the more because of him. That's the kingdom of God sort of taking shape right in the very king. Um that's what they're the kingdom of God with Now, the Kingdom of God certainly has um what a a time dimension here that it's it's he's even now today continuing to build his kingdom and there's an ultimate fulfillment of all that when you at the at the end of um the age He's going to return and he's going to take up his throne in Jerusalem. He's going to judge the nations. He's going to reign on the earth for a thousand years. before if you have an your um so the kingdom is is there's much about the kingdom that's yet to happen But even now he's building it and then during that time when he was there, he being the king, um was uh beginning that process of building a screen. So there's a future element and there's a um Yeah, thank you. Pastor Blumworth. Oh sorry. I got a question. Um In when they refer to Beelzebub, I had noticed in the in the reading through the Bible thing that um in in Kings they talk about Baalzebub. Like Is are those the same word or is is that the same thing or um um Different different um words. Uh Baal was a specific um false god that was um uh worships by many in in in Canaan. But um The distinction isn't all that necessary because it's just a Satan works through false gods and and so on. Um but no the the words are different and the uh the meaning is different. Now the people in that age and particularly the uh Uh built genes um um use that that term field I kind of thought they changed a letter or something in it to kind of derive Bell and that Bell's above is like Lord of the Flies or something. I don't know. Um but the the the the main thing here is that Satan was behind all of that, right? Satan's behind all these false gods. Um And the Elze Bowl was uh believed to be the um uh Well he's even referred to here as an he has the uh the ruler ruler of the demons. Yeah, well who who rules the demons? Satan Satan, right So we just understand that whether the people using the term knew it or not, it's all satanic. It's all ultimately uh these false guards and so on uh just uh point back to save them so Somebody here. Yeah, I was I was going to say this um concerning the the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit I may be presumptuous, but it seems to me that it would have been a little easier at that time to determine to see that what Christ was doing was not by this by uh the devil was by God. But today it's a bit more challenging to figure out exactly okay this is something that is well I guess there are some things but there are other things where it's not very obvious sometimes when it's the Holy Spirit at work and somebody then knowingly attributes that work to Satan. Um do you do you can you think of examples of how that might play out today where somebody knowingly attributes to Satan what is actually the work of the Holy Spirit or vice versa. I'm not thinking of any uh scenarios right now, but um We have the advantage they have the advantage then of having Jesus Himself present. We have the advantage now of having scriptures And it ought to be somewhat straightforward for us to say, well, is what's happening here consistent with the scriptures And if it is, and we attribute it to Satan, then um when I say it's consistent with scripture, I mean it's consistent with what God would be doing in the Holy Spirit Spirit would be doing. And if it is and we attribute it to Satan, then that would be an example of blaspheming the Holy Spirit. Now you say knowingly. I I'm not sure it's necessary here to So I thought perhaps that would was uh a key part of what was yeah. It seems like it would be. I mean think of when you're before you're a Christian, some of the things you've said are right Yeah. It's easier for us to see people that are false coming from Christianity than for them to attribute to us that we belong to the devil. You know what I'm saying? I've never ever heard anybody say that to me. But I have noticed false religions. Sure. Okay. So I I'd like to uh bring up something here that uh I I I don't live in w because of my background I pretty much cut my teeth in in you know in the charismatic movement so to speak And at one point there was a point, I think, in the 90s or maybe 80s where there was this this manifestation where people would break into human you know, hysterical laughter and things of the kind in the charismatic movement. I mean that was obviously a demonstration that was supposed to be either inspired by the Holy Spirit or by something else So if somebody were to look at what was going on there and say, well, this doesn't line up with scripture and say this is obviously not a work of the Holy Spirit, but a work of God the devil. Okay? Now you flip that. Now I I don't think it was the work of God for people to act disorderly. I think so Scripture is quite clear about that. But that's a scenario where I think somebody can look at something and say, you know, this doesn't this doesn't look like the Holy Spirit at work So I guess what I'm getting at is if I was mistaken in my assessment of that situation, would I be committing the sin of blasphemia I see. Yeah. Well, um, again, I I I have trouble turning up scenarios and examples here theoretically, but Um I think it's quite safe to say that Christians cannot blaspheme the Holy Spirit. Why is that? Well, they're indwelt by the Holy Spirit And um what does John say? No one can say that that Jesus is um Well several things. He came in the flesh, uh he's the son of God. Uh no one can say these things unless uh Unless you don't want to so um That doesn't mean that we're omniscient. It doesn't mean that we don't make mistakes, but um Likewise, genuine believers can't be possessed by a demon, because they're protected by the Holy Spirit. So what what I what I hear you saying, and let me try to interpret it so that I get it straight. What you're saying then is a true believer will not malign the Holy Spirit. More more specifically, you won't attribute to the Holy Spirit something Um well he won't attribute to the Holy Spirit something that he thinks is from Satan Which would be the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. Pastor Fleming, it is interesting that after they make this statement about him using the power, being filled with the power of demons, he speaks to them in parables. But then later on he says that whoever attributes the work of the Holy Spirit to the devil, it would never be forgiven. So in one sense it seems like he's hiding he's speaking in parapetables to hide the truth from them, but then he just comes out and speaks directly to their conditions Is there do you see a reason why he goes through the parable and then he just makes it plain? Well, um, you know, usually when we've been looking at the parables that Jesus Uh told um usually it was with a double purpose to inform those who had eyes to see and ears to hear, and to basically make it go over the head uh under not understandable of those who didn't have ears to hear and eyes. When it says here that he himself characterized it as parable, I think, didn't he? But the parable, what is the parable? It's a very simple analogy that anybody can understand Right, so um uh any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, any city or house divided against itself all How can Satan cast out Satan? He's being very direct, very um explicit And so it's an analogy, but in this case I think the analogy is intended for everyone to understand. Whether they choose to understand it or to apply it, it's a different thing. But um uh it seems to me that the the the parable if you want to call it that is just an analogy that uh Um is intended to be clear in this case. It's Mark who calls it a parable. Yeah. It's it's amazing that they it's undeniable that he's done a miracle. You know, so but But instead of accepting it for the sign that it points to of who he is, you know, they reject it, you know, in stubborn un unbelief They they just will not accept uh even though the evidence is right there. They see it, they know it, they know the miracle was done. Yeah, it's just amazing the hardness of heart. But hardness of heart, yes. But also they had an agenda. Yeah. What was their agenda To prove he's wrong so that we're right. Yeah. Right? And if if he's right, then we've got it wrong. We're not comfortable with that, so we're gonna find any way we can to make sure that he's understood by everybody to be in error And that was just wishful thinking on their part, kind of blind wishful thinking. Well and the the way he points out the illogic of it, you know, it just it doesn't even stand. It's just unreasonable. you know, the way they're putting. But also I wanted to comment on the last verses. I I think it's interesting and um just kind of goes against Catholicism Catholicism and the veneration of Mary you know, blessed is the womb who bore you, you know, and and he's like, no, that's that's not it. You know, it's it's blessed are those who hear the word of God, you know, it's It's being f faith that's you know, it's nothing to do with Mary. It's an interesting bookend here because these verses begin talking about uh his people, which we don't know for sure, but could very well have been uh his family and probably not Mary as a ringleader, but maybe his brothers, his unbelieving brothers. And of course that that's another thing that the Catholic Church uh gets wrong in terms of having brothers, uh brothers. Pastor I mean, I think it's in Matthew 6, the same incident. This Mark 6, no uh that is his brothers and his sisters. And that they seem in is definitely his family going to rescue him. Yeah I think that may have been Uh it's a different example. One is one is chapter three and one is chapter six. So then it says Mark III, the other one's Matthew six. I don't know which This might be Mark III. This is Mark III. Yeah. And there's an incident in Matthew on this Yeah, I think that was a different occasion, but a similar a similar uh effect. Well there there's an interesting contrast there because when the angel announces um to Mary that she's going to be the mother of Jesus, he does say, Blessed are you among all women. And blessed is the fruit of your womb. So it's interesting how you know it's kind of similar to what we read today, but the angel, you know, says, uh, Blessed are you among all women. Yes. Um, but the fruit of her womb could have been interpreted as just Jesus I think that's probably how the Catholics interpreted it. But it's it's you know we don't have access to to God through Mary. It's it says it's true through the Word of God. I mean I think you know when we say blessed is Mary, you know, I mean for any faithful believer we speak of them, you know, on And examples to follow, you know, or to emulate, you know, of of Old Testament Saints or whoever, you know, the f Abraham or whoever, you know, we we speak with um or Daniel, you know, we we speak of them and say, you know, they're blessed. Yeah, yeah, and like Jonathan's saying, I mean even the angels forget the earth being blessed. Um and indeed she was. She was just chosen, singled out by God. But Jesus is saying, well, the main point though, is that all of us, all of you uh can be blessed if you hear and obey yeah God's word. Yeah. And Mary also she responds with tremendous humility, you know, she says Um, who am I? And she says, behold the servant of the Lord. So she doesn't pat herself on the back and say, That's right, I'm blessed. I'm really great. You know, she turns and does glorify God. And uh yeah, she's a great example. Okay, well let's go to the next section, one fifteen. And I'll pick up the uh blended account. Now this is only massive and blue. Then, as the crowds were increasing, some of the scribes and Pharisees said to him, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you. Isn't that interesting? They just said that they were he was doing these things from from Satan. But he answered and began to say to them, this generation Is an evil and adulterous generation. It craves for a sign, and yet no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster and became assigned to Ninevites The Ninevites, so will be so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. The men of Nineveh will stand up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn it that is this generation. generation, because they, the Ninevites, repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, something greater than Jonah is here. That is someone greater, right? Jesus 42. The Queen of the South will rise up with the men of this generation at the judgment and will condemn them because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, Something greater than Solomon is here. So in short order here, Jesus is emphasizing the the uh what the supremacy, the the importance of the word of God and obeying it and um uh the need for repentance. Right. And so the the people would have Nineveh will uh Because they repented. Now we don't know for sure how longstanding their repentance was, but um At the time they genuinely repented and God relented from the destruction they would have otherwise received. And so on a number of occasions, Jesus refers to people from people who were were judged but repented in the Old Testament. as standing as a judgment against these people here who had an even greater testimony for the very son of God, and yet they're not repenting I have to ask this question. Yeah, that was Did they know or understand they needed to repent So much dialogue with Jesus over the miracles, over what he's preaching, but that they actually understand that what he was doing and saying was to lead them to repentance. Well, you know, it is interesting that the primary message of John the Baptist to prepare for Jesus was all about repenting. The primary message that Jesus was preaching, we read, was the need to repent. And yet many people didn't. Only those whom God has prepared. would prevent. So it's hard to know exactly what they understood, but it seems to me That those who were entrenched, and here it's referring to scribes and Pharisees, those who were entrenched in their system and their position in that system were extremely motivated, committed to undermining Jesus' challenge to their position and authority. But isn't that the whole thing in a nutshell here? That's exactly what he's saying. You've seen all of these things and you don't believe them. You're not going to believe another science He said, Nine of us saw Jonah preach for a few days, they repented. You're not smart enough to repent of my preaching. The Queen of the South came up to see Solomon's wisdom and was pressed by it and learned by it, but you're not smart enough to to learn from my wisdom. You're stupid people, you don't see what's right in front of you. Yeah. I I'm not so sure it has to do with how smart they are No, you're right, but they're they're they're blind. Yeah, they're you're that's the whole thing in a nutshell, aren't you? They're just so blind that they can't see I think they they believe that since they are the children of Abraham, descendants of Abraham, their salvation, their relationship with God was secure. You know, there was no need for repentance. We're the chosen people. And if he and they've observed the Sabbath and he's breaking the Sabbath You know, I I think of myself, if I had been in that situation, one doesn't match the other. I expect certain things and this doesn't match. And so for hundreds of years, you've got this tradition, this this this mindset. And you're kind of blind, in fact, often very blind to the fact that a lot of the structure you built has been man-built, not what God was originally intended And Jesus comes along and said, You have heard it said what I say to you. That's challenging to say as quo, for sure. And people don't take that too kindly. Particularly when they have a vested interest. Yes, percent with the sinners. Yeah. So you understand that. So I'm wondering, I think it's evident that some of these Pharisees scribes teachers had seen some of the miracles that Christ had done. So when they're saying to him, Show us the sign, what else were they wanting to see? I mean obviously what you said makes sense Their real intent was to demonstrate that they were right and that Christ was wrong. So when they say she was a sign, you have to wonder, what else do you want to see I I get the impression, I'm just reading between the lines here, but I get the impression that they're thinking if we see another sign, we'll be able to say, aha, and find some fault in it. I don't know that meant that's a pretty naive thing to be thinking about some guy, right? But um they're they're apparently quite convinced that he's an imposter and They'll he'll he'll um dig his own grave essentially. If you know and they they and we'll see even more so if they try to catch him in what he says, right Um good luck with that. And same thing here. And he just he just refuses to give in to their blindness. I think sometimes we we're not under the exact same system, but I mean it is kind of comparable. I mean their system Really they were looking for was basically materialistic. They wanted that. And the prophecies even said they were gonna have this kingdom And they were looking for that king. Early on, they wanted to make you king. Uh that was the part of the prophecy they understood, the material side, especially these people that all We're not so different. We just don't have we have a different materialistic view. And really it's it really seems to me coming close to our society. We are so rich and so materialistic and so bless how much do we depend on that? It's funny. Yeah, you can really get away from you know your your spiritual side and and and trusting in God we have a lot of things to trust in here. Yeah. Yeah and so a a key to mention that the isn't really the focus here, but it it becomes the focus elsewhere is um well it it's touched on here because of his emphasis on repellent sentence. But the presumption in this materialistic structure and very much so in in in Israel at that point, Judaism, but even just generally around the world, the key presumption is that we're saved by works. And it takes different manifestations, different you know, different works, different extents and whatever, but people generally out of pride and ignorance think that they have to do something to show themselves to be acceptable for God, which of course is pointless if you understand the true nature And so there is this need for repentance and faith as a basis for relationship with God. God, not our works. And if you're entrenched in a work-based works-based system, that doesn't compute to you. Particularly if you're blinded and God doesn't open your eyes. And that's true today. Just as it was then. We can see it to be in a worldly sense. The politics in our country are stupid beyond words. One cannot see what the other party is doing. One cannot admit wrong And w can never see anything right in the opposite party. I don't care which one you vote for. They're a bunch of not smart people. Well. Well, that's But they choose it. They choose blindness. And they did too. Um Pastor Alan, the Nineveh had close to a million people. So if they all repented, it was like over a very short period of time there was a there was there were a million people Yeah. Trusted the Lord. And of course that was lost maybe a couple of generations or a few generations later in the book of Nathum in which um there was the the the successive generations of the Ninevehites they turned back to It's a false belief. And then in Acts there's the description of three thousand people repenting and being saved. Saved in a very short period of time. And then in Revelation, all of Israel is saved So there's this very large, there's 144,000 Jewish evangelists who go out. And so there must be millions of people in the in the nation of Israel. Israel and maybe other Jews around the world who repent and a very and turn to Christ and recognize the Messiah in a very short period of time. But I I was just thinking of these just counting numbers of people, these events that have taken place in the past. We haven't seen, we haven't been in a church in which 3,000 people are changed and saved during that worship service. And and then we're told that there will be a future event in which all Israel is is safe, or essentially all. So are we just looking at this in terms of numbers of people who move Yeah, well um I don't want to be too dogmatic about this, but um The repentance of the Nineveh back in Jonah's time wasn't necessarily the kind of repentance that leads to salvation as we understand it. Repentance today and repentance of the early church for 3000 and so on. It definitely was listening to the message of the Word of God and turning away from their false idols and practical practices and so on. But whether it was a repentance unto eternal salvation, I'm not so sure Um maybe it was, at least for some, but it was clearly a turning away from their old practices. It was genuine, I'm sure. God relented. But if we were to see in their case the fruit of genuine repentance And so the salvation, we just don't have enough data, I don't think, in their case. Although we do know that subsequent generations didn't exactly So it was about a hundred and ten years later that Nathan um wrote about those same people Yeah, but behind the scenes they were the ones that were going to carry away Israel. And they were a very cruel people. The repentance got that they could take the Israelis God was preparing them to let them not be killed. Behind the scenes. Yeah. Genuine repentance today. I mean, John the Baptist was calling people to repentance, and that was he's the last really of the Old Testament prophets. Uh but you have to look at each context, I think, to kind of understand the nature of the repentance. What's going on But those words of Jesus must have been so revolting to them that the Gentiles would rise up in judgment against them. Yes. You know, that would just be unbelievable. Right. Well and earlier he had said to um the people of Corazine and Besteta and Capernaum that uh the people of Uh Sodom and Gomorrah are going to rise up and and judge you all because they repented. Or uh Um which raises other interesting questions. Okay. You notice the the thing about the three days and three nights, the the Hebrew idiom there their way of keeping track of days and hours. And you see references to that elsewhere in scripture. Okay. Well let's go to oh before we go to section one hundred sixteen I want to give you an example of the fact that my notebook is not inspired, except to the extent that it's using scripture, which is inspired. Section one fifteen incorporates Luke eleven, twenty-nine through thirty-two And section 116 picks up at verse 37. You might be asking, as I did last night, what happened to verses 33 to 36? And the answer is they mysteriously escaped my notes. Can you put him back in and overwrite this file? I will for a subsequent version if you want to take the next class. But only if he remembers. Well I've made the note, it's right here. Okay, good. But given that We don't want to slight Luke here. Let's read Luke 11, 33 through 36. It's the mysterious missing version And I believe even though our table of contents includes them in section one hundred sixteen I believe they were along more uh appropriately here in 115. Could someone read Luke 11, 33, 36? No one, after lighting a light, a lamp, puts it away in a cellar, not under a basket, but on the lampstand, so that those who enter may see the lamp light. The eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is clear, your whole body is full of light. But when it is bad, your body also is full of dark Then watch out that the light in you is not darkness. If therefore your whole body is full of light, with no dark part in it, it will be wholly illumined as when the lamp illumines you with its rays. Yeah, now you hear that, what does that remind you of? Although that's the same thing as several amount. Right? Matthew six. And I'm guessing When I was piecing this together, I was thinking, ah, well I'm gonna place that back with uh certain amount. But I didn't, and I don't think I should have, because I think this is a separate occasion. It was not unlike Jesus to have similar messages in different contexts And uh the fact that it's very similar words and and and message ought not to necessarily mean that it was at the same time. Why would I not think it's the same time? Because Luke is so chronological chronological. And um In fact, we're we're ordering all these notes based on his chronology, which he said he took great pains to get right. So I think it belongs here in section 115 because the next verse, section 116, now when he had spoken, the Pharisee came, and so It seems like that definitely follows in a sort of a different it's a turn in the context So if you'd like, I will probably be able to update this and send out an updated version to everybody if you don't want to take the next time call I think I think that's pretty straightforward though. Um that teaching of his that uh Um it it's it's what's inside that counts, not the outside. And he's gonna be dwelling on that that uh keys figure. Okay. So with that little confession, uh let's go to 116 on page 151. Now when he had spoken, a Pharisee asked him to have lunch with him. And he went in and reclined at the table. When the Pharisees saw it, he was surprised that he had not first eaten, Jesus had not first ceremonially washed before the meal Now, what is that ceremonial watching? Is it required by the law? The traditions. It's the tradition that they've added to the law. Their sort of interpretation and then uh expanded application of uh in the showy display. Yeah. Well they did have uh in in the Bible, in the Old Testament, it says to wash their hands a certain way. Yeah Yeah. That was certainly recommended by God. Yeah. Um I'm not sure. Why do we raise their hands up to the sun To dry. Yes, I think that was more as as part of worship though than eating a meal. I'm not sure. But what Jesus is saying here is even if that's true The Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees, clean the outside of the cup and of the flatter, but inside you're full of robbery and wickedness. You foolish ones, you did not uh did not he who made the outside make the inside also But give that which is within as charity, then all things are clean for you But woe to you, Pharisees, for you pay tithe of mint and roux and every kind of garden or herb, and yet disregard justice and the love of God But these are the things you should have done without neglecting the others. So he wasn't saying inherently that it was wrong to be tithing these things. They were doing it from the wrong heart and not doing the more important thing from the heart. Woe to you, Pharisees, for you love the chief seats in the synagogues and respectful greetings in the marketplaces Woe to you, you are like concealed tombs, and people who walk over them are unaware of it. I love that as one of the lawyers that is an expert in the law, said to him in reply, Teacher, when you say this you insult us too. But he said, Woe to you lawyers as well For you weigh men down with burdens hard to bear, while you yourselves will not even touch the burdens with one of your fingers. Woe to you For you built the tombs of the prophets, and it was your fathers who killed them. So you are witnesses and approve the deeds of your fathers, because it was they who killed them, and you built their tombs. For this reason, also the wisdom of God said, I will send to them prophets and apostles, and some of them they will kill, and some they will persecute. So that the blood of all the prophets shed since the foundation of the world may be charged against this generation. From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, I love that, A to Z. um who was killed between the altar and the house of God. Uh you, I tell you It shall not be charged against this generation. Woe to you, lawyers, for you have taken away the key knowledge you yourselves did not enter, and you hindered those who were entered. Entering. When he left there, the scribes and Pharisees began to be very hostile and to question him closely on many subjects, plotting against him to catch him in something he might say. So the main point here is he's he's saying uh and demonstrating to them kind of provoking the the point that they focus so much on the external and not the internal. And he's challenging them to be thinking about what's going on in the heart of everywhere. Pastor Plumley. This is Ann. I have I have just a basic question. as to um if this seemed to follow hard on section 115 why did you think to change the place I know you have a question marked by Galilee, but the rest happens up in Capernaum. Well Capernaum's in Galilee. It's just that in section 116 we're not told exactly where it's at So I assume it's somewhere in Galilee because most recently he was in Capernaum. But you're saying he was in Capernaum. We don't know. Yeah, okay, that was my question. Why why don't we think it's still in Capernaum? It could be. Um it says now when he has spoken now it could be that the the Pharisee heard him in in in Capernaum. But the Pharisee was from a town not too far away. Um Okay. I just thought it was more or less in the same place when Jesus finished speaking, then this other guy asked him. No. Okay, thank you. I have uh Bill. Tithing is discussed in the old test. Different kinds of tithes and so forth I've always heard that tithing isn't mentioned or or maybe it's not required in the New Testament. However, in verse 42, where he says that we know warning Pharisees You tithe mint and roux and every herb. And then but you but in saying that He says he goes ahead and says the verse Jesus says, these you ought to have done. Now, that's not a command bethe, but it is mentioned here. I I say it. I think there's a little bit of Yeah, well the issue isn't so much New Testament versus Old Testament. It's These people were under the law. And he's saying, under the law, you're under the law, you should have been doing that. Right? We're not under the law anymore But it's yeah, oh yeah. Right. It's definitely a good practice. giving back to God from the first fruits of our our income and and so on is just consistent throughout scripture, but it doesn't become a matter of the the the the ten percent, which is what tithe means, isn't the uh um a requirement it's meant to be coming from the heart. Right. Anyway. So um Yeah, but the key thing here is that they were under the law and he was trying to say that they they should be keeping the law, but from the heart. But th this is a case where Jesus is telling them that they're swallowing the gnat. I mean they're spitting out the gnat and swallowing the camel. He's he's telling them, hey, you're so meticulous in your obedience to to what you conceive to be the law that you even tie the herbs you grow in your garden. But he says you re reflect the weightier things. You're missing the main point. Right. You ain't making the main thing the main thing. The plain thing, the main thing. Okay, I like it even better. Yep. That is the point. Okay, we're gonna have to uh close at this point. Uh Well we're gonna we're gonna be seeing a lot more of this this budding of heads, obviously, uh as we get