So we are on lesson fifty-two. This would normally be our last lesson. It is the last lesson in our notebook But this year we have fifty three Sundays. So we have another Sunday next week. And um I guess that's a bonus. And uh I'll hope to use that as kind of uh review and and uh application kind of time as we uh wrap things up. Anyway, so we're on page three oh four, lesson fifty-two. You remember last week we looked at um A lot of the initial appearances that Jesus made to uh his disciples, some of them individually, and uh certainly at least once as a whole group. Those were all on Resurrection Day, the very same day, and toward the evening. Today uh we're gonna be about a week later and there will be both then and throughout several other weeks, multiple other appearances, I think all of them that are recorded are appearances to groups of disciples. So progressively it's becoming clearer and clearer to people that this is real. Can you imagine what your questions would be once you realize this really is the resurrected Lord? I think my question would be, I don't understand how this all fits together, and what now? Kind of a thing Um and so let's see what happens. So you remember when even early in the morning um on Resurrection Day, he um um reminded those who he met individually, like Mary, uh, to tell the disciples to go to Galilee where they will meet. Um well That hasn't happened yet. We're still a week later, right? So we're still in Jerusalem. Um but soon after this, we'll see in the next section that they go to Galilee Uh so section two sixteen, this is a um what do you call it? Sequel, that's the word, a sequel to their meeting A week earlier when Thomas was not there, you remember? And so a uh I'm reading well it's only from John. After eight days So this is now eight days after the resurrection. His disciples were again inside, so presumably the same place as an upper room, probably the same upper room they had last supper, again inside, and Thomas was with them this time. Um can you imagine the conversations Thomas must have been having with those guys over this whole week? Uh we saw some of it earlier. Unless I see him I won't believe, but they're probably nudging him. And they're excited and he's probably I just don't get it. Anyway, Thomas was with them and Jesus came, the doors having been shut I think that means locked, um, and stood in their midst and said, Peace be with you. Then he turns to Thomas, right? He said to Thomas, reach here with your finger and see my hands, and reach here your hand, and put it into my side. things that Thomas had said a week earlier that he needed to do in order to believe, right? And Jesus continued, and do not be unbelieving, but believing And it doesn't record here whether he actually did that, whether he actually touched him and whatever. He could probably see the scars certainly on his on his uh But Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. So in one sense, he was the most reluctant, but in another sense his reaction was exactly spot on Right? Just acknowledging Christ as Lord and God. Because there's no other explanation. Jesus said to him, Because you have seen me, have you believed? Blessed are those who did not see and yet believed. Now he puts that in the past tense. There have been some already who have seen and believed, or not seen and believed, but the only one that's recorded, I think, is John When he got to the tomb, he and Peter ran to the tomb. Uh John admits of himself that um he saw em he saw the empty tomb not Christ and believed. Um pretty much everybody else who's recorded in scripture is recorded as being skeptical. And um anyway, Jesus is speaking here in the past tense, those who um did not see and yet believed But that's going to be the case going forward big time. People not having seen him, yet having to believe, and we're among those Right? So we have the uh testimony of eyewitnesses, um but those early disciples had the testimony of eyewitnesses and yet were reluctant to believe Uh fairness to them, um they were going through an emotional ringer, I'm sure, um completely confused and and so on. But um Um would you all like a copy of the notes we're we're going through? Yeah. Would that help? We're on page three oh four. We're right at the end of Christ's ministry and his um appearances to the disciples. So blessed are they who d did not see yet believed and I think in in his um mind he's thinking, blessed are those in the future who will believe and without seeing. So it's it's a faith that you know, a f a faith that's based on sight isn't really as strong a faith, right, as a faith that's based on Things unseen. And that's sort of the nature of faith. You don't see the solution, you don't see the answer, you don't see uh what God is doing, and yet You still take him at his word. Faith is basically taking God as his word. Yeah. Well that's an interesting parallel, uh, but I think it is different. Um When Lazarus was raised, um, he was raised to a normal human body. I mean his body was no longer decaying, it was restored. It was just a normal human body. Everybody recognized him and it was now functional. Whatever caused him to die was healed, as you say. Um in Jesus' case he was raised imperishable, whereas Lazarus died again. perishable. And so the imperishable nature of Christ's resurrected body, um, you know, we refer to that as uh glorified body. So what we do know about we we know we know very little about the nature of that glorified body. Exactly. So it had capabilities that are normal human bodies are not able to do. Um and yet he was recognizable, though often not immediately. So there was some similarity but didn't quite it wasn't like he was glowing, I don't think. I mean that would have been so different. He was recognized as a real person, but there was enough different about him apparently that people didn't immediately look at him and say, Oh, that's Jesus. Yeah, but they were not incarnate. They didn't have physical bodies. They were just made to have an appearance of they were really angels. They were called men because it kind of looked like men at the time, but um in Jesus' case it was a real physical body and yet glorified. And what that yet glorified really means in totality, we're not sure. Except that it had capabilities that we don't have. It He he could be recognized. In fact, even the scars from his wounds were still recognizable and that's what he invited people to look at. Um so It's hard to imagine something that we've never experienced. And all we have is what is in scripture. Um so we know it's Different. And the main thing about his difference though is that it he was he was raised imperishable, a new body And as we read in First Corinthians fifteen, that's our future as well. We'll be raised imperishable. We'll be having similar bodies like Christ. He's the first fruit of the resurrection. And bodies that are going to be suited for eternity in in our case have it. You know, you when you think about um uh when people will be raised from the dead, uh believers will be raised at the at the time of the uh the rapture. Uh First Thessalonians four says that the dead in Christ will rise first, they'll meet Christ in the air. Um that just doesn't happen. with physical bodies, um, particularly bodies that have been decaying for maybe a thou a couple of thousand years. But God give them glorified bodies and they raise, rise to uh meet him in the air. And then those who are alive in physical bodies will be somehow transformed into those glorified bodies and taken up to be within it. Heaven in the blink of an eye. Yeah. So God in his sovereignty, in his wisdom, gave us some data, some information about all this, but our inquiry minds want more. Right? Uh and it's natural. It's natural. Um but he's I'm sure given us all all that we need. And fortunately in this case, whatever it is It's really good. Yeah, and the older I get, the gooder it looks. Yeah. But um it seemed to be a somewhat common thing that they didn't immediately recognize him. Um in this passage that didn't seem to be the problem Because it was really for most of them a repeat from what happened a week earlier. And um for Thomas, it doesn't say he actually did reach in and touch him, but he could have. Um you know, if if you want to wonder things, why did Christ take a week to do that, right? Um Probably wanted Thomas to squirm a little bit. I don't know. But who knows. But they were all together. And um however much Thomas maybe was prepared for this and more open to it now, we don't know, but his response seems to have been immediate. And he didn't necessarily have to touch him to uh believe. But uh I think the again, the the thing that stands out there is his response, My Lord and my God. I mean he obviously got it. He obviously got it Okay. Section two seventeen now is in Galilee. That was Jesus' plan to meet with them in Galilee. He didn't say specifically why, but um I'm guessing that the main reason for them to meet with him in Galilee for further appearances and teaching and instruction, they probably would be less um bothered by the religious leaders and so on. They could have more time alone together. Anyway So continuing actually in John, John is the only one who records this first event. Um I'll go ahead and read it After these things, Jesus manifested himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberius. What's the Sea of Tiberius? Sea of Galilee. Well Tiberius, what's the n what's the connection with Tiberius? Summer home. His summer home, maybe, yeah. Tiberius was the um the Caesar. It was named after him. There's a town that's even there today, um called Tiberius, still there. Anyway. Uh and he manifested himself in this way. Simon Peter and interestingly, Thomas, he was with them now. called Didymus, which means the twin, and Nathanael of Cana of in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, who are who James and John, and two others who will remain nameless. But there's a total now of seven of the disciples who were together. I'm guessing one of them was Andrew. Simon Peter said to them, I'm going fishing. You know, enough of this waiting around, right? I'm going fishing. That's what I do. And they said to him, We'll come along with you. Some of them were already fishermen, like the sons of Zebedee, others maybe not fishermen, but hey, it gives them something to do. Right? They're waiting for Jesus. And they went out got into the boat and that night they caught nothing. Now I don't know for sure but it seems like a lot of the examples in the Gospels of them going fishing it was at night. And I think the fish sort of maybe were known to be biting more at night. Maybe there was less activity on the on the on the water. I don't know But they were um they went out at night and they caught nothing. But when the day was now breaking, Jesus stood on the beach. Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. It was a bit of a distance away. So Jesus said to them, Children. Now that's got to be encouraging, right? Children. You do not have any fish, do you? And they said, No. And he said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat and you will find a catch. So they cast and then they were not able to haul it in because of the great number of fish. What's that remind you of What do you think it reminded them of? They had a boatload of fish earlier. The same kind of thing when they were at the very beginning when Christ called them. This is deja vu all over again. Therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loved John said to Peter, it is the Lord. John connected the dots. He remembered the whole thing. And Starting with the calling them children, um and uh the abundance of fish. Um so when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord. It probably connected then in his mind too. Of course, why didn't I think of that? He put his outer garment on, for he was stripped for work. Now this I I'm not entirely sure of, why he would put on extra garments to go into the water. But I don't think it was over his head because it says it's only f uh a hundred yards away. Anyway, he threw himself into the sea But the other disciples uh came in the little boat, for they were not far from land, but about a hundred yards away, dragging the net full of fish. So they didn't even get it into the boat, they just dragged it along with the boat. Um So when they got out on the land, they saw a charcoal fire already laid and fish placed on it. Christ was able to find some fish. And bread. And bread. And Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish which you have now caught. Simon Peter went up and drew the net to the land full of large fish God is just gracious and abundant, right? A hundred and fifty-three. So I don't know who it was who was counting them, but a hundred and fifty-three, and although there were so many, the net was not torn. Now to them that was significant A large catch like that probably would have normally stressed the net and would have to repair the nets and so on. But the net itself wasn't even torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. None of the disciples ventured to question him, Who are you, knowing that it was the Lord. Now why would it say that? Because there was still this question of identity and and Um being able to identify who he was just by looking at him. Yeah, looks like the Lord. We saw him before, but he's different from what we're used to. I think that's what's going on. And Jesus came and said to them, No um choo chesus came and took the bread and gave it to them and the fish likewise. This is now the third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. And I put the little note in there. What were the first two times? Well, the first time without Thomas and the second time with Thomas, right? So when they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon, Peter, Simon Son of John, do you love me more than these? Now, who are the these? He may have had a fish in his hand, I don't know Um for a long time I thought he was referring to Do you love me more than these other guys? But I'm not sure that's really what he meant Um, it was Peter's idea to go fishing, and I think Jesus is kind of transitioning him into thinking what his future really is. It's not fishing Right. He said, Call follow me and I will do what? Make you official men. And I think he's finishing up on that transition here. Um okay, so it's People have long pointed out that there's some interesting things going on here with the verb. When Jesus said, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? The word for love he used there is God's unconditional love, agape. Uh it's love in spite of, not love because of. Uh and it's also um well And Peter said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. But what's interesting there is the word he used for love was not God's unconditional love, agape, but Phileo the brotherly love that people normally experience, like in a family or close friends and that kind of thing. Yes, Lord, you know that I love you And so people have been very creative in thinking through why he would have responded in a way that doesn't exactly correspond to the way Jesus asked the question. Um and Jesus said to him, Tend my lambs, meaning what? Shepherd the flock He wants Peter to be active in shepherding the flock, not in fishing for fish. Jesus said, That's easy. Look, you get a whole net full, that's nothing. But shepherding my lands And um he said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? And again he used that word agape, God's unconditional sacrificial love. And Peter said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. And what version of love was he responding with the exact same the way he responded earlier with Phileto Um and Jesus said, uh hang on, I lost my place here. Um and he said, Yes Lord, you know that I love you. And Jesus said to him, Shepherd my sheep. It's really the same thing as tend my lambs, right? Shepherd the flock of believers. And then he said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me And here, now, Jesus is using the phileo term. He kind of lowers the bar as to the kind of love he's asking about. Because that's how Peter has always responded. And Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? Why do you think he was grieved? Jesus wasn't getting it, right? And um Peter said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Again he's using the Phileo love there. He's always using that word Um and Jesus said to him, Tend my sheep. Same thing. Truly, truly I say to you, when you were younger, you used to gird yourself and walk wherever you wished. But when you grow old You will stretch out your hands and someone else will gird you and bring you where you do not wish to go. And then John's commentary here is, Now this he said, signifying by what kind of death he would he, Peter, would glorify God. And um That I think had already happened by the time John wrote this, but not by the time clearly Jesus said it. Um and when he had spoken this He said to him, Follow me. So two commands. One is Shepherd the flock, and the other is follow me. And Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved, following them. That's John. who was writing this. The one who also ha also had leaned back on his bosom at the supper and said, Lord, who is the one who betrays you? He's just describing who John was. So Peter seeing him said to Jesus, Lord, what about this guy? And Jesus said to him, If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me Therefore, this saying went out among the brethren that this disciple would not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but only if I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? Now again, John is probably writing this after pretty much all of the other apostles had died. And people were putting a lot of um credence in that rumor that he would not die until the Lord come came. Um but John didn't take it that way. And then he identifies himself in verse twenty four. This is the disciple who is testifying to these things and wrote these things to you right now. And we know that his testimony is true. He's an eyewitness. And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which, if they were written in detail, I suppose, that even the world itself would not contain the books that would be written So there's a lot in here, but um what was Jesus trying to do here in one of these last appearances and times with his disciples? If you were to summarize it, what do you think he's trying to do Yeah. So certainly preparing Peter, um, but by extension probably I mean everybody else is hearing this, uh preparing everybody for a new normal that is still not very crystal clear, but um he's reinforcing the commission that he gave them earlier uh when he said, Come and follow me and I'll make you fishers with men. Any other thoughts here or questions? A whole lot of commentators have suggested that Peter's frame of mind um We're told that Jesus appeared to Peter on Resurrection Day, but we don't have a record of how that went. So this wasn't the first time he saw Jesus after the resurrection. Um and you gotta think that that very first time Peter was repentant about having denied him, and that that was sort of the focus of in Peter's mind anyway, uh of that early encounter. And yet he probably still had some misgivings or doubts or whatever about his worthiness to minister on behalf of Christ, being the one who denied him. And I think Jesus here is reassuring him that, yeah, he's got a job to do, to represent him, to shepherd the the flock. And Peter's sort of being not like Peter so much by being humble. You know, I I can't say that I can love you with complete unconditional love like I was bragging before You died. Um but and he also confessed, Lord, y you know everything. You know my heart. Why ask me these questions? They're kind of embarrassing. Um and yet Jesus I think was gently um reassuring him that he's completely forgiven, but also uh he has a job to do And uh Christ is depending on him to be faithful in that. Yeah. And eventually here, we'll get there in a few minutes He's going to make it clear that the Holy Spirit's coming as well to empower them to carry out this mission. And one of the things Jesus did is he and we're going to get there again in a few minutes, is he opened up the scriptures to them and reminded them of how all these things had to be, just like he sort of did with the two men on the Emmaus Road And um uh so following him was also following his word, the uh the scriptures and his instructions. and so on. Um and then empowered of course by the Holy Spirit to actually do it. Okay. Uh is there anything else here that was a question? Yes, for sure. And um As we've mentioned quite a lot throughout the the life of Christ here, um everyone's mindset uh who was following Christ, their mindset was he's going to um uh overthrow the Romans and and uh uh take the the throne of David in fulfillment of prophecy and he's gonna establish his kingdom on earth in our lifetime and we're going to be a part of all that. And uh I think they were beginning to realize, oh, that's longer term. It's not an immediate thing. Um he's now telling Peter, feed my sheep. And uh and yet it's still following Christ, following his his actual marching orders rather than their presumptions about what was going to happen. Okay, uh two eighteen on page three oh five. This is both Matthew and Mark. However, uh you see the Mark passages and brackets, um much of the last chapter of Mark is not actually in the most of the earliest manuscripts And so you might take it with a grain of salt. Um but anyway, the blended one does blend the two. But the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had designated. And when they saw him, they worshipped him. But some were doubtful. Still more doubt. Probably I mean this was not just the eleven, but I think it's pretty clear here that there was a much larger number um here, not just the eleven. And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation. All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations. It's baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you And lo I am with you always, even to the end of the age. He who has believed and has been baptized shall be saved, and he who has disbelieved shall be condemned. These signs will accompany those who have believed. In my name they will cast out demons, they will speak with new tongues, they will pick up serpents. And if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them. They will lay hands on the sick and they will recover. So that lasts bit is from that portion of Mark. Uh pretty much most of those things actually happened in the book of Acts. Um and so this This sort of final wasn't his final appearance to them, but this is a major commissioning of them to the work ahead, right? We call it the Great Commission And um that Great Commission has one command. Uh the version in Matthew says um The command is not go, the command is make disciples. Uh the that that command has three supporting participles. The first of those is go. Actually in the Greek it should be as you go or while you're going. It's a participle. While you're going, he's presuming they're going to be going. While you're going, make disciples. That's the command. And doing two other things. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you So going, baptizing, teaching are all a part of that commission to make disciples. What's a disciple? Yeah. Um the literal meaning of the term is a learner, someone who learns but It's more than pupil, depending on who the pupil is, I guess. But it's a learner who's learning with the intent of becoming like his teacher. So it's follow uh a follower who walks in the steps of and lives according to the principles of the one he's being taught by. Make disciples So a disciple, as it's used in the Gospels, it's used of not just the twelve, right? It's just many disciples. In fact, some of them actually left him in John 6. But in the book of Acts the word disciples is used a lot and it's not referring just to the original apostles. It's referred to pretty much everybody that's a believer. Everyone's a follower of Christ. In fact the name that was given to this group was in Acts is the way. You remember reading that in Acts? The Way of Following Christ. Anyway So that commission is to evangelize, make disciples, build them up. How do we build them up? First by baptizing and then by teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And of course one of the things I've commanded you is this very thing. So every generation should be a part of fulfilling that great commission. For what it's worth while we're here, you notice he says, you see the whole Trinity involved there, right? In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Notice he doesn't say in the names plural, in the names of the Father, but he says in the name singular of the Father, of the Son, and the Holy Spirit, which means what? One. Yeah, there's unity in the Godhead, even though there's a plurality of persons, which because of our finite experience and understanding we don't understand. Completely. But God has revealed Himself as triune, but He also has said, um, I am one. There's only one God. Right? So there's complete unity within the Godhead, but there's a plurality of roles, plurality of persons. And when we say persons, we're not talking about human beings. Human beings have personhood because they're created in God's image. God has existed eternally in the form of three persons. Um a person has intellect, emotion, will, and spiritual capacity, capacity to have fellowship with God. Uh that's not true of animals or rocks or anything. Um okay. Um any other thoughts or questions on this passage? Okay? Yeah. Yeah, and we s we see clearly throughout scripture, um, and you see it come into play particularly in the book of Acts, that um belief always comes first. So in fact what he's saying here is who who is he who are we supposed to be baptizing? Baptizing them. Who? Disciples who are believers, right? Um so that you you baptize the believers not so that they will be saved, but as a testimony that they are saved, right? Those are the ones we baptize. Good. Alright. Um I think we're on page three oh seven, number two nineteen. This is in Luke. And this is what I was referring to before. Now he said to them, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was with you, that all the things which are written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Uh let's pause there a minute. In that first note, um I mentioned that what Jesus is referring to there is the entirety of the Old Testament. In their organization of the Old Testament, and it's still true today, you d divide it between the Torah, the law, which is what? First five books. of the Old Testament, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Number of Deuteronomy. And then you have in the way we structure the Old Testament, you've got what's called the writings. There's history, there's poetry. all the way through uh Psalms and and so on. And then you've got the prophets, three major sections. The Torah, the writings, which are um Ketubim And the prophets, which are the Navim, the I am ending is plural. So prophets, plural, writings plural, sometimes referred to just as the Psalms, as a uh hashtag or whatever for all of the writings that are not prophet or the law. And so what Jesus is saying here is the whole Tanakh that T N K Torah, Navim, Ketuvim, Tanakh, and that's how Jews referred to the scriptures today, uh and as they did then. Um the whole Tanakh, the whole of the Old Testament was talking about me And these events, wouldn't you have loved to be there at this point? To him to open up chapter and verse, right? All the way through. And he opened their minds And he said to them, Thus it was written that the Christ would suffer and would rise again on the third day, and that repentance for forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all the nations. Beginning from Jerusalem. Now that all the nations was something that they still couldn't quite grasp. They thought it was just for Israel. Even through the early part of Acts, right? Uh but he was clear. Beginning from Jerusalem, you are witnesses of these things. And behold, I am sending forth the promise of my Father upon you, which is what? The Holy Spirit, who who he promised uh in the um particularly in the upper room, right before his death. Uh but you are to stay in the city, that is Jerusalem where they are now. Um until you are clothed with power from on high. So they have a responsibility to be his witnesses, to give testimony to all this, to preach the the gospel of you know why he came, what he accomplished, and how we should respond. And he promised the Holy Spirit, who would empower them to do it. Um that must have been quite a time. Now we've got this here in just a few verses, but um they may have spent a f They must have spent a significant amount of time to go through that much scripture and to have their eyes opened and they're beginning to see, oh, this isn't what I was um anticipating. Um any thoughts there? Any other questions? Yeah, no, I um I think what he's referring to there is what we actually see recorded in the book of Acts, that these various things happened. And again, that part of Mark wasn't in the earliest manuscripts that we have available to us, so it's not clear whether they were original to Mark or whether somebody was adding this in because of what they were seeing. But Um it doesn't take away from what happened in the book of Acts, which is these various kinds of things happened. Why? So that people would connect the dots. If somebody's doing that, which I can't explain any way other than God is doing it through them, I better listen to what they're saying. Much like Nicodemus responded to Christ when he said, Master, um we know you're from God because no one can do the things that you do except God be with him. And so he's picking his brain, what is it you want me to know? And repeatedly we see in in the book of Acts, and it's the same thing in the Old Testament, that the purpose of these miracles was to convince people to listen to the message. And so that's that's what was going to happen. That's our understanding. You don't see it in the later part of Acts even. But establishing the the uh the the New Testament uh recording the the teachings of Christ and therefore the teachings of the apostles, getting that recorded, so that becomes the authority Uh so sort of like Thomas, uh we don't have to believe because we see miracles, we believe because we see God's Word. I'm not saying that those things wouldn't necessarily happen or in the months and years ahead. The the general principle that that that may happen, yeah. The the general principle is um Where there is no other testimony, God often uses miracles to get people's attention to listen to what he is saying. Fortunately now we do have the testimony, it's written for us in Scripture. Uh okay, so let me see if I can wrap up here. On uh page we're still on page three oh seven, section two hundred twenty. And the blended account. And again, this portion of Mark is not in the original manuscripts, or the earliest that we have. So then when the Lord Jesus had spoken to them, he led them out as far as Bethany. Where's Bethany? It's just over the Mount of Olives on the opposite side of the Mount of Olives from Jerusalem. So it's just a short walk to Bethany from Jerusalem. As far as Bethany, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. And while he was blessing them, he parted from them and was carried, received up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God. So they were in Jerusalem, they they walk down the Cat Cadrone Valley up the the um um man, I just said it. Mount of Olives. Mount of Olives, just over the Mount of Olives and into Bethany, which is where Lazarus and Mary and Martha lived. It's very close to Jerusalem. And he rises into heaven there. And with that in mind, I threw in this early portion of the book of Acts on page 308. Um the first account I composed Theopolis about all that Jesus began to do and teach until the day he was taken up to heaven after he had By the Holy Spirit given orders to the apostles whom he had chosen, to these he also presented himself alive after his suffering by many convincing proofs, appearing to them over a period of forty days and speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God. Gathering them together, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem but to wait for what the Father had promised, which, he says, you have heard from me, for John baptized with water But you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit, not many days from now. Um it was just ten days. And uh so when they had come together, they were asking him, saying, Lord, is it at this time you're going to restore the kingdom to Israel? Again there's still well in that mindset. Right. Um can you imagine his patience at this point? And he said to them, It is not for you to know the times or the epochs which the Father has fixed by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and And which is where they were. And in all Judea, what's Judea? The province that Jerusalem was in. So spreading out from Jerusalem. And Samaria was Samaria province to the north of Judea and even to the remotest part of the earth, Maryland. And after he has said these things He was lifted up while they were looking on, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And as they were gazing intently into the sky while he was going, behold, two men in white clothing Stood beside them. See, they couldn't recognize them as angels because they were their glory was concealed and it it looked like men Um and they also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into the sky? This Jesus who has been taken up from you and into heaven will come in just the same way as you have watched him go into heaven. Um so his second coming will be very similar to the way he went up. Physical, um visible And presumably to the same place. Verse 12. And they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day journey away. Well you can read the other the other passages there. We might r pick up on some of those next week as well. Um but one of the things that that really stands out here to me is you know he's giving this great commission, setting them all up for the ministry that they're going to have, and it says some of them doubt it. And they get to this place and they're still thinking, the old paradigm You know, we're gonna set up your kingdom and um even when he ascended into heaven, there was just so much uncertainty, confusion in their minds, uh a lot of baggage. And so were it not for the Holy Spirit coming in ten days, um, they would have been a pretty motley crew. They were already gonna be a pretty motley crew, but Jesus understood, he knew that The coming of the Holy Spirit would give them the power to do all this.