Well, uh we're on uh page one hundred forty eight. Uh we're starting a whole new section here in the Ministry of Price as we've kind of outlined it. He's got the combination here of both public and private ministry proclamation. And it turns out that today is somewhat unique in that it's all that we have in this section is from the Gospel of John. And it turns out it's the better part of four chapters, seven, eight, nine, and ten. So and there's a lot here. So I will go ahead and read It doesn't have to be a blended account because it's all reading the Gospel of John. But as I go through, I'm going to comment and ask questions and have discussion. Uh first of all, before I start reading, you'll remember maybe last week at the beginning of John 7, we're told that He was going to the feast and a particular feast was actually named the Feast of Boots, which is sort of the uh harvest celebration of God's provision takes place typically in October, maybe late September, early October. And uh So where we begin here in verse eleven of John seven, it just says the feast, and it's because he referred to it earlier as the feast of books. Can that come from Numbers? Uh from the law. It was one of the three main feasts. The other two being what? Passover and Pentecost. Yeah. Um Pentecost and Feast of Booze uh have gone by various names, both in scripture and tradition. But um Pentecost was sort of the celebration of the first fruits in the harvest and Feast of Booths was commemorating God's provision during the wilderness wandering, but also kind of a harvest, final harvest uh celebration Okay, so the Jews were seeking him in at the feast, uh, which he knew would happen, saying, Where is he? So they are on the lookout. And there was much grumbling among the crowds concerning him. Some were saying he is a good man, others were saying no, on the contrary He leads people astray. Yet no one was speaking openly of him for fear of the Jews. When it says Jews here, almost always it's referring not to every single Jew, but to the Jewish leaders Right. But when it was now i uh in the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began to teach. So it wasn't it wasn't um a private visit and he was proclaiming the truth as he always did. The Jews were then astonished saying, How has this man become learned having never been educated? You ever think about that? How can you be learned if you've not been educated? What they're saying is, how can he have such knowledge if no one has taught him? None of us have taught him. He's not one of us. Kind of thing, right? Discounting the possibility, even if he weren't God, he could be learning from Scripture Right? Verse sixteen. So Jesus answered them and said, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. If anyone is willing to do his will He will know of the teaching whether it is of God or whether I speak from myself. He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory, but he who is seeking the glory of the one who sent him He is true, and there is no unrighteousness in him. Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you carries out the law? Why do you seek to kill me? So he's He's speaking strongly to them, right? Um, bringing uh if not conviction, at least um sharp rebuke The crowd answered, so it's not just the Jewish leaders now. The crowd answered, You have a demon who seeks to kill you And Jesus answered them, I did one deed, and I think this is referring back a few chapters to the healing of the paralytic man on the Sabbath And that created quite a stir. Uh I did one deed and you all marvel. For this reason Moses has given you circumcision. Not because it is from Moses, but from the fathers. How did circumcision start? Abraham Yeah, God's command to Abraham, not Moses. So it long preceded the law. Um for this reason Moses has given you circumcision, not because it's from Moses, but from the fathers, and on the Sabbath you circumcise a man If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath, so that the law of Moses will not be broken, are you angry with me because I made an entire man well on the Sabbath? Do not judge according to appearance But judge with righteous judgment. So some of the people of Jerusalem were saying, Is this not the man whom they are seeking to kill? Look. He is speaking publicly and they are saying nothing to him. The rulers do not really know that this is the Christ, do they? And so you can just hear this this mumbling and and uh head scratching going on. Verse 27. However, we know where this man is from, but wherever whenever the Christ may come, no one knows where he is from. Then Jesus cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, You both know me and know where I am from, and I have not come of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom you do not know I know him because I am from him and he sent me. So they were seeking to seize him, and no man laid his hand on him because his hour had not yet come. So what does that mean? They were seeking to seize him. But no man laid a hand on him because his hour had not yet come. Were they thinking, Oh, his hour hasn't come so I better not seize him? No, what does it mean? God was preventing it. It wasn't gonna happen because God is sovereign. Um Jesus, as I think we mentioned earlier, Jesus um wanted to be careful that he didn't um give opportunity to his opponents to uh ultimately kill him before the right time Um but overshadowing all of that, God the Father is sovereign, and um people were prevented for presumably many different reasons including um the officials, it says multiple places were afraid of the people because a lot of the people held him to be at least a prophet Uh his hour had not yet come. Even Jesus had said on multiplications, I think multiple, that his hour had not yet come. Do you remember when at at the at Cana the the um turning the water into wine. Uh it wasn't even his hour to be sort of publicly revealing his ministry and himself and so on. So he was conscious of the right timing. Um but verse thirty one many of the crowd believed in him and they were saying When the Christ comes he will not perform more signs than those which this man has with he. The Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to seize him And so just a little while earlier people were wondering, this guy's o speaking openly, we hear that the leaders are not happy with him, but they're not doing anything about it. Well now they're starting to do something about it. Right. They're sending some officers. Therefore Jesus said, For a little while longer I am with you, then I go to him who sent me. You will seek me and will not find me, and where I am you cannot come. The Jews therefore said to one another, Where does this man intend to go, that we will not find him. He's not intending to go to the dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks, is he? What is the statement that he said, You will seek me and not find me, where I am you cannot come. Now They're clearly clueless, but Jesus apparently spoke in that way to cause them to think, but also realizing that they weren't ready to receive the truth anyway, right? So um they're scratching their heads. And uh verse thirty-seven. Now, on the last day, the great day of the feast, and important context here I've inserted here. Uh so on that last day of the Feast of Booths, the priests carry a golden vessel filled with water from the pool of Suom And they have make this great procession with it to the temple, symbolizing the provision of salvation in God which if that was the meaning on their heart each time, it's probably a good commemoration, a good reminder, right? Well in the midst of that, Jesus stood and cried out, saying If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the scripture said, from his innermost being will flow rivers of living water. Does that sound familiar? What's it remind you of? The what? The woman at the well, yeah, he said very similar thing to her, right? But this he spoke of the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for the Spirit had not was not yet given Because Jesus was not yet glorified. Some of the people, therefore, when they heard these words, were saying, This certainly is the prophet. That is the prophet Moses spoke of in the very end of Deuteronomy, who would be like Moses, who would come. Um so that's not saying we think he's the Messiah, but he's at least that prophet Verse 41. Others were saying, this is the Christ. Still others were saying, surely Christ is not going to come from Galilee, is he? You could hear the tone in their voice. Galilee of all places. Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the descendants of David and from Bethlehem, the village where David was? Now isn't it interesting that people can be so confident and yet be so wrong They could be true but uh misunderstand the fact. Um and so they're they're making decisions based on their understanding of the facts um and be completely wrong. Right So it is true that um the Messiah would be a descendant of David, come from Bethlehem, but they had no clue that was true of Jesus. And Jesus wasn't concerned about explaining it to them. Either. That's interesting, isn't it? So a division occurred in the crowd because of him. Some of them wanted to seize him, but no one laid hands on him. Um the officers who were sent by the officials, the officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees And they said to them, and they, the f the chief priests and so on, said to the uh asked the officers, this is like the security detail, right, why did you not bring him? Right? They they had the mission to seize him and Bring him in. Why did you not bring him? The officers answered, Never has a man spoken the way this man speaks. They were actually listening. The Pharisees then answered them, You have not also begun been led astray, have you? No one of the rulers or Pharisees has believed in him, has he? Now that's interesting because again They're speaking very confidently without all the facts. The Pharisees then answered them, um, no, I'm sorry, verse 49. But this crowd which does not know the law is accursed Now, Nicodemus, who was one of them, uh who had came to him before being one of them, you remember in John 3 And Nicodemus said to these his fellow rulers, our law does not judge a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing, does it? So he's being logical, sort of convicting But not very revealing of what's on his heart. They answered him, You are not also from Galilee, are you? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee. completely missing the point. So Jesus as he expected, I'm sure, was creating a stir. In the midst but not he didn't come to create that stir But he knew it would happen. He came to be faithful to the the observance of the those three main festivals were were a requirement uh under the law. Um but while he was there he was teaching and um rebuking the unbelief, right Okay. Now, uh well before I go on, any other thoughts there? Questions? Yeah, I I think that's that's mostly right. Um What it reminds me of is his explanation in Matthew thirteen, um where he gave the parable of the four soils And his disciples said, Explain to us what this means and why do you speak in parables? And he said, well, basically, and he was quoting from Isaiah, um, he's saying that um There are four kinds of people out there. And and um it's not just theoretical, but the very people who he was speaking to were in those four categories. And um His explanation was, some of them are just hardened, they're not going to see it. Others sort of are um Uh caught up in the moment and it's it's it's but it's just a temporary thing. It's it's not it's not really coming from the heart and it's not They're not good soil, in other words. But he says others are good soil. And so he's basically using the parables as a vehicle to accomplish two things. One is to teach those who are the good soil But also to kind of veil the message for those who are hardened anyway. And that's actually not just judgment, it's also a measure of grace because the more explicitly they're convicted, um the more accountable they'll be. Yeah. Yeah. So I think this is similar. Yeah. Okay. So the next passage here, which begins at the end of John seven and goes through eight eleven, we're on page one hundred-nine. That passage you see here is in the numerical standard, it's got a a bracket around the whole thing. That's because it doesn't appear in the oldest manuscripts. And yet it does it did creep in and I'm told um sometimes it pops up here between John seven and John eight. Sometimes it pops up in another one of the gospels, uh in s some of the later manuscripts. And so it's pretty certain that all the the um conservative scholars that it wasn't in the original text of John's Gospel. However, they also seem to be unanimous in saying this probably actually did happen, but it's probably not a part of the inspired um text. As you know at the end of John, uh he says, if everything Jesus did were put in the books, you know, it would be a huge thing. Well this is probably one of them. And so It i uh everybody does agree that even if it's not part of the original inspired text, it's very characteristic of Jesus and his ministry. And so there's probably something to be learned from it. Okay. I'll go ahead and read it. So at the end of that, as is often the case when he's interacting with people and they either scratch their heads or realize that they can't outwit him or out argue him. It says here, everyone went to his home. That's probably the wisest thing they did all day. But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Now the Mount of Olives is um right across from the core of Jerusalem, across the Cadrone Valley. It's a it's a mountain ridge there. It's actually higher than Temple Mount. Um but there were some caves in there and later we see that Jesus uh frequently spent the night there. It's not like there was a motel, but he probably stayed with his disciples in the cave or whatever. Uh unless he unless it specifically mentions that he went to the Mount of Olives or to a nearby town. Um It's like sometimes he he stayed at Bethany with some friends. But if he stayed on the Mouth of Olives, he probably was just in temporary. Uh accommodations there. Anyway, he went to the Mount of Olives overnight. Early in the morning he came again into the temple and all the people were coming to him And he sat down and began to teach them. The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery, and having set her in the centre of the court, they said to him Teacher, this woman has been caught in adultery in the very act. Now first of all, what's your first question here? Where's the guy? Right? Aren't they both? Um at fault here. And so this is immediately seen as what? A setup. Right? Now it could well be that it's true that she was and I think Jesus believed it was true what they accused her of, but they were obviously just using this as a setup, as a trap, because they weren't bringing the man, they weren't um And they were asking his opinion rather than actually fulfilling the law themselves. Right? Anyway, this teacher, this woman has been caught in adultery in the very act. Now, in the law Moses commanded us to stone such a woman. What then do you say? And they're thinking, aha, we've got him now, right? And they were saying this, testing him, so that they might have grounds for accusing him, and you know Jesus understood that Right? But Jesus stooped down and with his finger wrote on the ground. I'd love to know what he was writing on the ground with his finger. I'm guessing he's writing out some relevant scripture. I'm not sure about that, that's just speculation. But um wouldn't it be neat if they're accusing her of adultery and uh And he's probably writing on the ground something about um God's mercy, uh the character of God, the need for forgiveness, something like that. But when they persisted in asking him He straightened up and said to them, He who is without sin among you, let him be the first to throw a stone at her. Checkmate. Right Um and again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. So this time I'm wondering if he's ducking, in case somebody did throw a stone. But no, he's writing on the ground again. And when they heard it, they began to go out one by one Beginning with the older ones. That's interesting. And he was left alone with the woman. Where she was, in the centre of the court, straightening up, Jesus said to her, Woman, where are they? Did no one condemn you And she said, No one, Lord, but he hasn't left yet. And Jesus said, I do not condemn you either. Go. From now on, sin no more. Which is very characteristic of Jesus, right? Forgiving sin but seeking repentance, the forsaking of sin. Right. Any thoughts here, questions You know, uh one of the questions that comes to my mind here is if they were still um practicing stoning according to the law, which they were actually, remember Stephen in Acts? Um, and they picked up stones, and I think we'll see here even later t today. Uh they picked up stones to th to stone Jesus, although he slipped away. Um why weren't they content to execute him for, say, blasphemy, but instead they turned him over to the Romans to kill him? Ever think about that? They killed Stephen? Pretty for a pretty slight reason actually from our perspective. Yeah, yeah. So see multiple places here. In fact, um I think we've already seen But we see multiple places that even the leaders feared the crowd because many of them held him to be a prophet at the very least, right? Um And here we are in a festival where it's crowded, there are lots of people, things can get out of hand very quickly. Um And even later, at the time of the Passover, uh, they were trying to figure out how to finally seize him in be gone with them be done with them. They said, but not during the feast because there's such a crowd, right? Um so number one I think there they're afraid of the crowd, why? Because the crowd if they expect if they uh consider him to be any kind of prophet, let alone the Messiah and the things he's saying are undermining their position, their authority, their teaching, um, then killing him, getting him out of the way is at the very least going to bring division in the among the crowds, but perhaps more importantly it'll undermine the fairly um fragile relationships they have with Rome. So Rome's allowing them to kind of conduct themselves according to the law and and they've got this sort of fragile peace or or arrangement. Um they're still subject to Rome, but Rome is allowing them to to do their thing. But if it's no longer peaceful, if they're If their thing is being divisive, you can imagine Rome coming in very quickly to shut them all down. And they're going to lose their their position. Um was fragile enough between the Pharisees and the Sadducees Uh the Sadducees were the ones who basically ruled the the temple and all the the procedures around the the temple. Um and they were very liberal when it came to biblical things. And they were more likely to be in league with Rome in order to save their position. The Pharisees were the very conservative letter of the law plus um uh Jews who were not so much uh uh part of the temple worship but were out in all the communities in the synagogues and and teaching the people and and so on. And there's a fragile relationship between those two groups in the Sanhedrin, the ruling council in Jerusalem So there's a lot of fragile status quo attributes here that even Pilot was caught up in. He he saw the fragility of it. and so on. Um and so they needed to be uh what cautious, shrewd um about how to go about doing this in a way that doesn't undermine their own Position basically. Yeah. Yeah. Um there's there's a bit of a transition going on. here where under the law God was very specific, uh lots of lots of uh procedures, do's and don'ts, and uh justice and and so on. Um The purpose of that law was to show them that nobody could live up to it. God is holy, we are not. Uh there needs to be a intermediary, uh a substitute provision for sin. That substitute was symbolized by uh the sacrifice of animals and so on, but of course that wasn't sufficient in and of itself. It was merely pointing to the Messiah who would come. Um and so the purpose of the law was to sensitize people to their sin, basically. and the need for salvation which they can't um accomplish on their own. And it should have been obvious to them, according to Hebrews. that um the sacrifice of animals year in year out wasn't accomplishing the ultimate solution. Jesus being the ultimate solution, not having yet fully accomplished it, but knowing that he would, uh, was ushering in um as part of that solution the the balance between God's wrath against sin and his grace towards sinner. And um So Jesus tells her, yes, you have sinned, but go and sin no more. He's he's looking for repentance, which is not new. I mean John was preaching that. It was it was there under the the law as well, but repentance um was very much downplayed. It was more worked that people latched onto under the law And Jesus was saying that salvation is by grace through faith and repentance. Um and so he was uh apparently here, I think he was just illustrating. Much like um when the um adulteress came to the dinner he was at and was wiping uh his feet with her tears and hair and so on. And the Pharisee host was aghast that he was not offended by such it was obvious what kind of woman she was, and Jesus taught him that Um those who have been forgiven much will love much more. Um and that's similar to the message I think he's he's saying here that that um all of us are sinner or all of you are sinners. And um and yet God is gracious if you come to him in faith and repentance. Um that message was there in the Old Testament and a few of people got it, but most people didn't. Um so I think that's the kind of the connection there. Yeah, I think God's plan for involving people in capital punishment was to convince them that um a really any sin, but certain sins are um uh an abomination to God and the the person who commits it is worthy of of death. But by his by his uh plan that death would be at the hands of other people Which ought to have what impact on those other people? It should be a deterrent. Right? Um, not only to the people carrying out the execution, but to other people who are aware of it Um and emphasizing the holiness of God and that sin is is uh an affront to God should have been the lesson that everybody was getting. Um but they were more focused on checking the boxes, doing the works and not um not giving no not approaching this from the right heart And learning and so on, submission to God. Anyway, interesting stuff. Let's move on to section one hundred seven. We're still in that same feast. Um and by the way, I think you'll see in the notes on page 150 after this section of text that there was another rite in the evening of that main day where there was a lighting of four large lamps in the court of women of the temple. Uh and people would celebrate and dance holding torches. There's a a lot of of symbolism there about the light that God is a light to us, his word is a light and so on, which is all inherently okay. Um it was part of the tradition. And in the midst of that, Jesus said, I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of life. It's sort of like the bread of life. I mean this is real stuff that has eternal significance, right? So the Pharisees said to him, You are testifying about yourself. Your testimony isn't true Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I testify about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I am going You judge according to the flesh, he said. I am not judging anyone. But even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone in it, but I am the Father who sent me Even in your law, it has become it has been written that the testimony of two men is true. And he's referring to him and the Father. Right? I am he who testifies about myself, and the Father who sent me testifies about me. So they were saying to him Where is your father? They probably knew that Joseph was dead at this point. Uh wa wha who's he referring to as his father And Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. These words he spoke in the treasury as he taught in the temple, and no one seized him again, because his hour had not yet come. Then he said again to them, I go away, and you will seek me and will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the Jews were saying, Surely he will not kill himself, will he? Since he says, Where I am going, you cannot come? And he was saying to them, You are from below I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins. For unless you believe that I am The word he is not in the Greek. Unless you believe that I am, you will die in your sins. What's he referring to? He's God Right? So they were saying to him, Who are you? Jesus said to him to them, What have I been saying to you from the beginning? I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you, but he who sent me is true. And the things which I heard from him, these I speak to the world. They did not realize that he had been speaking uh They did not realize that he had been speaking to them about the Father. You know, um God is not often in the Old Testament scriptures referred to as Father. Some But Jesus really made a point of it. So Jesus said, When you lift up the Son of Man, you will know that I am And he did nothing. And I do nothing on my own initiative, but I speak to things as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone For I always do the things that are pleasing to him. Remember those multiple times, like at Jesus' baptism I think and the Transfiguration, where ge where God the Father said, This is my father this is my beloved Son. in whom I am well pleased. And so he gave testimony of the son about that. Um verse thirty. As he spoke these things, many came to believe in him. So we're seeing this pattern Many do believe in him, others don't. So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed in him, if you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine, and you will know the truth, and the truth will say make you free In verse thirty three it says, They answered him, and it's not clear whether that's the believing Jews who we're we're just talking about here or whether it's the larger crowd But it says they answered him, We are Abraham's descendants and have never yet been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? And Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you Everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin. Slave does not remain in the house forever. The sun does remain forever. So if the sun makes you free, you will be free indeed. I know that you are Abraham's descendants, yet you seek to kill me. Now here he's especially talking to the greater crowd, and maybe even more personally to the leaders. Because my word has no place in you It's pretty blunt, right? I speak the things which I have seen with my father, therefore also do the things which you heard, um, therefore you also do the things which you heard from your father. They answered him said to him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If Abraham's if you are Abraham's children, do the deeds of Abraham. What's he referring to there? Faith. Belief, right? He's driving that point home again. Paul makes that same point in Galatians. But as it is, you are seeking to kill me, a man who has told you the truth Which I heard from God. This Abraham did not do. You are doing the deeds of your father. And they said to him, We were not born of fornication. We have one father, God. So they were children of Abraham. Now they're children of God. Jesus said to them, If God were your father You would love me, for I proceeded forth and have come from God. For I have not even come on my own initiative, but He sent me. Why do you not understand what I am saying? Well he knew the answer to that The question is whether they knew the answer to it. It is because you cannot hear my word, he told them. Why is it they cannot hear his word? They didn't have ears? They didn't have ears to hear Right? They were unbelieving. They were hardened. And he's trying to get them to see that they're hardened. But if they're hardened, they can't see it. You see the conundrum? Um I think he probably that's that's kind of the the getting back to the reason for parables again. They're hardened and uh he's bringing great conviction on them here now. Let's see here. Verse 44. You are of your father, the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies But because I speak truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? How many of us can ask that question? If I speak the truth, why do you not believe me? He who is of God hears the words of God. For this reason you do not hear them, because you're not of God, right? The Jews answered and said to him Do we not rightly say that you are a Samaritan and have a demon trying to rationalize their position and and um put a lame Accusation against him. Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. But I do not seek my glory. There is one who seeks and judges. Truly, truly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him Now we know you have a demon. Abraham died, the prophets also, and you say if anyone keeps my word he will never taste death. Surely you're not greater than our father Abraham, who died. The prophets died too Whom do you make yourself out to be? Hard-hearted. But it's it's so typical of a hardened heart that's very confident but completely wrong. Jesus answered, if I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God. And you have not come to know him, but I know him, and if I say that I do not know him, I will be a liar like you But I do know him and keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. Oh boy. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old And you have seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was born I am. Therefore they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. Why did he hide himself? It wasn't the right time. Now boy, he was straight and talk about the uh the the the conviction that these guys would be facing because of their heart and hearts. It it it it said earlier that it's a crowd, but there's a mix. So sometimes he's speaking to the crowd, sometimes he's speaking directly to these guys. There there's there's got to have been that wide range of of um people, wide range of takes on what was going on here. But I think it's pretty clear that the bottom line result was not at all what these Jewish leaders were hoping to accomplish, particularly in the sight of all the crowd. It was undermining their authority. And Jesus was going straight at it Any other thoughts there? Yeah. So um in their in their minds when they say they're a child of Abraham, they're saying We're physical descendants of Abraham. We're part of that blessing, right? God blessed him and his descendants. We're part of that. What's Jesus saying? You're not a father or you're not a descendant of or Abraham's not your father, but the devil is your father, what's he saying? That their hearts their direction, their thinking is all comes from say it's it's uh evil, it's It's w everything that is um contrary to God's truth. That's what their thinking is based on. That's the source, the father, the source of their their thinking and their actions follow accordingly. Um and so Jesus said, you know, if Abraham were your father you'd act like Abraham. You'd believe God and God would reckon it to you as righteousness Um but that wasn't the case with them. Okay. Um we're gonna have to keep going here. John nine, page one fifty one. And so again, this is at the same the reason these are linked together is they're part of the same celebration. He's there in Jerusalem at the feast. John nine, one. As he passed by, uh, he saw a blind man from birth, a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he would be born blind? Now, that was the common perception. that some malady like this, some abnormality, um, was because of specific sins, not just sin generally, but Uh it's it's the result of somebody's personal sin. Yeah, possibly. Yeah. But he he wasn't discounting that possibility, but he's saying in this particular case he said it was neither that this man's sin nor his parents, but it was that the works of God might be displayed in him. Uh and then he says, We must work the works of him who sent me as long as it is day Night is coming when no one can work. While I am in the world, I am the light of the world, referring back to what he had just said. And when he had said this And I think it's interesting to note that he didn't particularly like he often did, ask the man, or the man wasn't asking to be healed. Jesus spat on the ground, made clay of the spittle, and applied the clay to the eyes, to the man's eyes, and said to him, Go wash in the pool of Soram, which is translated sent. That's the very same pool where they would get this water as as part of the the celebration, right? The symbolism there. And so he went away, washed, and came back seeing. Therefore, the neighbors and those who previously saw him as a beggar were saying, Is this not the one who used to sit and beg? And others were saying, this is he. Still others were saying, no, but he is like him. Why would they say no? Well it couldn't be him, because he's lying. But it's like him, we must be just confusing it, right? But he kept saying, I am the one So they were saying to him, How then were your eyes opened? And he answered, The man who was called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to Siloam and and wash. And I went away and washed, and I received sight. And they said to him, Where is he? And he said I do not know. And they brought to the Pharisees the man who was formerly blind. Now, it was a Sabbath, wouldn't you know it? Right? It was a Sabbath on the day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes. Then the Pharisees also were seeking him again how he received his sight. And he said to them, He applied the clay to my eyes, and I washed and I see Therefore, some of the Pharisees were saying, this man is not from God. I mean they were confident. This is This guy is not from God because he does not keep the Sabbath. But others were saying, how can a man who is a sinner perform such things? And there was a division among them So they said to the blind man again, what do you say about him since he opened your eyes? So they gave him a a softball here. Um, what do you say about him since he opened your eyes? And he said, He is a prophet. And the Jews then did not believe it of him, that he had been blind and he had received sight until they called his parents. Um The parent the very parents are the ones who have received the sight and questioned them, saying, Is this your son whom you say was born blind? Then how does he now see And his parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind. But how he now sees, we do not know. Or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him, he is of age. He will speak for himself. And this is key. His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. And that's That's a big thing. For this reason his parents said he is of age ask him, not really thinking about him being put out of the synagogue. Anyway Um and verse twenty four. So a second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. That is, you're under oath now. Give glory to God. We know this man is a sinner. What's your opinion? Right? And he answered Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, though, that though I was blind, now I see. Pretty powerful statement. that nobody could refute. So they said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? And he answered them, I told you already and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? You do not want uh you do not want to become his disciples too, do you? And you know that yeah, how they took that, right? They reviled him and said, You are his disciple But we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he is from. And the man answered and said to them, Well, here is an interesting thing An amazing thing, that you do not know where he is from, yet he opened my eyes. This guy's thinking pretty clearly, just as clearly as he's seeing now, and you can just see how hardened their hearts are It can't be, because if it were true, we must be liars, right? We must be misleading the people. Our position is at stake here. And it's It's amazing how a hardened heart just gets harder. Um well verse thirty one, we know that God does not hear sinners, but if anyone is God fearing And does his will, he hears him. Since the beginning of time it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a person born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. So he's basically teaching the teachers here And they answered him, You were born entirely in sin, and you're teaching us? So they put him out of the synagogue. Jesus heard that they had put him out, and finding him he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? And he answered, Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him? And Jesus said to him, You have both seen him, and he is the one who is talking to you. And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. I would too, wouldn't you? And Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, so that those who do not see may see. What's he referring to? Spiritual insight. Right? Those who um see may become blind Those who don't get it will be even less able to get it. Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things and said to him, We are not blind too, are we? Oh boy And Jesus said to them, if you were blind, that in here now is talking about physically, if you were blind you would have no sin. But since you say we see your sin remaining. So they're blinded to the nature of their sin, the nature of their heart. Um and it it just continues, right? Well, let's go to section 109, which is wrapping up his stay here at the at the feast. So he's speaking mostly of of spiritual reality, right? Can Can we see, can we hear? Uh if if our hearts are hardened, then we're not going to perceive anything about the truth. And he's saying that's the the problem with them. That um if you were merely blind physically, then that's not caused by sin. That that's That's not a sin issue. Um but since you say, We see, they think they see, now he here he's talking uh spiritually. We not just the the eyesight, but do they perceive the truth? They say they think they do But they're demonstrating that they don't. So um again, he was being somewhat indirect in the way he was doing this Very similar to the reason why he would tell parables. So those who were hardened um would be under not as much judgment because of their sin. But um if anything he in these passages he has been setting them up for even greater judgment because of their hardness of heart. And persistence in that. And they claim that they see, even spiritually, but it's obvious that they don't Anyway, real quick, before we wrap up, page one fifty-two. Truly, truly I say to you, he who does not enter by the door into the fold of the sheep, but climbs up some other way He is a thief and a robber, but he who enters by the door is a shepherd of the sheep. To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out When he puts forth all his own, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they know his voice. A stranger they simply will not follow. But will flee from him because they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus spoke to them, but they did not understand what those things were which he had been saying to them. So Jesus said to them again Truly, truly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who come before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. If anyone enters through me He will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. Thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they might have life and have it abundantly I am the good shepherd, and the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He was a hired hand and not a shepherd, who is not um who is not the owner of the sheep. He sees a wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them up and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and is not concerned about the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and I know my own And my own know me. Even as the Father knows me, I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. I have other sheep which are not of this fold. Who are they? Probably Gentile, right? I have other sheep which are not of this fold. I must bring them also. And they will hear my voice, and they will become one flock with one shepherd For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life so that I might take it again. No one has taken it from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have authority to lay it down, I have authority to take it up again. This commandment I received from my father. Now a division occurred again among the Jews because of these words. Many of them were saying he has a demon and is insane Why do you listen to him? And others were saying, these are not the sayings of one demon possessed. A demon cannot open the eyes of the blind, can he? So Jesus was trying to teach them that um you've got two opposing uh well shepherds. You've got the good shepherd, the true shepherd, and you've got imposters. And he's been dealing extensively in this this whole section today with people who should have been shepherds but were imposters. Well someone who who is not the true um owner of the sheep. So if if the owner or perhaps someone in the owner's family, but if the owner were the shepherd, he has a vested interest in the protection and and welfare of the sheep. Whereas a hired hand, he's looking out for number one if there's some danger, right? And Jesus is saying that I am the good shepherd. I and he speaks of uh his own knowing him. He he owns us. The false shepherds? Yeah, yeah. All these people he's been combating with here. That's I think his a his analogy. They don't They're out for number one. They're not they don't have a genuine interest in and and responsibility for the sheep. And they act accordingly. Yeah. Anyway, sorry, this has taken a long time. Well let's close in prayer. Father, thank you that um you've recorded in Scripture for our benefit the interactions Jesus had with these leaders particularly, but even the the crowds who very often were unbelieving and We're just so thankful that you have given us eyes to see and ears to hear and hearts that are uh ready to comprehend and obey. And we thank you that we are your sheep and uh We pray that the impact of these lessons will be made real in our everyday lives as we seek to obey you and trust you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.