Okay, so we are on uh lesson 33, page 198, in the notes. And remember we're in the Passion Week. We're going to be in Passion Week for quite a while. Um, because there's just so much material in the Gospels at this uh point in time and for obvious reason I think. And so we're beginning with section 154 Some Sadducees tried to trap Jesus about the resurrection. And you know, we've already encountered uh all sorts of uh detractors who are trying to trap Jesus in one way or another. And this is yet another group who comes to him. So I'm going to read from the blended account and we can Talk through this as we go. Now on that day, what day was that? Probably still Tuesday. We're somewhat early in in Fashion Week. On that day there came to Jesus some Sadducees. Now um The Sadducees. What do we know about the Sadducees at this point? I hesitated when I asked the question. I knew this was gonna come out. Yeah, yeah. So they're the crowd who um they ran the temple and uh their center was in Jerusalem Uh and in contrast with the Pharisees, they were not um they were not committed to scripture. They were just committed to tradition as they saw it, and their power base, which was But they were also part of the Sanhedrin, correct? Yeah, the Sanhedrin would have been made up of both. I'm not sure what the mix was at any given time, but certainly both. Yes. Um the Sanhedrin being the the council, right? Yeah. Anyway. Um The Sadducee, we we I think it was last week we talked about the Herodians. Um the Herodians by being allied with the Roman um regime and the status quo and and so on, uh were probably a lot more affiliated with the Sadducees than with the Pharisees, for sure So some of the Sadducees who say there is no resurrection, now where they got that from, who knows, probably just Didn't make sense to him, therefore it must not be. And they began questioning him, saying, Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies, having a wife whom he leaves behind, and he is childless, his brother as next to kin shall marry the wife and raise up children for his brother. And here uh I guess I'm quoting mostly from Luke. He's um quoting from all three of them are quoting from the Old Testament passage that the Sadducees were um Misunderstanding as it turns out, right? In verse 29, now there were seven brothers with us And the first took a wife and died, and leaving no children, left his wife to his brother. The second one married her and died, leaving behind no children, and the third, down to the seventh likewise, married her, and in the same way all seven died. leaving no children. And Jesus is probably thinking, I know where they're going with this. Finally, the woman died also. Now, in the resurrection, therefore, when they rise again, they're saying Which one uh which one's wife of the seven will she be? For all seven had married her. And they're thinking what? Oh we got it now. Right But Jesus answered and said to them, Is this not the reason you are mistaken, that you do not understand the scriptures or the power of God? The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage, but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection from the dead When they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage. For they cannot even die any more, because they are like angels in heaven, and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection. But regarding the fact that the dead are raised, have you not even read what was spoken to you by God in the book of Moses, where Moses showed in the passage about the burning bush How the Lord God spoke to him, saying, quote, I am the God of Abraham And the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Now, he is not the God of the dead, but of the living. He says, I am. So you are greatly mistaken, for all live to him. Some of the scribes answered and said, Teacher, you have spoken well, for they did not have courage to question any longer about anything. When the crowds heard this, they were astonished at his teaching. I I think we've read that a few times about people. They didn't want to question him any longer because they left with the tail between their legs. Okay, so the Sadducees, uh w we tend to think of the Sadducees as, oh, they're the people who don't believe in the resurrection. Partly because of this encounter. But I'm not sure that was a defining uh attribute of them Um it was one maybe of many things that were a result of not being devoted to the scriptures. of taking things out of context, uh making things go the way their own logic would want them would appear to be right. And so they weren't following a a um you know an an exposition of the scriptures. They were reading into the scriptures, which is all too common even today. Anyway, so Um what do you think about Jesus' answer here to their challenge? I um I read something not long ago I heard a sermon from John MacArthur on the this and it was really interesting that um he was as he was talking about the Sadducees. Um so the Sadducees only held apparently only held to the first five books the the books of Moses. And so apparently this issue of the resurrection was a hot debate issue between, you know, it was really a hot button issue between the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And since the Sadducees, uh, I guess actually were con they would consider themselves the the more conservative of the group because they they held strictly to the first five books and they didn't look at the rest of it as as scripture, you know, as as congratulations. So so when they were having this debate The Pharisees could never bring uh passages from other parts of the of the Old Testament because they would reject that as not being from from you know part of the first five books. So so that was and so the Pharisees were constantly looking for an answer to the question of the resurrection in the books of Moses, the first five books, and couldn't come up with anything satisfactory that would end the debate, you know. And sit you know, make their case. And so what's really amazing is just how Jesus I mean he specifically says the books of Moses, so he goes right to what they're going to hold to it as true, that's scripture. You know, and he uses that and he just he completely annihilates it, you know, just and and the importance of verb tenses You know, his whole argument is based on the tense of the verb. Right. You know, and so you know, it's not past tense, it's present tense. Right. And it's just amazing, you know, just in and so He was expositing the Old Testament. Yeah. Jesus is God and gives the right answer. But every time I read this that you're going to be able to do that, That is an amazing answer. Yeah. It makes me just be amazed again under this one. Yep There's another encounter in the book of Acts that's somewhat related to this. If you remember Paul when he was arrested And um he ended up uh proclaiming that he's on trial because of the resurrection of the dead. And that was seems to be a rather calculated uh strategy because then the two parties were at each other And um got distracted then about the whole business with Paul. Um anyway Um but it's also amazing to me how the Pharisees never saw that, you know, as they look for an answer to the the Sadducees they never realize that and just how he immediately just brings it right out. Yeah. Makes it so clear. Right. how he establishes his divinity by answering the question that they asked. Because that is not something that would have been in scripture at that point. He knew what happens in the in the resurrection. But he also goes on, you know, in his sovereignty knowing not that's not what they were really asking. Yeah. Yeah, good point. You know, um that that actually raises the The point that he makes here um he says um those In the resurrection, when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given a marriage. Uh I think he was here just exposing a presumption on the part of the Sadducees. Um and A presumption that they held as rather foundational. And it's all too common that people go to Scripture, they make assumptions, and they impose those assumptions on Scripture And I I think we're all sort of subject to this if we're not careful, right? Imposing on Scripture assumptions that are not in Scripture, but we read it into ourselves based on our assumptions. And we don't test our assumptions. Usually they're trying to prove a point when they do that. Usually. Well it's it's often what's happening when people take things out of context Um a lot of doctrinal positions. Well, right from the very beginning. to be Christians and say, oh, the seven days when God created each day was millions and billions of years long. But Scripture doesn't doesn't say that and says evening and morning. Yeah. Right. And and a lot of the early heresies that the church had to deal with Such as about the deity of Christ? Was he and the humanity of Christ. A man or God or both? They had to wrestle with that, and there were heresies on both sides. And inevitably those heresies are built on assumptions people make. Well, obviously it couldn't be this and this, so it must be one or the other. Rather than just say, well what does scripture say? Right? Let scripture speak for itself. What assumption are we making here? That that marriage continues in heaven. And Jesus said, well, no, that's not actually the case. Which is why we uh the vows say until death do us part. Right? Many years ago I thought a class of young couples. and beginning this passage. And they were uh quite faithful in coming, the whole group. But one couple quit coming I mean they they were absent. So after being absent normally if you absent more than three times you you get a visit, you know. So very good thing. So so I went and visited and asked him you know, what the problem or you know, why they had to come in. And they said when they found out that they were not going to be married in heaven, they didn't want any part of it Oh my and that's they I never saw it again. Wow. Oh my god, they'll think it's a good deal. Just joke. When Jesus explains that there's no marriage in heaven, that must be a bring of comfort to many, many people across the centuries who have to suffer in marriage mostly women and girls but not all not all so maybe people who have happy marriages don't understand that but many people have No, that that's that's definitely the case. Mormons teach, right? That are married in eternity. And and and if they're both faithful Mormons they get a new planet to go and women that having babies, more babies. to inhabit the new planet. How anybody could believe that? And a presidential candidate, a man that was that smart, believed that the continuity of mail. But based on what information they had at the time, which like somebody mentioned a little while ago, they they considered just the five post to be Scripture, how could they have figured out that marriage did not continue based on the information that they had? Well um they they were wrong to limit their scrutiny to the five books of the Old Testament. And they were also wrong to read into those books things that weren't there. So um if the Pharisees were convinced that there was a resurrection Biblically, not just because it made sense. I mean it doesn't really make sense in some respects. But the Pharisees got it, and many other people got it, because they were devoting themselves to all of the Old Testament Then the Sadducees should have learned from that. Even Jove got it, and that was written early during the time of Genesis. Very early, yeah. He he believed in the resurrection. I know that my I redeem rel we've read that this week before up into Job. that up to the point where Jesus makes this gives us this teaching. I mean wherever you conclude from scripture, you're not married in heaven Well, if if you're convinced in Scripture, as the Pharisees were, that there is a resurrection, and you're convinced in Scripture that there is a responsibility under the law for this um uh successive marriage kind of thing to perpetuate the lineage of the deceased brother, and you're faced with that same question the Sadducees were, how would you conclude? A big happy family. It'll be a Mormon with multiple wives. That that didn't trip up the Pharisees, nor other um Jews who were serious about all of the Revelation in the Old Testament. So yeah, I I don't I I can't think of a passage that you go to that spells out that I haven't I haven't tried to to look, but at the very least, it's a problem for the Sadducees because they've put a box around what they're willing to believe and they read into that box Whereas the Pharisees, to their credit, were looking at all of Scripture and were devoted to it, although they missed the main points of it. And this wasn't an issue for them. Yeah, I mean I I think if you consider the logic of the Sadducees, they're they're attempting a proof by contradiction where you Assume something is true and if you show that provides a contradiction and proof of the opposite two things can't be true at the same time. Yeah. And so I that is actually what they could have used to deduce that there was no marriage because they were starting with you start with the premise that there is a resurrection and then And if a resurrection means that you'd have multiple lives or something like that, which seems contradictory, they're hoping that was going to prove that a resurrection couldn't be true But God is truth. And so if you came to that conclusion you can kind of deduce that well maybe there's some other alternative that having multiple Right. So just following logically from what all of this conversation over Since there since the the the familial relationship that exists between the man and the woman here does not extend into eternity, can we also logically just say that the familial relationship that we have here, okay, even if recognized will not be as significant only In other words, in heaven I will not be saying Faxi my son or Elizabeth my daughter, instead it will be just brother and brother. Perhaps. Um but it does raise the um the very real possibility that one spouse would be in heaven and the other not, too. Right. So so I you know, Jesus does answer the question concerning the re the resurrection. I mean he he answers that. But as as far as uh like Henry's question about the the marriage and Paul Paul kind of addresses this in the And the Sadducees would have been well aware of that. Well sorry. No, but but Paul in Romans seven he says, Or do you not know, brethren, for I speak to those who who know the law that the law has dominion over a man as long as he lives. For a woman who has a husband is bound by the law to her husband Um as long as he lives. But if the husband dies, she's released from the law of her husband. So I mean he's he's making that point, you know, that the law is in effect, you know, that the law of the marriage and he's using that to talk about you know the the Old Testament law and and faith marriage ends at the death of the thing. And so so he's using that, you know, that that the law is in effect as long as you live, you know Um but after death you're free from the law, you're no longer bound to it. And that's you know, he's using that as an example of of dying in Christ, you know, we're no longer bound to sin We're we're free from that. Definitely. And also he's making a point not only is the husband of course free from the law, but the wife she's free from that marriage. So so it doesn't continue in the resurrection You know, so what you can draw out of this is it doesn't continue in the in the resurrection. Right. I don't know. Alan, we're the bride of Christ. So did they know that? I mean we can't be married to two husbands. Right? We're the bride of Christ, the whole church, but I the church Was it I don't know, did they know that? Was there any scriptural reference that we're married to Jesus, we're his bride, his holy bride. Um Yeah, Ephesians where it talks about that says this is a mystery. That wasn't revealed in the Old Testament. The nature of the church. Yeah. And to Margaret's point, isn't it wonderful Margaret to know that we're the bride of Christ. So whatever happened in marriage, yeah, forget it because you're gonna be so rewarded to know what it really is like to be Yeah, so in marriage I'm the husband, but in the in heaven I'm the bride. I'm sure. Once you fry in the kitchen, you can't get it. Uh I guess we've got in the crowd. Actually this crowd is more than one. Okay. Um, moving right along. First two So um yeah I'm just looking at the ending of it here. Is there any other issue we want to discuss? Um You know, they they repeat this argument. They think that she seven times, you know, she was married and remarried seven times. And I think that's That never really happened, you know. Um so I I I have a note here at the bottom, the last bullet there. Uh it's not really the issue So much it doesn't really come out in this interaction Jesus has with the Sadducees, but um there will be a resurrection for each person, whether they're uh in Christ or not, right? And um what's being referred to here is uh the resurrection of the body Which would then join the soul. The soul goes immediately someplace at death, but the body gets resurrected at some later date. And as John Mosa five says either a resurrection of to life or resurrection to judgment, death. And uh Uh those two bodily resurrections happen at two different times. The um the the resurrection of the body of believers um happens just prior to the rapture, right? So in 1 Thessalonians 4, Paul says that first those who are died in Christ, those who are dead in Christ will Will rise and then will rise to meet them in the air following them. And then later in Revelation 20, it talks about the resurrection of the dead, those outside Christ, and they'll face the great white throne. Judgment. Yep. But either way, there's a resurrection, either way, there's no marriage where you're going. Because all souls are eternal. And that's because they believe that hell, oh well they're tortured so much that they die. No, they don't. They they live forever in torture. Right. If it can be called living, yes. Yeah. They exist. Right. Yep. Doesn't any of you talk about in um precepts about the smoke going up. I think this is the end part of my thing. It's a very powerful word. And they look on the both it never ends. Their worm dies not whatever that worm is I was just going to ask um what are the what are the main verses that talk about the body and soul kind of splitting apart and what being in the ground and the other one being in heaven. Well uh example being with um in for for believers, particularly Christians We know that Paul, for example, says for yeah, to be absent with the body is to be present with the Lord. He also says in Philippians that that I can't decide which is going to be better to continue in ministry or to be with to to die because then I would be with the Lord, right? So the the immediate um uh being immediately in the presence of the Lord, that's our spirit, right? Our bodies go into the ground and um even Jesus said to the Today you'll be with me in paradise. But they knew both of their bodies still hanging out. That was the spirit were going to be with their own. Right. But the real then, the essence, the Then the resurrection of the bodies is described in places like First Thessalonians IV, preceding the rapture, those who are dead in Christ. Uh the parable that Jesus told about Lazarus and the rich man, who were went to two different parts of Sheol or Um Hades. Um that was their spirit, that was their holding ground prior to the body of Christ, you know, we go immediately to the feet of Christ. Uh the believing uh poor man in that parable went immediately where Abraham was. And yet was it really their spirit being Because he said a send stuff came over here to put a drop of cold water on my tongue. I think it's beard as its own. It was a parable. Um and there is two different places for believers and unbelievers. Um What what um happens to unbelievers right now um I think is probably the same. It doesn't matter. Probably hasn't changed. final it's not the final place. And um it's hard to say in that environment what our soul, our spirit will um experience, even if we don't have a physical body yet Um we're not given much data on the other. The older I get, the more faith Because the more you realize you don't don't understand. Okay. Yep. We'll put on immortality. This mortal will put on immortality. But it also doesn't resemble in any way what was planted. The seed was planted and yet the plant that results is entirely different. So we don't know Okay. Well, let's go to the next section. 155, page two hundred. Here we're looking at just Matthew and Mark, and I'll read the the blended account. But when the Pharisees had heard that Jesus silenced the the Sadducees, what were they thinking? Yeah, they got their comeuppance. They gather themselves together. The idiots. One of them, a lawyer, came and heard them arguing, and recognizing that he had answered them well, asked him a question, testing him, Teacher, which commandment in the law is foremost of all? This is a softball question, I think. And Jesus answered him, the foremost is, Hero Israel, the Lord our God, is one Lord. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. And this is the greatest and foremost commandment. The second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself On these two commandments depend the whole law and the prophets. There is no other commandment greater than these. And the scribe said to him, Right, teacher, you have truly stated that he is one and there is no one else beside him, and to love him with all heart and with all understanding With all strength, and to love one's neighbor as himself is much more than all burnt offerings and sacrifices. And so they were in complete agreement. And when Jesus saw that he had answered him intelligently, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. After that, no one would venture to ask him any more questions. So um Several points here. One is that, of course, the those two greatest commandments, they're not in the same location in the Old Testament. But if you were to distill everything, they really capture all of the law, as Jesus said, on these two commandments depend the whole law and the prophets. And for example, the Ten Commandments, the first four of them are all about loving God, and the remaining six are about loving other people, as we should. And so everything else is similarly categorized. And another way to think about it Is that all morality hinges on those two points of the law If we're doing something immoral, it's probably a violation of our relationship with God or our relationship with other people or both. So ethics hang on too as well. Morality, ethics, yes. Interesting that Jesus said on these two depend the whole law and the prophets and what so that believe the Sadducees They're already out you don't even believe everything you should. Right. The law and the prophet. Um I may um maybe I'll mention it. So in in um Romans thirteen, where uh Paul is describing our responsibility to civil authority and how all authority has been delegated by God and to accomplish his purposes and so on. He appeals to some of the Ten Commandments, didn't intend to be exhaustive, I don't think, but in terms of the the role of civil government Um but the role of civil government deals only with a second of those two, our responsibility to other people. And And um not our responsibility to God. And so that that's why he didn't quote any of the four. of the Ten Commandments that dealt with our worship of God, but instead cited ones that had to do with our relationship with others So maybe a bigger question here uh in this encounter with the um Lawyer. And by the way, lawyer here just doesn't mean like he's an attorney, but rather someone who is an expert in the Jewish law. But no, a bigger point here is Jesus' final word to him, you are not far from the kingdom of God. And you know we've commented on this a few times in his interaction with people where from our perspective it looks like this person has ripe fruit. Right? There was nothing that they were disagreeing with here. Jesus and this man both agreed, yes, we've we've got we've hit the nail on the head here about what's important. And Jesus basically leaves him with the words, you're not far from the kingdom of God, instead of um Nudging him into the kingdom. Um you know, I I think most of us would would be tempted to say hey this guy's this guy's ready ready, right? And and um uh and just try to seal the deal, if you will, in terms of evangelism and and and so on. Um and I don't know how much of it was Jesus' omniscience and really where he was, where this guy was in his thinking and maybe he's close, but there's a still a process by which God was drawing him to the truth and to jesus himself. But Jesus seems to be pretty content with a and Nicodemus was another one. Jesus seems pretty content to uh affirm them, sometimes challenge them. Like when he told the young man, you must say Yeah, I don't think that guy was as close as this guy. But continue. Um So I'm not exactly sure what the takeaway is on that, other than I I'm sure it's possible that in our zeal for evangelism we could be bruising some of the fruit before it's really ready to be harvested. And we need to be careful about that. Sometimes it's hard to tell where So if you look at all those um uh examples where he did everything he could to persuade his Listeners. So it it just seems to me that uh one way or the other you just have to say, okay, give an opportunity to try to persuade somebody that I think might Yeah, well that's that's definitely true As long as our persuasion is biblical, not twisting of arms, right? And just presenting truth, maybe even challenge But certainly affirming where they're thinking is right and laying out maybe if it's clear to us what remains for them to understand and act on. That seems all legitimate, but we don't want to have so much zeal that we, for example, get them to pray a sinner's prayer, thinking that that in and of itself will make them a Christian Even though they're close. Yeah. So um this I don't know how to phrase this question, but the gospel was not complete until Jesus died and it was I I mean I don't know the answer. Yeah, yeah. Well you can imagine Jesus saying, Well, you know, in a few days I'm I'm going to uh hang around. And that may well have been uh what actually happened. We don't know what happened to this. Jesus wasn't um bothered by it, which means he was on Leo, they did together However, having said that, there are several places, including recently here, even in the Passion Week, it speaks of Jesus in the temple preaching the gospel. I know, I don't I don't know if well it's it's it's probably more of the gospel that we would categorize as gospel then um it at least as much as was apparent from the Old Testament and there were people like Simeon and Anna who got it, right? Um and so um yeah what you know we think in order to be complete you have to include everything about the death, burial, resurrection of Christ and and the ascension and And um Jesus preached the gospel of repentance, just like John did. But I and Simeon were thirty-three years prior to this, and then the guy told me about being Yeah, could be. Could be. He says you're not far. Yeah, Vic Victoria. We're just thinking that you know to be true that um that this that that is what is the happy because that's something to do. And you didn't have to have people figure out you know, to understand that. But um it's it's almost like don't Yeah. Which is one reason Jesus preached the gospel of repentance And like John said, bring forth fruit in keeping with repentance. Then you know that there's a a change inside that God has brought about. Yeah, just again uh drawing from uh something from MacArthur's sermon on this, um he he felt that you know this guy was appointed by the Pharisees because it started out that you know the Pharisees gathered themselves together, so this was another attempt to entrap him in some way. Your turn, you got the start short straw. And it's like this guy is the one appointed to to approach him and ask the question and try to entrap him. So it wasn't, you know, a friendly thing uh from MacArthur's the way he presented it And it just kind of reminds me also of the Apostle Paul, you know, before his conversion, you know, he had a zeal for the law So much so that he persecuted the church, you know, that he loved the law. He felt that he was being faithful and obedient to God by persecuting the church trying to And so you know maybe that's where he is and like we said, you know, we don't know what what ever happened to him. Maybe, you know, like Jesus saying, he does have a zeal for the law and he knows the truth. He's not far from the kingdom of God. Maybe another, you know conversion, but we don't know. All it needs is another week. Yeah. But actually I think there'll be a lot of people who are not far from the kingdom because it's They said, Lord, Lord, we prophesied your name. We did this, we did that. Depart from me, I never knew you. That's a lot of people. Right. Yep. So we don't know exactly where he ended up, but um uh it's interesting that Um they agreed completely. And Jesus didn't make any further issue about it. All right. Any other insights? Questions? One passage that came to mind you brought up, you know, in our our lack of omniscience, you know, what happens if we pursued somebody and as the passage that came to mind as acts for even Simon the sorcerer, even the even the apostles didn't get it right all the time. And you know Simon was baptized and then afterward try to learn how to put the give the spirit to people to prophet and at that point he was admonished to repent and And you know, he was called out for still being enslaved to to sin. So I think the point is we're we're s we're to be obedient to the the the commands uh the be push or submitting but yeah whether or not people actually get saved is not our Yeah, our responsibility is to be faithful and and to uh uh proclaim the truth and not to back down, but the end result is really in God's hands. Yeah. Also it says to me as I try to evangelize to the ones I love and the people who fortunate that says if you have not loved Yeah, and it's so easy to get really excited about it and really um you know uh too aggressive about it 'cause it's frustrating when people don't get it especially like you know that kind of thing but you just have to remember and also uh recalling that you know repentance is a gift from God. Right. He's really the only one that can bring someone to a full understanding and knowledge. So we were just discussing in a Bible study this week about intercessory prayer and the privilege of standing in between that person person and not. And that's just amazing that we have that privilege. So it helps me to think about it from that perspective because that's the most powerful way I think for you know Sharing that. Very much a part of it. Good. Any other uh Thoughts? Questions? Well, I would encourage you to uh each week go through the uh questions and applications at the end. And so the application here um Just highlights again that um the two parts of the Ten Commandments deal with both of those two major parts of the law and it's something that we ought to evaluate ourselves on. Um are we loving God as much as we should and are we uh loving others as ourselves? You know it's presumed that we love ourselves. That's one of our problems. Um but are we loving others that much? Um I'd even argue that Jesus' commandment replaced the second one for me of loving Egypt. Right. So it's even greater than the same thing. Right. All right. Well, next week we continue with Tuesday. Apparently. Now those days aren't um uh necessarily always earmarked in every passage, but there are little milestones along the way where it talked about him. Spending the night at one place and whatever, you can kind of piece together the timetable. But we'll uh continue next week. Let's close in prayer.