So we are going to start on page two twenty-eight. There's going to be several sections of this. And I'm also going to point you out to maybe go to the very last page of your book and the map in the back. And it's dotted with all kinds of markings that are going to indicate where we are in this story for the next couple of weeks So this I'm sure we'll be we'll be revisiting this little map uh a number of times. It's the last page, and I'll point one or two places out there uh during this lecture. So we're going to start on, again 228, it's section 160, where Jesus spends uh night on Mount Olives and days in the temple. Um it's a very short section. And actually maybe what I'll do right now is I'll actually go to that map. It's map uh it's on page 320, it's nine-nine. Jesus in Jerusalem. And uh we're kind of on that far if you're looking at the page on the far right. Uh location number two is where the Mount of Oves are. And if you go North, number seven, that should be um uh the Garden of Gethsemane. And it looks far until you look at the scale. And the scale set is probably like thunder or a thousand feet away. So it's very close, even though from a map it kind of looks like they might be uh um quite a bit of distance. but they're they're very close. And then the Temple Mound just on the other side of the uh Kitron Valley. So this is going to be a lot of activity as we go through the rest of this uh the rest of this week and into next quarter. So I'll read this. Um again blended versions of Mark and Luke, most of it's from Luke. Uh now during the day he was teaching in the temple, but at evening he and his disciples would go out of the city and spend the night on the mount that is called Alavet. And all the people would get up early in the morning to come to him in the temple to listen to him. So he was moving back and forth from the temple uh to outside at the Mount of Olives. Um in fact in that bullet point I'll read in section 147 when we read that Jesus went back to Bethany on Sunday. You can s kind of see where that is on that map as well. And in section one sixty-three we see he spent the night there on Wednesday as well. So this must be referring to just Monday and Tuesday night. Jesus and his disciples May have spent the nights in a cave on the Mount of Alves. Luke mentions this on the second of the two nights. So just gives you an idea of where you are in the story. We're right around the uh Jerusalem and we're kind of going back and forth When Jesus had finished all these words, he said to his disciples, You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man is to be handed over for crucifixion. Now before the feast of the Passover, Jesus knew that his hour had come that he would depart out of this world, having loves his own, who were in the world. He loved them to the end. So I'll read some of these bullet points. One way Jesus demonstrates his love for his disciples was to keep explaining to them what was about to happen. And what's interesting is he is, over and over again, telling what where we're going, what's about to happen, um and yet they scatter. But of course they their faith is even stronger than it ever began. But he is telling His disciples, what's going to happen in and the time is is near. Um this was the sixth time in fact. Jesus told them plainly about his death, uh not to mention other less direct men So again, the point being here, he's telling his disciples about his imminent death. Okay, now on 229, 162. Again, I'll read it and then make some comments about it. Now the feast of unleavened bread, which is called the Passover, was approaching two days away. Anyone knows the differences between Passover and unleavened bread, and or why they may or may not call them the same. If you look down about the middle of the page there, there is a scripture from Leviticus 23, 5 to 6. And it says, In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at twilight is the Lord's Passover. Then on the fifteenth day of the same month, there is the feast of unleavened bread to the Lord. For seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. Um Two different meals, um yet taken together in remembrance of the same event, which is um Passover Which is a remembrance of liberation from Egyptian slavery. And so the big dinner there would be called the Seder. And it's in remembrance of all the things that the Jews went through and the final uh liberation. And then what follows is called the Feast of Unleavened Bread. It's the seven day um festival, again also in remembrance of of their uh hasty departure from East Egypt. So the unleavened bread again they you know they had to leave Egypt. They didn't have time to, you know, make loaves of bread from, you know, the local bakery. It was unleavened Yeah, so make your bread, take your bread, unleaven the matza. Um and so this is just celebrating, well, remembering uh their quick departure from Egypt. But the same kind of basic events, two different meals, uh kind of focus on different aspects of the whole um uh escape from okay I'll continue. Uh the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how they might put him to death, for they were afraid of the people. So right away we see kind of a misplaced fear, right? We're not really Yeah. Don't fear men, fear God. So uh we can really see where the hearts of these leaders are. Um verse three. Then the chief priests and the elders of the people were gathered together. In the court of the highest priest, named Caiphus, and they plotted together, seeking now how to see seize Jesus by stealth and kill him, but they were saying not during the festival, otherwise a riot might occur among the people. So they wanted to get rid of him. They desperately wanted to get rid of him But they couldn't figure out how how to do it without um inciting a riot and probably having the people go against them. But we're gonna see very shortly, a way will be made known to them. Uh who is the them that? Right, right. So those who so the believers, so those who would believe him, even though he was going to be departed, he would still love them to the very end. probably still some of that even today, especially in the um that Jewish community of by not going with going along with your leaders. Um For the crowd. Um you're putting yourself in opposition even today. Um so yeah, let me explore that to the end a little bit more. Okay. One hundred sixty-three which is on two twenty-nine on the bottom there. Actually it flips over to 230. Now while Jesus was in Bethany at the home of Simon the leper and reclining at the table, so interesting, Simon the leper to go to someone's home who's a leper. would not be a common thing to deceive. So there is a belief that this was a leper who Jesus had healed. Um kinda like you wouldn't want to go to someone's house for dinner and they have uh everyone in their family has COVID, right? Um kind of the same thing here. Uh uh there's an assumption that Simon the leper probably had leprosy and was cured likely by uh Jesus, and therefore uh there was a relationship there. So while Jesus was in bathing at the home of Simon and the leopard and reclining at the table, there came a woman with an alabaster vial, a very costly perfume perfume, a pure and art. And she broke the vial and poured it over his head, uh Christ's head. But when they saw this, some of the disciples were indignantly remarking to one another, why has this perfumed and wasted? For this perfume might have been sold for a high price over three hundred denarii and the money given to the poor. And they were scolding her But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Let her alone, why do you bother the woman? For she has done a good deed to me, for you always have the poor with you, and whenever you wish you can do good to them But you do not always have me. Speaking of time, she has done what she could for when she was for when she poured this perfume on my body, she anointed it beforehand to prepare me for the burial Truly I s again another another remark indicating his time was limited and that he was going to kill. Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world What this woman has done will also be spoken of in memory of her. That would be a pretty amazing statement to hear that you're going to be written down in the gospel. This act of worship. Yeah, it's interesting you said it's not just anyone he's pouring in. Not that you're not anyone, but but you're pouring it on God. And um Your worse you know, you're uh when we like honor like someone at at work and they did a great job and they you know they get a twenty thousand dollar bonus, well shouldn't we give If we're gonna honor God, shouldn't we give them even more so in comparison? Um you know the other thing is Christ is is viewing this as not just as an act of worship, but he knows that this This woman will be in heaven for eternity. So this oil, it's meaningless, it's valueless compared to the riches that she'll experience in heaven. Yeah, that's a great observation. I mean the disciples have been with Jesus, sleeping, eating, living with Jesus, and like why would they not have recognized significance Yeah, she did. It gives it kinda gives at least for me, it gives me a little assurance, you know, but even me as a knucklehead, even though I'm reading I'm reading God's word. Yeah, we don't know who this woman is, but um it does it does imply that it it's not m it's not Mary. It's it seems to be a different woman I think those were the only notes. Yeah, I'll here I'll read some of the bullet points. Uh this event seems not to be the same as when Mary anointed feet. Um Then in um the next underlying bullet point, John whose chronology is quite good, sp specifically places Mary's dinner six days before the Passover. And that's in uh John 12, 3. In contrast, both the Matthew and Mark indicated uh just prior to this event that the Passover was then just two days away. So there's a definite distinction in time. And again, two different anointings. One uh Jesus' head in this instance, and then the prior one, Mary, uh anointing his feet. It is true that at all the anointings, Jesus is asked why this perfume wasn't sold for 300 denarii denarii and the money given to the poor. Jesus responds, you always have the poor, but you don't always have the need. John explicitly says that it was Judas who said this at the first event, while Matthew and Mark both indicate that several events um pointed uh Uh okay. Uh yes, well uh Matthew and Mark both indicated that several unnamed people asked this question at this particular event that we just read. However, both Matthew and Mark indicate that this event was the tipping point that prompted Judas to make a deal with the Jewish leaders to hand Jesus over to Interesting how in the section before that we read, the leaders were looking for a way to carry out their diabolical plan and they had no answer. And here is going to be their answer. So the last section is going to be 164 on page 231. Judas bargains to per to betray Jesus. Again, I'll read that blended account. Then Satan entered into Judas, who was called Iscariot, belonging to the number of the twelve. And he went away and discussed with the chief priests and officers how he might betray him to them and said, What are you willing to give me to betray him to you? They were glad when they heard this, because they didn't have a plan previously, and agreed to give him money, and they weighed out thirty pieces of silver to him, so he consented From then on began seeking a good opportunity to portray him to that apart to them apart from the crowd. Again, they wanted this uh where the crowd wasn't wasn't there. Couldn't riot, couldn't um get in their way. Um yeah, again, I th th the point to that that really kind of struck me the word how easily um Actually the the other point I want to make uh in verse three, then Satan entered into Judas. Oh the Holy Spirit didn't come yet, right? That's not until that we see that. Um Jews had already made this decision, right? At this point, um it's really more of a I don't know if it's uh I I don't see it as being a I think it's the um not necessarily like Satan actually like possesses, but the influence, the influence of Satan Or Judas is being given over to completely to his this plan of of you know turning over Christ, um, it's still Judas's responsibility. Some point Judas is just allowed to just there's nothing holding Judas back of this. Yeah, he is definitely sovereign. And even when we get a little scared about our own little world of like, oh what's gonna happen to the church or their Attacks on Christianity well it doesn't faith God at all. He's well aware of what's going on and is in control. And yet somehow uh when we try to blame something on Satan, that's where your heart is, especially uh when it comes to un We've heard some one more one more statement. Any other thoughts on on any of these sections? Well we are coming up next. It's gonna be the last supper. That'll be exciting. And um still other questions. We're gonna get out super early. So everyone can go off to the welcome area and welcome the The whole concept of sovereignty of God, um, and even the compassion of Christ. Talk about, you know, you shall love your enemies. I mean he is there's there's no indication that he treats his disciples any differently. It doesn't treat Judas any differently than the other disciples. Um so the you know, the compassion of God, sovereignty of God, um some other uh actually why don't we you know, why don't we just go through the The first one, examine the presence or lack of faith and obedience on this lesson's characters. What did they do right? What could they have done better? And there's that that table there, um, with four different people, whether it was kind of a good category, bad category, um the Jew Jewish leaders seeking to kill him, um interesting that but they were afraid of a people kind of cowardly. two. The woman in Beth Bethany anointing with costly perfume. Again, just like the uh the point that we brought out about some of the disciples so strange that they would scold this woman after Mary had done a very similar act of worship. Um and then again Judas this is kind of a good summary, Judas um scheming with the Jewish leaders to betray Jesus. Any thoughts on any of these um discussion points on two to six? Um humanity of Christ, his divine attributes? his character, uh the ministry strategy. And what can we think about in the whole in this whole lesson? What about his teaching um can impact maybe our worship? Um how we treat others. And you brought it in about a a good insight and that is um how do we show love? How does Christ show love Christ. And God doesn't love the behavior, right? I mean it's clear doesn't love the behavior. But it's the soul of that person. It's um yeah. It's not the behavior he loves, it's the soul of the person and where that person's gonna end up. for eternity. That's what brings out the compassion of Christ. Um so and the same for us, we we're not to love bad behavior, but we are to love the person, knowing that That heart, that mind, that action is an assault on God and um you're attacking a holy, righteous God. Um and ultimately you're gonna pay for it for you. eternity. And so that's where our compassion comes. Doesn't mean we let people do bad stuff to us. Um clearly. Um you know we are to guard ourselves against evil. But um sad, especially like when you see the like a family member who is life is just in a whirlwind doing really self-destructive things things. Um yet you love that person because you know everything they're doing is just gonna is just come they're gonna c they're gonna reap the benefit uh not they're gonna reap the consequence. Same thing here, those who are against God will ultimately be Cast without for our compassion. Um it seems apparent that several women understood the deity of Christ and his coming, sacrificial death more so than the men. They must have paid more attention to Jesus' words and works and drew generally correct conclusions. And that's an interesting observation, isn't it? Um Do you pay that much attention to what the Bible says so that it changes your actions to be more godly and worshipful? Also, do we pay attention to the things that distract us away from being more godly and more worshipful? I could go into work every single day, Monday to Monday. Um I could become really easily distracted and become more focused on the things of now versus things of eternity. So it's it lessons like this seeing this woman that's just pouring, you know, a hundred thousand dollars worth of perfume for a one time anointment I should pay Bill's next um I could it could I could get cloud my vision could be cloud as to what's eternally important. Um very useful Um so this is actually for me a good lesson to really um put my um put my my sights into the future and not so much in the present. Of course, I still have to pay the bills, but um it doesn't have to be uh um just all encompassing, which is an easy trap at least for me. Any other thoughts on application or or drawing correct conclusions or wondering how the disciples can be in the presence of Christ and still even at this point still not really get it. Kind of an interesting analogy that I see at work is a lot of times year end you usually set up your yearly goals, even a five-year goal and a ten year goal. And a lot of people just don't do that and so they're just kind of like busybodies. But once you set once you s define long term goals, eternity with Christ, then the smaller goals to get there um become more apparent, right? If if my life goal is is to honor and worship Christ. Now it becomes a little bit more apparent as to what I have to do day to day or week to week or month to month. If I don't have that long term goal, then kind of what I do today, you know, if you don't have a goal, well you're just never gonna get there. So how do you get there? And how do you get there are what we do daily? The longer term goal is where you're striving to go. So these are the steps I take daily. So yeah, you're right. The uh the women, particularly in this example, had that long-term vision. I'm gonna be with Christ forever. Let me worship him with all that I have. Let me show the importance of of who Jesus Christ is. To the detriment of the disciples, yeah, they just It was like they just forgot who this man was. And if we have that light of eternity kind of as our vision, um the decisions we make day to day become a little bit easier or maybe more um or influenced if we know that Eternity is really the ultimate goal. And so what I do today does or does not impact that eternal goal. I heard a uh a a similar saying. You don't want to be the richest guy in the And amazing that he's still patient with us, even though we even though we blow it every time. Any last thoughts? Well that was good. I'll I'll close this in prayer if anyone has some last minute thoughts. And um I think Dave Doyle is preaching today at that point. Yeah, so that'll be an exciting time. So I'll I'll close this in prayer Dear Heavenly Father, uh what a um compassionate message. Um in the irony of your up and coming um death, um may we uh Um see this woman as an example for ourselves that we owe everything to Christ, that Christ is worthy of all of our worship. To have the long term goal of eternity in heaven and all these other things um faith in in in recognition of that true fact. We look forward to how uh the remaining portions of our class ends um knowing that uh we too will be in your midst, or may we walk daily with the goal of knowing that you are our God. That you are eternal, that you are sovereign, and that you will bring us through the paths of sanctification so that one day we can be presented to you. Holy and blameless. Lord, may we hold on to that, that true fact And may we worship you appropriately for the days to come and also in how we walk. May we be good stewards of of all that you have provided us and And may we not shrink back from sharing the good news, having compassion on the souls of those, especially those who are fellow believers. May we Come alongside one another, edifying one another, and may we do all things bring glory to your name. Amen