Okay. So we are um Very close. We're almost done, right? We've got uh today a couple more weeks. We're uh in one of the the more joyous parts, perhaps, of of the gospel. uh the resurrection appearances. Last week uh um we covered uh uh the burial of Christ and all the attention that was given to him. And uh now we're on page two eighty, uh lesson forty seven. Is there anybody who needs a hard copy today? I think I may have a few here. Okay, we're all good. Page two eighty. Um So this is early Sunday morning, section 206, an angel rolls away the stone. This is taken just from Matthew. And just a heads up here. The way Matthew writes this, he talks about what had happened by the time the uh the women came, but he starts talking about what had happened in Verse 2, even though in verse 1 he gives the context. Well, I've listed verse 2 here first because chronologically that seems to be what happened. Anyway, so it just starts here, and behold, a severe earthquake had occurred, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled away the stone, and sat upon it. And his appearance was like lightning, and his clothing as white as snow. The guards shook for fear of him, and became like dead men. That must have been quite a sight. Um and so these Uh guards were put there, we saw at the end of last week, um, at the request of the Jewish leaders, but they were Roman soldiers who Pilate made available. And uh they were to ensure that no one would come and and steal the body. Well I guess they could say they succeeded. No one came and stole the body. Um, but That stone, which would have been rolled down a slight incline and rested in the front of the doorway of the grave Roll back up with the help of some angels and so on. And that earthquake Isn't it interesting that there was an earthquake at the time of the crucifixion and the death of Christ, but also of the resurrection of Christ? And so the earth was quaking and the guards were quaking. Um and Um it's obvious that g just God was completely in charge here. Guards, no problem, other than the fact that they were witnesses. of all this. Wouldn't you have liked to have been a witness of that? And they were unwitting witnesses of this great thing. And so um Matthew says that's what had happened And then he he uh in um the previous verse says that um uh now what's happening is that Mary and um others were coming to the grave. Yeah. Um I like to go back to the angels. The angel It's one of my pet peeves because we always see angels as beautiful little feminine creatures. And in the Bible they are I think they're very strong young men and many times armed because everyone is afraid. Even these guards were afraid. It says they shook for fear. And the first words out of an angel's mouth is usually always fear not. Fear not. Everybody is afraid of Then and and that's one of my pet peeves, but the other goes along with that because Christmas is coming and I love Christmas and I love Christmas carols. But we should not get our theology from Christmas Harold. We should get it from the Word of God. Heart the Herald angels sing. No, the angels didn't sing. First of all, the shepherds were afraid and the angels could fear not, and suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the shepherds Heavenly hosts praising God and saying, not singing. Glory to God. And the same thing worked in Revelation Now, most of the time, all the stuff that we hear on Handels and Saiyan has sung, it was never sung. The angels were saying we need to look at the scriptures and see See what it's all about. Angels were a very fearsome breed of I I hate to say people, but beings. Created beings. Even from the beginning in Genesis. When they were banished from the garden, it was guarded by two cherubim. That's angels with flaming swords of fire. I mean they they were on They were young, virile, strong men that made earthly beings quink with fear. We they are fearful and And these beautiful cherubs flying around, you know. Sweetly singing all the planes. Yeah. It's just not it's not what angels So I you know, I mean we can sing the Christmas carols, but go back and read it in the Word of God and skip our Yeah I think part of the shock and fear um this time was the earthquake up. It was it was it was a complete package of sensation, right? The surprise the stone rolling, um an obvious being that was not fearful not human Um and um they had never seen anything like that and so they were shaken. Um Yes. So um let's go to section two oh seven as as the story unfolds here. Now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first I'm sorry, I was reading Matthew. Let's go to the blended account. When Sabbath was over, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James, And Salome bought spices so they might come and anoint him. Very early on the first day of the week, as it began to dawn, they came to the tomb to look at the grave when the sun had risen, bringing the spices which they had prepared. They were saying to one another, Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away from the tomb already, although it was extremely large, and it was rolled uphill, back where it came from. Well it had to be because then it um stay in place but must have been a it had to yeah. The resting place was is uh a little bit lower. And I think even the Greek language there s um indicates that it was up. Yeah. So um yeah, you gotta wonder. You know, they were committed to to doing this, but they knew the stone was over the tomb, and They had no plan for rolling it away. And I guess they just figured, well, we'll see uh if we can find somebody to help us when we get there. I guess is mostly what they were thinking. But they obviously came uh as soon as as they could as the new day started, as the the um the Sabbath was over. And uh it doesn't say exactly when they bought the spices and so on, but um uh Um they clearly had made preparations, but not a detailed plan how we're going to actually pull this off. Um but yeah. Did did they know that there were Roman guards stationed there? I don't think they did. No. I think if they knew that there were guards there, they would have second thoughts about even the possibility of of this. Um they're asking who's going to help us roll the stone. This is the physical problem. They weren't asking about how are we going to handle the guards. So um that all would have been uh I think a a big surprise to them. Yeah. There's a seal. Yeah, I don't I don't think the seal is necessarily like putting caulk around the entire perimeter. It was a a um Um some kind of a like you would put a seal on an envelope, I think, where you'd have some kind of thing that would attach two and maybe across the stone so that if anybody broke it it would be obvious that it was broken. It would be sealed maybe with the uh the authority of the Roman government and and so on And so if you uh if you break that, you're answerable to Rome. Yeah. Um And so again, we're seeing here that the just the irony, I suppose, that The Jewish leaders remembered very well that Jesus predicted he was going to rise on the third day, and they took precautions to make sure that wasn't going to happen. Or they didn't have any fear that it was going to happen. They were feared that somebody was going to make it look like it happened. Right? And um And yet the disciples were still somewhat clueless on this, even though Christ had explained this to them on occa o over and over on multiple occasions, that he would rise on the third day. I really wonder if that's yeah. But it could be a couple million from that people each other. No, because oh maybe it's just that maybe the uh the Jewish leaders were more familiar with Susha and No, I think I I don't know that it was familiarity with scripture. Um if anything, other than just God God's sovereignty and the way he works in people's hearts and minds. But if anything, I think the Jewish leaders may have had an incentive to try to listen to what he was saying so they could use it against him And so they they heard things and processed them, not didn't believe them necessarily, but they processed them and didn't want to be caught unaware. Well, the disciples had their own frame of mind about what what was going to happen. And it was so different from what Christ was telling them that it just They just dismissed it or it just went over their head or or whatever. Um they're grieved. And there's what? They're grieving. Grieving. Grieving. Grieving. Yeah Yeah. But I was thinking Jesus picked those men to be his very closest disciples. And they were fishermen, other I mean there was one tax collector and maybe some mothers, but I think it was to show that you don't need to be really smart or educated to become a follower of Jesus. He's an ordinary, if you will, almost dumb. He is so simple. The gospel is so simple simple that just regular Joe's. Yeah and and in hindsight, uh whether it was God's plan or or whatever, uh it speaks volumes. That um the the very people who would have been suspected of some kind of fraud at this point um uh making it look like Jesus had raised from the dead and making something of it and so on as the Jewish leaders were were um uh concerned about. The very people who would do that um were scared silly, confused, uh scattered Um not in any position to pull off any kind of fraud here. And in God's providence, that actually speaks volumes about the truthfulness of the account. And um uh people have even after the resurrection come up with all sorts of alternate explanations for it. You know, if Jesus didn't actually die and and everything. Um but none of those theories can stand up to the transformed lives of these people who were scared silly And confused and uh forgetful, didn't have it together, just their transformation within the space of a few weeks. is speaks volumes. And that's also the Holy Spirit thing, isn't it? Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we're going to see a little bit more of the same thing as we continue here today. Um and so um the women arrive And they see that, oh, well, that's going to be easy. The stone's already been rolled away, but that also makes them curious at this point. Why would it be rolled away? And so Matthew says that the same angel who was sitting on the stone Talked with them. And so in section 28, 208 here, the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, the Nazarene, who has been crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where he was lying. Behold, here is the place where they laid him When they entered the tomb, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. They saw a young man sitting at the right, wearing a white robe, and they were amazed. Now notice it's called a white robe. Um uh referring to him as a young man and as uh wearing a white robe. This is all just sort of they're uh Um he may well have been wearing a robe, but as an angel, who knows what they're wearing, right? Um and the uh in multiple places it talks about their um uh their their brilliance and and so on. But anyway, it appeared to them like just a young man wearing a white robe, and they were amazed. Why would they be amazed? That somebody would be sitting there Kind of casually. And while they were perplexed about this, behold, two men suddenly stood near them in dazzling clothing And as the women were terrified and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, Why do you seek the living one among the dead? He is not here, but he is risen. Remember how he spoke to you while he was still in Galilee, saying that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified, and the third day rise again Go quickly and tell his disciples and Peter that he has risen from the dead. And behold, he is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him. Behold, I have told you. And they remembered his words. Um what words? The words about him needing to rise from the dead and and so on And they left the tomb quickly, with fear and great joy, and ran to report it to his disciples, for trembling and astonishment had gripped them And they said nothing to anyone for they were afraid that is on the way, right? So um They get an explanation. This is why the stone's been rolled away. This is why his body is not here. They haven't seen the risen Christ at this point, but they Um they've been told what has happened and what to do. Seems pretty straightforward, right? Yeah. And then the announcements. Angels are very involved. Yep. But it's not implicit in the passage that's Yes. Yeah. And and as often both in the Old Testament and the New Testament If they if they make an appearance looking like a man, people presume they're just a man. Um unless they're in their their brilliant um Clothing and and and aspect and so on. We don't make a big deal out of it. It's like what animals say, you know, the angels you make a big deal about being your opening historic but not I think there are a few songs that make reference to the angels announcing um he has risen from the dead. But but yeah. But saying if the angels were saying not seeing occasionally. Occasionally, yeah. But not And both came with instructions on what to do, you know. Uh when they came they announced these words, right. So what are angels uh um fundamentally? Messengers, right? And so sometimes they carry out duties and so on, but they're often just their role is that of a messenger, and here they're they're providing the message Right, just as they did to announce Christ's birth, there's a message that gave them instructions. Likewise here. They also played control. Yes. And the women as well um did not have um the Holy Spirit at this time either. Which is why it might be part of the reason why it might be that They didn't have a reminder um that Christ said he was gonna rise and what that meant. You know, he literally because they they didn't have the Holy Spirit helping them with that process that And so that's probably why uh it they need to hear again from the angel for preaching again, um, to help them remember and to maybe now process that that is literal. Yeah, I'm I'm sure that's that's part of what's going on here, but it gets a little um worse. To some extent. If we flip the page here to section 209, so it it it gives the account here from both Luke and John where the the women come back to the disciples and let's see what they say. So they ran and returned from the tomb and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved and said to them. They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb and we do not know where they have laid him. Well, if they think he's still dead, he needs to be left They're still gr wrestling with what in the world's been going on here, but they've had an angel, multiple angels, explain to them that he fulfilled his his um promise to uh uh rise from the dead and uh you need to go to Galilee to to see him. Um Why do you seek the living among the dead? All those things which um you know, I I'm not faulting the women because I'm pretty sure they're here in this story to remind us that we would have been just as Stupid. Um worse, maybe. Uh it wasn't that they were necessarily undeleting at this point But clearly it was hard for them to process. Even with a very specific reminder by an angel or more than one. They have taken away our Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they have laid it. And they reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. Now, um they were Mary Magdalene and Johanna, who is mentioned here as having gone, but wasn't mentioned in the actual accounts. So these lists are not necessarily all um comprehensive. But uh Joanna and Mary, the mother of James, and also um the other women with them were telling these things to the disciples. So there were multiple women. Interesting that it would be all the women who would be going showing devotion to Christ. Well they weren't they weren't going to the tomb to be talking, right? They were going there to show of devotion. Yes. Right, for sure. Okay. Um Do you think they thought the angels talking to this body? Or do they still think he's it Hard to say. Hard to say. But clearly they're having trouble just processing everything Even though it's been laid out to them by Christ beforehand, laid out to them by the angels. Um I have to I'll have to assume that uh although the angel uh the copio beans, I don't think they were particularly differentiated from from what humans would look like because um I th I would have thought that if the interest so you know somehow so dramatically different from what humans might look like, it it would prompt them to think beyond just the the body that they lose Well yes, except that although one of them they they seemed to think was just a young man in a white robe, uh in another case it said two of them they They saw in dazzling apparel and they were greatly afraid. They weren't just regular people in their eyes. So Um they're still having problems processing this whole thing. And you know, I think we would have too. I'm thinking at this point, given their reaction to this And the fact that they they live in a world where people at least feel suspicious to some extent. We today think if we don't see it, it's not real. You know. I think we work in force of baby Probably. Yeah. Yeah, it's easy to point fingers, but we've got to be careful about that. And I think it's showing that they're they weren't gullible you know, the whole thing is it's real. Yeah. Uh this is a real story with real people that have real doubts, just like we have today. Right. But that God provides evidence and logic for us to believe which he Yeah what's what's interesting here and and you made me think of this, that um the angels Told them to um uh to go to Galilee because he's going to meet with you there There was no particular promise at that point that's recorded anyway, that Jesus was going to meet them even before they went to Galilee, like today. Um and yet he did. And um and so there's this sort of progressive um Encounter with Christ. Starts small, starts with information about the resurrection and then leads to multiple um Anyway, so And they reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. Now they were alright, remember, all the women. Verse 11. But these words appeared to them as nonsense. Appeared to who? The disciples as nonsense and they would not believe in this. Not that they could not believe them, but they would not believe the women's testimony But Peter and the other disciples, uh, that is uh John, got up and ran to the tomb. The two were running together, and the other disciple ran ahead faster than Peter and came to the tomb first. John Right Eddie He wrote that about himself. Yeah. Um and um stooping and looking in, he saw the Linen Rapins lying there But he did not go in. And so I've got a picture here of a typical, typical what they call first temple tomb, that is I'm a second temple. that is contemporary with the time of Christ. And it's carved out of rock, but because it's carved out of rock, it they don't make it any larger than they really need to. Uh the dead people don't need to stand up in there. In fact, nobody can stand up in there. You have to stoop in and and so on. And uh Um okay, so I was at six. And so Simon Peter also came following him and entered the tomb and saw only the linen wrappings wrappings lying there. And the face cloth, which had been on his head, not lying with the linen wrappings, but rolled up in a place by itself. So the other disciple who had come from uh first come to the tomb, then also entered, and he saw and believed. So um He's the first one that believes? He's the first one to believe by his own admission, anyway. But he believed without having actually seen Christ. And you remember what Jesus later told Thomas. Blessed are those who believe who have not seen, right? Verse nine, For as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that He must rise again from the dead. So the disciples went away again to their own homes, marveling at what had happened. Um by the way, their own homes, this was probably just uh what it means is that they went back to where they were staying here in Jerusalem. It wasn't their their um Their home in the long-term sense, but it's where they're staying. Yes, sir. What scripture outside of Jesus' word would that scripture be that he must rise from the dead? Um I'm not old I I don't know a whole lot, but um I do understand in the Old Testament. It does specifically say that the messiah would be cut off. But I don't know that I've I've come across any place or any Teaching that it actually states that he will rise from the dead. Yeah, so there there is the passage that's that's referenced several times in the New Testament, including Peter Peter's preaching, that um um his the Messiah um would not see decay, which is a reference to him not undergoing the normal The normal death process and so on. Is that the same scripture that Jesus also you know with the ex What later when he's talking to the guys on their way to Emmaus, is that the s do you think that's that's the same scripture that 'cause it even there it says that he shared with them Open the scriptures, right. About his resurrection. Right, both on the road to Emmaus and um later in his resurrection appearances Uh the end of Luke mentions him uh going through all of the scriptures, meaning the Old Testament, and showing them how these things had to be. So it would have been both his death, bural and resurrection. The whole works, showing them from the scriptures how it had to be. And Peter, of course, was remembering those things when he was preaching on Pentecost Sunday. And telling them. It's fulfilling scripture. Is there another one? Yes, Job. Yeah. Pastor Allen, you you um shared a while back that um modern Israel isn't particularly they don't try to cover up the sacred sites that Christians assign meaning to. They they invite Christians to come to their their country to tour and if they If they believe that these sites are significant of of Messiah, the country welcomes that and says we If you want to come here and spend money, you can well there's been a very very long history of people venerating sites associated with Christ And um some of them were completely wiped out um within a hundred or two years of of the events. Um Um the the site of the resurrect or the site of the um crucifixion, for example. Um Uh seems like it was targeted specifically by um which emperor was that? Huh. Slipped my mind. Anyway, that around, I don't know, a hundred years or so after the event Um he so wanted to crush Christianity that he comp he he erected a a temple to a false goddess on that very location that the people were venerating as the place of the death and resurrection of Christ Constantine came along and replaced that with a huge cathedral that's there today. Called the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. And so it's long ago been since anything recognizable about that that uh Golgotha um has existed, but the memory of it is still there, although that place is not a very encouraging place. Um Because it's it's it's all about Catholic um icons and so on. Yeah. What's the point of John? So um John to remember John's friend Okay. And nothing um correcting there because And then he said that for as yet they they did not understand the scripture. The question that comes to my mind is At some point in the future may not understood. Do we do we can we tell for certain when that point was And also, did he without seeing, did he understand at that point or not? The reason I'm asking that question is this It seems to me that there's an illusion here to the fact that there is something besides just seeing, or maybe even just reading, brings about understanding is the uh are we to understand this word used to hear understanding that means something is beyond just mental uh cognition of a fact Not the way John uses the word believe, which is not just a sense to facts, but a a more of a a a commitment to it as being true Henry, you said that he didn't enter and that was correct, but down in verse eight it says, So the other disciple who has first come, that's John to the tomb, then also entered, and he saw what did he see, the empty grave clothes and the and the With the headpiece lying by itself. He entered, he saw, and believed. So I'm pretty sure that what's referred to here his belief is his his believing that Jesus had risen. Nobody took the body. He had risen. But it says in the very next verse, they did not yet understand the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. He was he didn't have all the pieces put together at this point. But uh he believed that Jesus had indeed risen. did it because if someone stole the body, they're gonna leave it wrapped up when they take it away. They're not gonna unwrap it. Right. Okay. Um So when did he and the others um come to understand that? Largely through the subsequent resurrection appearances of Christ, where he laid it all out to them from the scriptures. Okay. Is that Mary in this one or Sarah? Uh that's actually Jan. Oh. Little uh that's for scale, right? Yeah. Okay. Uh section one ten, uh two ten. But Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons, was standing outside the tomb weeping And so as she wept, she stooped and looked in looked into the tomb, and she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had been lying. And they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? And she said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. When she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there. So either um just outside the tomb or Um but he was standing, I don't think he was going to be standing inside the tomb. Um Rossy But you wouldn't see the top of the body. Use your imagination, right? Okay. Um and did not know that it was Jesus Maybe because she couldn't see his head. His head was in the rocks, right? Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. She was really fixated on this somebody took the body. And Jesus said to her, Mary, now I I would love to know what tone of voice he used when he called out her name, wouldn't you? Mary. Mary? No, it wasn't a question mark. Mary. Yeah. And she turned and said to him in Hebrew, Rabbonai, which means teacher. So she recognized his voice immediately and then kind of put two and two together. Jesus said to her, Stop clinging to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brethren and say to them, I ascend to my Father and your Father, and my God and your God. So um I often wondered about Jesus' uh instruction to her stop clinging to me. There's no reference here to say that she was even touching him. He was there, she recognized him and Um and there are references uh later for people touching him, like Thomas, for example, and confirming that the scars are there and and I I don't think that this is indicating that she was clinging to him and he says, Hey, stop it, lady. That's not what's going on here. Uh I think he's he's saying you've you've got to get used to the fact that I'm not going to be here. And I've risen. You know, he didn't explicitly say how long he would be appearing to them, but uh he says I have not yet ascended Um there's going to be some time here before I ascend, is the implication. But I will be ascending. I'm not going to be here forever. And he prepared his disciples uh during the Last Supper for his departure. You know, you're not going to s be able to go with me and you won't see me and that kind of thing. And I think that's the context he's he's saying that Here. So then verse 18, Mary Magdalene came announcing to the disciples who had been with him while they were mourning and weeping. I have seen the Lord. And that he had said these things to her. So I've seen him, this is what he said, that's pretty powerful. And when they heard this, he was alive and had been seen by her, they greatly rejoiced, right? They refused to believe it. They were so, I guess, so despondent, so what, let down. Things weren't working the way they expected they would with him taking the throne of David here and now. Um and so they were mixed up Uh has been for quite a while, I guess, but they just refuse to believe it. That's too good to be true, right? It didn't fit their paradigm. Well I yeah, I don't know. But But a woman wasn't allowed to be a witness in in trials in those days. I mean in the first part of the the account the angel said go and tell him who's risen. No somebody stole them so I will come on. But this time, this time she got it right, because they she saw Jesus and she said, I have seen the Lord, and here's what he told me. And that seems like a pretty accurate report. at this point. Yeah. So um they refused to believe it. But then in um Section 211, which is just Matthew, behold, Jesus met them and greeted them. And they came up and took hold of his feet, see that, and worshiped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and take my take word to my brethren to leave for Galilee, and there they will see me. So That the the point here is that in section two ten it was just Mary Magdalene who saw him. And was given instructions by Jesus and went to tell the disciples. Section 211, apparently he met with other of the women who had gone there. Matthew twenty eight nine follows Matthew twenty-eight eight. Um Which merely reports that they went to the women went to uh report his missing body to the disciples. Yeah. Easter morning. Yeah. Yeah, so it's it's not clear um how much back and forth there was, but at some point Jesus met initially with Mary Magdalene and then later other women, still just the women who had gone to the tuna. And um at least twice. Yeah. Yeah. Why was it necessary for them to leave town? For them to be told to go to Galilee and so on. There was already the plan of Christ to uh spend time with them during his resurrection appearances and so on prior to his ascension, um it probably would have been a loss easier for them to do that in Galilee, but it also would allow them to be back on more familiar territory back home. and be prepared for uh later ministry starting in Jerusalem, which would come Um but I'm just guessing that it would have made for easier because he wasn't going to be revealing himself to any other than um um his followers, his believers. He wasn't going to be revealing himself to to um anybody else. And so there would have been fewer people around, places to to meet with him and be taught by him uh easier, more easily in Galilee than Anywhere around Jerusalem. That's my guess. Yeah. What's interesting is he tells them multiple times to uh through the angels and whatnot to to go to Galilee. But in fact, he met the two on the way to the road to Emmaus with He met with them even after that, in the upper room in Jerusalem, multiple sightings. He met with Peter. So he did meet with them eventually in Galilee, but um even while they were still hanging around, even on that day, and um Shortly thereafter, at least a week after they were still in Jerusalem, that's when Thomas came. The second time. Um all of the disciples came through all Yeah. Uh first Corinthians fifteen mentions five hundred. Or about five hundred. Yeah, at one time. At one time, yeah. Five hundred. Okay, so he says, Do not be afraid. Go and take word to my brethren to leave for Galilee And there they will see me. Turns out they're gonna see them a lot sooner than that. Um and Um maybe they wouldn't have liked. Maybe they would have drawn. Yeah, they were clearly in a state of disbelief and um shock confusion, all those things rolled into one. And so uh it seems they needed to all see the risen Lord to To um um to basically get with it. Yeah. To figure with that decision Yeah, so that those um we're gonna get there, but uh those resurrection appearances were not necessarily full-time. Right? They they made their way to Galilee and it w they're saying, Well, okay, we're in Galilee, but I don't see the Lord. Um it took some time. Okay, section two twelve. This is taken just from Matthew. Now, while they were on their way, that is, while the women were going to tell the disciples that they'd actually seen the Lord Some of the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests all that had happened. And when they had assembled with the elders and consulted together, they gave a large sum of money. to the soldiers and said, You are to say his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep Now, if you're a Roman soldier and you're confessing to have been asleep on the job, that probably wouldn't go all that well for you. Um but they said, well if this should come to the governor's ears, if not only they give him a large sum of money, but if this should come to the governor's ears, we will win him over and keep you out of trouble. So it's not like they had any choice. Other than say, no, we actually saw an angel And an earthquake and moving the stone and um the body's not there. We didn't s nobody took it out. By the way, why was the t why was the stone rolled away from the tomb What's that? Yeah. So that people like Peter and and and John and so on and us could look in and confirm that he had risen. Um he didn't need it in order to get out. Yeah. But he didn't go out, I don't think, that way, like through where the stone was or would have just gone straight up. I know he could. Or he could have just manned it or man. Yep. All interesting speculation. Anyway, they tell the soldiers, if any of this should come to the governor's ears, we will win him over and keep you out of trouble. And they took the money, of course, and did as they had been instructed, and this story was widely spread among the Jews and is to this day. Now, do you find it ironic that the very people who wanted to avoid this kind of fraud being implemented are the ones who propagate it? All right. Uh because at this point their best option is to deny it by some uh Um you know, some other explanation. Was there a worst case scenario asked? Yeah. So worst case scenario is that this is all true and we're made to look As foolish as we really are. And they weren't about to admit that. The interesting thing is that the the Jewish leaders had such sway with the Roman officials, the Roman government At least these well the they had a lot of s we we saw this in the trial of Christ, right? Well they're they're pushing Pilate to get their way Because Pilot was also in a tenuous position and knew that if there was any kind of an uprising here it was going to look bad on his record and he didn't want that. He was trying to avoid the the the politics of it all. Here, I think the the soldiers why did they go to the Jewish leaders first? Well they were dispatched to the Jewish leaders. So so the Jewish leader was kind of like their, you know their in their chain of command. But the the this the difficult thing for me would be now these soldiers have this on their record that you know, maybe not even in their record, but at least kind of connect to them that hey, you're the guy that was sleeping on that Jesus uh detail. But they but but it didn't seem that they had this this this sway over this uh the Roman government. And to get these guys out of trouble and keep them from, you know, losing their heads for being Yeah, we uh it would be interesting to have recorded here in scripture Some of the follow-on to this. Like word gets back to Pilate, and there's a conversation between the Jewish leaders here and Pilate, and they're convincing him that It's all a fraud, but we don't have that record. We can only presume. That kind of thing. Um they may still have gotten in trouble because they're not Um okay Question. Any other Rebecca. I heard uh someone that said that they may not have been Roman students. They may have been temple cards, which makes sense why the trees would have more influence over Yeah, but if they were only temple guards, why would the Jewish leaders say um If this should come to the governor's ears, we will win him over and keep you out of trouble. the friend still that um if there was inclination from the Jews um it would be bad for the rulers there the Roman ruler is So remember all of that? I mean Pilate kept trying to keep peace with sending Jesus because nobody else could be a terrorist Um, I think they still were afraid of that, of an uproar of with the people. And they would be in trouble. They would lose their conversation they could be there heads the root the ones that were ruined there in the Jerusalem area that would just keep everything at peace. I think they were afraid when the tire I paid to them, um they pretty much listened to them and did what they said so they could keep their own They and people call the Romans with P you know, peep peace. Yeah, they certainly ha were on a precarious uh political position. Um but sorry, Kurt, you had a Okay. I'll pass your own one. It seems like the maybe the summary lesson or one of them is that um when different uh unfavorable, quote unfavorable events happen in our lives, even sometimes very severe and very heart-wrenching. What kind of meaning do we as a people of faith What kind of meaning do we assign to that? And do we feel that God is not in control and and it's not for good? And so this is like the quintessential thing that that would just be so emotionally disturbing. And yet we have lesser things, uh, even though they're hard. But what what is our what do we assign to those events? Right. Right, so good reminders for us to stick with scripture to To uh believe it, to act, knowing that it's true, um, to be alert when we're encountering scripture Um to be guided by the Holy Spirit, which is an advantage that we have over the disciples while they were with Christ, of course. But um Um yeah, but seems like the lesson is that if if we were in their situation, in their context, we would have been no better And so can we learn from that and do better with the things that we face now? Right It's sort of ironic that Easter Sunday is the day that we claim is the most joyous in in the Christian calendar, and it is for us most joyous. was not a joyous day for anyone when it actually happened. It was a day of doubt, mystery, fear I'm guessing it was a probably a day of joy for Christ. But he had his work cut out for him to to help people understand. Um in fact on the road to Emmaus they talked about how their hearts were just burning with with joy as he was unfolding the scriptures to them. Oh yeah. Yeah. I was just thinking about how God left irrefutable evidence to to the events and to the resurrection. You know, it's just um you look at his disciples and they're refusing to believe. You look at those who rejected him and they're posting Roman soldiers It was a public military execution. You know, just everything about it. It was you mentioned about people trying to come up with alternative explanations and as Linda mentioned about their state of mind and you know it's the women recording the resurrection, just everything about it You know, God left irrefutable evidence and the only way to reject it is by a willful rejection of the of the of the truth, the evidence. I mean there's just no discounting, you know, what happened or what took place. Yeah. And it reminds me there have been a number of people who um set out to prove that the resurrection was a hoax. Um, I think that's a good thing. Rather noteworthy. Uh what's his name? Morrison? I think he wrote a book called Who Moved the Stone? He set out to prove it was all a hoax and then actually looked at the evidence. And the evidence was overwhelming that any other explanation is Just inconceivable. And um he came to faith in Christ because he was convinced that um um the resurrection was in fact uh the the the greatest event you know of all time and and uh it's a good book. It's it's Yeah, God is not gonna leave this to to any other explanation, you know. I mean he's talking about his son and the resurrection, the greatest event for redemption, you know, and just he's not gonna leave this to some other explanation. Right. It had to be had to be well, not only at the time did it need to be clear that um Um it actually happened. There were eyewitnesses and so on. Multiple eyewitnesses. Well both those who believed and did not believe. And those who were shaking in their boots and had No preconceived ideas that it could have even been happening. Um but perhaps the most telling uh testimony is that those very same guys Um all but one went to well, all but two. One of them was a traitor. But went went to um a martyr's death Um you don't do that if you're believing what you know to be a lie. Go from hiding in a locked room scared to to preaching publicly to the nation. Right. But it was all plain before That's true. So it's just we're going to reject it without God's sake. And we have it laid down. We have it laid down in the scripture, so there is a record of that. So we don't have to be eyewitnesses. But again, even back then people saw Lazarus raised from the dead and yet they didn't believe. Some did, some didn't. So it kind of goes back to the Yeah. Holy Spirit God's will. Even if someone raises from the dead, they won't believe it. Right. Right. Um okay. Any other oh no there won't be. Let's pray.