Well good morning. We are on the final section of the Sermon of the Mount. Um It is lesson fourteen and in your book it is sections fifty-three, fifty-four, fifty-five. And I don't know if you have looked ahead, but it is a jam-packed amount of a material And I have a little different way, but it is pages eighty-seven through ninety-one or so. Through ninety-one. And we're going to get through all of it. There's three sections here. One is judgment of others. That's going to be Matthew 7, 1 to 6. Then there is prayer and the golden rule, which is seven, verses seven to twelve. And then There's this kind of general session called the conclusion. 713 to 81. Well let me tell you what is in the conclusion. Are you ready? Okay. We're going to sum up righteousness and salvation. We're going to go to the narrow and broad gate. We're going to talk about false prophets. We're going to talk about true trees with the good fruit, the bad fruit, and then we're going to talk about building your house on the rock or the sand and then the authority of Jesus Christ. That's a lot. That's a lot. Um and by God's mercy we'll try to dive into the deep, real rich truths of these scriptures. Um but we won't do it justice. I mean these are sermons on their own. But we will uh I don't want to leave anybody with questions and we will um wrestle with these these great truths. So before I before beginning, I really wanted to kind of bring this back to what this course is. It is the life of Christ. And so we are viewing Christ as if we're the way I I approached it was Pretend you are one of the disciples, or one in the crowd, and these are teachings you have never heard before. There is nothing even written yet. So we take it for granted a little bit because we always, you know, we read these we read these the scripture all the time. But this is brand new revelation for everyone who is in the crowd. I would hate to be there because I I would have like no my notes would be scribbled and and blank spaces. Um this is just revelatory material um a totally new way to approach God. And so um I think it's important in each one of these lessons we have There's always a section in the back and it talks about uh discussion questions, application. I think it's important before we go in here, maybe look at this first And then go into the section. So I'm just gonna, just to kind of bring our minds back, thinking about you are you're out there in the crowd, you're listening to this sermon Um your whole world of how to approach God is is being questioned. Um look at some of these questions in the back. And these I think they're almost the same in each of the sections that we always go through. But Um, what are we learning about the humanity of Christ in this lesson? Um what do we observe about his character? Um number five, what do we learn about his ministry strategy? Um What do we learn about this teaching and and the application I think really brings it home? Um and uh we are blessed that we have the scripture because we can go back and read and think and discuss um about all these truths. I mean the Sermon on the Mount is really a Fantastic piece of God's truth. Um jam-packed with truths. Um You could really have an entire course just on sermon and allowance. Um but let's think about what If you could pretend, what would you what would be going through your minds the first time you ever heard this kind of material? How does it change your perspective of who you are? How does it change your perspective on what God requires How do I walk forward after this? And you'll notice at the very end in the conclusion, Jesus really gives a challenge. And so we're going to get into that. But to begin with, we're going to start with section one. Oh sorry, fifty-three I think it is Not 53. We are gonna start. Oh I'm upside down. I'm upside down and inside out. Yes, 53, right? Lesson 14, uh section fifteen, uh judgment of others. And again for those who are new Um we're taking two of the Gospels. They're right there on your on your page. And then we're going to read the blended account, which is taking both Gospels Putting them together so we get all the perspectives all at one time. Judgment of others. Um I looked at Strong's Concordance at what judge to judge judgment is um if you're interested, Strong's Concordance 2919 is the is the is the term used here. It's to distinguish, to decide, to condemn, to conclude, go to law, cause a question, sentence. punish. So there's a lot of terminology here. Um and so why don't we read it? Why don't we read it first? Could someone like to start? Actually let me start. I just want to read the first verse. Um again I'm going to the blended account. Verse 37. Do not judge, so that you will not be judged, and do not condemn, and you will not be condemned. Pardon, and you will be party. So I just want to stop there. Does this mean we're never therefore to judge or criticize anything? That was being spoken to in this section. Before we get into it, I don't want to give you the answer I don't want that I don't want to I don't want us to read the answer. I should say. So we're gonna talk about each other. I think the the problem with this verse sometimes I'm right on the fun done. No, it's good. I'll and we're gonna read through it, but I do want us to see that um we do judge We are to judge. We're to be critical. Um, in fact we're gonna even look at uh what do you do in terms of false prophets? We have to judge, we have to be critical. Yes. This is all all part of that. And yes, we are gonna the golden rule is is coming up to that as well. Let's read through it and then we'll come back and talk about what this idea of judging Do not judge means. Would someone like to kind of read through from again we start from th verse thirty-seven to go all the way to the end of the blended account? Do not judge so that you will not be judged, and do not condemn, and you will not be condemned. Pardon, and you will be pardoned. Give it will be given to you. They will pour into your lap a good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over. Provide your standard of measure, it will be measured to you in return. And he also spoke a parable to them. A blind man cannot guide a blind man, can he? Will they not both fall into a pit? A pupil is not above his teacher, but everyone, after he has been fully trained, will be like his teacher. Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the love that is in your own eye Or how can you say to your brother, brother, let me take this effect that is in your eye when you yourself do not see the love, that is in your own eye You hypocrite. First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly take out the speck that is in your brother's eye. Do not give what is holy to dogs, and do not throw your pearls before swine, or they will trample them under their feet. And parentary the feces. But so there is an aspect of there are times when we do judge. Uh, for example, we must be discerning in what we believe, right? Um we must make every effort to judge between truth and falsehood, good and evil. Um, for example, Matthew eighteen, right? We we do church discipline. We judge um not to not to show ourselves as being better, we judge with the hopes of restoration in that case. Later on in actually in in in this sermon, Matthew 7, 15, we're going to talk about beware of false prophets. How could you beware of false prophets? If you're not critical in your thinking, right? Um 1 Corinthians 5. 11 Instructor saints to not even associate with so-called brother who is immoral, idolater, revolver, swindler, drunkard. So we do judge. John 7 24, do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. So there's a different context. I think the context brings out the difference here. The context, remember, um In this case, he's not just talking to disciples. There are Pharisees, there are scribes, there are unbelievers, there are hypocrites in the crowd, right? So if we went back to um Uh verse two. What's I want verse two for If we look back at verse two, Matthew seven, verse two, for the way you judge you for in the way you judge, you will be judged. And by your standard of measure, it will be measured to you. In context, look at Matthew 520. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees You will never enter the kingdom of heaven. The Pharisees and the scribes were very arrogant, and they thought they were very righteous. They knew for sure they are gonna be in the kingdom of heaven. Um a lot of times They would judge those who um were Bernitha. I mean, uh Sumerians. They wouldn't even walk on the same side of the road as a Samaria. Um they were judging with unrighteousness. And so that's the whole purpose of again if you looked at uh if you looked at um like MacArthur's outline And each all the way through he's always talking about righteousness. Righteousness, righteousness, righteousness. And the scribes and Pharisees thought, well, they were already there. They were judging with hipp hypocrisy. Whereas um That's exactly what this verse is condemning. It's judging with um unrighteousness. Um do you or anyone else happen to know if are are there two different Greek words for the you know the the judging this is excessively critical versus the righteousness. So they seem to be two different words. Right. Right, right. Th there were maybe another one or two um what does it talk about? Judge judging, judgment. This one particular was that one that I got out of the concordance. Um It is fairly vague, but I think the context brings out the hypocritical judgment is what this is identifying. Oh, could someone read Luke 18, 11 to 14? Talking about self-righteousness. Luke eighteen, eleven to fourteen, and I put that in there a while and I'm not exactly sure why, but I think it was I have a big note saying, read this verse. So let's read it. Eighteenth, eleven through fourteen. Yep, so here is a section That exemplifies what's being addressed in this in this passage. It's that own unholy judgment. And you can see that in the Pharisee. judging someone um not through not by any kind of standard of righteousness, but just so self-righteousness, right So that's what's being condemned here when he says do not judge. It's this kind of do not judge. So if I had to kind of boil it down to three ideas here in this section Uh the context also points to do not judge with hypocrisy in your hearts. Um religious pride should not be the foundation for judging others. Um, be slow in hasty judgments. Do not judge until you are sure of having complete knowledge of all relevant facts. I think I'd I put that in just as a As I was going through this, I really wanted to how can this what can I take away as an application? I think this is one that um I run into most often is I will quickly rush to judgment without having complete knowledge of all relevant facts I could also get self-righteous. And so I need to watch my heart when it comes to looking at how fellow brother walks or does not walk. And again the idea of judging without complete knowledge relevant facts. I'm very prone to that at thought. Um, you mentioned the uh I guess the idea of church visibility But the nice thing with that is, you know, if it works as it should, you go to somebody that you perceive as sin to establish facts. You're going to them saying, look, maybe I'm misunderstanding something here, and a lot of times maybe you are. But at least at that point you're showing concern for them. It's not like I'm I think I'm better than you. It's just I think I you know, I I I I think there's some sin here. Could you explain to me what's going on? And and a lot of times that can be quickly resolved. But um You know, that's kind of uh it you know the person might be like, oh wow, you're judging me, and then you know, and maybe you're wrong, maybe you're right, but if you bring a second person, they can say, oh no, you got this all wrong Yeah, yeah, the hard motive is definitely different in that particular instance versus what we're seeing here with the Pharisees out in the crowd. Yep, yeah. And we'll also get into, you know, taking the log out of my eye and also looking at my brother with a spectrum, so uh I do all these things. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So to summarize, that's a excellent point to bring to is there are times when we do judge. We just do not want to be in the in the position of judging unrighteously. And with Bad hard mode this week. So the last bit about Oh yes, I'm kidding that. Isn't that fantastic? I was just gonna go on, but yeah, how do you go I mean it's just kinda like bam. Like where did that come from, right? Yeah. It's a great it's a good observation 'cause I was like it kinda seems like it just like got dropped in there, like um and so um some ideas about this. Um yeah, it 'cause it's it it hit me too. I was like, where did this come from? Um But I I think it's kind of more of a um more of a guardrail. Yeah. Yeah. Uh more of a guard I think it's placed there as kind of a guardrail to prevent us from tolerating everything and yet at the same time not exercising good biblical discernment um and in some cases making wise judgment. Um I think it's bringing us to the idea that um There are evil and heretical people. Um and so we must not be so afraid to not properly oppose and defend righteousness because The the uh error is can be in verse one where it says, do not judge, like, oh okay, I'm just never gonna judge anything. And at the end of that, but don't give what is holy to dogs and swine. Dogs and swine were like I don't know, trying to look at an analogy today. I mean dogs we have in our house. Dogs were like these brutal beasts that wandered the streets Um they were as vile as the swine were to the Jews. Um My thought on that is that um yes, twofold, that that is kind of like a guardrail. Um do not judge, but on the other hand there are instances where we do judge. So those who Hate us or against us, someone who is um just uh seems to be an adversary when we're giving them you know so what would be so what uh why don't I just go right to the verse. Uh do not give what is holy to dogs, pearls to the swines. So holy and pearls, so things of high value. Why are you giving things that are of high value to the dogs and the swines. Why am I um correct me if I'm wrong in this? Um why would I um We are to preach, we also share the gospel, but at some point, um At some point we have to recognize it's in God's hands. So, you know what, let me give what is valuable to someone else. So I think it's it's sometimes you do have to make a judgment, a critical discernment, like Why am I spending all my valuable time trying to bring this into it in more of an application? Um a good application would be um just think of my own application. Sometimes people just take you for granted. All the time. Um there's a lot of people uh who um will just take up all your time Sometimes you have to share what sometimes you have to share your time with people who are more responsive. Um Jesus had twelve disciples. He poured his life into these twelve men. Um He didn't ignore the crowds, but he really poured into really built his ministry into these twelve men. And so I think that would be kind of the application out of this. the life of Christ, we see Christ really focusing on these twelve men. He was giving everything of high value to these twelve men. Didn't mean he didn't save doesn't mean he doesn't save those he wants to save. Doesn't mean he didn't preach the good news to the people. Doesn't mean he didn't he didn't mean he didn't do miraculous things, but he really spent his time cultivating and developing his ministry that would eventually continue through these twelve men. So Yep, yep. No, you're absolutely right. There is kind of a tension there, but I think there's some I think there's some leeway forgiveness there for you? Like when you Um what it's worth, my thought on this, is uh the context is about uh judging judging of And there's a right way to do that and the wrong way to do that. Um and here I think he's talking about there's also a right um target of your judgment. Mostly the the the the type of judgment I think that's in view here is uh you know the the speck in your brother's eye it's it's some moral failure. There's some a departure, there's an unrighteousness that ought to be pointed out. And uh if we would approach an unbeliever the way we might approach uh a believer in love to help them with righteousness, it's it's gonna be uh typically not well received Right. And so the the two kind of takeaways here are one A Um we need to judge ourselves first, judge ourselves rightly. Uh not because the critical Um but then we are to judge others, but who? And judging someone's uh If if you're trying to hold an unbeliever to a a rights of standard that only a believer would understand then you're kind of wasting your time, isn't it? And that person is likely to respond negatively, like um uh trample you onto feet, tear you up and so on. Um I don't think it's talking about sharing the gospel. The gospel let that be the offense rather than um your unrighteousness that I'm pointing out. He's gonna think that you're just a hypocrite even if maybe you're not Um so he's he's talking about the right way to judge and I think here the right um kind of person to judge in that moral kind of way. Uh I let to sort of go along with what Alan is saying about the the converse, it's also true that that in in the in the aspect of judging ourselves we allow others to judge us declare ourselves in a position of being vulnerable or humble before others so they can speak into our lives. And we shouldn't do that to those but to the world, to those that are dogs or swine shouldn't we shouldn't allow the world to speak into our lives and judge us of the scriptures and and God's people who are who are in the scriptures We should allow them and and so there's that sort of economy there. Who we are judging, but also who we allow us to be I guess and and if we do say in the the Sermon on the Mount we are talking about righteousness, talking about there's a lot of more moral type moral lessons in there. So Judging someone on these moral standards to an unbeliever is not going to bear a lot of fruit. But judging based on the moral standards of an of a believer who understands these, the hope is that there is truth. Um I just want to add um Let's go to section 54. And this is going to be prayer and the golden rule. That's on page 89. Uh the majority is i is from Matthew seven, seven to twelve. Why don't we read this passage and then I have a couple of questions Someone would like to read? So there's two kind of takeaways here. There is a section on kind of prayer And then that last verse, um, is what people kind of call the golden rule. Treat others better than yourselves. Right? Um Why might this exhortation to prayer be placed in this sermon at this time? Now we already did show there was uh earlier uh the Lord's Prayer to Zachak in chapter six. Um how we should pray. And in this one, um There's a different approach to prayer than has been done up to this point. Why might this exhortation to prayer be placed at this particular time? Well, I don't think you're wrong, but I think that uh maybe one of the reasons that it's placed here, um, again, if we look at the context of this whole sermon, um But if we look at it, I'm just gonna kinda look at some of those headings. Imagine, imagine if you've been sitting there you've heard the blessings, you heard about salt and light. Christ comes to fulfill the law law. And then there's all these moral issues. There's anger, there's lust. There's divorce, there's oaths, there's retaliation, love your enemies, give to the needy the Lord's Prayer, what else is in there? Fasting, laying up treasures in heaven, do not be anxious, judging. I love it by this time I am overwhelmed with how how short I fall. you know, these demands of righteousness are far beyond anything I could ever do. Um I should be looking around where do I go, right? Um and what's interesting is Rather than just walking off and just, oh, woe is me, there is no hope. Jesus turns around and says, Ask. seek, knock, and it will be open for you. Very a very different way of approaching God than what this whole crowd has grown up to know Um right? I mean prayer going to God was primarily a job for the priests. And now here's Jesus talking to the people saying You go and ask. You go and seek. You go and knock. And surprisingly, he says, and it will be open to you. It's a very different approach to God. So essentially all of this All of this uh requirement of righteousness that's been put before us, um should break us down to a point of like where do we go? And yet here is Jesus saying, ask, seek and knock. It's a very different approach He's making that personal. Making it personal, yep. Whereas before it was not personal. Yep. Um I was also thinking perhaps it's broader than just to address our natural depravity since back in chapter six, remember Jesus thought um the Lord's prayer, which included um prayers for like basic necessities. Um Here it's much more open. I did get a uh there was a quote from Pastor Leek that I wanted to read Pastor Tom Leek sums up the thesis of this portion of the sermon as follows. Jesus encourages his disciples to ask the Father for things in prayer so that God may demonstrate his goodness. generosity and faithfulness to his own children. So um that section in there um that talks about um uh I'm gonna go back here. I go back a little bit. Um so I can I guess I don't need that I don't need to do that. Um I do want to I do want to put out um some additional verses that I thought were very relevant Someone can read two verses out of 1 John. The first one is 1 John 5, verse 14, and if someone could read 1 John 3, 22. Now this whole idea of ask, seek and knock, we're called to do. There's now the welcoming for us to do this. Um it doesn't mean like you said this doesn't mean we get everything we ask for. But know that what we do receive from God is good. Um We are not to view prayer as a means to get God to do what we want or to fulfill our selfish pleasures. But when our prayers are in line with God's will He will bless that. He says he he will and what's interesting is um I'm sorry, did someone get first the first John and five four perfect, yep, first John of five fourteen. confidence that we have toward him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. Yep, so there's that according to his will. He hears us. So it's not a deaf this is not in deaf God who does not hear our prayers. Anyone on first John three twenty-two? And whatever we ask we receive from him because we keep this covenant So there's that idea of of righteousness, seeking righteousness. Um God blesses that. I also wrote a little note thing. Note the juxtaposition. I love this word. I've never been able to use this word. This is first time I've ever branded. Justice position. What is it? What in the world is that term? It's placing two or more things side by side to compare or contrast for the purpose of a dramatic effect. Do you like that one? Finally after all these years, like Juxon position. Um So what we have so what are we just just opposing here? Um a parent who's giving good gifts to his child Yet that parent yet in comparison to God, that parent is evil. So here you have an evil Being giving good gifts to his child. Like I I I mean I I would give everything to white kids, right? God Yet compared to God I am evil. And yet here is God, perfect goodness. He can not do anything but give something better than I could ever give So um if parents give their children good gifts, then by contrast, a perfect good God must give exceedingly great gifts Um and even even the discipline that we receive from the Lord is a good gift. God disciplines me, so I stop doing dumb stuff. And and I appreciate that, right? Letting me continue doing dumb stuff um does not benefit me at all. Uh another thought is that um given the the emphasis in Sir Anal on um righteousness, what righteousness really is, um I I think you were even suggesting that um the the the original hearers may have felt um a great burden how far if they fall short. And here it seems like he's inviting them to not do it in their own power. To rely on God. So ask Him for the ability to live righteously. Ability that we don't have in our own That's right. I think that concept's gonna come in play at the very end because of their o narrow yes, yes. I I think it has left it in here too in a blended account that we're in and says treat us the same way you want them to treat you. And a lot of times he wouldn't do that And and that is yeah, that's the the last um that's a good uh segue, yeah, because uh That last verse there, verse twelve, is um what's called the golden rule. It's not a title that is in scripture that can But we you know, there are these little subtitles that we put in. Um we recognize that it's not, you know, scripture, but um it does help us when we read. Um Um yes, there is this theme of loving your neighbor as yourself, not only um in the Old Testament but also in um other places in the New Testament of loving yourself as your neighbor. Um I could throw in a couple of verses for those interested like if we want to get into our last section Um I'm sorry. Um yeah, it's not just a one time thing. And some commenters, even commentators even say there's kind of like an increasing progression of intensity. First you ask, then you then you seek And then you not. So there's a persistent, continual there's an action on our part. So it's not just like asking. That's the end of the story. Um there's a little bit of an idea of seeking. What does that word seek mean? 'Cause it's different than ask. Um Some of it thought, you know, digging into the scriptures, self-reflection. And then that concept of knocking is like just a continual, persistent, you know, being relentless. Ask, seek, and knock Um God rewards perseverance, right? So um yeah, it's a good to bring that bring up those points. It's not just a one little one-time activity, it's a continual intense believing and that God will will uh answer prayers better in accordance to his will And then that last piece about the Golden Rule, I did want to just give some additional references if you're interested. I mean I know you all know this, but um it's good for me to have so like when I pick up these notes again ten years from now I'd like oh yeah It's not just in in Matthew 7 or it's it's in John 13, 34 to 35, Galatians 5, 14, even in Leviticus, Leviticus 19, 18. Um and the Good Samaritan is a is a similar example of loving your neighbor as yourself. Okay, the conclusion. This is a packed section. And again, I think it's um For the um purpose of the class, um, the life of Christ, what is going on here, what is happening to the disciples, what are the people hearing for the first time? Um again if I could sum up this section. Um it's about righteousness. So all of these sections have been talking about righteousness in some degree or another, some form or another Here we're talking about righteousness and salvation. And there are a lot of very there are sermons on all of these portions. But in this small section, we're talking about the narrow and the broad gate, false prophets. Trees that bear good fruit, trees that bear bad fruit, building your house either on the rocks or the sands, and then final authority of Jesus. So we're going to do this all in 15 minutes. Um this is Jesus' final appeal at the end of this great sermon. And he's going to identify two groups of people, those who become a citizen of God's kingdom and then for and therefore inherit eternal life, and those who decide to remain a citizen of this fallen world and therefore receive eternal separation from God. Why don't we read the section and again think about it in context of this sermon. and the the audience that's there. It's believers, it's non-believers, it's people just looking for food or miracles. It's it's the Pharisees who are um you know, getting more and more uh angry with this whole Jesus movement. Um And so after he's laid down this whole sermon, he's now going to put you in a position of having to make a choice. So why don't we go ahead and read it? Would someone like to read that blended account from verses seven to twelve? It's only like five verses. I don't know how he packs so much stuff into five verses. I'm sorry, there's more like uh fifteen verses, sixteen verses, not five. I was looking at the wrong page, like what? Um yeah, so here Jesus' final appeal to the end of this great sermon. There are two Two groups of people, um those who uh would enter the kingdom of God and those who would not. Um The way to life is on God's terms alone. The way to damnation is on any term a person who wants because every way but God's leads to the same fate. One thing that always bothered me was the narrow gate. It made me think of Oh, there's gonna be like maybe a couple dozen people that are saved. A narrow gate? Why gate But I don't think that's true in terms of I think there will be a myriad and a myriad amount of believers The way to look at the narrow gate and the wide gate is the narrow gate is only one way. It is we've looked at all this all these ideas about righteousness And it's only Jesus' righteousness that gets us into the narrow gates. Whereas Broadway is my own righteousness. And there are plenty if you want to find out other ways of getting to get into God, there are a bazillion different ways None of them are the righteousness of Jesus Christ. So if you ever find a broad gate, it's because there's some other righteousness that's going to get me into hell And it's going to be my righteousness, or it's going to be Joseph Smith's righteousness, or it's going to be Buddha's righteousness. Um and so the broadgate is m is referring to there are of thousands and thousands of different ways. But they do not lead to the kingdom of God. Only Jesus' way is the way to go. It's the only way to get into the kingdom of God And that's what this whole sermon is talking about. This high standard of righteousness. Only Jesus Christ has that high standard of righteousness that unlocks the narrow gate. Jesus has been given God's holy and perfect standards throughout the sermon, which really are diametrically opposed to the self-righteous, the self-sufficient. Hypocritical s hypocritical standards of man. Um He has spoken on those who are blessed. He's talked about the salt and the light, how he is the fulfillment of scriptures, concepts of righteousness. practical moral living, prayer, treasures in heaven, relationships to people and judging. Now we are asked to take a stand and decide. Do you enter by the narrow gate or the broad gate? And we will see, sadly, many people will hold on to their own way of entering. And it's amazing because th this sermon alone he should come a come away from it knowing that there is no way I do not measure up Five minutes. Um I'm gonna read a couple of notes and then I want to kind of really get your uh questions at hand interaction of others. But again, think about this as we're looking at the life of Christ, whether it's from disciples, believers, or unbelievers, and how this is a very these are very different teachings. But I do want to read a couple of notes that I kind of wrote down. So what, man cannot come to God through the many man-made methods, Broadgate. Um, but only the one that God Himself has provided. It is the contrast between trusting God or trusting self, resting upon God's grace or man's works, I put Ma's works One system of religion is based on God's divine accomplishments, while the other is based on man's achievement. So we preach and teach the narrowgate. Jesus is the only way to God. Only by his righteousness can we be identified as belonging to the kingdom of God. There is only uh it is the only gospel God has given for man's forgiveness and salvation And uh and I I do want to leave without giving a couple of verses um that exemplify, that support the idea that only through Christ can we get through the narrow gate. Um I just have three quick verses and I'll read them. John 10, 9, I am the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved. Acts 4. 12, there is no other name under heaven that is ungiven among men, by which we must be saved And then 1 Timothy 2. 5, there is one God and one mediator, mediator also between God and man, the man Jesus Christ. These would be great verses to memorize. It was kind of a contrast with the broad and the narrow gate. Broad gate is easy, it's attractive, it's all inclusive, it's worldly, it's indulgent, it's permissive. Few rules, few restrictions, few requirements. Sin is tolerated. Truth is relative. God's standards are admired but not followed. There is no high value placed on spiritual maturity, moral character, or self-sacrifice. It tragically is any way which seems right demand. That's the broad gate. Whereas the narrow gate is the hard way. It demands self-denial. is for those who come recognizing their poverty in spirit. Here are all the beatitudes, right? Poverty in spirit, mourning over sin, hungering and thirsting for his righteousness. It is for those who want the kingdom at any cost. It is the rejection, it is the re it is rejecting the is rejected to continue selfish pursuits while instead turning to and submitting to a life committed to Jesus. Another good verse is John fourteen six. So that's a good I am the way in the two posts. Yep. Yep. We have three minutes. Any questions, concerns? There's some great sermons out there that really Go into these concepts deep and they are worthy time worthy of your time to go into that. Yes. And I did too. And during that time, I really didn't know anything about the scriptures. So that's why we're called to renew our minds, use the scriptures. Um Even now, you know, it it rattles me a little bit. Um yeah, it there is a tension there. It does. But I think it's also important to to look at verse twenty-two Which says, Many will say to me on that day, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles. So there's also a reference to these people who claim to be casting out demons, um, performing man many miracles, um What's interesting is in verse 22, these are all things that these people are doing on their own their own nobility. There's no humility, there's no um I'm saved only because of the righteousness of Christ. Why am I not saved? Look at all the prophecy I did. I casted out demons. I performed many miracles. That doesn't save us. Christ saves us. But yes, it it it's still a it's still a scary it still rattles me a little bit too. Sorry. Joshua. Jewish people that were um said they were trying to cast out demons by saying, I injure you by the Jesus was all They're just trying to do the work. And at the end of that story is that he can say, I know Jesus, I know Paul wants to be right. And then I do that. Yes, it's kind of very superficial. Superficious, yeah. Uh just real briefly, uh I I think there's a direct tie between that passage um here in verses uh uh twenty one and so on. And the ones at the end about the foundation. Um You know, in in James we read that faith without works is dead. What Jesus is saying here is also true that works without faith is dead. And if we're on the wrong foundation, we're doing things for the wrong reason. We have the wrong basis for what we're doing It's all for not. Yep, yep, yep. Yeah, whether you're building on the rock or the sand, what are we building upon? Um yeah. Yeah I would say that this guy's got a pretty good resume. But it's still not good enough. If we're gonna base it on yours Yep, yep, yep. It's the you know the rock printed Christ's righteousness. Whereas the sand is the broad gate, right? My righteousness, I I Yeah. I cast out demons. Um no, it's the foundation. Christ. Um Yeah, but it's it it rattles me too sometimes. Um and it's actually a good thing because I need to be shaken a little bit Um and that it may not necessarily be appropriate to put my nervousness on this passage. There's probably better passages Um, you know, working out your salvation working out your salvation with fear and trembling is probably a better place to go to when, you know, why am I not doing the things I need to do to. Um I was reading a I'm still reading a biography on um Jonathan Edwards. Thank you, excuse me. He was amazing and yet he still struggled. I look at his life and I'm like If you're not saved, I am definitely not saved. But he struggled too, but I think it's more of that going to the working out your salvation with fear and troubling. And for those who are believers What for those who are not believers, they have no fear or trembling at all. Um so I think it's a I think it's a healthy thing for us to have a little bit of fear and trembling. Um it keeps us alert. Any last final thoughts? Yep, yep, you're absolutely right. In fact it's it's in there about the good fruit and the bad fruit, producing fruit. And in context of this whole Sermon on the Mount, look at all the the moral the moral issues that he's preaching on. Um Look at you know, am I bearing those f that fruit? You know, the beatitudes, am I bearing that kind of fruit in my life? Not to be doing it perfectly, but am I burying any of it at all? Um Good place to go for if you're looking for prayer ideas. Yes, yes. Um so it's good to hear this dialogue and advice saying the same things that I've been thinking Sometimes when I'm walking, I'm thinking, what am I doing wrong? Am I really saved? I know that I am, but am I doing enough? And here and everybody's office. And I don't know what to do. But then I also think is it Satan that's putting those thoughts in in my mind that's making me think that that makes me have that doubt? He's a deceiver, for sure. He is a deceiver. Yeah. Yeah. And and we are not perfected in righteousness of this place. So um uh first time I'm talking about, you know, um it it you know Yeah, we are not gonna we are not completely righteous without sin. And uh if if I claim not to have sin then I'm I'm a liar, right? So um we will cease sin. But that idea of sanctification we're progressively getting better or or I desire to be righteous, I desire to run after God. I'm gonna fall for sure. I'm gonna uh uh um even Paul um um wrestled with you know for whatever thorn in his flesh was um And I think it does keep us humble. It does keep that fear and trembling a little bit and so it kind of keeps us alert. And that's what we are. We're to be on alert. Um if you're never worried about your sinfulness Then why would I be why would I bother trying to find it? So yeah, it's kind of a necessary tension I think. Uh yeah and uh and what you say they even fall off uh struggle but God says here in Acts nineteen thirty one is God was performing extraordinary miracles by the hands of old. And and to me Right that right there that that scripture tell us we can't do nothing outside of God allowing us to do it And and and also what E Rory said, sometimes I'm selling these pictures and I still get those thoughts sometime in my head, but it doesn't make me not feeling a Christian. I I I you know it's like This thing is I'm doing enough, I'm old man, I can't eat too much, I'm in pain. Uh take for instance morning, I I tell you, I just wanted to lay there. I did But I say, God, if you want me to get up out of this seat and go to church and one of which I need to be, because I need to be in the word I I I'm here in the infrastructure we do is Satan is something well that's the angel. So be aware. Yeah, persevere to the end. I'll close this in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for um uh inviting us into your kingdom um by the blood of Christ. Lord, this is a A powerful, uh humbling uh sermon. Um yet we thank you for revealing this truth to us. And not just leaving us to our own demise, but giving us the only way to the kingdom of God. uh Jesus Christ. So we thank you in his name and look forward to worship him worshiping him. And you uh today in uh worship today. Um bless our times together and may you continue to uh Persevere in our hearts to d to drive and strive after you. And it's in your name that we pray. Give thanks. Amen.