So I was late turning on the recording, but we are just beginning lesson 51, the late Sunday appearances, and I've just read through the blended account So as I was mentioning earlier, we don't know exactly what his glorified body would have looked like. It specifically says These two men were prevented early on from understanding who it was, but then later their eyes were opened, they realized who it was, whether it's because of what they were seeing or because of what they were hearing, or some combination And um then the fact that he could just disappear like that indicates that this is not sort of your normal existence, right? Um so so far that's all we know about we'll we'll get more details as we go along, but um So think about think about this encounter. Um before he was crucified multiple times he was telling his disciples what? I'm going to be handed over to the Jewish leaders, I'm going to be crucified, and I'm going to be raised on the third day. And that just went over their head, right? So multiple times he was saying this And I think, if I'm not mistaken, at least some of those times he was saying that it was gonna happen to fulfill the scriptures. And Clearly here, that's his focus, right? He's talking with those two men and um helping them to see that this was not just uh an unfortunate turn of events, but it was what God had planned all along. that we can see it in scripture and um the fact that it was Jesus explaining these things directly to them probably made it all the more special, right? Um and so uh I think we'll see other occasions where where that's that's happening as well. Any other thoughts at this point? So he's uh some combination of uh encouraging them along with Kind of scolding them about their their lack of understanding of all these prophecies and how it all is supposed to come together. No, this reminds me of something else I may have mentioned this earlier, but um you know how often skeptics will say Um we'll try to explain away fulfilled prophecies by saying that, oh well that was actually written after the events took place, and so it wasn't really foretelling it, it was just um um Uh it it just m it was made to look like a prophecy when really it was written after the events took place. Yeah. There are seven. Well anyway, what's interesting is that um when the Dead Sea Scrolls were found, um those you know up until that time, the earliest manuscripts of the Old Testament that we had were around I think nine hundred or so AD is their uh when they were transcribed. Um those weren't originals, those were copies, but those were the oldest copies that we had at that point. Well the Dead Sea scrolls w everybody understands Nobody disputes the fact that those scrolls were in those jars, in those caves, about a thousand years earlier. So that's before Christ. uh around 100 BC, something like that. And um nobody disputes that. It's just an amazing function. Well what's interesting is those scrolls taken together incorporate pretty much all of scripture, the Old Testament, including these prophecies Jesus was explaining to these guys on the Maeus wrote. Um And so Jesus fulfilled these things while those things were already in those jars, in those caves, saying that that's what he was going to be doing. just dismantling this this possibility that things were written after the fact just to make it look like prophecy. Um I think that's pretty cool. Anyway, any other thoughts here about these two guys And their interaction with Christ. Especially given what we're going to learn going forward. Yeah, putting all that together it's all the more mind-blowing. By the way, Scripture says that when we are glorified, we'll have bodies like Jesus had We'll be like him. Uh pretty cool. Particularly for those of us who are suffering from any manner of uh I don't think that the breaking of bread I mean that was just they were having a meal together and it was it was during that time that um they recognized him Yeah. Um but it is interesting that um I don't think it mentions speci Specifically that he ate with them, but just when he broke the bread and gave thanks. Um maybe that triggered something their recollection uh of when he was teaching and so on, people were breaking bread with him and and he would give thanks. Um Could have been any of that. I don't think it was because of the bread, but it was clearly that was the time. That was the time when they recognized who he really was. Um I don't think the bread was uh a necessary Uh it wasn't like magic bread or something like that. It's just saying that that's when it happened. So no is great. And a normal meal and and so on. Yeah. My guess is that that kind of thing, whether it's five thousand or four thousand or just a few people It might have they might have been there at times when he had done that, and so it that may have um triggered something in the memory Don't really know, but says when he had reclined at table with them, he took the bread and blessed it, and breaking it he began giving it to them. Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him and he vanished. So it it may be something he said. Um the main point of what's actually written is that that's the point at which they connected the dots. Their eyes were opened. Which often is a phrase, you know, eyes are opened, uh a phrase indicating God's sovereign work to make things clear to people Right. Um whether it was Christ Himself at that moment or just God made it clear to them, it's hard to say. Yeah. Yeah, so that's that's an interesting observation, and I think you're right. But what question does that raise in people's minds? Well, maybe or if they were convinced it was him, in what form? In spirit only. Right? Uh that wasn't a dematerialized disappear, it just kind of slipped out through the crowd Yeah. And he he may have had a little help with some disciples kind of running interference for him, I don't know. But no, th those would have just been natural disappearing in the crowd kind of things. Yeah. But this is a case where he was actually sitting at the table with them. And he's gone. And so no, I think the question is that would have been in their mind, they're sure this was Jesus, but he's raised, but is he only in spirit? Right? And it doesn't actually say, I don't think, that he ate anything with them, but he th he broke the bread and thank them and gave it to them. In our next episode, well later here anyway, we're gonna see him actually asking them to give him food and he ate it, right? Which suggests what? It's a real physical body, not just uh a spiritual form. Right. Well the important thing there is that uh we're gonna see here later today that Thomas wanted proof, he wanted physical proof, he wanted to touch and see, and when Jesus That's gonna be next week, I think. When Jesus met with him, the key is that he invited Thomas, yes, go ahead and touch and see and and whatever. Um again emphasizing it was his physical body. but clearly a different form, you know, a uh a glorified we we refer to it as glorified body. Um and And yet still it bore the scars and all that. Yeah. Anyway, so were there any other Thoughts, questions, there? Yeah. And that's one reason they invited him in, that that he was ministering to them. He was things were coming together, and they're probably starting to make some conclusions. Well, if this is what was prophesied Yeah, that's that changes things. Yeah, that's good. Okay, so let's go to 2. 14. Jesus appears to Simon Peter. And again, this is Mark and Luke and the blended account. And they got up in that very hour, went away and returned to Jerusalem and found gathered together eleven of those who were with them, um who were with them. In other words, the ladies who had reported these things to the apostles. And the eleven being the twelve minus Jews. Right. And so these two guys from Emmaus said The Lord has really um oh no th those people were saying to them, the Lord has risen and appeared to Simon. And then they began to relate their experiences on the road and how it was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread But they, there are too many antecedents here, the other disciples I think is what I was referring to, but they did not believe these guys from Emma. either. So there's still a lot of um either c outright disbelief or just I'm not so sure. You know, there could be other explanations for what these people are reporting, um, the whole range probably And and yet these two guys come in excited. And one thing I think we learned from this is that these two were definitely connected to the rest. their anticipation was that they were going to be departing from them, but they returned with this good news and it just dovetails with all the other good news that people were reporting. Um and so uh unfortunately we don't have much direct account of Jesus' appearance to Peter. That would have been interesting. Uh there's reference to it in um Uh here that we just read, and then also in First Corinthians, where Paul talks about um he says for I delivered to you of first importance Uh what I also received that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures and that he was buried, he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. And that he appeared to Cephas, which is Peter, and then to the twelve. And by twelve, um, that's just sort of the the nickname given to the the group of disciples, the fact that there were only eleven of them now um is beside the point. And after that he appeared to more than five hundred brethren at one time, most of whom remained, that is, are alive until now, but some have fallen asleep. uh died. Then he appeared to James. Which James? James his brother. Then to all the apostles. And last of all as one to one untimely born, he appeared to me also. And of course when did that happen? On the road to Damascus. Yeah. Okay. Um so what we have is um a bunch of separate reports, people kind of bringing together their You know, it is sort of a precursor to um social media, right? Where a lot of people go to an event and they they enter their per perspectives on it, maybe some photos and whatever. These people were getting together and comparing notes and and some had some direct interaction with the resurrected Christ and some did not It was a hodgepodge, confusion probably. Um and uh it's gone viral. What's it's gone viral, yeah. Yeah. Okay, so let's fast forward then to um well actually it's not fast forwarding, it's just moving on later, I think, that same evening, on page 302. Section two fifteen. Yeah. I think basically more often than not people were the s exact same as Thomas, unless I see with my own eyes, then I won't believe. Yeah, it it's it's it's a natural response for people to have. Um Jesus scolded Thomas, but more so he said, Blessed are those who believe without seeing Right. Um that's for next week. Anyway, yeah, I I I think it was just the normal skepticism. Um people want to proof, yeah, why you and not me kind of a thing. Yeah. Okay. So on page three hundred two, Jesus appears to the disciples together, but not including Thomas. So again, this is on Resurrection Day. This is in the evening. Afterward, when it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and when the doors were shut where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, and I think what that means is not only shut, but locked Because of that fear. And wh why would they have fear? They were connected with Jesus. Yeah, it's this is a whole new ball game now. Right. Um and while they were telling these things again to each other, here's what I experienced and here's what he was saying and all these things kinda mixed in um the conversation. He himself, Jesus, appeared to the eleven themselves as they were reclining at the table, so again, eating. And soon in their and stood in their midst and said to them, Peace to you, peace be to you. This is similar, I think, to what the angels often would say. Do not fear But they were startled and frightened. What what made them startled and frightened? He just appeared. He just appeared. Yeah, really. You think of all the yeah, the mixed emotions going on right there. Happy to see him, but this is weird. Right? Um and thought, logically thought they were seeing a spirit. Right? So he just appeared, he must be a spirit, not in a human body. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your heart? See my hand And my feet, that is I myself, touch me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have And when he said this, he showed them his hands and his side and his feet. What's he pointing to there? The scars of the crucifixion, right? And the spear in the sides. Um showing them what? I mean what does that mean It's a physical body. It's not just some spirit. It's a physical body that's been raised from the dead and is now unglorified form. Um and while they still could not believe it because of their joy and amazement, isn't that interesting? You can't believe it because of your joy. An amazement. It's all it's it's it's it's a first. Yeah, it's just so much to handle, right? Too good to be true. Yeah. Um And the disciples then rejoiced when they saw the Lord. And he said to them, Have you anything here to eat? What's he trying to prove to them? It's a physical body. Right? They gave him a piece of broad fish, then he took it and ate it before them. Think that was pretty convincing? I think it was. Yeah. And he reproached them for their unbelief and hardness of heart. Because Again. Yeah. They're getting kind of used to this, right? Um because they had not believed those who had seen him after he had risen. Um You know it's interesting. One of the options might have been Okay, they're just frail humans. They they need physical proof. I'll go ahead and give them physical proof and rejoice with them when they finally realize it's really him. But he actually rebuked them too. He had that joy with them, but he wanted to teach them. I mean, yes, it's it's important that I have rise risen from the dead, but as we move forward there are going to be a lot of people who need to believe without seeing me physically, right? And uh so that was meant to be a lesson to them, I'm sure. Um so Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you And when he s had had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. Now the connection there with breathing and the Holy Spirit is the word for spirit is the same as the word for breath and wind. So there's a bit of uh um illustration going on there. Um He didn't mean that they would be receiving the Spirit at that moment. Um at least we understand that from the book of Acts. The Holy Spirit was was given to them um fifty days later at Pentecost. And from that time forward, the Holy Spirit then indwelt every genuine believer from the moment of salvation. But it's his death and resurrection that made that possible for him to send the Spirit. And he said he would do that, right? Yeah. And then he says, receive the Holy Spirit, if you forgive the sins of any, their ha their sins have been forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they have been retained. Now that's an interesting statement. Um he said something very similar af in Matthew eighteen after he gave them the the uh guidelines for church discipline. And so I think what's going on here is um uh the the believers And right now this is pretty much all the believers. There may have been so few well Jos Thomas wasn't there. He was still a doubter, I guess. But um the believers, the church as it would be formed would be God's representatives to sort through um um how to handle sin. And he says, um, if you forgive the sins of any, their sins have been forgiven them. In Matthew 18, he says, even in heaven. And if you retain the sins of any, they have been retained. So um there's a a process that Christ established for dealing with sin in the church and that process is one that that um Christ established and that God is um uh superintending so that there's there's clarity about where there is unrepentant sin versus not. And um that's a process that God uh superintends for the health of the church and of the individual. And so it's a solemn a solemn thing Uh and he's interesting con s uh uh uh context for him to remind them of that. Um but once they have the Holy Spirit and they're Christ's representatives on earth as a church, that's how he's going to operate through the Holy Spirit. But it definitely seems out of the blue, right? I agree. It seems out of the blue. But I think the context here is wanting them to have assurance of his resurrection and some indication of how to move forward. And not just this appearance, but multiple appearances afterward are sort of focused on preparing them for moving forward. And That's I think how it fits in eventually. Yeah. There was more conversation at that time, more explanatory stuff. This is just what ended up in scripture. But God superintended uh and r did the inspiring in order to have this amount revealed and recorded. So he figures this is all we needed, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know that's what they teach. And I think they go off also from um Matthew sixteen. Right. Yeah, the whole role of Peter. Um well what's interesting here is that uh in John he's not specifically singling out any one person. It's it's the group, it's the church. Um so um it would be a useful study to work through the um the rationales and the biblical basis that Catholics use to Teach and practice those things and then compare them with what Scripture actually says in context. And um Um yeah, that would be a useful study. I'm sure what you'll end up finding is that those verses are being taken out of context. And that that other passages of Scripture are being ignored Well there is the command of scripture that we are to be forgiving one another at a personal level, right? No. There's also the doctrine of the priesthood of the believers, does we have direct access to God, which is one of the things they're ignoring. Okay, so where was I here? Um verse twenty-four. But Thomas, one of the twelve called Dinymus, was not with them when Jesus came. So The other disciples were saying to him, We have seen the Lord. So Jesus had left. Thomas came late to this party. And uh they're all excited. And so now all of them are telling him that they had seen Christ. Um but he said to them, Unless I see in his hands the imprint of the nails and put my finger into the place of the nails and put my hand into his side, I will not believe. Um so Thomas is the one who's remembered as being most um uh um insistent on that. But it's clear here that others uh were not believing until they saw. I I'll believe it if I see it kind of a thing In fact, the only one who we're specifically told believed before he saw was who? John the apostle. When he got to the grave he saw everything and believed. Of course that's his self-testimony. they believed at that point. Yeah. Yeah, mostly. Humble as I am Um so um I I think the background here so the the question is uh it says uh he appeared to the eleven themselves as they were claying at the table. And yet we know Judas wasn't there, that's why it was eleven. But we're also learning that Thomas wasn't there at the at that time. Um I think the The the reality is that this band of brothers never really had a name for themselves. We're Jesus' followers or were the the Jesus people. You know, they d really didn't have names for themselves. Except that scripture seems to sh show that they used the term the twelve. We're the twelve. And everybody understood what that meant. Um it meant the group. And so here Uh in fact uh we saw um well no yeah we read in in First Corinthians fifteen that he appeared to the twelve. appeared to see if it's an end to the twelve. And so it it's just the name of the group. It's it's a it's a uh what's the word? Pseudonym uh um handle It's a handle. We're part of the twelve, right? Hashtag yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Um And so for the first time here in John in verse um thirty-six he says, no, actually it's it's Mark. Um Verse 14, he appeared to the eleven. So at this point, everyone knew that Judas was gone, and so the twelve became the eleven. He wasn't counting heads there. He was saying this is the group. This is now the eleven. There was no such thing yet as the church. And and so they were gathered together. The fact that one of the eleven weren't there, it was still the eleven who were there. It was that's their name, their the hashtag. Yeah, and of course that's one of the first items of business in Acts. That Peter specifically says we need to replace Jews, right? Um Yeah, I think that's what's going on Okay. So he says, unless I see his hands, well, he's probably hearing from guys who did this very thing. I saw his hands. I f I felt his because he invited us to to see him and feel him. But he wouldn't rely on their testimony. Now, to give him credit, this is crucial. Is this is this really the case? But uh in reality, like Jesus has already scolded the others, he reproached them for their unbelief and hardness of heart because they had not believed those who had seen him after he was risen. Um that was the same rebuke that that Thomas needed. Um because going forward, almost everyone who believes is going to be believing, not because they've seen the resurrected Lord, but they're they're believing the testimony of those who did. Um so Thomas wasn't all that unlike many of the others, probably any of the others who had not physically seen the risen Christ yet. Uh he's just the more prominent uh exponent of that unbelieving crowd. In fact, um in um turn to page three oh five if you have your notes handy This comes up, I guess, next week, but I think it's important today to see it as well. Uh section 218 with the Great Commission, Matthew 28, verse 16 and 17 But the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had designated, and when they saw him they worshiped him, but what? Some were doubtful. And I'm guessing that the some who were doubtful, this is pr this is a much larger group now than was in the upper room that we're looking at right now. And so there were probably some who had not yet seen the risen Lord until here in Matthew 28. And it was probably a rare occasion that someone would believe without having actually seen him Um but that's always I've always marveled at that. Here he is, he's about to give his great marching orders to this band of confused people and some of them were doubting and the whole evangelization of the world is is at stake and he knew some of them were doubting. Um presumably his appearing to them uh at this point cleared up any doubts that the doubters had. Um But if you d if you weren't omniscient, if this were you and you're leaving entrusting your your m ministry to this crowd of people, um You'd kind of wonder if this is going to amount to anything. But Jesus, being omniscient, knew that um uh all is not lost. They don't have the Holy Spirit yet. And um there are things yet to happen that will embolden them to not only not be doubtful, but to a actually go to their deaths in faithfulness to the Lord. Okay, so back to our Topic today here. So why is it so important that Jesus rose Bodily. He said he was going to, so it's sort of he needs a follow through here, right? Yeah. Why is it so important? Yeah. Everything he said was true, it confirms it, right? He r he really restored the temple on the after three days. That's sort of a fulfillment of what he committed to, right? Couldn't he have done that if he were just appearing as a spirit, maybe? Victory over sin and death Yeah, um it is. It is. Teaching. Um that God our salvation is complete. It's saving not just our soul, our spirit, but even our bodies. Now those bodies are going to be transformed in glorified form Just like Jesus' was, but people could recognize him. They could see the scars. If you've got any scars, sorry, they're they're there for eternity probably, right? But in glorified form. And um you know when when someone dies, uh, you know, we bury them in the ground. Um but if that person was a believer their spirit, their soul, immediately went to be with the Lord upon death. What happens to the body? It gets raised. Oh it gets raised in the resurrection um at the time of the um the rapture where in First Thessalonians four, Paul teaches that um Christ will return. Because they're they were asking um uh they were asking Paul what happens to people who have already died They're in Christ, they're they've died. Um if they're not going to be around when he returns, what's up? And so Paul says, No, they're gonna be the first ones who are raised. And what he's referring to is their bodies are being raised glorified be with Christ. And then any w anyone who's a believer at that time will follow them to be raised in glory. And then so that Or that glorified body gets reassociated with the spirit, the soul that's already been with Christ, and now that's that's their eternal Existence in a glorified body. Um and that's true for all of us who are in Christ That's good news. Yeah. The general and I I think that that definitely does happen. God supernaturally gets people's attention. His primary method for evangelism is through the proclamation of his word. And that that word that's being proclaimed is the testimony of eyewitnesses. Um and in some countries where either for either they're officially closed to the gospel or they're just so remote that they don't have any gospel testimony. God has overcome that problem through means that He can do. But the normal His commands and the normal process would be that believers would be proclaiming the truth. Yeah. Good. Uh so I wanted to wrap up on page three oh three with um the application question here. Why do you think that many of the disciples were very slow to believe that Christ was now raised from the dead? Is your faith similarly weak? In what ways do you need to trust God more completely? Like Abraham believed God just by what he said and it was credited to him as righteous, right? Dashed all their expectations. Yeah. Yeah. Um but they're kind of like us. We kinda wanna I would I don't believe it until I see it kind of thing. Um but we need to respond well to his word because he's given that to us, uh which when you think about it has a lot of um the combination of his word and the Holy Spirit is a combination that that Even the disciples didn't have, even though they had Christ right in front of them. Um so yeah, the the need to uh respond to what Christ has said in his word And what he has done as recorded in his word to respond in faith and obedience uh is the whole point. Um and that applies to all of us Right. It's not just a one-time experience, it's an ongoing walk of faith. Okay, let's um go ahead and close in prayer. Father, we thank you that uh Christ did appear to so many at various times. And that um uh there was no question, eventually no question about uh the fact of the resurrection and uh uh the significance and that you've recorded all that for us in your word. And thank you that we've been able to believe without having seen with our own eyes the risen Christ, um, just through your word. That is a blessing. And Uh pray that we would continue to um uh obey in faith, to respond well to your word by faith and obedience. And ultimately, Lord, that you would be glorified by all these things. Thanks, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen