Okay, good morning all. Today we're going to be looking at the record of the death of Jesus Christ and the sequence of events that occurred on that fateful day. The giving of His life was the pinnacle of all the work that Jesus did during his mission here on earth. You know, as spectacular as those events were, I I doubt that if we had been there in person that um we would have realized uh the cosmic significance of what we were observing. Uh the people who actually witnessed the events there, many of them had many different perspectives. If you think about um Kaiphas, the the high priest. Um to him the execution of Jesus was probably a uh not probably actually it was a political expediency to uh keep the Romans uh off the backs of the Jewish leaders. And uh Pilate himself um The act of Jesus' uh of crucifying Jesus and his death was probably also um a political expediency to prevent the the crowd, tumultuous crowd that was clamoring for the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Christ. And the one thief that was crucified beside him After you know God opened his eyes, his I mean he's I'm sure he saw this event as a gross miscarriage of justice. And even the even the um the sympathetic onlookers and if the observers there, I'm sure many of them you know, felt well, here we go again, another hope of emancipation from the Romans has been dashed. So I doubt I doubt that Many of them, maybe there were a few, but I doubt that many of them actually, you know, understood what was happening when Jesus gave his life. I doubt that they really understood that, you know, he was he was um making atonement for the sin of mankind. Now we today when you think about it the reason why one reason why we we have a better understanding is that we have the benefit of the New Testament epistles where you know the apostles by the inspiration of um God you know give us a better understanding explain the meaning and the significance of why Jesus Christ died. But since this class is not about the epistles, we're not going to go there. Hopefully we may have a chance to maybe uh discuss it later on. I don't know if we will. Um this class is a bit um short today. Uh the material there isn't that much material, so uh maybe we will And since we're not going to go into the Apostles, I will into the Epistles, I will say let's open up to our notes on page 272 I I'm going to be reading from the blended account. It was now about the sixth hour. And from the sixth hour, darkness fell on all the land. until the ninth hour. Um the sixth hour would be what what time Yeah. Uh the most widely accepted way of of calculating times, I guess, in in uh uh at that time was to um start from sunrise which w would which would generally be six AM. So the sixth hour would be about noon Uh remember, well yeah, remember, Mark in in chapter fifteen and verse twenty-five tells us that Jesus was crucified. at the third hour. So that would mean Jesus was crucified at about nine in the morning. And then this account that we're reading now tells us that about the sixth hour so Christ would have been on the cross for about three hours at this point. So um Uh in 45 it says from the sixth hour darkness fell upon all the land until the ninth hour. Because the sun was obscured. Now think about it for a minute. For three hours, the sun was obscured, according to Luke. What was this? I mean what was happening here. Well it he he he says the the sun was obscured. You're familiar with solar eclipses, right? Just to give you an idea. Remember this is this is for three hours it was dark. Uh in this country, I think in twenty seventeen we had a solar eclipse eclipse. I'll give you an idea. Um the solar eclipse cut a swath of darkness from Oregon all the way to South Carolina. And that whole um event took all of an hour and a half. And in fact, uh The area that fell the darkness the longest, a place called I think it's called well somewhere in Illinois, it it only took two minutes and forty seconds But what we're being told here is that there was darkness over the land for three hours. So obviously this could not have been a solar eclipse. But a solar eclipse happens when you have the moon sandwiched between the sun and the earth so that the moon obscures the light of the sun. Now the moon travels around the earth, I think someone f somewhere I read about 2400 miles an hour. So the time period that the moon would have obscured the Um the sun's light could not have been three hours. So obviously this is not a solar eclipse Another thing is that um the Passover usually happens at full moon. Okay, so what was this? I think it was like total darkness and it was of course made by God. It was nothing that had been seen on this earth before. It had to have been. Yeah, this this this has to have been a special act of God, although although um we don't know exactly what it was or how it happened, but it did happen. So going on. It says at about the ninth hour This would be what about 3 p. m. ? Okay. Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Aloy, alloy, lama sabaksani. Which is translated, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That was what the total darkness came to symbol of. God just couldn't look on him. It could have been. I think when you when you think about it, you know, there was this total darkness. And Jesus cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Is it that he did not know why um God was forsaking him? And one other thing I was just uh uh gonna point out that um I have this question when I was reading through this. Mark says Mark Mark renders it as Eloy Eloy. Matthew on the on the other hand renders it as Eli Eli. Okay. I I wondered w why there was a difference there. I'll I'll I'll tell you what I what I found But uh going back to the notes, uh from verse 47 it says, And the bystanders who were standing there, when they heard it, began saying, Behold, this man is calling for Elijah. And one of the comment one of the uh commentators that I that I looked at said well that um Matthew rendered it in um Hebrew while Mark sorry, is it the other way around? Just let me just check my notes to be sure. Okay. Um Mark rendered it in Aramaic while Matthew rendered it in Hebrew. And there is a um a translation of the Hebrew Bible called the Tagum that also renders it in Hebrew. So it's possible that Matthew was refer uh referencing that um translation when he rendered it as um Eli Eli. But see what happens. Okay. Some of the bystanders this is 47. Some of the bystanders who were standing there when they heard it began saying, Behold, this man is calling for Elijah. So it's possible that, you know, some of the some of the bystanders who heard thought he was because of the way um Matthew renders it that they heard e you know, or they thought Elijah. Maybe not, I don't know for sure. And then going back to our notes, by the way, d are you familiar with um How the the the Jews of this time thought about Elija Elijah. I think Elijah was a very significant figure in their eschatology. You know, many of them I guess thought Elijah would return back you know in person which is probably why some of them thought you know he is calling for Elijah you know to come and and and and deliver him According to our notes in the c in the in the uh Blended account, verse 28, after this, Jesus knowing that all things had already been accomplished, what things were accomplished? Why do you say that? Uh I'm I I'm not saying it's wrong, I'm just asking why you said I'm not sure. I might be jumping ahead because he um he later says um to tell us die. He's in the process. So I I take it back. It's hard to say um, Okay. Well what do you think? What has been accomplished at this point? Our sins have been nailed to the cross. He had taken them on himself because he became sin for us. So he was doing it, he was accomplishing it but it wasn't quite yet finished until he said it was. Okay. Any other thoughts about that? Maybe it was already accomplished in heaven. Well, I I I I think it's hard to to to put a fine um boundary around what he meant by that. But I think what Ann said probably you know is is Another way to also think about it is uh this was actually from Paul's sorry from from John's um uh rendition of the account. So uh there were other things that Jesus had done. Not only had he taught his uh disciples, he had, you know, um also uh made provisions for his mother. You know. So I I I think it's probably fair to say everything that needed to be done up to that point, although we don't know every specific of it, we just have glimpses of what they were, was done It was time to move to the next step I suppose. So going back to our nose. Uh let's see where I am and Okay. Twenty eight. Go ahead. So so yeah, I mean when he says my God, my God, he's not saying he doesn't call him father here, so there's uh a difference between, you know, how you really call Christ, Abba Father. And now he says, My God, my God, there's that separation that's apparent here. That is as the sins are placed on him, he's the sacrificial lamb. And and he's sparing our sins, you know. Um there's that separation, and we see that by by the way he calls out to God Yeah, a and that's besides the fact that he was actually alluding to um uh some What song was that again? But you're right. referring to the father, he never he this is the only time when he seemed to refer to the father as my God, my God as opposed to, you know, uh calling him my father and indicating that intimacy that he had with the father So I'm glad you brought that up. All right, back to our notes. Um because what at this point when you said dying on the cross. It's really not deity because deity cannot die. It's it's his humanity. In his humanity he died. died as a human being. So he was separated from us. Can you explain that a little more? Oh no. It struck me, but when you said he had Him as my God, as Father. Because I I don't believe he still he is a part of the Trinity when He dies. He can't be, because God can't die. Well, he could die uh as a human being In his humanity, yes, he died. But I don't I don't know if if it's if it's right to say that um 'Cause we or else you're gonna have to say God is dead. No. No because we can't say that. No, he cannot die. He cannot die. No, he's not a part of the Trinity if he's dead. If he's a human being. But he's not. No. So obviously he died physically. Um but um And uh it seems obvious that during particularly those three hours when it was dark, um he was taking upon himself the sin of the world uh God the Father separated from God the Son. So there was a spiritual separation, a spiritual death that took place even within the Godhead. Uh he didn't actually die physically until after that. Um actually I find it interesting that he actually said um it is finished and paid in full to telescide. But he hadn't even died yet, physically. He had died spiritually and had over had overcome that. Yeah, I I think that's uh that sounds that sounds about right, you know, that he had actually because because he had been separated from the father spiritually, that he had died and that the that okay, that that makes a lot of sense actually now that I uh I don't that you mentioned it. The other thing that I was gonna say was um uh as we will read later we find that physical death Does not uh which which which in a sense is a separation of the spirit from the body, as James says. So the spirit really doesn't die, if you will, doesn't become annihilated or, you know, uh cease to exist. So um so back to the yeah, so physically he did die. Um And we also know that he did not have the power to resurrect himself, and that's what bugs me. People say Jesus raised himself from the dead. He didn't. Scripture clearly says God raised him from the dead. God raised Jesus from the dead. It so he did not have all of his powers as God, or else he could have raised himself. So the the the question I have is did he at any point cease to be God? So if he never ceased to be God, God cannot die. He dies physically and spiritually Within Godhead he was separate from fellowship with the Father during that time. So he wasn't a part of the Trinity, then you're saying. But how how could you embattle the ki the Trinity, let alone the dynamic? What is it? Yeah, yeah, I mean it's just all about I mean definitely there there are aspects of this that we will just be speculating about to be sure. So um let's let's move on. I'm just saying Okay. Um I stop uh let's see Verse 28. After this, Jesus knowing that all things had already been accomplished to fulfill the scriptures, he said, I am thirsty. A jar of a jar full of sour wine was standing there. So immediately one of them ran Taking up a sponge he filled it with sour wine and put put it on a branch of hyssop and brought it to his mouth and gave him to drink, saying, Let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down. But the rest of them said, Let us see whether Elijah will come and s come to save him. Therefore, when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. as Pastor Plumley was saying a few seconds ago, to Palestine meaning uh it is finished meant that um the he had paid the price in full. And he points out in your notes if you look at it that um Uh to uh to be paid in full is a financial term stamped onto the certificate of debt when the debt has been fully paid. And he references uh uh Colossians two verse thirteen to fourteen. When you were dead in your t transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh He made your life together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled our certificate of death, consisting of decrees against us. Which were hostile to us and he has taken it out the out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. So going back to uh it was a custom in those days when a person had a uh large debt, maybe tantamount to our mortgages, which would be our largest debt. When that was paid and they received it right in the process from the person that they were indebted to to tell us die. They were so happy and proud of that that they would take it and nail it to their wooden front door so that people can Passing by could see this man's debt has been paid in full. Interesting. Didn't know that. Okay, so after he said it is finished, Jesus said uh and Jesus this is uh verse fifty. Crying out again with a loud voice, said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. Having said this, he bowed his head. Right. Yeah, but remember remember this is the blend this is the blended account. And this is also after the take it full. Correct. Correct. Okay. So uh therefore when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said it is finished, and Jesus crying out again with a loud voice Said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. Having said this, he bowed his head and yielded up his spirit and breathed his last. So um I wanted to ask, when you think about Jesus, he has you know, he has been beaten, spat upon um uh carried the the heavy cross for some distance, uh had been up all night being uh questioned and uh insulted and it you know he had a a a thorn of uh a crown of thorns in his head. So at this point I I think any normal human being would have been exhausted. Would I mean i if they didn't die from the crucifixion itself, they would probably die from the exhaustion And uh but but we we we we read here that it says that um not only did he cry out you know uh loyal and then um He now um let's see what it uh with a loud voice says it is finished Into your hands I commit my spirit. So I wanna ask you, um was this superhuman strength? Uh how did the life uh I mean did his life just ebb out of him? Because if you look at the circumstances you would think that this man is so exhausted he shouldn't be able to even uh was still in control because after it it said after he said that with a loud voice he bowed his head and yielded up his spirit he yielded up his spirit was the one he Yeah, that that was that was what what I I found uh fascinating when I read that, that you know, there was something deliberate about Jesus and the way that he died. He did not I mean his life was not taken from him Right. So he gave it. He he gave his life. And and that says something. Okay. Um going on then, let's let's look at the next uh uh uh uh uh sentence here. It says um This is spectacular. Fifty-one. And behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And the earth shook, and the rocks were split. The tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised And coming out of the tombs after the resurrection they entered the holy city and appeared to many. When I read that I had to do a double take, I'm like, wait a minute Yeah. I mean it it's it's it's spectacular enough that we had this darkness that rained for three hours. And then now you have an earthquake. 'Cause that's what it was, the earthquake, right? And obviously uh many of the tombs of saints who are died and been buried the covering of the tombs got, you know, um loosened. Okay. Now w when you read this account in Matthew uh it seems a little odd because it would it it would almost seem as though many of these saints were resurrected before Jesus, but I think in you know if you look at it again, I think that It was actually after Jesus had resurrected that the arrays. Now, uh the fact that the earthquake loosened or uh yeah, l loosened the covering of Mut Mussabus tombs happened obviously when the earthquake occurred. Um although it y it doesn't say specifically that. I'm just thinking that I don't believe that those saints who raised and appeared to many uh that must have been quite a sight to behold if you think about it. I would I would agree with that, yes. Um yeah, the the the the the saints who were resurrected must have been after Jesus had a Shouldn't it be placed later in our book? Um till we're after the resurrection I think if you I think if you look at the way um Matthew places it, I think that's why because if you look at M Matthew uh verse And then it says and the earth shook and the rocks were split. I have no problem with that and I have no problem with the tombs being opened. It's just that I would agree with that. That makes sense. I think it also uh goes to both of the fact that I think somewhere in in in scripture it tells us that Jesus' resurrection was the first fruit Yeah, so exactly. Um so how did they know the temple bale was stored from top to bottom? It's a good question. I was gonna ask that. Oh you were going to actually that or maybe it was the airport on the evidence that went from top to bottom or was there a piece Well y you know, um I think there are some that there's some that have commented that the the The veil of the um covering the temple, the I guess the the holy the holy of holies and and the outer uh part of it, uh it mu it might have been the earthquake that jostled uh a and cause the um the veil to be torn. The only problem is is I think as you read it here, m Matthew specifically says it was torn from top to bottom. And also And I learned this when I went to the in Pennsylvania model of the tabernacle. We use the word veil. We think of a bride, a very thin thing a veil. It wasn't at all. It was at least eleven inches and some say up to thirteen inches thick. This thing was so woven together so thick that it says teams of oxen on each side couldn't even pull it apart. Nothing it had to have been supernatural. natural. And possibly if it was very high, it could have been far apart at the top because when you pull something from the top and then at the bottom, you know, closer together or even that That couldn't have been the evidence that they knew. But they they knew it had to be s supernatural because it was so thick. Yeah, I I looked up I looked up, you know, just how thick this uh Vail was some uh commentators noted that um it was uh sixty feet by thirty feet wide and that um It was the thickness of a palm, you know, just how thick it was. I think, you know, there's also some exaggeration about how when they say that it took uh three hundred priests to manipulate it. I mean it's obviously it's a Yeah but but I think the idea was that it was a it wasn't just a piece of you know cloth that you could just tear up. And and also um the the the idea that i the the earthquake could have jostled it and caused it caused either either the lintel to drop down and all of that is obviously not true Now, uh obviously you can read this account and uh make your own judgment, but I think Matthew here indicates that it's was torn from top to bottom. There was definitely uh something other than just an ordinary tear going on here. There was an implication to the fact that it was torn from top to bottom. And what what do you think that might have been God tore it. And and also in Hebrews doesn't it mention that the veil was Christ's flesh. When he was torn, that opened the way for us in Yeah. His flesh is a good th Professor Plono, you were gonna say something. Yeah, it seems possible that there could have been some eyewitnesses of it being torn. There could have been. Uh we don't know that, but we don't need that I mean, God could have just revealed it. And um like many other things that we've been studying, God just revealed. Um so So it's not always that big an issue. Okay. That's it. Somewhat uh hey and we um yeah uh the way we uh understand the scripture is we don't we are we don't like the argument from silence too much We don't like that very much. But you know, if you look at if you look at the book of Nestor, it doesn't mention God, but it doesn't mean that it's not And when we when we read these when we read these chronological understandings of what happened, when I read it I we read it as Gentiles we did. Because we're Gentiles. But when we read all these clues in here and it says that you know the label of preparation and the past over in all this other countries, that it has it seems like it has a Jewish understanding of what's going on. And so the argument of silence that is here Is that, you know, where where were the priests? You know, they they weren't in the cross, you know, but I think if we had a Jewish mindset, we would understand where the priests were And all these things happen, you know, year after year after year in routine every year. And so so I think where the praise were, even though it doesn't mention it, I think if you were a Jewish mindset, you understood where And so to s you know, so when the temple was when the when it was torn in two, the priests could have easily been there. Okay. you would understood that if you understood the the chronologically of of of Christ's death compared to chronological chronology of what the priests were doing normally in the That's right. You convinced me that it might it might have been observed and and then passed along. Okay. All right, let's go on. Um let's go on to uh uh section two oh two. Yes, go ahead. of the crucifixion. You know, the the details that are that are given and it starts out with my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? You know, so the words of Christ. So it's almost like what we have here is what's going on in Christ's mind as he's on the cross. And just the you know, you talk about the the physical suffering and that he uh you know, was on the cross and and you know, that it took the amount of time that it took. I I think a lot of people for the chastisement that he endured the blood loss, it would be enough that you know most people would that could die from that. It probably wasn't uncommon that people would pass from that. But but you know, it when it talks about um He he was dry, you know, his head. He says um uh he says in verse fifteen, Psalm twenty two, my strength is dried up like push or my tongue clings to my jaws, you have brought me to the dust of death. You know, it's it's I I if you can think of when when you know you've had dry a dry throat or sore throat Just you know, y you can't even speak. And so it was like he wouldn't take anything to deaden the pain or dull his senses But it it's almost like he had to have something to moisten his tongue to cry out the last. You know, to cry out the last and And to yield up his spirit. And in verse twenty two, verse twenty-one of Psalm twenty-two it says, Um, You save me from the lion's mouth and from the horns of the wild ox, and you have answered me It's almost like you have answered me, you know, after he's been separated from the Father and Christ out, it is finished, and then you know, Father, into my into your hands I come Now he's he's resting in the father, you know, and the father has answered him to to raise him again. Excellent uh point. Sounds like it was amazing. Um death by crucifixion, as I understand it, is mostly asphyxiation. You can't get enough oxygen because you're hanging with your arms up and And um uh they nailed the feet to the cross as well, I guess partly to immobilize the person. But what they do is they push up then on that nail To kinda get a little bit more and um that's why they break their legs. That's why they break the legs to accelerate the death. Because it can no longer And they didn't have to do that with Jesus because he was already dead. And what's interesting about Psalm twenty two is that In hindsight we can see how accurate it is a picture and portrayal of crucifixion long before crucifixion was ever invented. I I I think the the other part that really uh intrigues me is how Jesus is so uh uh he's so he's so in tune with these prophecies He's that he says, you know, so that the scriptures will be fulfilled he says I thirst. So they you know so uh that's and even even if you can imagine this, what's going through his mind when these people are mocking him in direct fulfillment of scripture. Even using words that are recorded in prophecy. And he just sees it unfolding, of course. Okay. So moving along, um I'm gonna be reading from uh two oh two. Page two oh no sorry, page two hundred seventy-three, uh section number Number two oh two, thank you. Okay, um verse twenty five. Therefore the soldiers did these things Now, when the centurion and those who were with him, keeping guard over Jesus, when they saw the earthquake and the things that were happening. Became frightened, very frightened, and began praising God, saying, Certainly this man was innocent. Truly, this was the son of God. I I found it um interesting though that um one uh both both both Matthew and Mark, you know, talked about um the centurion and I guess those around him who found these events uh both frightening, astonishing, and And and um but they but the centurion here it says came to the conclusion that this man truly was innocent And that he must have been the he must be the son of God. However, look at something interesting. In Luke it says that and he was praising God. Although Luke doesn't tell us exactly what he was saying You know, he just said he was praising God. So I I f I w I was wondering to myself, how do you reconcile that uh Luke says he was praising God and m Matthew and Mark say say that he was he was frightened and um said this guy must have been innocent As I you know, as you think about it, what does it mean to praise God when you affirm who God is, when you affirm uh when you agree with his truth and you If if you know, if God says something and you you agree with it, you um how should I say it, you um Yeah. Yeah. Merely acknowledging that this was the Son of God was in fact praising God. So they're not really uh uh um irreconcilable if you would They were very frightened and it would be frightening to have total blackness, darkness at noon Plus an earthquake. That would be very frightening and they would realize there's something supernatural going on here And if they realized that this was indeed the Son of God, the implication is they just put to death the Son of God. No wonder they would be fighting. Another little thing is you know Darthus was on the land for those three hours, so after he gave up his spirit It seems that the sunlight returned. Yeah. You know, so that was that was amazing. I Yeah, I mean so just the tiny of that. You know, Henry, any time in in the gospels, as you mentioned, it's just Centurion. They're always believers Is that right? Well I I didn't know that. Well, he he would not have been a believer before carrying out the execution bill. But it is about and I'm just telling you there any time you see it Okay. Don't figure out when I guess the the one comment I wanted to offer is for each of us as far as how we came to Christ there There has to be a degree of fear that drove us to that um uh acknowledgement. Yeah. Um some level of of fear, whether we're a child and we come to Yeah. I remember Pastor Leek's um testimony of how he he was just scared to death and he he ran to Jesus. Yeah. And so that fear God convinced him somehow. And the same for us when we understand our sin. And are the consequences for that, and that it we could be asked to pay any final comment So I I was just thinking, and during the the tribulation there's so much fear going on that the all Israel turns turns to Jesus and recognizes him as the sign. Yeah. Uh at that time. But I I was just thinking of the benefit of of having a holy fear of God. Any other any other comments? No? Okay, let's move on move on. Um forty-eight. And all the crowds who came together for this spectacle When they observed what had happened, began to return, beating their breasts. And all his acquaintances And many women who had followed Jesus from Galilee while ministering to him were standing at a distance looking on, seeing these things But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother, his mother's sister Salome, the mother of the sons of Zebedee Mary Magdalene and Mary the wife of Clo Clopas, the mother of James the Less and Joseph, and there were many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem. Uh there's a there's a nice um grid on the b on page one two forty seven two forty two seventy four that tries to uh line up the women that's that are referenced in that section that we just read Uh in Matthew we we we read about Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of Jo John and Joseph, and then Mary the mother of the sons of Zebedee, James and John. In Mark, um You have Mary Magdalene, there's no question about who that was. Um Mary the mother of Jesus the less and Joseph Jose is that how you pronounce that? Joseph? Whatever. James the Less Okay, yeah, Jebulus and Joseph. And so that corresponds and then so who's this Mary the wife of Clopas? Uh it I guess it would have been the according to this um chart here that that we have in the notes, it would have been the the mother of James the Less. And then in John where it says the mother of his mother's sister Um look at that last column there. It says his mother's sister could also have been the mother of the sons of Zebedee. So if that were the case That would make John and James cousins of Jesus. Um This is a family business, if you will Anyway. Uh anybody have some uh observations or thoughts they'd like to comment on that as far as who those three women were? No? Oh no, I don't think it all makes up. This really helps a lot this way. Okay. Um so this is one of those times when we'll actually get to discuss the uh Have some discussion around some of the questions that are in your notes and then also look at the application question here. I guess maybe I'd love for us to go to the application first. And it's I'm reading from page 275. Uh imagine you had followed Jesus for several years and were convinced that he was the Messiah, the Son of God, but you didn't fully comprehend why he had he had to die. Particularly in this way. Wouldn't you be despondent, numb and confused? Even questioning whether you had them all wrong. Now, imagine bearing that weight for a couple of days, unable to answer the question why? We might fault his disciples for not listening when Jesus tried repeatedly to explain this to them. But don't we do much the same? Becoming despondent because we don't un because we don't remember or believe what he has told us in scripture? How does your faith need to grow and become more practical? I'm hoping you would speak up. Did did you did you hear the question? How does your How does your faith need to grow and become more practical? Jonathan. Well, I feel like I'm always behind like behind it work, behind it my school work, behind it my house projects. But um you know my faith piece is that He will come again in glory, judge the living and the dead, and his kingdom will have no end. And I will live with him in the new heavens and the new earth. So my concern would be serving him now. And it's I think it's fine to have to do this, but sometimes I let that That uh overwhelm me or I think I've got a I I don't have time for maybe as much prayer or scripture reading or some other um you know, more spiritual activity because I think God's gotta get all these things done. But um ultimately he's gonna come and set things right in his creation. And when that happens, I want him to say, you know, well done, good and faithful servant. You are a good steward of the time you had Not oh you accomplished all these things. Thank you for sharing that. Faith my experience grows fastest and deepest during difficulty Times, not during the easy times. And in those difficult times it helps to remember that God is in control and to be patient and look for what he's learning, he's trying to teach me through that experience. And it becomes practical I think when I remember those things that it relieves stress and worry and anxiety uh and just trust that he knows what's best for me. Uh I think that's practical application. um to remember. Uh there are things beyond my control and I just have to accept that uh God loves me and I'm so precious in his sight that he's sent his son to die for me on the cross. And that's of great value. So I don't look forward to difficult times, but I know that God can use them. for growing my faith. Thank you. I can sort of understand the disciples of the Lelly You know, thinking we don't understand what just happened, you know. We thought this was the Messiah and now he's gone and thought he was going to establish the kingdom. And just the disillusionment. But you know, when you talk about how does your faith grow I was I was thinking recently about the epistles how So often you see where they have the doctrine and then following the doctrine they have the application. So so growing, you know, I think we do need to be grounded, have the good foundation doctrinally and you know to be solid on that and to grow in that. But out of out of that comes the the growth, you know, the application of that. I just think it, you know, learning how to do that, you know, to to grow in love, to to grow in in faith and obedience. I think that's you know, that's what I wanna do is is you know, I I want to to grow to be solid had that solid foundation, doctrine continue to delve deep into the treasures of of his word, you know, to to get out the nuggets. But but to put that into practice is well, you know, that it's not just head knowledge that it goes into the heart to work itself out and you know ever how um conduct yourself and you know the things Okay. Any other Comments? One thing that you've uh confident and this is what I was trying to say earlier that it's already been accomplished when when Jesus goes back to page two seventy two. Um And first through twenty-eight after this Jesus knowing that all things had already been across the so it's like what did he mean by that And it made me think of Ephesians 2. 6, where Paul speaks of it when we're seated in the heavenly places, um as believers. Season two six and God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. I mean how can we even comprehend if we're already in the heavenly realm? But you know, that's the um spiritual realm that we don't get to look into very often or even understand because we're in this physical world. And yet we know that there is very much a spiritual realm And we can have confidence that God who began a good thing in us will finish it. As it says in Philippians, that He will do it And so I just like the idea of, you know, somehow I look at this verse and it just makes me aware that, you know, Jesus knowing all things. And I found that it was already a compass. So yes he was in the process of doing it, yes he didn't declare it finish. But somehow um he decided And also Karen that you said that reminded me of Romans 8 where it says those whom he predestined, he also justified. Right. The time stage outside of the it's the same sort of thing. Yeah, right. Yeah. And that gives us great confidence. Because when we're weak and we fail the Lord and I relate so much to what you just said because You know, we're so busy with the tyranny of the urgency that we really miss the golden nugget of let's sit down and and really sit with the Lord, you know And I know that I miss those opportunities. I was like, can't you tell me? What are you doing? You've got the, you know, um the opportunities and really fellowship with the Most High God and that you're choosing to that thing here. All right, thank you. Alright, thank you. We're just about out of time, so um I will pray and then we'll kind of just a minute. Um we didn't really dwell on it last week or even this week, but um there is a uh Um a little curiosity concerning the um nomenclature concerning time of day in these passages. And particularly, you know, if you look at these passages in the synoptic, it's using um what it's saying that that Um the it was the sixth hour to the ninth hour when it was darkness. It was while he was on the cross. But in John uh 1914, it says, well, he was at Pilate before Pilate finally handed him over to be crucified. Uh it was a day of preparation for the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold your king. Um and so uh it seems pretty clear they're using a different um clock, if you will. Uh John's writ written much later is apparently using Roman time, which is basically archives. Where um Um we count from midnight to noon and and so on, so the six hour would have been six AM just as day was dawning. in John. But in the synoptics they're using Hebrew time which is counted from six AM. And so the six hour would have been noon and the uh ninth hour would have been three p. m. So they're consistent but they're using different timing conventions. Is that why um In John nineteen thirty-one, it says because it was the day of preparation. Where John specifically says it was the sixth hour when pilot was wrapping up his trying to escape from this phone. Yeah. Well no no the sixth hour would have been our six AM. Six A. John was using Roman time. Right, so so that happened very early in the wee hours of the day and basically he was released to be crucified around six AM And they do everything they do, they take him to the cross, and then by nine uh by uh by noon, he was on the cross, it got dark, and for three hours until three p. m. It's just a little curiosity. Okay. All right. Um how about I pray and uh we can close.