Alright, so we are on we are on section 41, the upper room discourses, I feel like it starts at page 248, lesson 41 And I'm also at some point in time gonna refer back to that map. It's really a nice little map on page three twenty. And it really shows you all the little spots or locations of where we're going to travel around and the upper discourse is on there. But we'll get there. I think it's number six. Kind of in the um yeah, it's in the Western Hill area. And we'll we'll get to that. But this is really a nice little map. It's in the back of your room. So this is a Thursday night, and this is the night that Judas left left, um, where Jesus gathers with the disciples, and after they gather, they sing a hymn, they go to the Mount of Olives. He goes to pray and there he is arrested. Then on Friday he is crucified, and on a Sunday he rises from the dead. This is going to be fast-paced We're going to go through this whole uh section, not all the way to the crucifixion, but we're leading up to the crucifixion. So just imagine um being in the disciples' shoes. Everything is going great Um we see, you know, Christ uh conquering his enemies, he's he's building the kingdom, and very shortly he's going to be gone. And yet they're not quite they still haven't quite grasped that concept. And so uh imagine what Jesus is. So these are kind of the last few lessons, gatherings that Christ is going to be. What would he think about what would be the most important thing you'd want your followers to believe. He knows what's going to happen. He knows he's going to lead them. He knows that the disciples are going to be confused. They're going to be scattered Um scared, frightened, persecuted. What kind of messages would Christ want to leave with his disciples? And this is a great app you know this whole this whole study is really how can we apply what we listen. So think about this um not just directed to the disciples but also to us Okay, so z um so this chapter that we're about to get into, these sections, uh center in the promise that Jesus is the one who gives the believer comfort, not only in his future return but also in the present with a ministry of the Holy Spirit. Again, the world of the disciples are is about to be shattered, they're going to be scattered, anxious, continuous Confused, great persecution. Um so anticipating the impact, Jesus takes the opportunity to relay comfort and victory for the believer. Again, this is not just to the disciples, but this is absolutely w um a message that we can take to ourselves. So we'll start and if if this is your first time you'll notice in your book we've looked for example on 249 We're taking all the Gospels and for example on section 173 there, there's a section from Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And then just underneath there, there's one little line. It's called the blended account. And then taking all the gospels and kind of just cohesively putting them together. Um and this is really I I really like this, rather than trying to jump back and forth between different gospels, Dr. Plumy has made this so it all flows together in a very cohesive way. So we're going to read on 249 in section 173 and section he's put it all just in one single sentence. We'll read it and then let's talk about it And um uh let's think about how this applies to us. So I'll I'll read there um the blended uh It's just one verse. After singing a hymn, I guess this hymn, uh feel down there's some little bullet points. The hymn uh um I guess it is is referencing Psalm one eighteen Um that's a really nice song. Um and it's one that's included in the Passover Saver, pointing to the Lamb of God. So after singing a hymn, he came out and proceeded as was his custom to the Mount of Olives and the disciples also followed him. Yes. Do you want to do one seventy two? I would want to do one seventy two. Oh, the whole giant section. That's the problem with taking it out of my notebook. Okay. Thank you. I was like I know there was like a giant section. I'm like, when's it just one sentence here? 172 at 248. 248, 240. Okay. Yes. Um let's go through this section. And in fact, in this case, you'll see it is only John that we're going to read through. But again, uh for the most part, we've composited, we've brought together all the gospels and made them flow into one story. Okay. 248, I'll go ahead and read. And again, questions, comments, um, application, please feel free to to chime in. So I'll start reading there. A promise. Do not let your hearts be troubled. Believe in God Believe also in me. In my father's house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you, for I go to prepare a place for you. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself. That where I am, there you may also there you may be also, uh referencing to the rapture. And you know the way and you know the way where I am going Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How do we know the way? And I love this verse, uh verse uh really worth memorizing. Verse six, Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. And this is throughout the Gospel of John. Pointing to the deity of Christ, pointing to Jesus is the only way to God, and no one comes to the Father except through Christ. And this one verse is so packed, I really think it's it's worthy of being of being memorized. Um again This is one of the last times that Christ will be in the presence of the disciples. So what's the m message here? It's a message of comfort. I'm not just going to leave you. You're going to be persecuted. You're going to be scattered. Um yet I'm not going to leave you Uh let's continue. If you had known me you had it would have known my father also. From now on you you know him And have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been so long with you, and yet you have not come to know me, Philip? Ye he who has seen me has seen and it is enough for us. Oh sorry. He who has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say show us the Father? It's so tragic. They've been with Christ this whole time, and yet they're they're asking these kinds of questions. It's it's also kind of For myself, comforting to know that I don't that that Christ is very forgiving and very slow to anger with me. He's very patient. And we can see here He still is. I mean if if I were if I were there, I would be like, how can you not figure this out? I've been here with you for how long? Day and night, and you still don't know who I am? But we don't see that at all. We still see a very loving, caring, sacrificial Christ leading us on to glory. Do you not okay, I'll continue in um verse ten. Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own initiative, but the Father abiding in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me. All the wise, believe because of the works themselves. Truly, truly I say to you, he who believes in me the works that I do, he will also do He will do also. And greater works than these he will do, because I go to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, that will I do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. Do you see this great relationship between the Father and the Son? And the next section we're going to be talking more about this concept of abiding. And you really see it, I and the Father are one. And now we're going to see how that relationship is also with Christ and us as well. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. Verse 16. I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper, that he may be with you forever. That is the spirit of truth. So now we've got comfort, and now there's this Who's this helper? And how you give give him forever? That is the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it does not see him or know him. But will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. After a little while the world will no longer see me, but you will see me, because I live, you will live also. In that day you will know that I am in my father and you in me and I in you. Again, just seeing this relationship, Father, Son, You. He has my commandments and keeps them is is the one who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my father. And I will love him and will disclose him will disclose myself to him. Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, what then has happened that you are going to disclose yourselves to us and not to the world? Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word And my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our abode with him. He who does not love me does not keep my words, and the word which you hear is not mine but the Fathers who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you This first caught my attention. Have you ever sat back, you know, okay, Christ is gone, you're being persecuted, and now you have to remember three years worth of what happened and write it all down This is very comforting to know that the Holy Spirit will bring to your remembrance all that I said to you. I mean I can hardly remember what I did yesterday, let alone three years ago And I'm sure they weren't like feverishly writing down notes or had sermon you know, sermon audio to to go back and reference. So this is really a very comforting um comforting to know of the Spirit and the disciples. Verse 27, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your hearts be troubled, nor let it be fearful. You heard that I said to you, I go away and I will come to you. If you love me, you would have rejoice because I go to the Father, for the Father is greater than I Now I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens you may believe. So he's telling them what's about to happen. And he's telling them So that they won't be surprised. Verse thirty, I will not speak much more with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and he has nothing in me. But so that the world may know that I love the Father. I do exactly as the Father commanded me. Get up, let us go from here. So there's a lot packed in this in this verse in this section. Um any thoughts, comments, applications? I was thinking uh work with a guy who was um church two and two is called a oneness church. Did you ever hear that? What they believe is that Jesus the Father, the Holy Spirit, that there's only one God and there's And he would go to this passage, you know, where Philip, you know, who hardly ever said anything, worked up the courage and said, Show us the Father and That's enough. And he saw he was saying something really profound and he's like, How long have you been with me, Philip? You don't know, but but they kinda key on this if you've seen the father, you've seen me And so therefore, clearly there is no distinction between father and son, but so much in this passage that talks about the interrelation of the members of the church. And uh, you know, you just pull that one little sentence, it kind of supports what they believe, but they don't pay any attention to the rest of the thing. Yeah, the context is important how to see there's a relationship between very distinct person and person Mm-hmm. Well in the same as it things as what the father is created and basically the distinction. Right, right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Definitely identif identifying um very two different So this is the promise. It's a comfort. It's um knowing that that Christ will not leave them on their own. There is a helper, the Holy Spirit. He is going to the Father. He is will be establishing his kingdom. And we're going to start getting into this concept of abiding. There's relationship, and it's not just relationship with Christ, the Holy Spirit, and the Father, but we also are going to be in this relationship. I think that comes out a little more strongly in the last section that we have here. So I'm gonna go move on unless there's any Question Questions, thoughts, concerns. Okay. Now I can go to page two forty nine. In section one hundred seventy three, um I'll just read this uh uh this one sentence here. And after singing a hymn he came out and proceeded, as was his custom, to the Mount of Olives. And the disciples also followed him. So the disciples are still with him and um They're moving around the if you want to go to that map, again that's on page 320. Um it should be map nine-nine. Again, I really like this map. It really shows I'm a visual person, so I like to kind of know where things are. Um and it gives a very nice uh picture of all the places that the disciples in Christ are moving around. Um again we talked a little bit about um regarding Ghessedome um that where Bethany was and now we're in the city. Or kind of down here kind of your bottom right. I'm sorry, your bottom left. Um and that is identified as location six as being the upper room. And so now they're going to be moving back towards the Mount of Olive. Section 174. Would someone like to read That blended account. Okay. Then Jesus said to them, You will all fall away because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike down the shaft chief of But Peter said to him, Even though all may fall away because of you, yet I will never fall away. Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that this very night, before a rooster close twice, you yourself will deny me. Peter kept saying insistently that even if I have to die with you Yeah, isn't that kind of what we do also? We're so strong and then minutes later we We stumble and fall. And yet uh a gracious God um still picks us up and continues to bring us to Him. Um I did want to bring up one point and that is if you look up at above the blended section, he's pulling from Matthew and Mark. And if you look kind of in the last uh half there talking about the rooster Let's read Matthew 26, and it is in verse that's about like 34. Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you this very night, before a rooster crows, you will deny me three times. Let's kind of move over to Mark 14 Um let's take in verse thirty you get about a half. Um before a rooster crows twice, you yourself will deny me three times. So they're both Saying the same thing about the rooster crowing three times, but one gospel says before a rooster crows, and Mark says before a rooster crows twice. Who's right? Is this a contradiction? I went to a um uh University of Maryland uh basketball game and I came home I said, Yeah, I we're in this section and like everyone was standing up. Another version is They were standing up the whole game. Um both descriptions are correct. Same case here. Um You have one author saying the roots are prose. You have another one just giving a more specific number of time. So there's no contradiction. They're just simply two different perspectives. of the same event. Um down a little bit lower there's another uh thought um on that second bullet point I'll read that. Matthew and Mark are clear that this warning to Peter happened after they left the upper room. And Mark speaks of a rooster crowing twice. Luke and John record a prediction in the upper room about three denials before rooster crow. These passages suggest that Jesus predicted six denials, three before the first crowing, and three more before the second crowing. So um the take-home message, well first there's two ways to look at the situation. But the take-home message is the rooster is going to be crowing three times for the dial. Now whether the rooster crows one time, two times, is not a significant uh message What's important is that Christ has identified that yes, Peter will deny him three times. But again, just like I like glad you had mentioned the uh the accident situation. Car crashes um and you can have very different perspectives from different witnesses and yet they're just giving um details that they saw from their vantage point that perhaps some it is from the other. It doesn't negate it doesn't negate one another, it just gives greater clarity, a greater deeper picture. Why don't we move to section 175, which is a very large section? So I looked at this section and um I could take a whole hour on just one verse. So um Um but we unfortunately don't have that time. But I've made some observations and um I really would love to share some of the points that that hit me during my during my study. There's a number of of themes that run through this passage. One that I really was um that really hit me was if you look at the first ten or eleven verses You have this word abide. And it's not just once, it's like all over the place. There's like ten of them. I just like highlighting, see with my little highlight like abide, abide, abide, abide, abide, abide, abide, abide. It's all through out there. Um and it's interesting that it just came off of uh the section prior because the section prior we're talking about this relationship. Jesus the Father, the Holy Spirit, and us. And here he's going to go a little more deeper into what it means for us to abide, to be with Christ. And so why don't we read someone like to read the first ten verses there? My father is the bundress. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away. And every branch that bears fruit fruits it, so that it may bear more fruit. You all are already clean Because of the word which I have spoken, abide in me, I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, because it abides, abides in the vine, so neither you I am the vine, you are the branch. He who abides in me and I in him, he bears much for apart from me, you can do nothing. Anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away as a branch and dries up. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit, and so fruit, disciples. Just as the Father has loved me, I also have loved you. Abide in my love. Keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father to do. So there is a lot going on here, and I love the um the picture that he's developing here of a a vine, a vineyard, a vine dresser, and the branches. Um And it hit me because I have these grape vines in my backyard and they're diseased all the time. It's like a war zone out there. And this finally I hacked this thing down to almost nothing. It was like If it if it dies, oh well. I'll just rip it off and start again. But surprisingly, they came back way stronger this year. And so um this picture of a vine, the vine dresser, and the branches um really struck me. Um I took almost all those branches off and there was nothing but the actual vine itself. I thought for sure I might get some branches, but I'm probably not gonna see any fruit. Um and I predict it's gonna be very fruitful. um harvest. It's actually coming back stronger. And um I don't have to like climb up trees to get the branches anymore. So it's kind of convenient now. It's all like right about like this level. But anyways, in this case, there is a vine dresser, there is a vine, and then there is the branches. Any thoughts about who is who? who this picture represents. I love I I'm very simple and so I love these kind of analyses, these kind of pictures. So like, oh, I did not understand. Um and how abide plays into this idea of relationship. Pretty much given away at the beginning, says I'm the turbine. My father's the drive dresser, and then when he refers to branches, those are Yeah. And the great thing is that that's where the fruit is going to be. And so um Jesus is expecting to see fruit in the lives of a believer. Um and the but the great thing is if you look in verse four, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it it abides in the vine. There's a relationship there. And it's not just Jesus is not just saying, oh go w go off and good luck and produce fruit. No, take from me and bide with me. And I will produce fruit through you. So again, there's that relationship. It's not of our of our strength, it's of Christ's strength. I guess he would be the main structure and it's and it's we've now been kinda grasped into his there's that relationship. that we have directly with him. Yeah, there's there's a union, sort of say, of the branch being attached to the vine, and that's where we're getting our source of strength, uh encouragement understanding of the word, comfort. He is our source of spiritual fruitfulness. I wanted to also read Galatians 2. 20. Um which I think uh plays into this this idea of abiding and in union with Christ. Galatians two twenty, I have been crucified with Christ it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me in the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loves me and gave himself for me Um so this is this is greater than just a simple um I believe in Jesus. I believe he walked on earth, I believe he um did all this uh did all these uh miracles and spoke great truth. No, this is a a union that we have that goes beyond just simply knowing who he is. This is a savior who is with us and that we can um depend upon not only now but it's a dependence that will bring us into the kingdom In view of a vineyard, we can expect to be pruned by our Heavenly Father to be more fruitful. The Word of God is instrumental in working upon our hearts to be more sanctified. So again, um this is a relationship It's a union and it's a reun it's a union uh forever. And although Christ may not physically be there in the presence of the disciples or in the presence of us He is not just like left and forgotten us. He will come back. He will bring us into his kingdom. And in the meantime, we're going to learn about who the Holy Spirit is that will be indwelling in us. So why don't we continue to read here? Um could someone read eleven through sixteen for me? Thanks. That my joy may be your joy be This is my commandment that you love one another. One laid down his life, for his you are my friends. No longer do I call you slaves for the slaves. Slave does not know what is McGuin, but I have called you friend. All things I have heard from my father are you. You did not choose me, but I chose you, and a point that you would go and bear fruit, and that fruit was in me, so that whatever you asked was It's interesting that he's about to leave them. He knows they're going to be scattered. He knows they're going to be persecuted. And yet he in that in that first verse in eleven, he's talking about joy. And not just joy, but just joy in fullness. And this is being given to believers. And then those believers will go out and bear fruit. And they're going to bear fruit because they're in union with Christ. Verse 17. This I command you that you love one another. If the world hates you You know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world because this world hates you. Again, that I concept of chosen. Could you imagine a God choosing and then later on deciding, ah, forget it. I'm gonna pull out my chosen. No, you're chosen, you're sealed forever. And what strikes what strikes me even more so is how the disciples have been with them, with Jesus for three years, every day Every night and that God is so patient. You would think, again, I kind of mentioned this early, I would be exhausted if by the time we get to this last few days, the disciples still don't know who I am. I would get very frustrated with that. Like, oh, you're all fired, get out of here. But no, it's a gentle, gentle Savior who is abiding, who wants a reun a union with his branches And again the application is that we have the same relationship. And you've mentioned a good good point. You know, we know so much you know we know the ending of the story. Um and it's easy for us to look back uh easy for me to look back and look at these guys and go like How come you can't get it? There should probably be more conviction on me and then than there is on disciples. So yeah, they're about to be thrown out uh scattered, very confused, not knowing what's going on, what just happened here, um should give them a little bit of slack. Um as John just mentioned, uh I think Jesus talked about I am the way, I think the truth the light. And yet when Moses was being sent to Pharaoh and asked who should I say he's sending me, what did God say? God said, I am. And in in the Greek, it it's the very same thing. You know, it's like if you kinda pick up on an insight, he is those words I use God. Yep. And clearly we've seen the Pharisees um knew exactly what was going on, exactly what he This I command you that you love one another. If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before For it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, because of this the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you, a slave is not greater than his than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also. But all these things they will do to you for my name's sake, because they do not know the one who sent me. If I had not come and spoken to them They would ha they would not have awareness of sin. But now they have no excuse for their he who hates me hates my he who hates me hates my father also. If I had not done among them the works which no one else did, they would not have awareness of the sin. But now they have both seen and hated me and my father as well It really seems to be like on the wrong side of a uh tug of war rope, right? But they have done this to fulfill the word that is written in their law They hated me without a cause. Verse 26. Now we're going to start talking about who this helper is. When the helper comes whom I will send to you from the Father, that is the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me and you will testify also, because you have been with me from the beginning. These things I have spoken to you, so that you may be kept from stumbling. They will make you outcast from the synagogue, but an hour is coming for everyone who kills you to think that he is offering service to God. These things they will So um the other thing I wanted to mention. Now it's coming from for everyone who killed you to think he is offering service to God. I mean they were going after um uh for example Paul was zealous right and he thought he was doing the work of God until he realized um he was absolutely not that that that was not serving God. Um these things they will do because they have not known the Father or me. But these things I have spoken to you so that when their hour comes you may remember that I told you of them. So he's forewarning them They will be persecuted. They will be killed. These things I did not say to you at the beginning because I was with you, but now I am going to him who sent me. And none of you asks asks me, where are you going? But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you, and he, when he comes, will convict the world concer concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me, and concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you no longer see me. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged. I have many more things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. That's probably an understatement. But when he, the Spirit of Truth, comes, He will guide you into the into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears He will speak and he will disclose to you what is to come. And we can rest in this because this is not exclusively for the disciples. And we'll see later in Acts the coming of the Spirit. upon all who would believe. So we are part of this this great this great story, this great uh reality that we will be, that we have indeed today, the Holy Spirit abiding in us. Verse 14 He will glorify me, for he will take of mine and will disclose it to you. All things that the Father has are mine. Therefore I said that he takes of mine and will disclose it to you Isn't it an amazing thing that that we are being disclosed the truths of God? We understand the truths of God. This is a very unique um a very unique circumstance or or or Um have you ever gone and like tried to speak to your unbelieving friends and just you continue to tell them the truth again and again and again and they just Just uh click. I could at work I'll tell people all about CART therapies and they get it. But but why don't they get this? It's so simple. They get the hard stuff. They can do differential equations, but they just can't figure out these simple statements that we have right here. Um the Holy Spirit reveals him to us. I think I was on fourteen. He will glorify me, for he will take of mine, and will disclose it to you. All things that the Father has are mine. Therefore I said that he takes of mine and will disclose it to disclose it to you a little while and you will no longer see me, and again a little while, and then you and you will see me Some of his disciples then said to one another, What is this thing he is telling us? A little while and you will not see me? And again a little while and you will see me, and because I go to the Father, so they were saying What is this that he says a little while? We do not know what he's talking about. Jesus knew that they wished to question him, and he said to them, Are you deliberating together about this? That I said a little while and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me. Truly, truly I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice, you will grieve but your grief will be turned into joy. Whenever a woman is in labor she has pain because her hour has come. But when she gives birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish because of the joy that the child has been born into the world. I'm always amazed when women are going through twenty hours of labor pains and they end up having to get like a C-section. And yet somehow Two years later, they there have another kid. Um I had uh a little bit of surgery here and I never want to do it again, ever. I will bear the pain before I ever get surgery again. So and I just had this a like a little tiny cut, like a half inch. I it's an amazing thing. Like a mystery of the world Um verse twenty two. Therefore you too have grief now, but I will see you again And your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy away from you. In that day you will not question me about anything. Truly, truly, I say to you, if you ask the Father for anything in my name, he will give it to you. Until now you have asked for nothing in my name. Ask and you will receive, so that your joy may be made full. These things I have spoken to you In figurative language, an hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figurative language, but will tell you plainly of the Father. In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will request I love that too. Not only does Christ love you, but the Father as well. And then the you're and then the Holy Spirit is with you. This is the great joy. The God is with us and God will be with us. Verse twenty eight. I came forth from the Father and have come into the world. I am leaving the world again and going to the Father. and are not using a figure of speech. Now we know that you know all things and have no need for anyone to question you. By this we believe that you came from God. Jesus answered them Do you now believe? Behold, an hour is coming and has already come, for you to be scattered, each to his own home, and to leave me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. These things I have spoken to you, so that in me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation, but take courage, I have overcome the world. Again, this whole section is to build up his disciples. for what is about to come. I am with you. The Father loves you. The Holy Spirit is with you and will disclose all things. Pray and ask, and you will be, and your and your prayers will be answered as as they are done in his name. And in that last verse there, take courage, I have overcome the world. We can rest in the knowledge of knowing that Christ is for us. No matter what kind of circumstances or trials we go through. Um he has not left us to his own. Yeah. Um the father loves us, right? Just like my kids love me, I hope. Um And and they can ask me anything. I want them. And I want them to ask me everything. If they don't ask, I'm gonna ask for them, so they might as well just ask me. Um But if they ask me for a snake or a poisoned glass of water, I'm not going to give it to them. But I will give them everything that is good for them And so um it's asking in his name. So there's a caveat there a little bit. It's not just like, you know, I want a mansion in a Mercedes. It's um Lord, I I need to be s I need daily bread. And he provides that, right? I mean the uh wandering in the wilderness. Give us our bread. Give us our daily bread God provides for our daily need. Um Lord, show me my gift. These kinds of prayers will be because that is quite obvious that is in line with what Christ wants for us, to grow in the knowledge of of who God is Um our daily sustenance, our daily need uh to be dependent upon him. Uh sanctification, wisdom, knowledge, um strong marriage. Um a family. Um these are all things that are in agreement with uh the word of God. So of course he's going to want us want to give us those Um there's times that we think something would be good for us and yet ends up not being so. Um I wanted to um leave my current job for a different agency and I was like, why are the doors just not being open? I'm applying, I'm talking to people. Well it was with the FDA. And had I had gotten that job I probably would have been let go by So um looking back I was like, oh, it was a good thing that I didn't get that job. So um he gives us things that are good for us. Um and he doesn't give us things because maybe it's not good for us or it's not the right time. But we can be assured that when we pray to God, He's on our side. He wants He He he is he's gonna bring us to heaven, so why would he just kinda let us loose and and and and and be self destructive? That's not his purpose. His purpose is that we grow in sanctification, that we grow closer to one another, um, and that we do things for the kingdom. And so praying for these things, um, our prayers will be answered. Maybe not exactly as we think But they will be prayer but they will be answered for our good in his glory. I would love to have a image of what heaven would be like. If I knew what heaven would be like, all of this pales in comparison All of a sudden like, uh why am I even going to work? Why am I bothering an hour to drive to work and then an hour back home? And again I think I mentioned it once before. Do I really want to be the richest guy in the cemetery? Useless. Right? I should be I should be working towards treasures in heaven, and that's where he wants That's really the imagine the treasures in heaven forever. Forever. Yeah, our focus should be on spiritually what is good for our soul. And what are good for those around us? And how can we become more sanctified and more like Christ? God will answer those prayers. He's he hasn't just left us off on our own. He will sanctify us. And yeah, I could always say woe is me towards me, but there's always someone in more dire circumstances. circumstance. So um I should be more humbled by how God has given me more than I need um and be content. Usually the most uncontent, I guess discontent people are usually those who have more stuff And so um we want to be the other way. We want to be more content with God, to abide with God, to love God, um, and know and be comforted that He loves us and that He's not going to just leave us to our own demise. He is working on us and then one day we will be in heaven. We'll look back at this and go like, ah, I wasted so much time doing nonsense stuff, focusing on the wrong thing. But if I could, um I'd probably wasted a lot of time I'm focusing on the wrong on the wrong. So wrong object. The object should be God. Um think we're near the end. Yes, we really did finish. I was worried in order to get through all of these heavy, heavy, large passages that we would not finish on time. But uh we have we still have about like ten minutes or so. So um any final thoughts? Any thoughts about um application? Again, I really think this is a great powerful section, all these sections on how we can apply um not only our focus, but also knowing that we can have comfort, that God provides comfort for us. So you're just looking at the underlined uh verses in in that section 175? It does. And there's um I mean you can do a study on abide. Again, it's There's ten of them in the first couple of verses there about abiding, abiding, abiding, um what that means. Um yeah, this is a again, I you could do a a very deep couple month study on on this on this section. Um the the revealing of the the helper, um again abiding, what that means. Um concept of joy in a time of Uh or what's about to become a uh persecution to death even, praying to God and the Father will give you what you ask for. Yeah, that's a good question. I'll actually have to um I like the the underlines because they do draw you to those things and I'm not sure I I'll have to ask Dr. Plumley exactly what he had in mind when he underlined certain verses. Um I think he's here next week. I got my little schedule here. Yes, he will be here next week, so uh we could ask him like the significance of the underlines. But yeah, it is a rich, rich uh These sections are are rich. Um and uh again one of the last times that Christ is going to be directly speaking. to his disciples. Any other comments or thoughts? And so it's there's also comfort in knowing that sometimes God says no. And that could be a really good good thing. Yeah. Isn't it ca it's kinda interesting, you know, we're when all when things are kind of going the way I want them to go, our prayer life kinda sometimes softens. And then all of a sudden trial, tribulation, those are like my fantastic prayer times. I am asking all the time. I am praying, I'm I'm speaking in hymns and psalms. Um and those kinds of trials and persecution are about to about to occur. Um yeah. It's unfortunate that that's what's needed to spark us to really be doing what we ought to be doing anyways, regardless of what the circumstances are. Any last minute thought? We are about uh 1038. So next week it's gonna be Dr. Fumley and he's gonna be speaking about prayer. I'll pray and then we can move over to worship time. Dear Heavenly Father, what a comfort it is to know that you love us. You have sent us your son who has paid the price for our sin, and you've not left us alone. Provide us with the helper, the Holy Spirit. Lord, may we um, as we have read, continue to prune us, continue to hold us tight. continues to to give us comfort, knowing who you are, that you have not forgotten us, you are always with us and that our prayers are heard and um we can be assured that your answers are good. We look forward to gathering in worship today to bring you glory and honor that you are so deserving of. Lord, thank you for this time and may our uh may we continue to dig deep into your word to know who you are and to know how well and to know who we are now as believers, reunited with you. Um not just today but forever. We give you great thanks in your name. Amen