Well, let's go to our lesson. We're on lesson 10, ministering on the Sabbath. And We begin with our section 42, and that puts us on page 64. Has everybody got that? Now this first section Well, uh just back up a little bit. Um we've got three different Sabbaths here, each of which um created some controversy and interaction between Jesus and the religious establishment. The first one here is in section 42, taken entirely from the Gospel of John. And I thought this might be a good place to mention that something I realized only recently Is that the Gospel of John appears to have much more of the content or much more of the activity of Christ in Judea than um the other three gospels. And I think he was writing much later. He was, I think Trying to fill in a little bit of of the life of Christ that was not covered in any of the earlier three, the Synoptic Gospels But you have a lot of events happening in Judea and Jerusalem particularly that appear only in the Gospel of John. And this would be one of them here. Other things, other examples of that would be the raising of Lazarus. You'd expect that would have been a headline, but it appears only in John. So anyway, I'm going to go ahead and read and kind of interrupt myself as I'm reading this section And make a few observations, notes, and so on, then we'll have greater discussion at the end of it So after these things, there is a feast of the Jews. Most commentators interpret that to be the Passover. It was certainly one of the three main celebrations that was instituted under the Old Testament law. But you know, we we don't have a lot of uh uh concrete milestones in the Gospels concerning timeline and and even the length, the total length of time. There are a few indicators. Uh but one of the key things is just keeping track of how many Passovers passed. That's not a. And most commentators indicate that this is most likely one of those Passovers. And as you count them all up, you see that that the ministry of Christ took place over the course of three plus years. 3. 5-ish, something like that. Okay, so Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now, there is in Jerusalem by the sheepgate a pool which is called in Hebrew Bethesda. having five porticos. In these lay a multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, and withered. Now, right there begins a bracket in the text, and in the NASB, it's in brackets. with a side note to indicate that this portion within the brackets at the end of verse 3 and all of verse 4 are not in the earliest manuscripts And it's not clear whether whether it was original or what whether it was inserted later or some of the earlier manuscripts. for one reason or another inadvertently left it out. But it's it's kind of a commentary that does help us understand the context So these people were there waiting for the moving of the waters, for an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool and stirred up the water. Whoever then first, after stirring up of the water, stepped in, was made well from whatever disease with which he was afflicted. And so that's why there were so many sick there. That was their understanding that that was what God would be doing. Verse 5. A man was there who had been ill for 38 years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been a long time in that condition, he said to him, Do you wish to get well? The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no man to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up But while I am coming, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Get up, pick up your pallet, and walk Immediately the man became well and picked up his pallet and began to walk. Now it was the Sabbath on that day. So the Jews We're saying to a man who was cured. Now, when it says the Jews, as often the case in really all the gospels, but I think even particularly in John It's referring to sort of officialdom, not just the run-of-the-mill Jews, but the Jewish leaders. So Jews were saying to the man who was cured, It is the Sabbath. It is not permissible for you to carry your pallet. But he answered them, He who has made me well was the one who said to me, Pick up your pallet and walk. And they asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Pick up your pallet and walk? But the man who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had slipped away while there was a crowd in that place Afterward, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you have become well. Do not sin any more, so that nothing worse happens to you Oh, and by the way, these bracketed notes that are in italics, those are mine. Those are not in those Manuscripts. That's just my sort of commentary. Verse 15. The man who went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who made him well. For this reason, the Jews were persecuting Jesus because he was doing these things, not just the healing, but the convicting of sin, I think, on the Sabbath. But he answered them, My father is working until now, and I myself am working. For this reason, therefore, the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, or at least their understanding of the Sabbath, But also was calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. So at least they understood that. They didn't have any confusion about who he was claiming to be. They just didn't believe that he was right. Therefore, Jesus answered and was saying to them, Truly, truly, I say to you. The son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself is doing. And the Father will show him greater works than these, so that you will marvel. For just as the Father raises the dead and gives life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he wishes. For not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son, so that all will honor the Son even as they honor the Father He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God And those who hear will live. For just as the Father has given life in himself, even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself And he gave him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs This is now speaking of the bodily resurrection. All those who are in the tombs will hear his voice and will come forth. Those who did the good deeds, that is, those who are saved, those who do good deeds because God's given them the righteousness of Christ. To a resurrection of life, and those who have committed evil deeds, that is, the unsaved, who have not repented, to a resurrection of judgment. I can do nothing on my own initiative, as I hear, I judge. And my judgment is just, because I do not seek my own will, but the will of him who sent me. If I alone testify about myself, my testimony is not true. There is another who testifies of me, and I know that the testimony which he gives about me is true. You have sent to John, and he testified to the truth, but the testimony which I give is not from man But I say these things so that you may be saved. He's even saying this to people who are objecting to him Um but he's speaking also generally, I'm sure. Say these things so that you may be saved. He was the lamp that was burning and was shining, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. This is speaking of John the Baptist. But the testimony which I have is greater than the testimony of John, for the works which the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I do, testify about me. that the Father has sent me. And of course, one of those very works he did was raising this this lame man, right? Basically before their eyes. And verse 37. And the Father who sent me, he has testified of me. You have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his form, yet you And you do not have his word abiding in you, for you you do not believe him, whom he sent, speaking of himself. You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life It is these that testify about me, and you are unwilling to come to me so that you may have life I do not receive glory from men, but I know you that you do not have the love of God in yourselves. I have come in my father's name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that is from the one and only God? Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father. The one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? Rather striking Response Jesus had to the unbelief of the Jewish leaders there. They were quibbling about Aspects that they had layered on to the law and accusing him of not keeping their customs and traditions And Jesus went one step beyond that and basically revealed that um They were missing the point. They misunderstood Moses. If they had understood Moses and believed what God had written in the Old Testament, they would have been very receptive. to Christ and his teaching. He um also made it clear that that um what was important here was belief, uh faith And they were focusing on works, even works that were according to man-made traditions. And so it seemed rather common. We've already seen some, we'll be seeing some more examples of him. Confronting those who were so zealous about keeping the Sabbath that they completely missed the point. And um It's sort of a a repetitious encounter that he has with Jewish leaders particularly. Some very interesting doctrinal things here that he covered, and just his acknowledgement of his submission to the Father, his obedience to the Father um glory um you know seeking the glory of God not our own glory those kind of things um Affirmation of the resurrection. He went through a lot of doc doctrinal uh key points. And you know, they they they kind of thought that they were raising a rather straightforward, simple, clear-cut issue, bringing him you know, under some kind of condemnation, and he turned the table completely and used it as an opportunity to to teach Does that raise any other observations, questions? Pastor Firmley, can can you expound a little um more on Jesus' connection between him not receiving glory? for himself and the the Jewish leaders not having the love of God in them. I can't I'm looking for the verse now. I can't Verse 42. 42. Yes, forty-one and forty-two. I do not receive glory from men, but I know you that you do not have the love of God in yourselves. So the connection between the two halves of that sentence? Yes. Well Um the the two parts there I think are in and of themselves pretty straightforward. It's maybe what is the connection between them. So I do not um verse forty one, I do not receive glory from men Um and the hi the glory that he has is um inherent. He's always enjoyed being in the the Godhead and um um we are w w we are called to glorify God, that is to That doesn't mean that he gets um glory added to himself. It means that the glory he has is put on display and recognized and um He is rightly acknowledged for who he is and the glory that is uniquely his. And so in that sense, we're glorifying him, but we're not, it's not like we're adding to his bucket of glory We're not the source of the glory. He's his his glory is uh inherent in who he is, but we are recognizing it, we are acknowledging it, we are um putting the focus on his glory. Um and so in that sense Jesus doesn't He doesn't need any glory um from men. He he he doesn't he's not a recipient in that sense of of glory. He may be the the object of our worship, and that brings him glory it it puts his glory on display. But the opposite of that is that the Jewish leaders he was speaking to Do not have the love of God in themselves. So if they don't have the love of God in themselves, which is at the heart of all the law, the love of the Lord you have with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, if that's not there, then they're not going to be putting well who is it they're going to be putting on display? themselves. Not God. And so in a sense, it's it's just the opposite. They want to glorify themselves rather than highlight the glory of God. And it's interesting they use their knowledge of the scriptures to do that because in verse 39 he points out you search the scriptures so their intensity even in doing their search of scriptures was ultimately to glorify themselves 'cause it um because you but he s he said that because you think that in them you have eternal life. So that's the mere religious activity of searching scriptures. They believe they have eternal life. And um but then he said they testify about me. Um Or you are unwilling to come to me. This strikes me that even um someone who searches the scriptures over we can say we're pursuing God but the if the ultimate goal is to promote self to draw glory or attention to myself. I'm really not pursuing God even though I'm intense in having uh time in the word or as they were I'm searching in scriptures and have religious authority, but they had no intention or desire or ability to love God or glorify God because all the glory was really for themselves. So that's why they can come up with their own religion. They can come up. Yeah. Yeah, and and um um I think partly also what he's referring to here says you search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. I think they were searching to make sure that there was no command in the scriptures that they were disobeying And so they would layer on all sorts of things just to make sure they're bending over backwards to do everything that would lead them to life. And so it was a very works-based, not just man-centered, but um another way of saying it really, is a very works-based mentality Um and they were completely missing the point. So how can a believer check themselves or examine ourselves to see if we truly uh love God or doing what we doing out of love for God and not just out of some s self righteous desire to uh stimulate ourselves intellectually or uh to go out and do service for the mere effect of doing it. Yeah, I mean that's that's a a reality that everyone even today needs to weigh, uh search their own hearts And like David said, see if there's any wicked way in me, right? Am I d trying to do the right things for the wrong reasons? That's like filthy rags before the Lord. Um but if I'm contrite and uh approaching my relationship with God where it's all about him and not all about me, and my desire is to um obey him for sure But that I obey him willingly from the heart, seeking to honor him and so on. And we need to be honest with ourselves, because it's very easy, even as genuine believers, to be doing the right things for the wrong reasons. I wanted to give um two observations and one of them is kind of looking down on this these um verses from a very high level and I I see Jesus kind of scripting the whole the whole thing, including starting with the healing. And what that would lead to and then his opportunity to teach um based on that that act So it's it's like it's completely in Jesus' uh control um as to what was going on and what he would accomplished through through this. The the other comment is um Pastor Allen you were talking about the human tradition. And I'm I'm wondering if the portion in bracket brackets is actually an example of like human superstition that people maybe assigned to this moving of the waters uh rather than it than it being a a true promise promise from the Lord. Yeah I think that's that's probably right. Um even in the Earlier manuscripts and the description that the man gives, it was clear that he believed that that was what would happen. So it was something perhaps of a tradition and so on. And it may have been started when someone went into the waters and for whatever reason um came out better, you know, many years ago, and so that just started a a um a long history of people seeking the same thing. I I don't know that we have any more evidence than we have right here in the text. So um I think it's quite likely that this was not actually something God was doing, but people thought maybe it was. And similar to the to the woman who wanted healing and she kind of um fabricated a promise that if I just touch the the hem of his garment I'll be made well. So it's But yet Jesus honored that that weak faith that that wasn't based on any scriptural promise. Yeah, it may have been based on uh testimonies of others Uh that that's my that's my section next week can we hold off? Yeah not steal the thunder from uh yes let's hold off. Okay. Yes ma'am. Can I can I comment on that um Verse of searching scripture. I think it's very easy for some people to use Bible study and scripture and even God as a tool You know, they're they're wielding a tool for personal ambitions and vain glory and it becomes and it becomes um You know, it's something that is subservient to them, not them submitting themselves to the Word of God. Yeah. Yeah, getting it just backwards. Right. Completely backwards. You know, if if you're always coming up roses when you read scripture, there's something terribly wrong. Yeah, well that and that's a pretty good sign that someone is interpreting scripture out of context You can lift out a verse and you can apply it to yourself or somebody else and completely misapply it And think that because, well, this is God's word, therefore it's authoritative, and handling it completely wrong. Um so yeah, that's a danger. And you know w we're not exempt from that. You know, we can point fingers at lots of people. We need to be very careful that we don't um try to manipulate scripture to get it to say what we want it to say. Yes, Satan was very good at that and um the temptation of Christ. Yes. Well and even even the temptation of Eve. You know, he's a master at twisting the word. Yep. Good point. All right, well let's proceed to the next episode, section 43. And this is roughly the same time, although we don't have a definitive timetable here. But now we're going back to the synoptic gospels, all three of them. I'll go ahead and read the blended account and we'll we'll talk about this encounter as well. Now it happened at that time that Jesus, that he was passing through some grain fields on a Sabbath. And his disciples became hungry and began to make their way along while picking heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands, and eating the grain. But when some of the Pharisees saw this, they said to him, Look, why do you and your disciples do what is not lawful on the Sabbath? And Jesus answering them said, Have you not even read what David did when he and his companions became hungry? How he entered the house of God in the time of Abbeathar the high priest? and took and ate the consecrated bread, which is not lawful for any to eat except the priests alone, and he gave it to his companions Or have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple break the Sabbath and are innocent? But I say to you that something greater than the temple is here. He's referring to himself. But if you had known what this means, I desire compassion and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the innocent. And he was saying to them, the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. So um again I I um I I think they were actually um looking for opportunities to uh uh point out the error because if they could find a a any act of of sin or disobedience That would undermine his teaching. And so here's an opportunity for them to bring offense. And um what does Jesus do? He goes back to the scriptures to try to teach them a lesson. Now, I think if I were doing it, I probably wouldn't have um approached it quite the same way. I maybe would have started with God's original design, how it's been corrupted, and the the purpose of the Sabbath as a sign of the law, kind of run them through sort of a historical kind of a thing. But he he brings out some Examples from the Old Testament. Um and the thing that I I think was maybe it's the the core of his message here, uh I desire compassion and not sacrifice It was kind of at the core of what he was trying to get at, but it was completely over their heads. I don't think they got this at all. that and there are multiple places in particularly in the prophets where it's clear and the psalms as well It's clear that God doesn't desire all this sacrificial stuff if people are not doing it from the right heart And it's salvation has always been by grace through faith. And if they're not doing these aspects of the law and the the big things would be circumcision and and um more importantly here the sacrifices that were instituted under the law itself. Um If if they're doing these things out of a works mentality, then God's saying, um I That doesn't cut it. Um these things that you do out of um habit and out of a heart of of seeking to justify themselves by works. God said, and repeatedly in the Old Testament you see that. Some people, I think, certainly got it. But for the most part, the prevailing understanding was that salvation was by works. And certainly the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders of the day here were well steeped in that approach. to the law and um and so they're missing it. And one of the the you know the the Sabbath was intended to be, and it's characterized in the Old Testament as the sign of the Mosaic Law. And it set apart the nation of Israel as unto God, and you see it highlighted in the Ten Commandments and so on. But to keep the Sabbath even religiously, you know, in the negative sense of the term. and miss the point of the Sabbath is to do it all for naught, really. And Jesus was trying to explain that. And it's not clear if he had more conversation than was recorded here in Scripture. But he was challenging them with that whole thought that it's not a works based relationship with God, it's a faith-based relationship with God. Um and the backdrop of this is that the things they were accusing him of violating were really not part of the law anyway. They were accusing him of violating their interpretation and application of it, which was embodied in lots of man-made regulations. And um he wasn't about to um keep any man-made regulations for the purpose of satisfying them. And um So it's not clear here that he made any headway in their thinking. This keeps coming up at different places, different times. But I would hope that he got them thinking. Pastor Plumley? What are we sorry? What applications would you have for us as we think about Sabbath keeping today? About Sabbath keeping? Yes. How should we approach that idea of Sabbath keeping? Yeah. Well You know, of all the Ten Commandments, that's the only one that's not repeated separately in the New Testament. The keeping of the Sabbath as a religious observance on the seventh day. which is what Sabbath means, is um it's it's a key aspect of the law. In fact it's the sign of the Old Testament law Well, we are no longer under the Old Testament law. We're under the New Covenant. And so very early on the Christian church began gathering weekly on Sundays to commemorate the resurrection. And uh so the the the need to set aside a day for corporate uh worship and so on um was continued even in in the church, but it was switched to Sunday partly as a clear demarcation of not being under the law uh but also to celebrate the um the Lord's resurrection and and um the the new covenant. So I know there are lots of Christians today who impose lots of standards and do's and don'ts and so on concerning uh Sundays, the way they would have under the law for Saturdays, Sabbath And yet the principle is the same that Jesus was talking about here, that um We need to definitely love God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and we need to um uh gather together with the saints for corporate worship and as believers in Christ under the new law we do that on um Sundays um to impose on people um a a standard of conduct during the entire day of Sunday is usually go I think always uh going beyond what the New Testament would would um require But it's the same thing. It's it's where is your heart? What are you are you doing this for a works-based religion or are you doing this for a a faith-based relationship with the Holy God? And to layer, like the like the Jews did here, to layer on man-made traditions on top of what God had instituted. um would be a misplaced um effort. I guess I was thinking about m more like the concept of rest and just slowing down to acknowledge the Lord in a fuller way, at least once a week, just the principle of Sabbath keeping, not so much like the regulations and the the what the law or what the Pharisees were prescribing, but just in our hearts, like how can we honor the principle of the Sabbath in our Christian walk? Yeah. Um and again, it's it's the same principle, isn't it? And when when God gave the Ten Commandments he tied that practice of every seventh day resting back to creation, what he did, right? And um what does it what does it um do When we set aside a day for something other than commercial gain What it does is it says, well, um, we can trust God is going to care for our needs even when we take a day off and do it regularly for the purpose of of worshiping him. So it's not unlike the provision that God made for Uh the nation of Israel, you know, when they had the manna on the sixth day they got two days supply so that they wouldn't have to uh go out on the Sabbath. Um when we set aside a day to not um pursue the things of the world, financial gain and this kind of thing, but rather devote ourselves to the Lord, that you know if we're doing that with the right heart, then that's that's pleasing to God. It demonstrates Faith. Now, does that mean that everybody who has to work on Sundays is sinning? No, I don't think so. Um there are some very important um uh responsibilities. You know, we we've got people in the medical community who are uh scheduled to do sometime um on Sundays and um Others have other responsibilities that happen sometimes on Sundays. If it's a continual thing, if I'm always going to be working on Sundays in my job I would personally think it would be better to seek some way around that. Different schedule, different job. Um so that I can uh e even if that other schedule allowed me to have a day off a week, but I would never have Sundays off, I would look for a different job. So I could be together with the Saints Um and uh commemorate Resurrection Day every week uh for the church. Um I don't know. Does that help? Yes, thank you. It seems like there's a lot of instruction in verse 27, the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. So thinking about what people did on the Sabbath, there was a greater time of Um listening to God's Word, a greater time of fellowship, and there is physical rest and just um getting have having a closer relationship to uh to the Lord and and the Lord's people. So it was like, okay This Sabbath was for for for man and uh and and and opportunity to worship their their Lord Yes, Andre. I yeah, I struggle with finding a an appropriate response to somebody who says for instance that Jesus is meneutic as far as if you look at where what he talks about um David um eating the uh the bread that was legally because he does say that it's lawful only for the priest to eat and he does not condemn it Um someone might look at that and say that Jesus was probably implying that um that we should look at the spirit of the law, if you would, or it the intent of the law, more so than the explicit literal reading of the law. So somebody might then look at that and say, when we say uh when we insist on a strict or Well, as close adherence to some of the injunctions we find in the New Testament, like the gathering of the saints together that we are ignoring the spirit of the law and insisting on a literal reading and adherence to it So my struggle is how to counter an argument like that that would be based on somebody saying, you know, after all Jesus Christ in this instance seemed to be saying, you know, look more at the Spirit of the law than the literal reading of the law. Uh real real quick, real quick. Um in David's situation, even when Jesus said, I desire compassion and not sacrifice, David was running for his life. And uh his life was in danger, and so when he ate the food from the temple, even though that was designated to the priest, that he was not violating the law of gods. was mo God showed that he's more compassionate than about someone keeping all the uh the uh I've got the whatever word I'm looking for, all the nuances of the law. The man was running for his life He was hungry. They gave him food to eat. And God desires compassion. Um, we can say that too is um uh are we more concerned about the religious activities than caring about people? Yeah, not only wrong for his life, but uh unjustly. Right. Go ahead, Henry. Yeah, the challenge I have, I'm I'm not what you're saying is right. Uh the challenge I have is when somebody well somebody takes that as a basis for interpreting the rest of Scripture. You can see how that heads down this road where, you know, almost I mean, i in almost every case they will insist on You know, looking at something other than the literal reading. And when I say abdul, I'm I obviously know what I mean. I mean a literal reading of of what the scripture says. I might use a simple example of of somebody who says, you know, I can be a Christian and I don't have to I don't I don't have to be part of a church And when you when you try to explain the fact that God intends for us to be a body and not to neglect the gathering of ourselves together, somebody might then say, well you know, that's not that's not truly what God intends. And they'll be basing their interpretation on this hermeneutic that stays and look at the spirit of the law more so than the liberal reading of the law. So uh what what you said uh Thomas is right, but I'm trying to I'm I I'm struggling with how I can consistently explain that This is not what Jesus was teaching here necessarily. Yeah. I I I think it would help to point out that in this context and really all of scripture. Um here Jesus, but God generally is telling those who are looking to the law to in in a works-based kind of salvation frame of mind that you know keeping all of the the law thinking that You're going to be saved by keeping all those points. Misses it completely. Have them read Galatians. That was the whole point of Galatians. And Jesus is getting that here when he says, I desire compassion, not sacrifice. uh places like that in the Old Testament where God is saying that uh it it's good to keep the law, but not from a um a desire to be justified by your works. Because by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified, as we've We see in Scripture. And so, yes, the law is important. It's there to show us that we are unworthy. God is holy. And we need to come to God in faith, not trying to justify ourselves by works. So even Jesus Said the law is good, the law is right. Um but People abuse the law by seeking life in the law itself rather than from the God who gave us the law. Um so um To really discuss this with someone who has that kind of concern, you'd have to go back and review much of the Old Testament and the uh commentary of God in in the the prophets and some extent the Psalms. Uh look at um New Testament teaching concerning the the role of the law and help people see that the law was not an end in and of itself. And that they needed to approach the law from faith, not from an idea of works. And that's what Jesus was confronting. It's people who are hung up on that. And it probably would have helped them to have reviewed a whole lot more than Jesus mentions here uh from the law, but um he probably also understood that they weren't they weren't ready for it and put over their head Anyway, we need to close out here with section 44. I'll go ahead and read that real quickly Departing from there, on another Sabbath, he entered their synagogue and was teaching. And there was a man there whose right hand was withered The scribes and the Pharisees were watching him closely to see if he healed on the Sabbath. So they were kind of waiting, they were kind of expecting. So they may find some reason to accuse him And they questioned Jesus, asking, so they're putting him up to it, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? But he knew what they were thinking, and everybody else did, I'm sure, as well. And he said to them, What man is there among you who has a sheep? And if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will we not take hold of it and lift it out? How much more valuable then is man than a sheep So then, it is lawful to do it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. Then he said to the man with the withered hand, Get up and come forward. And he got up and came forward. And Jesus said to him, said to them, the others, I ask you, is it lawful to do good or to do harm on the Sabbath? To save a life or to destroy it? But they kept silent. I think they were convicted. After looking around at them all, with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And he did so, and his hand was restored to like to normal like the other. But the Pharisees themselves discussed together what they might do to Jesus and filled with rage went out and conspired with the Herodians against him as to how they might destroy him. So Somewhat similar, except that they kind of intentionally set him up in this confrontation. And again, he's trying to work from basic principles here that um It is lawful to do good on the Sabbath, and that all these man-made restrictions that they've layered on to the Sabbath observance were not inherently evil, but to the extent that people would feel compelled to obey those things rather than the greater good They became hindrances to um the uh exercise of faith. So um It's kind of more of the same thing, very common um Controversy. You know, if if you're trying to find something about Jesus to convict him of than um seeing him not conform to your ideas of what it means to be a Jew and to observe everything that's supposed to be observed would be one easy way to To uh point your finger at him. But every time they did, he would turn right around and show them they were misunderstanding it Hi, Pastor Funley. I have a question. Yeah, sure. Um well I have a comment too. I think it's kind of funny that they try to catch him um over a principle that he had showed them multiple times that they were missing the point. And then they turn around and try to say, ha ha, we got you and he's like, I Already showed you this multiple times you're not getting that it's about having compassion on other people as opposed to um following the nuances of the law. Yeah, that actually this may not have been the same group of people. I mean he was obviously moving around from place to place. Um it's not clear to what extent these very people would have um been the same group. May have been the same group, yeah. They could they it could have been just the same issue coming up no matter where he went. Got you. And then um my other question was um could you apply the same um I guess principle to Hebrews 4 and um what Jesus was talking well um what Paul or the writer, whoever was talking about rest there, um as opposed to um what Jesus, the point Jesus was trying to make here about rest. And the Sabbath. Yeah. Um I'd have to go back and review Hebrews 4, but I think it's talking about more so the eternal fulfillment of all that And that we have our ultimate rest in Christ. But yeah, I'd have to look at that again to to do that justice. Okay, thank you. Yep. Anyway, we probably ought to uh uh land the plane here if you will. Uh Definitely looking at the discussion questions and I don't necessarily have all the observations and questions here. There may be more that you would benefit from in your own study. And there is application here, at least as an example of how to apply some of these principles in our lives today. But let's go ahead and close in prayer so we can prepare for worship Our Father, we thank you that uh we see in Christ um the perfect embodiments of of you on the earth and and representing uh your truth and your will and And it's not surprising that he bumped heads regularly with a religious establishment who were confused on many counts. And I'm sure that if we were there then we would have been just as confused. But by your grace, Lord, you have opened our eyes. You've opened the eyes of many there during that time as well, during the life of Christ. And we do pray that we would seek to do the right things, but we would also seek, more importantly, to do them for the right reasons. And that you would be pleased, you would be honored by our lives, not because of any works that we do, but by the work of grace that you're doing in us and through us. I pray that that would indeed put your glory and majesty on display. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.