Take out your copy of yourself, yes. Um again the majority of the study of life in Christ is actually lessons three to fifty two. And as you can see, we're still in the overview. Today will be the last day of the overview and then we're going to jump right in. But if you kind of I always like to just kind of glaze, kind of go over the syllabus a little just because it helps me know where we are and where we're going. Um as you can see this is a chronological um study of the life of Christ. And so that's why and yes, so the the syllabus is chronological and that that's why really the backbone of this study is going to come from Luke with all the other gospels feeding in at appropriate moments. Um beginning from uh uh incarnation in childhood all the way through uh post resurrection. So that's kind of where that is. Um Again, like I said, we're still in the overview. Lesson one was Jesus the Godman, and today, um, it's purpose, prologues, and geniality. I was thinking the other day, of all the possibilities, of all the things you're going to put in an overview, why these two? Why lesson one is Jesus a Godman? And lesson two What's the purpose prologue and genealogy? Of all the millions of things you could possibly have in there, why might Dr. Plumling want to start with those two if the old people Um and I think they both intersect at establishing coup crises right at the beginning. Both God and man And that the genealogies also point to Jesus' God, man, and the fulfillment of the Messiah. The promise to David. So once that is established, we can move right into who this Jesus is. And I want to give a little bit about my own personal purpose and I hope it's yours too, and I'm sure it is. Um Recently I was paying attention to some of the psalms, the hymns that we sing, I worship. And they're up there on the wall, and I know all the words, and I know the truths But somehow that writer takes them, weaves them together, puts music behind it, and it's much more than just words on a paper. And what do I mean by that? If if your goal and purpose, if my goal and purpose was just to gather knowledge, here's 304 pages. Plop a Bible, class is done. You got the knowledge, here's all the words, here's all the truths. But I think what's lacking And when I say that, I think uh Pastor Todd would always say Pastor Leek would always say, When I say something I'm not saying it to you. Oh, I am saying it to you, but also if I look at my hands, there's three fingers pointing right at me. So this is as much as I'm saying out loud, I'm also saying it myself. My purpose is that I not just have the knowledge, but that I get the relationship with the knowledge, the person that it points to, Jesus Christ. I really want to know who this man is that we're worshiping. a deeper relationship with Jesus Christ. And that's really the purpose of this class. It's not just to fill our head with knowledge, although we are to do that. It's who the knowledge points to, and that's Jesus Christ. So why don't we jump in, page 22, uh the purpose, the purpose of these gospel writers. So Dr. Twelly took two of the gospel writers, Luke and John. And could someone read, we're going to look at 1 Luke 1, 1, 4. Could someone read to me actually just verses 1 As much as many have undertaken to compile an account of the things accomplished among us just as they were handed From the beginning. To write it out before you in consecutive order, most excellent Theophilus. Theophilus, yep. Theophilus Yep. So stop there. That's great. Um notice um first off he's writing in consecutive order He's talking about those who are direct eyewitnesses. And in verse three he says He's not just writing it, he's also investigating everything carefully from the beginning. This is critical And then in verse 4, we get that purpose statement. I said all this, one to three, and then verse 4. So that You may know some claims and rumors and some stuff about the things you have been taught, right? That's what it's saying. Yeah, no, it doesn't say that. I can see how this could be taken way out of context and edited as recording. It does not say rumors, does not say weak, mediocre claims. It says not just to know the truth. but to know the exact truth. And we understand it because Luke doesn't just write stuff down. Up in verse 3 he says he investigated everything and did it carefully. So the purpose is to give us the exact truth in a chronological way. How about John, uh the next one, John 20, 30 to 31 Anybody want to read that? And again you could read all the way through all the way through to the end there. Um The way you can you can really an easy way to pull out a purpose statement is that if when you see that phrase so that, when you see the phrase so that Turn your ears on because he's about to give you the reason for why he's written everything prior to that. So anybody want to read John 20, 30 to 31? Or many other Jesus also performed in the title. These are not written in this book. But these have been written so that you may believe them So John is talking about signs. In fact There's many more signs that they that could have been written about, but we're not. But what has been written is sufficient for us To get the purpose of why John's writing, so that we would believe that Jesus is the Christ, He is the Son of God, and that by believing we can be saved. So these are the two purposes of the gospel writers. The prologue. Prologue is also in this section. And just kind of generally, the purpose of a prologue is to provide either background information, context about a story, character, setting. And so that's what um this section is doing we're we're establishing Jesus Christ as the God man, his deity, that he's fully God, he is fully man. He has we're seeing the genealogy he fulfills um the promises of David about an everlasting throne And then on page twenty-three, why don't we read the three bullet points? Dr. Plumley has written the top of the three bullet points. In regards to setting the stage. So I'll just kind of read those. The first one is John alone provides an explicit overview of the deity. preincarnate work and nature of Christ and does it so at the onset. He also makes a clear appeal to salvation in Christ by faith alone, being born of God. And John the Baptist recognized that even though Jesus was younger than he, Jesus nonetheless existed before him. So we can even read that. That's an interesting statement. John says about Jesus That he existed before me. Even though what's interesting is John was born like six months before Jesus. Again, another indication of Jesus as God. The last part of this section is about genealogies, probably my favorite thing. And I'm just gonna say um have some general thoughts about it. Um again I mentioned this word, this is not a genealogy class. But the ideologies do lead credibly to Jesus as the promised Messiah. Some people might say, oh, the Old Testament is nothing to do anymore. We don't need to worry about the Old Testament. Yet those promises will be and are being fulfilled. today. So it is critical to understand this man, God, who we call Jesus. So genealogies are super important and critical for our understanding. So on page 23 Here are the two genealogies we're gonna we're gonna go through that are in the New Testament. So I'm gonna say a few things about them. First off I could feel your eyes already glazing over as you look at these. Yes So I was thinking, I would give a gold star for anyone who could go through one of his genealogies in one breath. Any papers? Gold star. Steven. Sure. Matthew 117? Sure. One breath. Gotta be one breath. Oh one breath. Yeah. Didn't he have that? Yeah, yeah, you gotta take a deep breath. I'll just read it. You wanna read it? Is that okay? Fantastic. The record of the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, son of David, son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac, the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers. Judah was the father of Heraz and Zerah by Tamar. Perez was the father of Hezron and Hezron the father of Ram. Ram was the father of Aminadab. Aminadab the father of Nashan, and Nashan, the father of Salmon. Salomon the father of Boaz by Rahab, Boaz was the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse. Jesse is the father of David the the king. David was the father of Solomon by by Bathsheba, who had been the wife of Uriah. Solomon was the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam the father of Abisha, and Abijah the father of Asa Aza was the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzzah. Uzzah was the father of Jurtham. Joseph, the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah. Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Amon, Amon the father of Josiah Josiah became the father of Zekaniah and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon. After the deportation to Babylon, Jeconiah became the father of Shealtiel and Shealtiel the father of Seth Zerubabel. Zerubabul was father of Abiud, Abihud, the father of Eliatim And Elichim the father of Azor. Azor was the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Akim, Akim the father of Eliad, uh El oh Eliud, Eliud the father of Eliasar, Apeleizer father of Mathan, and Mathan the father of Jacob. Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, who was called the Messiah So all the generations from Abraham to David are 14 generations. From David to the deportation to Babylon, 14 generations. And from the deportation to Babylon to the Messiah, 14 generations. Awesome. Thanks, Steve. And I'm really glad you decided to read it because I was like, how do you pronounce that Cheltia Holmes? I wasn't exactly sure. Okay, you can confirm that for me. 'Cause that's gonna be um something I want to dive into a little bit. Um some other general thoughts on Genealogies. So um some detractors might claim these genealogies are incomplete. How can we trust the Bible for lots of names left out. It's very lobsided. How can we trust the Bible? Well, are you really sure you want to add all the names? Yeah, yeah. Um I was just kind of looking at Raya Bum who's kinda up there. Um like if you s if he s move to the next page on page twenty four, he's kind of right there in that grayed out section um right under David and Solomon. Rare of them, um, it was kinda interesting, had over eighty eight children, over multiple wives and multiple concubines. Um If you were to celebrate birth that's like two birthdays a week for your kids. Every year. And then if your eighty-eight children went out and got married and they just had like two kids each. So I'm I'm on the conservative side here. You're looking at about a hundred and I think I said a hundred and eighty hundred and seventy-six grandchildren. And of course back then Um they probably would have more like 10 to even 15 kids. So exponentially this section of the genealogies would be like hundreds of additional pages. And we get to have in Steve you can read again the the complete genealogy history. Um So we um to thank the Holy Spirit for just putting in what we have today. This is sufficient to trace the lies in both Luke and in Matthew, tracing back the uh Jesus Christ all the way back to Adam. It's not necessary to put every single person's name. This is sufficient to understand the purpose behind the genealogy Um what else was going on? Genealogies were significant to the Jews back then and even into the present time. Um for example to be a priest you had to prove that you were of the tribe of of Levi. Um tracing the royal line, the future king promised by God They had to know their genealogies because it was going to be coming through the line of David. Um there were also, I I took some time, there are some fantastic, unbelievable websites. If you ever just wanted to get lost in um Jewish genealogies. There are multiple, multiple sites out there. Um databases that cover all the Jews in Poland and Czechoslovakia and Ukraine and there's even some that talk about uh during the Holocaust different concentrations camps, genealogies just that go on and on and on. Fantastic information. Even the So the also even the Nazis. It's interesting. They would go into towns, destroy the towns. you know, crush the synagogues, killing people, but they would retain and preserve documents of genealogies. Why? Because they were super accurate and they had everyone's name right there on the table. So genealogies were very important to the Jews And they were kept um very accurately. I even had a uh uncle oh I'm sorry. They do. What one of the last things my great uncle wanted to do before he died was to complete the tree of It's interesting. It goes back to like seventeen hundreds or so. So um yeah. Um it's kinda interesting. Every time I move to a different place, I've got to move a lot Uh typically by the next week or two I'll get a little notice in the mail from some local synagogue. Oh, we seem to move into our neighborhood That's just like a sign trap. Well uh you know in the old in the Old Testament times or even early Jesus times You know, the lineage was important to identify the appropriate priesthood and whatnot, right? But for the modern juice nowadays, what's up purpose other than is there something they're kinda longing for gives affirming identity or what with what else? All those things identity, um You're Jewish in this? So in my family, my dad is Jewish, my mother is not. Different sects of Judaism would say, yeah, you're really only a Jew for certain if your mother's Jewish. Yeah, your dad might be Jewish, but I don't know. Your mother can run off somewhere and come back and we're not really sure. I actually had a friend who is Jewish and say, yeah you're Jewish but we know your mom. We love your mom. She's great. She would never go off and But but it still is today. I'm sorry? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So yeah, it still is a very um genealogies lineage still very um on the top minds of Jewish people too. Uh that's an interesting question. Um Yeah, and for um I'm not sure what they would say about Mary. But what's really interesting is when you look at the genealogy from the Old Testament, you will see that at David, it splits off the two sons. Both who were born who had a mother who was Cashiva. What do you do with that? Anyway So yeah, genealogy is very important to Old Testament Jews and Jews around us today. And so I think it's really important that we look at genealogy. I had just four quick observations. Matthew runs from Abraham to Jesus, chronologically. Luke runs from Joseph to Abraham and then to Adam. So kind of one goes from earliest to recent and the other one goes recent to latest. Matthew focuses on Joseph's lineage through David, and Luke focuses upon Mary's lineage. And then on page twenty four, you have this great uh table, four-part table There's a gray bar down the center, and so there's on the left there there's a comparison of Matthew and Luke down to uh Chelsea And then on the right side, continuation between Matthew and Luke from Zerubbable down to Jesus. So Dr. Palm kind of organized this in such a way. Um but for me, it's very hard for me to I like pictures. So that's why I gave you that little supplement of the flow chart. I hope it's helpful. It's definitely helpful for me. And I have two of them. Just look at the first one. Um it's fairly simple. I didn't put everything down, I just put some major names down there. Okay. So up in the top left, you have a number one here up in the top right that you look at, and in the other corner there is an M and an L M is for the Gospel of Matthew, which is Joseph's line. um according to our outlining Mary's name. And I'm just going to point out a couple of interesting pieces here. It's very straightforward From Abraham to David, they're exactly the same in both Matthew and Luke. And at David, they split off. They split off Solomon and Joseph's line in the Gospel of Matthew, and then on the other side is Nathan splits off into Luke, which is Mary's line And um I have just one verse here. First Chronicles three, five Both of these sons, Solomon and Nathan, first Chronicle three five is written that these sons Are we David and Bathsheba? So again that kind of comes into the interesting thing about well what are you gonna do what is it what does the Jew do with Bathsheba? I don't really know Every time I go to a family reunion or outing and something religious comes up I jokingly say, I'm a Jew, I'm a good Jew. I listened to the Old Testament. They told me to follow Jesus and I did So it just doesn't go. Even I laugh about it and it just doesn't go well. So this one this one wouldn't definitely not go over well. So I leave it alone From Solomon down, you can see some names there. I put these two in there in the middle. Sheltiel, Zerubbabel. And you can see they're both the same, both sides, right? And this is where we're going to go over one and on the next page is a little different idea. Don't go to page two yet. So um In this scenario, it is the assumption that Shelltale and the Rubable are different people. And there's a variety of better scholars than me who would um who sit on this side of of that interpretation And then as you go down a little bit further on Matthew's side, well actually go all the way down, continue down to see Joseph. You see Joseph also repeated both there. In this case Joseph in the Gospel of Matthew on the left there is clearly the actual real Joseph. And so if we look at I go back to Matthew 1. 16. I can just jump back to it on the uh page 23. It reads, Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary. So it's clearly identifying Joseph as Joseph. Because um by whom Jesus was born who was called Messiah. Also, um Jacob is identified there in verse 16. And Jacob is clearly in the lineage of Joseph. is in the Gospel of Matthew. So this clearly has to be the Joseph. On the other side, in the Gospel of Luke Uh Joseph and I'm gonna look at Luke three twenty three ish. Let's read that. When he began his ministry, Jesus himself was about thirty years of age, being, as was supposed, the son of Joseph. The son of Eli. Where is Eli? Eli is identified in the Gospel of Luke, in Mary's lineage. So, um This Joseph um is actually identifying or is kind of more labeled Joseph Joseph is the f the the the father, the head of the head of the household. Um but since Eli is in this line Joseph in this case is referring to the husband of Mary. The thought is that Eli only probably only had daughters. And so this would be the line of Mary of Mary. On the flip side of this is a genealogy that's a little more complicated. But I think it's fantastic. And I don't mean like it's some way out there in the atmosphere kind of a understanding of how this beast genealogies flow. Um again there's some better biblical scholars than I who would support this viewpoint. In fact I'm gonna uh referred multiple times back to a John MacArthur survey besides royal lineage, did it back in April of 2000. I'll kind of race the end of his sermon. He makes the claim, and I think we all would, in fact I know we all would, uh the claim that we are not going to be dogmatic. I'm not gonna say, well you have to believe this. This is the only possible way. No he says, one day we'll be in heaven and we'll get the story. Go w you know w But at this point, we're just trying to piece together uh scripture and try to make it fit. So both of these flow charts, both of these perspectives on how the genealogy works, are both acceptable. And They don't either one doesn't disrupt our faith. We are still solidly believing in who Christ is. It doesn't it doesn't It it doesn't shake our faith. It doesn't go against anything we believe. Um And when we're having we'll get the we'll get the real story. So I want to go on this because I I think it it answers a lot of questions and um particularly some um prophecies that we find in Jeremiah. I think it's really super interesting. In fact, you can go through all these people, and again I said there's multiple websites out there, some solid websites, that can tell you so much more and really unpacked. This could become a genealogy class if you really wanted to. It's very, very exciting and very enriching. In this case, in this scenario, it's all very much the same. David, it splits off, Solomon Nathaniel. But in this case, there's the assumption that Sheltil and Zerubbabel are actually the same person. And they converge from Shetel, Zero, Zerebubble. And then they split off again. And again, the bottom half of the chart is exactly the same as the first chart. So the bottom half, so the top half and the bottom half are exactly the same. In this case, if if Schietzel and Sheromel are the same people, there's a convergence and then a divergence at that point. Otherwise it's it's exactly the same. So I'm going to read some thoughts from MacArthur. So MacArthur supports this version through the situation of either a Leverite marriage Or adoption. So what's the leverage of marriage? A similar situation would be Boaz and Ruth. If Ruth had children, she married Boaz, Ruth's children would consider Boaz as the father. And so that's where this kind of situation could possibly um clarify that actually Scheltel and Zorbovol are really the same people. They're not different people. It's a possibility. He goes on to say, um, I'm going to quote his last part of his sermon, and Matthew Jaconia is the father of Seattle. So if we looked at maybe if you looked at uh Sietel and the uh comparing the genealogies in Matthew, you can see that Sietel is identified as the son of Taconio. And again he said and the best answer here is probably some kind of adoption where Shiattel was actually through the line of Mary. Is that possible? Well it can be. If you look at that chart back at that chart again, we see Shiessel at the very bottom of the loop comparison, and right above it is Neary. There could possibly have been, the vertical says Shetha was actually the son of Neri in Mary's line and became adopted by Chicona. Because Jacona knew that his children would be cursed and could never sit on the throne. This would be a big problem. How do you how do you f where's that promise of a king? Through Solomon's law. And I think this can shed some light on that potential problem. What is this Jaconia curse? So the first thing I wanted to point out is The royal line was promised to David through Solomon. And uh run a little bit on time. I'm just gonna throw out these um Two verses to support the fact that the promise of the royal line to David would come through Solomon, thus on that left side of the chart. If you want to write these down, these are very clear in supporting that statement. First Kings 1, 28 to 30 And 1 Chronicles 22, 6 to 13. Now Daconia, who's also known as CONA, Um continued in the same evil ways as his father came to hide him. And again, if you look at that that genealogy in the table, Jaconiah is the son of Jehoiakim. This resulted in a decree from God that the descendants of Jaconiah would never occupy the throne of Israel. Could someone go to Jeremiah? twenty-two for me. Jeremiah twenty-two. And please read verses twenty-eight to thirty. Then I asked by the vessel which is no question. Why are they asked out here and then cast to the land which they do not? Earth hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord. Write this down, this man down, as childhood, a man who shall not prosper in his day. That's a big problem. How do we explain that I think this this diagram can shed some light on that issue And actually I can't go on without someone read so it's kind of hopeless right here, chapter twenty-two. What is gonna happen to the kingdom? But it's fantastic. If you just stop here, you're going to walk away depressed. So read the next chapter, the very next chapter. Jeremiah 23, 5 to 6. Behold, the days are coming, declared the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch. And he shall reign as king and deal widely and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In that in his day Judah will be safe and Israel will dwell securely, and this is the name by which he would be called the Lord is our righteousness Did you see the word branch in there somewhere? Didn't he? Okay. So branch, the word of righteousness, a promised king would arise. I don't want to spoil uh to summarize, anyone know who the branch is referring to? The Lord of righteousness is referring to? Jesus, right? Yeah. But how do you do that? You just said that There's gonna be no more children at this at this end of the on this end of um the flow chart. There's Dracona is cursed. He has no more children. This idea of a leverite marriage or adoption from the other side fixes that problem If and no one can say for certain where, but if Shento is actually the son of Neri We can go back up through Mary's line to Nathan, who is the direct son of David, and to fill that kingship. You get the promise on the left of a king of forever, and then on the other side is kind of what some people would call the flesh or the man the fullness of man through Mary combined together in this final king who would reign forever. Bring both of the kingdoms back together. Just are you saying it could be the chicken I have adopted GLT? Yes. Yes. Or somewhere in there, and maybe there's a again It's an incomplete list of there could be a dozen names in between Setiel and Zekanaya. But somewhere in there, if this kind of situation occurred as it occurred in Boaz and Ruth, you can make the case that that fulfillment of a king, of a new king could come out through up through Nathan back to David again. Um again. MacArthur acknowledges that we should not be dogmatic of the of this view, as other views can be equally true. He recognizes his server could be wrong, but at the end of the day, when he's in heaven, he looks forward to getting the correct feel. Again, none of these Would shatter our faith in who Christ is or the promises of God. We have about 10 minutes. I really wanted to get to application So I'm just going to kind of go, I'm going to be selective and just touch upon some of the interpretive notes on page 25 25. Um I'm just going to circle the first five. Um I encourage you to look further at Dr. Plumley's notes on six through if it's eight. But I just want to bring home uh these first five interpretive notes on genealogies. I gotta s probably said I believe at first Matthew traces a royal line from David through it through Solomon down to Joseph. Number two, Matthew skips several kings. So when he says the father up, he sometimes means great grandfather, great-great-grandfather. Again, we don't need to have every single person's name. to make a part of how this uh language progresses. Otherwise you'll be here for decades just reading. You really have a hard time doing it really fast. Number three, Luke traces a physical line all the way from Adam through Abraham and David, through David's son, Nathan, down to Mary. She's his biological mother. Joseph, Mary's husband, is referred to here as the son of Eli. We kind of talked a little bit about that earlier. But this must mean son-in-law Which may mean that Eli only had daughters. Uh the fourth one there again the idea of Shield and rubbable being um different people, thus that more simplified uh flow rather than a convergence of the Schias observable as being actually one father-son relationship. And uh oh I'm gonna read number five also. Matthew indicates that he is documenting the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah. The word that is translated genealogy is the Greek word Genesis. Between his origin or birth. As such, Matthew simply indicates that Jesus descended from the royal line of King David, thus fulfilling the messianic requirement You have those verses. And that's why I think it's it's very interesting that you can fulfill that messianic promise By viewing shentle and drubbable as one single person, as in two separate contests. So there's two applications there. But I kind of want to give us all, especially myself and my wife can be accountable. A personal application and a challenge, and I want to share that with you. I was kind of thinking about this last slide. So I would say a personal application After worship today, go home and have a great lunch. Sit, relax. And then when you're done, take ten minutes. Ten minutes. Go over this material and look towards the next lesson. Because you will remember things better when you do repetition. You're gonna touch those neuron neuronal pathways and strengthen the connection. So go home, have a great lunch, but then take just ten minutes and just kind of look over this, look over the discussion piece, look over the application, take a peek at that flow chart. And look into next week's lessons so you become a little more um don't you hate going to a class and then you go home and you're like, oh, I wish I would have asked this question And it just kills you and then you you're like, oh I'm gonna ask her, I'm gonna ask you the next one. And then you forget. So And it's a and Dr. Plumby loves a good challenge. So look at next week's lesson. Again, just a few minutes, so you can really be engaged and really come away not just the knowledge, but just Stepping forward one more step in the sanctification and knowing the God that all this points at. Again, don't simply seek the knowledge Seek after the object of which this knowledge points to. I desire a relationship with Jesus Christ, and I know everyone here designs this well. This is a year-long project. My third application change would be to persevere. A year is a long time, but it's going to be so rewarding. So I really encourage you, be engaged. Be engaged. So we've got about five minutes left. Um questions, discussion applications. There's some suggestions here under applications and even the discussion parts. But I want to at least give a few minutes to end the class to kind of Hear your thoughts, throw rocks at me. Drag me out that you close the geological But how does that um either strengthen or after safety? What what was the reference to that? I think in both cases, um for me it strengthens. Regardless of whether I look at scenario one or scenario two, in both cases, God's promises are fulfilled in the Messiah. The royal line continues. There is both the deity of Christ and the fullness of man found in the one we call the Messiah, Jesus Christ. So it actually very much strengthens my faith. Um I love the genealogies because it gives me scripture that I can go to my Jewish family and friends and say It's right here. It's it's right here. Um and you hold the oracle and the promises And you just gotta go one more step further. It's written right before your eyes. Um, the Messiah is here So it strength it strengthens my faith. Beforehand I I would look at something like this and my eyes would glaze over, I wouldn't understand it. I was like, why is this even here? I think it really complements Um and strengthens our faith. And it shows you how perfect he is in naming, specifically naming, and remembering each general each Family unit. I mean that he's that specific and that's he is that specific and every time you look you think everything is hopeless but God, right, comes in and gets continues his plan. It goes more to that I think to you know strengthening faith is at least for who the gospel is, you know, kind of the initial authorship and audience was to establish, you allude to this, the authority and authenticity really of Jesus Christ. He wasn't just some random guy out of Nazareth he he had a a lineage and authority that respect that fulfilled prophecies. And for the people of the time for who they were looking for, they needed to know that this was just not so Because at the time, if you know recall correctly, there was a lot of false messiahs going out. A lot of people were claiming to be the messiah. So there had to be something more than just the miracles or whatever, you know, in that case to establish the the um uh the fulfillment of prophecy, you know in that regard. So the the lineage on both sides gave him that authority. Yep, absolutely. Yeah. Judaism. And and isn't it also that m some of these people were used for his purposes to bring out things that were happening in that time. Daddy also used them for certain things. that happened within the biblical days. Absolutely. It is important. Names have meaning, you know. Um they have meaning and it's just if you ever wanted to just the amazing thing about genealogies is you can just pick a name and just kind of open it up and just a world of stories and information just explode onto the page. So yeah these are just more than just names and God has put them here not just simply just to have a lineage. or show lineage, but this actual applicable um these are real people and they were just like us. And they have very interesting stories with more lessons. Um so if you really like I mentioned, you could really have an entire class on G This is kind of a combination of a question and comment. Um do you No, if any other cultures at the time, you know, the old Testament I guess the time period where genealogy was I guess was part of their life as much as the Jews were, the reason that I'm asking is is that um the more we study Old Testament, the things that God instituted for the people of Israel It seems in a from our modern perspective so peculiar and bizarre, but the more you study, it manifests the wisdom of God, even the law in the Levitical laws or customs or how he instituted how to you know the commandments. And also for example is the uh one of the examples that that that came to my attention is the year of Jubilee celebration. seventh year and 49 years. I release a bondage from bondage. With seventh year the kid you're resting from everything on every seventh year so that God can train his people to call completely rely on God, right? And trust in God's provision. So just the thing is that it became maybe a cultural thing in at the time, but nonetheless it's a revelation of the wisdom of God. And I was wondering if the fact that even Jewish word Jew you the Israelites were forced to keep this meticulous record of genealogy. Is that the wisdom of God too so that the we can see it and ha and I'm just trying to compare that to the other, you know, pagan cultures at the time. Is this so unique to Israelites? No, I think I would say God does use lineage not just to focus strictly on the Jews of the time. But other cultures also had a high regard for lineage. I'll take on my dear wife. Uh the Vietnamese have a very deep, deep and profound respect for all of your elders. And so they would pro I'm I'm kind of guessing also highly regard lineage. So if the Jews are talking about lineage, it's not like the other culture is like what? I don't understand what the I again I'm assuming only because I know from the current day of Vietnamese. lineage and elders and knowing your your past relatives is important. And so this concept of a lineage would not be foreign I'm assuming would not be foreign to other cultures in the area. So I don't know if that answered your question. Oh the the fact is true, true, but the fact that the Jewish may somehow develop this with particular practice of it going back that far, it's to me that's so it I don't think it's common for other cultures that even even at that time without Could be could be I th that I don't I I can't say, but yes, for certain uh it was significant for God to make sure that all of these were written down so that we can go back and be able to support the claims that we make. So for sure. Um definitely very important in in Judaism. I don't know about other cultures, but I assume it result of um this idea of honoring your elders and also um well that that aspect of your lineage and so forth is so that you you provide you you live honorably and provide an honorable uh prodigy and we're your descendants become looking to you later, you know, like you and girl and guy and married and so forth. They look to you as as someone who was lived honorably and so forth And we should, you know, honor that lineage. And so in that a lot of cultures would look at it that way, that idea of honoring, and so it's more selfless. I'm I'm doing something not just for myself, I'm doing it for to honor those that came before me and to be an honorable person for those that follow after me. Um but that sort of idea follows us into as we get a thousand into the family of God. We honor Christ, we honor uh God in the way we live in that same manner. I I think American culture is uh uh minimizes the idea of honor. Um I think it minimizes the idea of justice. I I've actually had a I had a uh a Muslim Christian actually tell me that made that the sort of thing for me to a culture that honor was so important. Um and regardless, that's the idea I think you get Yeah, yeah. Um and and one of the attacks of Satan is to break apart that family, that that family community. Um Yeah, good good point. Anyone else before we know we still have about five minutes or so? Any other questions, application, challenges? Concerns, picture words. Does every culture have a this concept of adoption? Does every culture then I can't see aspect as As you're explaining on page two. Like what um what is the concept of interesting concept of that adoption again because I was thinking modern times how that adoption looks safety to wipe out the actual like bird families. There's all of this attached. Now I probably wouldn't be the right person to say speak to that but uh but it's it's an interesting concept that adoption um there was very s there was high significance placed upon adoption back then When you like this Leverite marriage in the case of Boaz and Ruth, um You took upon not just a wife, but you took upon their children. They were your sons. And just like um And just like one day we will be adopted into the family of God. So there's a high regard for adoption. Yeah, unfortunately it's been a little diluted today. But um going back to the library thing, um you know if there's previous for calling you know, son in law the sun, if there were no like where did that idea come from for that could be what what was said. Um so why would be why why did they put Joseph instead of Mary? I think that's just a cultural thing and it usually If you look at all these names, these genealogies, they're all men. So identifying the father figure. Uh it doesn't delineate or diminish the importance of Mary, clearly. Um she's a very important, significant person in this in this way. It could be more of a cultural thing, just identifying things through the father figure. I don't have a real great answer for that, other than then Looking at how the n the names appear, it would have to be if you're talking about Eli Eli has to be on the other side of that equation. And it has to be Mary do that because Eli is not Joseph's direct father. So it that has to be Mary's line, so to say. Um even though her name isn't there, it has to be true Mary. It's I don't know if I'm understanding, but could it be because God made man the head? Made him made man under him and therefore that's why men name are head of the woman Could have something to do with that for sure. Yep. Again, not diminishing the role of Mary or womenhood, um, but just identifying that this was the line through Mary. Well, there's no other questions, comments, applications, concerns. Um we're about three minutes early. And so, um, I'll call this in prayer