Welcome. Um we're on lesson thirty-seven in our study. Um almost three quarters of the way there. Uh I'm on page 220, the Olivet Discourse. Uh why is it called the Olivet Discourse? Well as we will see here, uh it takes place on the Mount of Olive. And you remember where the Mountabilis is? I think if you turn to page somewhere here, two twenty-six Um I think we had a question earlier, how far away is the Mount of Olives from, say, the temple? And the picture there shows you it's it's not very far at all. It's right there, the brook Kidron is between and so on. Of course the temple's not there anymore, and the wall that you see there is uh uh after the time of Christ, but pretty much where the wall was before Um so the Mount of Olives is not a a uh mountain peak, it's it's a ridge. And And um it's just a little bit higher than um the rest of Jerusalem. So you can be on the Mount of Olives and either see a cross or in some cases if you're at the top you can look kind of down into the the temple area. Okay, so the um Olivet Discourse is covered in uh Matthew, Mark, and Luke, particularly Mark, uh Matthew, because while Matthew twenty-four has counterparts in Mark and Luke Uh Matthew's account continues in in Matthew twenty-five, which is unique to Matthew's account. And so you're gonna have to listen fast today because we're going to go through two chapters of Matthew with a little bit of Mark and Luke in between. So I'm going to be reading from the blended account that begins on page 223. And you remember this the timing here is uh best we can figure it Tuesday, sort of toward the end of Tuesday, uh between Palm Sunday and Good Friday. Okay. And so Jesus has been in the temple, he's been teaching, he's been answering questions, and we've studied A lot of those. And beginning in the blended account. And as Jesus was going out of the temple, while some were talking about the temple, that it was adorned with beautiful stones and votive gifts, one of his disciples came up to point out the th the temple buildings to him, saying, Teacher, behold what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings. And Jesus said to him, Do you see these great buildings? As for the things which you were looking at, truly I say to you, the days will come in which there will not be one stone here left upon another, which will not be torn down. How do you think the disciples were what do you think the they were thinking at that point? You gotta be kidding, right? Um in fact, my understanding is that while Herod the Great um um had a big building project to expand the temple area and to um improve the the temple Uh he was long gone, but the construction process was still going on at the time of Christ, and the refurbishing and and and so on. And it was just getting better and better all the time. And so these guys are saying, What? Um and so as he was sitting on the Mount of Olives, so you know, they left the temple area They were making their way over to the Mount of Olives, which was apparently as we saw earlier, where at least on some of the nights, that's where they stayed, because a lot of people were there for the the Passover, so on. And so they were sitting on the Mount of Olives, opposite the temple, Peter, James, and John and Andrew, two sets of brothers. Right. Question him privately, saying, Tell us teacher, when therefore these things will happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and the e and of the end of the age when all these things are going to be fulfilled And um what will be the sign when these things are about to take place? Now look at the they mentioned three things in the question. Um First of all, when will these things happen? What were they referring to? Yeah, what Jesus had just said, right? The destruction of the temple. And then they ask What will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age when all these things are going to be fulfilled? So I think quite naturally They were not thinking about two or three different times. They were figuring that all this was going to be at the same time. And so they asked him, so help us put all this together. When is this going to happen And it's particularly interesting and confusing that what was their mindset about the the the role of Christ and the future? So they his disciples saw Christ and were convinced that he was the Messiah, and they They're not only them, but pretty much everybody. The prevailing uh expectation was that the Messiah would come and free them from the oppression of Rome, much like Moses free them from the oppression of the pharaoh, right? And I think in the back of their mind, or if maybe in the front of their mind They were expecting that um that would usher in a you know, the glorious kingdom and he's talking about the temple being destroyed and so they're not sure how all this fits together, what the timeline would be. And it's it's it's natural that they would have questions, they would be a little confused, uh but in general they're thinking these things are probably all around the same time. Or possibly uh when they when they talk about what will be the sign of your coming, uh they're thinking coming into um your reign as Messiah, which they were thinking could be pretty soon. Like Now. Um and yet he's talking about destruction of the temple and and so they're confused, and rightly so, I guess. Except he's been telling them over and over and over what's going to happen to him, right, in the near future. It's going to be handed over to the the Jewish leaders of the crucifixion and resurrection. Anyway, they're asking these questions. Um get us get us up to speed here, they're saying And uh so verse, what's marked here is verse eight. And Jesus answered and began to say to them, now What he ends up doing is answering those questions basically in reverse order. So he's gonna ask he's gonna answer the question about the signs of the end and then the timing of the end. And later. And he began to say to them, See to it that no one misleads you, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and the time is near, and will mislead many. Do not go after them. When you hear of wars and rumors of wars and disturbances, do not be terrified, for these things must take place first. But that is not yet the end And the end does not follow immediately. So he's giving them a heads up that there's there's yes, there are going to be signs, but we're talking about um a progression of events and it's not gonna happen immediately. and and so on. As it turns out, he he doesn't um he doesn't go back to his original saying about the destruction of the temple um directly, um, but we know in hindsight from history that the temple in fact was destroyed. You go there today and it's not there, right? Uh it was destroyed in seventy AD. And so um A lot of people are trying to connect, like the disciples were, are trying to connect the destruction of the temple in 70 AD with the other events that Jesus is is referring to here. But let's see what he says Then he continued by saying to them, For nation will rise up against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be great earthquakes in various places. uh plagues and famines, there will be terrors and great signs from heaven. But all these things are merely the beginning of birth panics. You know, birth pangs. Um when uh A mother goes into labor, there's the signs that things are happening, right? And it it's it's somewhat imminent, but it's going to take some time. Um beginning of the birth gangs. But be on your guard For before all these things, they will lay hands on you and persecute you, delivering you to the corpse, to be flogged in the synagogue. and prisons, bringing you to stand before kings and governors for my namesake. It will lead to an opportunity for your testimony to that. And they will deliver you to tribulation and will kill you and will be hated by all nations because of my name. At that time many will fall away and will betray one another and hate one another Many false prophets will arise and will mislead many because lawlessness, that is sin, is increased. Most people's love will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. Does that mean the endurance saves people? It means that the saved are the ones who are going to endure because they're empowered by By God. What was that? Evidence of being saved. Evidence of being saved, yeah. Okay. Um verse fourteen. This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all the nations. And then the end will come. That hasn't happened yet, right? It's in process, but it's not completed yet. So make up your mind when When they arrest you and hand you over, do not worry to prepare beforehand about what you were to say, to defend yourselves, for I will give you utterance and wisdom Which none of your opponents will be able to resist or refute. But say whatever is given to you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but it is the Holy Spirit. So again there's enablement by God to get through this this time of of uh persecution, tribulation. And you will be hated by all because of my name. See, repeatedly he's saying it's Because of my name, because of me. Don't take it personally, he says. If they hated me, they're gonna hate you as well. And it's because of your association with me um that you're being persecuted. He referred back to that, of course, back in the um Sermon on the Mount, where he's in the Beatitudes, he says, Blessed are those who are persecuted for what? My name's sake. Yeah. Um it's it's a blessing. Uh maybe it doesn't seem like a blessing at the time, but it's an honor to be persecuted because of our association with Christ, and God will be the one who blesses us. Okay. Um verse 16 in the middle. But you will be betrayed even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death. And children will rise up against parents and have them put to death and you will be hated uh by all because of my name. So there's going to be persecution um even as close as within families Because they're separated on account of Christ. Verse 18. Yet not a hair of your head will perish, but your endurance you will gain, or by your endurance you will gain your head But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then recognize that her desolation is near. When you see the abomination of desolation, which is spoken of through Daniel the prophet Standing where it should not be, in the holy place, let the reader understand, then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains And those who are in the midst of the city must leave, and those who are in the country must not enter the city, because these are the days of vengeance, so that all things which are written will be fulfilled. So uh he's he references Daniel here. Um if you've got your Bibles, maybe we should open up to Daniel here. Daniel nine And so in context here, Daniel has been he notices from reading the book of Jeremiah, while he's well Daniel is in exile, that um God had decreed the Babylonian captivity to last seventy years. And so Daniel is looking at his calendar and says, Hey, Lord, may it come quickly. But he His response is, you look at the first part of Daniel 9, is to pray, confess his sins and the sins of his people, the Jews who have God has been judging for these up close to seventy years. And while he's praying, confessing sins and seeking the restoration of Jerusalem, um starting at verse twenty f well md Ye let's go to verse twenty one. He says, And while I was still speaking in prayer, then the man Gabriel, that is the angel Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision previously, touched me in my extreme weariness about the time of the evening offering. Then he made me understand and spoke with me and said, O Daniel, I have now come forth to give you insight and understanding. At the beginning of your supplications the word was issued So I have come to tell you, for you are highly esteemed, so understand the message and gain understanding in what has appeared. Verse 24 Gabriel tells him, seventy weeks have been determined for your people and for your holy city. Who are his people? Israel, the Jews. And what's the holy city? Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Yeah, that's what he's been praying for. Seventy weeks have been determined for your people and for your holy city to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, and to make atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy. and to anoint the Holy of Holies. So you are to know and have insight. Oh by the way, when Daniel hears that, what's he thinking? Yes, answer to prayer. It's going to happen, right? So you are to know and have insight that from the going out of a word to restore and rebuild Jerusalem, that's what he's been praying for. From that point until Messiah the Prince, that is, the Messiah, right? There will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. Any of your math wizards add those up. That's sixty-nine weeks Right? And it will be restored and rebuilt with plaza and moat, even in times of distress. Um In the Hebrew, the the word weeks there is just the word seven, and it's often translated as seven, and in this case, uh its meaning is seven. Um not seven weeks but seven years. So sixty nine times seven years is 483 years between the issue the the proclamation to restore Jerusalem uh until Messiah the priest's prince, there would be 483 years. And indeed there was. Um when Cyrus, um the the ruler in in Persia, issued the decree to uh restore Jerusalem. Um And then the time of Christ and his sacrifice on the cross, 483 years Um so there will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks, that's sixty-nine weeks or four hundred and eighty-three years. It will be restored and rebuilt. That is the um uh Jerusalem, the uh the temple, and so on, with plaza and moat, even in times of distress. Verse 26. Then after the sixty-two weeks the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing And Daniel's probably thinking, wait a minute. That's not the good news I was hoping for. Right? Messiah will be cut off and have nothing, and the people of the prince who is to cut come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. Here we go all over again. And he's he's been praying for a rebuilding of the of the temple and And so on. And God said it will happen, but now it's going to be destroyed again. And its end will come with a flood. Even to the end there will be war, desolation. And he, that is this prince who is to come, this world leader, will make a firm covenant with the many for one week. That's week 70. That is seven years. But in the middle of the week, he will make sacrificing and grain offering cease. So the temple's been rebuilt at the beginning of that time period. Uh there's a restoration of the temple activities and sacrifices and so on. But in the middle of that time, um they're gonna cease, and he continues here, um And on the wing of abominations will come one who makes desolate, even until a complete destruction, one that is decreed, is poured out on the one who makes Desolate. So here Daniel is making reference to what has been called the abomination of desolation, or at least one of the abomination of desolation, because um In Daniel 11, just two chapters later, he receives a prophecy detailing a lot of details about what's going to happen with major nations. Starting with Persia and Greece and Rome. And um included in that is going to be a time when the temple is going to be desecrated and that also is referred to as the abomination of desolation. That actually happened uh before the time of Christ and it was um by an upstart called um Antiochus Epiphanes. And the desolation, the desecration of the temple included um offering swine on the altar. Talk about, you know, in your face. And d destruction and and And it was very um it was remembered by the Jews, you would as you would imagine, as being uh humiliating, desecrating of God's honor in the temple. And um so the abomination of desolation that is spoken of in chapter eleven of Daniel took place already before the time of Christ. And it was kind of still an open scar among the the Jews. And yet in Daniel nine, he's speaking of a future time. And here in In uh Olivet Discourse, Jesus also is referring to a future desecration. Um he says, when you see the abomination of desolation which was spoken of through the prophet Daniel And here he's referring to Daniel nine, not Daniel eleven. Um and so in Daniel nine it would be in the middle of that seven year period that he describing to Daniel the last week, if you will, of that prophecy. And where did I leave off here? If we and verse 17, whoever is on the housetop must not go down to get the things that are in his house, but whoever is in the field must not turn back to get his cloak. In other words, um things are going to escalate at this point in a real bad way, in a real quick way. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babes in those days. But pray that your flight not you know, the airplane that you take out of Tel Aviv. But pray that your flight will not be in the winter or on a Sabbath, both of which provide limitations on movement Right. For there will be a great tribul a great tribulation upon the land and wrath to this people. There's that phrase again, people. Such as has not occurred since the beginning of creation of the world which God created until now, nor ever will happen. But this is um the worst tribulation there will ever be. And they will fall by the edge of the sword and will be led captive into all the nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. There will be signs in the um in the sun, in the moon, the stars, and on the earth. dismay among the nations, in perplexity at the roaring of the sea and in the waves, men fainting from the fear of the expectation of things which are coming upon the world. For the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Big stuff. And then verse twenty of I guess this is Mark, um unless the Lord had shortened those days, no life would have been saved, but for the sake of the elect, that is God's chosen one whom he choose chose, um, he shortened the days. Not that the days got, you know, twenty hours instead of twenty-four, but the number of the days got less than would have been the case if it just left to its own course. Then, if anyone says to you, behold, here is the Christ, or there he is, do not believe in, for false Christs. And false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders so as to mislead, if possible, even the elect. But take heed, behold. I have told you everything in advance. So if they say to you, Behold, he is in the wilderness, do not go out. Or behold, he is in the inner room, do not believe them. For Just as the lightning comes from the east and flashes even to the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. So what is it about lightning flashing? in the sky that's going to be an illustration of how it's going to be with Christ's return, right? It's going to be obvious. So don't be misled into saying that he's out here and and There's been a confirmed sighting. No, everybody's gonna know. Just like lightning in the sky. Right? And what else? Just like lightning, it's gonna be quick. It's gonna be quick. Okay. Um verse twenty-eight at the bottom. Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. Now there's an interesting diversion of metaphors. Um what's he getting at here? It'll be odd Yeah. So you know how it is when you see the buzzards in our area, right? I guess they're some kind of altar. When they're circling around, what do you know? They're seeing lunch down there somewhere. Right it's probably not you because you're you're walking, you're you're lying. But it's a sign that you s you know what's happening, right? And it's everybody can see it. And it's It just one thing leads to another and it's pretty obvious. But immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light Of course it's the sun is dark and there is no light for the moon to reflect, right? And the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. And then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn. And then they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of the sky. with power and with great glory. And he will send forth his angels with a great trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of the sky to the other. But when these things begin to take place, straighten up And lift up your heads because your redemption is drawing near. So they asked about signs of his coming. He gave a lot of details. about what's going to happen before that. Well I I'm sure like the Pharisees they were afraid to ask any more. Um and um so Several several things about this. All the detail that he provides here suggests very strongly that this is still future. It hasn't happened yet I mean people would have known, right, if it had happened. Um and when he comes, there will be a gathering together of the elect from the four corners of the earth. Um he's going to talk about that more later. Um but in verse twenty nine he starts with several parables and illustrations to help them deal with the prospect of all these things. He says, uh th then he told them a parable. Now learn the parable from the fig tree and all the trees, when its branch has already become tender, and as soon as they put forth leaves, you see it and you know for yourselves that summer is now near. So you also, when you see all these things happening, recognize that uh he and in Luke it says the kingdom of God, so there uh Um it's hard to distinguish between the king and the kingdom of God. Anyway, it is is near, right at the door when these things happen. You see the signs. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Now, which generation was he talking about here? Them? Well apparently not. Um all these things have not yet happened. Um what he's referring to is the generation in which all these signs took place. In other words, it's not going to be a long and drawn out thing more multiple generations That generation is going to experience the signs and his coming. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words But of that day and that hour and and now he starts t answering the question when. He's been dwelling on all these signs, but now he's answering the question when, but then he doesn't answer it. Not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father alone. So he had he um was able to give them lots of detail about the signs and the progress toward those events. But um Uh he had to be honest and say, I don't even know, which is somewhat fascinating, don't you think? Uh the father alone For the coming of the Son of Man will be just like the days of Noah. For as in those days before the floods they were eating and drinking, marrying, giving in marriage. Are those good things, bad things? They're just normal things. Right. In other words, they weren't um at the time of Noah, they were dismissing the fact that Noah was building this big ark and preaching the need for repentance They were just going on with life. And that's a picture of what's going to be happening at this time as well. They were making fun of it. And you know, if we were in that position we'd have done the same thing. For as in those days before the flood, they were eating and drinking and marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark, and they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away So will be the coming of the Son of Man. Then there will be two men in the field, one will be taken, and one will be left. Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken and one will be left. What does it mean one will be taken? One will be left. One is saved and one is not saved. Which is which? The one who is taken or the one who has left? Actually it's the other way around He's using the time of Noah as an example. And he says specifically um the flood came and took them all away. All the unbelievers were outside. They were washed away. And the ones who were saved are inside the ark, right? And he's saying the same thing here. Um whether they're in the field or grinding at the mill, uh one's going to be taken away, just like those who are washed away by the flood, and one will be saved, not washed away. He doesn't say. He doesn't say here, but um so it's not logical that that we link this thought with the thought that Trumpers believer rise. Is not the same concept or Yes, this is not this is not the rapture. Yeah. This is not the rapture. Uh it has wording that would well we all fell into that trap. The ones who are taken away are the believers. Well that's the rapture. But this is the other way around. Um therefore take heed. Be on guard So that your hearts are not weighted down with dissipation and drunkenness and the worries of life. And that day will not come upon you like a trap, for it will come upon all those who dwell on the face of all the earth. For you do not know which day your Lord is coming. In fact, even he doesn't know, uh whether in the evening at midnight, or whether when the rooster crows or in the morning, uh in case you should uh comes suddenly and in case he should come suddenly and find you asleep. And then he gives a number of illustrations kind of parables to help them visualize the importance of what what we should be doing. He says it's like a man away on a journey who upon leaving his house of the night, the thief was coming, he would have been on the alert and would have not allowed his house to be broken into. For this reason also, you must be Ready. For the Son of Man is coming at an hour when you do not think he will. Um who then is the faithful and sensible slave whom his master put in charge of his household to give them their food at the proper time. Blessed is that slave whom his master finds so doing. and was following his instructions when the master returns. Truly I say to you, he will put him in charge of all his possessions. But if that evil slave says in his heart, My master's not coming again for a long time and begins to beat his fellow slaves and eat and drink with drunkards And the master of that slave will come on a day that he does not expect and an hour which he does not know and he will cut him in pieces. And assign him a place for the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. But what I say to you, I say to all Keep on the alert at all times, praying that you may have strength to escape all these things that are about to take place to stand before the Son of God. So he's talking about the need for readiness, um not knowing when it's uh if you knew exactly when it was going to happen, what would most people do black off like this this slave. He's not coming for a long time. Um but um Christ's return, although the timing is unknown, the there's no prophecy in Scripture yet to be fulfilled. before the rapture. It could happen today. There's no prophecy yet to be fulfilled that hasn't already been fulfilled prior to the rapture. And so in God's timetable, that's the next event. Now that's not his coming that he's talking about here. He's talking about coming as a judge, right? But um the taking away of believers, first Thessalonians four uh up in the sky to meet Jesus and then go to be with him. Uh can happen at any time. Imminent. Imminent doesn't mean it necessarily will happen today. It means it could. Um like Daniel, the question was, d when does the abomination of desolation fit into that? Because Jesus already mentioned it. He was referring back to Daniel 9. And so Daniel says it's in the middle of that last week to the middle of that seven year period. And uh Jesus is referring to uh the signs that would lead up to that, which haven't happened yet. Um the interesting thing about Daniel nine is it's interesting but maybe frustrating that as you read through that you don't We can only know in retrospect that between week 69 and week 70, week 69 when the Messiah is cut off and the beginning of that last week, there's a lot of time. over two thousand years, well roughly two thousand years now. And um why would there be that well not why. Um but Uh well maybe why. Um Gabriel told Daniel in in Daniel nine that these seventy weeks have decreed for your people, the Jews. And um It's all about the Jews and Jerusalem. That seventieth week, just like the first sixty-nine weeks, is primarily focused on Jews. Um the Jews as a whole, not all of them, but as a whole, um Rejected the Messiah. God ushered in the church age, not as a substitute for Israel, but as a way of spreading the uh the kingdom to even Gentiles More so than would have been the case under Israel. In the meantime, until he consumes all things. And um when we finally get to that seventieth week, the focus is going to be on the judgment of Israel. And eventually the salvation of many from Israel when they finally realize, oh, the Messiah already came. Um so the abomination of desolation that's spoken of in in Daniel nine and is further described uh particularly in Revelation, who is basically the the um the the world ruler at that time who had made an arrangement with Israel, okay, you can go ahead and rebuild your temple, you can restore all the sacrifices and whatever. But three and a half years later he reneged on that and actually desecrated the temple. That's when it takes However, um I don't know that we know specifically from scripture, but it seems obvious that like if if the rapture were to happen today, something would show up on the news. people would know that there are a lot of missing people. And it it would it would do what? More fake news. Yeah. But people would know people who are now missing. And it's not just fake news. The the the spin on it is going to be fake news, but um it'll be something that will be noticed worldwide. And it's Kind of logical. We don't know from scripture necessarily, but it's kind of logical that that will set in place events that will start that 7-5 week pretty much at that time. The seek for a world rule and so on, um, to kind of bring order out of chaos. And whenever there's a government attempt to bring order out of chaos, guess what happens more chaos. Yes. Yeah, he's and he's going to get back to that here in Matthew twenty-five, which we're about to start with. He's going to assemble not just the the elect, but also the unelect, and that's the judgment of the nations. Mainly the way eighty seventy and the destruction of Jerusalem by Titus and destroying Jerusalem It fits into this in Jesus' prediction that it was going to happen at the very beginning of Matthew 24. That uh you see this beautiful temple? I tell you that not one stone's gonna be left on another Um and so in my mind, just like Daniel, when he hears about the restoring of the temple and then its destruction again, he's probably got lots of mixed emotions going on here. Um the disciples when they're seeing right before them this magnificent temple area and Jesus saying, It's gonna get wiped out. Um that was probably confusing, discouraging. Um but Yeah, that would be kind of rubbing the nose in it, yeah, wouldn't it? Yeah, yeah. Um okay. So I think we're ready for Matthew 25, and we have not a lot of time. I'm on the bottom of page 224. This is the blended account, which is really easy because Mark, Luke, and John don't have anything. Then the kingdom of heaven will be comparable to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were and and by the way, these virgins are pres presumably the um um like bridesmaids and so on. They're part of the the the wedding party. Um five of them were foolish and five were prudent, for when the foolish took their lamps they took no oil with them But the prudent took oil in flasks along with their lamps. Now while the bridegroom was delaying, they all got drowsy and began to sleep. But at midnight there was a shout, Behold the bridegroom Come out and see and meet him. Then all the virgins rose and trimmed their lamps, and the foolish said to the prudent, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the prudent answered no, there will not be enough for us and you too. Go instead to the dealers and buy some for yourself, as if they're going to be open at midnight. Right. And um Verse 10. And while they were going away to make the purchase, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast. And the door was shut. Later the other versions came also. Lord, Lord, open for us. But he answered, Truly I said you, I did not know you. And here Jesus' words are, be on the aw alert then, for you did not know that day nor the hour. Um and so very similar message to what he had in um What the passage in Matthew 24 where he's focusing on the need to be ready. Don't make assumptions about a short amount of time or a long amount of time. Um be a good boy scout, be prepared, right? Be ready. Um Then in verse 14 he switches illustrations. For it is just like a man about to go on a journey who called his own slaves and entrusted his possessions with him To one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, each one according to his own ability, and he went out on his journey. It's interesting how many times he used this kind of illustration In fact he just gives in the previous chapter, a little bit different, uh and and the point he's trying to make is is similar. Um immediately the one who would receive the five talents went and traded with them and gained five more talents. In the same manner, the one who had received the two talents gained two more. But he who received the one talent went away and dug a hole in the ground and hidden his master's money. Now after a long time the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them. The one who had received the five talents came up and brought five more talents, saying, Master, you entrusted five talents to me? See, I have gained five more talents His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. So he had five talents originally. Talent here is not the word we use for talents. like abilities. It was a a a weight of money, a weight had value. Um so he originally had five and he invested it, those five, and gained five more for a total of ten. Who did they belong to? The master, yeah. This wasn't his his own um earnings. This it all belonged to the master because that was his job To be a manager, to be a faithful steward. Um verse twenty-two. And also the one who had received the two talents came up and said, Master, you entrusted two talents to me? See, I have gained two more talents His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant, slave. You were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. Um, which one of those two was greater? They're both faithful, equally faithful, but it appears that their abilities was equal. Their rate of return was the same, a hundred percent. That's a pretty good rate, right? Um and he gives the same commendation to both of them in this case. Um and the one also had who had received the one talent came up and said, Master I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow and gathering where you did not gather seed. What does that mean? He's the master, not the worker. He's got slaves to do the work. He's the owner They're working on his behalf, not on their own behalf. Or at least that was supposed to be the case. Let's see this guy. And I was afraid and went away and hid your talent in the ground. He understands as his talent. um money, let's say. I hid it in the ground. See, you have what is yours. We're even. But his master answered and said to him, you wicked, lazy Slave, you knew that I reap where I did not sow, and gather where I did not where I scattered no seed. Then you ought to have put my money in the bank, and on my arrival I would have received my money back with interest. Therefore Take away the talent from him, and give it to the one who has ten talents, for to everyone who has, more shall be given. And he Will have an abundance. But from the one who does not have, even what he has shall be taken away. Throw out the worthless slave into the outer darkness, outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So a a parable very similar to ones he's he's um mentioned before by now I think the disciple is saying, I'm getting the point. But in this context, what is he what's the application about, you know, while waiting for his return? What should we be doing? Be productive, be good stewards, right, in the literal sense of the word, managers of God's resources for his purposes, because he's going to come back and we're going to settle accounts with him. The only conclusion or at least presumption I could make was that his understanding of the difference between these two at the time was that this one was going to be um maybe more faithful, more um successful than this one. This guy's no slouch, but this one seems to have more skill at at what he's doing. The bigger question is What's his evaluation of those two after this experience? And my guess is they're going to be more on an equal plane. That's a more important question What are we supposed to be doing? And uh the lesson from this is whose business should we be about? God's business Right. We should be using the resources he gave us to advance his purposes rather than our own. Um now it doesn't mean that our interests and our needs are are irrelevant because a good master cares for those who are his slaves, but his slaves are slaves for a reason to advance his purposes. Right? And um so the context here is um people preparing for the return of Christ. But it really does apply to us as well, regardless of when we we are in the uh eschatological timetable. his return, we don't know when he's going to return, whether it's the rapture or a second coming, um and we need to be about his business in the meantime. Yeah when he gives us um well when he gives us a command, he gives us the resources to fulfill the command. And sometimes those resources are material, sometimes they're um inner convictions and understanding and truth and so on. Um yeah, but from whom much has been given, much will be required. And that applies to all of us. Okay, we're almost done. Um verse thirty-one. But when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. And um when we get to the Um verse thirty-two. Then all the nations will be gathered together before him. He will separate them from one another as a shepherd separates sheep from the goats. And he will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. And then the king will say to those on his right, that is the sheep, Come you who are blessed with my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger and you invited me in naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me Then the righteous will answer him, Lord, when do we see you hungry and feed you and thirsty and give you something to drink? And when did we see you a stranger and invite you in, or naked and clothe you? When do we see you sick or in prison and come to you And the king will answer and say to them, Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it to the least one of the least to one of these brothers of mine, even the least of them Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me something you gave me nothing to eat, I was thirsty and you gave me nothing I was a stranger and you did not invite me in, naked, and you did not clothe me, in prison, and you did not visit me. Then they say to themselves, then they themselves will answer Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or strange or naked or sacred imprisoned and not take care of you? Then he will answer them, Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did not do it to the least of these You did not do it to me. These will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal light. A couple of points on this So the context for that interaction is the triumphal entry of return of Christ. He says, um when the Son of Man comes in glory and all the angels with him, he will sit on his glorious throne. Um and so he's referring to in their the overall context of this this uh discourse, uh he's finally getting to what's gonna happen when he does return, not just the signs leading up to it And when he does return physically on the throne on this earth, uh the nations will be judged by him And he'll separate the sheep from the goats. Now, what can we say about those who are being judged at that point? They will have gone through all of the tribulation that he's described here and Some will be sheep. Some will have come to Christ during that time. And they're primarily going to be Jews. Not necessarily all, but primarily they're going to be Jews who came to Christ during that tribulation period. Others, of course, if they're still alive, and these were still alive, um were not saved, and they're the goats. referring to. And so his commendations here speak about good works, right? And doing things in the name of Christ. as an overflow of a relationship with him. Well some had a relationship with him and it overflowed into their their daily lives even during this tribulation period. But for others of course they had no relationship with him. And uh they didn't have any of those characteristics. Um I say all that to suggest that while This principle would still apply to us. He's not going to be t talking to us at this point. He's talking to those who he gathered on earth after he um comes and sits on his throne in Jerusalem. and just prior to the thousand year reign. Um where are we going to be at that point? Yeah, we've already been raptured, but then what? We return with him. We're going to be there, not for judgment, but to to reign on thrones with him. Uh but the principles here of letting our relationship with Christ um overflow into our care for others are not operating out of self-interest. Um that's still a valid valid thing. It's just that we're not going to be either sheep or goats at that point. We're going to be already saved. Anyway, we've got to wrap it up. But I think we did two chapters. Good fast listening. Let's pray. Lord, um it's it's heartening to see that that um even while you provide a lot of detail and descriptions and so on, you provide also applications and that we do need to be ready. We do need to be about our father's business. And um pray that you would keep that on our heart, that we would not approach life uh casually, in a self-centered way, but that we would approach it as your stewards, your slaves, as we go about your business and through your glory. I pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.