So particularly for those of you who are joining us this quarter and were not with us the previous quarter. Wanted to uh now that we're getting back into the test today, I wanted to give you a little bit of orientation here. We're going through the four Gospels together and we're uh blending them together where they overlap. And we're following the chronology that's presented in the Gospel of Luke. And the reason for that is because he said he did a careful job of putting things in chronological order. And that was part of his purpose where it was not explicitly and even evidentially the purpose of the other gospel writers. Although John's not bad in terms of chronology, but he, writing later, was filling in a lot of gaps that the others didn't cover So um some thoughts first of all about my approach to this I think each of us, because we're used to expository preaching, might prefer to delve into each of these sections in a lot of depth. But uh I don't think that's going to be all that practical for us. It would probably take it's I've currently got this schedule to take place over the course of a year And if we went in the the kind of depths that we could, it might take ten years to get through the the whole thing. And um So my purpose here is to uh hopefully spur each of you on to further study both while we're going through it and in years to come. So you'll have a resource, you'll have some orientation, and A lot of what you're going to get out of it is going to be depending on what you put into it. And so I would strongly encourage you to delve into each of these sections prior to our getting together So we can have even more informed discussions together and then continue to do that study uh in the years ahead. So um if we're having a a good discussion, I may let it Continue or I may say, well, we've got to move on. And the reason we need to move on is um we need to uh At least survey everything and see how it all fits together to get the big picture. So we'll cover some things in detail, but clearly not everything. And I don't want to deprive you all of the joy of that study directly as well. Okay. So we are on Lesson thirteen, which begins with section fifty-six, and um I hope that those of you who are new to us this quarter got the message about how to get the notes, the PDFs. They're quite large. You have to It's easiest probably to download them in pieces. But if you have any questions about that, let us know. Diane, did you have any additional thoughts before we get started? No, I was just going to say that I put the link in the chat for anyone who needs to access them. Thank you. Good. Okay, so we're on page eighty-two, beginning of lesson thirteen. So what I'll do here is read the blended account, then we can have a little bit of discussion about that. This is blending now Matthew and Luke. And we're right on the heels of the Sermon on the Mount. Pastor, you might want to explain to the new people like what the highlight is. Oh yes, Greg is suggesting there's some more orientation that might be helpful to people here. You'll notice within Each of the direct quotes from, in this case, Matthew and Luke, there's some highlighting. The highlighting is my attempt to indicate what is unique. In that gospel's presentation. And the things that are not bold are basically in common across the, in this case, two gospel accounts. And then when we blend it down below, um the the font is changing. Now in this case it's only two, but you know Matthew is a bold, I guess that's a times font. Mark is a bold I don't know if that's Ariel or something like that. Luke is a non-bold times, and John is a non-bold Ariel. So when those are blended together, the font tells you which gospel that word or phrase was coming from. Okay. So if I haven't thoroughly confused you, let's go ahead and get started. When he had completed all his discourse in the hearing of the people, again, that was the Sermon on the Mount, he went to Capernaum. Which wouldn't have been very far away at all. And a centurion slave who was highly regarded by him was sick and about to die, lying paralyzed at home, fearfully tormented. When he heard about Jesus, he sent some Jewish elders asking him to come and save the life of his slave. When they came to Jesus, they earnestly implored him, saying, It is worthy for you to grant this to him, for he loves our nation, and it was he who built our synagogue. Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. Now, Jesus started on his way with them, and When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying to him, Lord, do not trouble yourself further, for I am not worthy for you to come under my roof. For this reason, I did not even consider myself worthy to come to you. But you just say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man placed under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to this one, go, and he goes, and to another, come, and he comes, and to my slave do this, and he does it. Now, when Jesus heard this, he marveled at him and turned and said to the crowd that was following him, Truly I say to you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith. I say to you that many will come from east and west and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said to the centurion, which is to say, his friends who came to him Go, and it shall be done for you as you have believed. And the servant was healed that very moment. When those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the slave in good health. So As is often the case, Jesus here marvels when he sees genuine faith, particularly in contrast with the many who are not operating. under faith. And in this case, and in several cases, this is a Gentile, even a Roman soldier, centurion. And so Jesus was uh very responsive to that faith, very encouraging of that faith, and uh Even used it as a bit of a teaching point to challenge uh those who are following him about the um the strength of the face of this Roman centurion Pastor Allen, I have a question about verse 12. But the sons of the kingdom will be cast into outer darkness. I thought the sons of the kingdom were the believers, the good guys. Yeah, yeah. Well who is he contrasting this with? Uh he's talking about Gentiles versus Jews And the kingdom ought to have been through the Jews and for the Jews, right? But many of the Jews had nowhere near as much faith, if any at all, to this Gentile centurion. And so those who uh are Abraham's descendants physically and sort of view themselves as of course God's chosen people and therefore in the kingdom are going to be surprised that actually they're not in the kingdom. Kingdom. So I think that's what he's talking about here. And he's actually using this to challenge people. Don't presume that you're going to be in the kingdom because of your ancestry. Right. But it's a matter of faith. It sort of puzzles me that okay, so these are Jewish elders and They're asking Jesus basically to come heal somebody, which implies they believe he can heal somebody. And yet in the Old Testament when like did prophets routinely heal tons of people? Just sort of Upon the asking? I mean it seems like it it seems odd that they would believe that he could heal somebody but not then make the connection that he's more than just a prophet Yeah, well I wouldn't say that the prophets healed tons of people. They certainly did, um certainly Elijah. Um But they're not doing this on their initiative, they're really doing it on behalf of this centurion, whom they are very indebted to. He built his synagogue. And they're probably um friends, let's say, with him And it's a the centurion's initiative to go get Jesus. I don't know that they would have suggested it themselves. It's hard to speculate it But uh it's clear that they're going because they were asked by the centurion, and he's the one with the faith. How much faith they had, we don't know Um but they may have been um part of Christ's um target audience when he's talking about the the need for faith and that those even from the house of Israel um don't seem to have that kind of faith. Maybe that was convicting them. We don't know. Uh I you know and I think it was in Luke Can't remember where it is. Luke 15, the Syrophoen Woman. Mm-hmm. We went over this in the hermeneutics class. When uh Jesus uh drew away and he went to Tyre and Sidon and his disciples were with him and the woman came out crying that she wanted their daughter to be healed and he said, You know, I can't uh give the crumbs to the uh dogs, you know what I mean? Right. He he said the same thing with her. Such great faith I've not seen Yeah. Making that contrast between the people you would expect would have faith, the nation of Israel, and the people who actually did were Gentiles. Yep. Alright, well let's go to section 57 on page 83. This is now only in the Gospel of Luke. Soon afterwards, he went to a city called Nain. Remember we saw that on the map last week? And his disciples were going along with him, accompanied by a large crowd. Now, as he approached the gate of the city, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother And she was a widow, and a sizable crowd from the city was with her. When the Lord saw her, he felt compassion for her, and said to her, Do not weep And he came up and touched the coffin, and the bearers came to a halt. And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise The dead man sat up and began to speak. And Jesus gave him back to his mother. Fear gripped them all, and they began glorifying God, saying, A great prophet has arisen among us. And God has visited his people. This report concerning him went out all over Judea and the surrounding district. Now, what do you notice that's different about this raising from the dead, this healing, if you will, and the previous healing of the uh centurion's slave. Well this one Jesus doesn't seem to be responding necessarily to the woman's face. He's just showing an act of goodness and compassion. Exactly. Yeah. Yep. And um Uh Jesus may have had multiple uh reasons for doing it, uh in terms of testimony and and so on, but it clearly says in the text that he was driven by compassion. And she didn't ask. Yeah, we're not told anything about her faith prior to this. But um Well the other one was only sick. This this uh died, yeah. Yeah. Pastor Allen, where is name? I don't see it on the on the map. Do you see uh mountain motor If you find Afula, it's very close to Afula. Uh or um Mount Gilboa? It's just north of Mount Gilboa. It's sort of easy to find if you look at on map 95, the end of the yellow arrow. It's pointing right to it Okay, thank you. That's quite a ways away. Yep, it is on line five. Thank you. Okay. Let's go to section fifty eight. John the Baptist questioned Jesus, and again we're in Matthew and Luke. And the blended account here. But disciples of John reported to him about all these things while imprisoned. Summoning two of his disciples, John sent word by them to the Lord, saying, Are you the expected one? Or do we look for someone else? When the men came to him, they said, John the Baptist has sent us to you to ask, are you the expected one, or do we look for someone else? At that very time, he cured many people of diseases and afflictions and evil spirits, and he gave sight to many who were blind. And he answered and said to them, Go and report to John what you have seen and heard. The blind receive sight. And here, that's these sections are quoting uh verses from the Old Testament fulfilling with these messianic prophecies. So the the blind receive sight, the lame walk The lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he who does not take offense at me. When the messengers of John had left, he began to speak to the crowds about John What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? But what did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Those who are splendidly clothed and live in luxury are founded royal palaces. But what do you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you. And one who is more than a prophet. This is the one about whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare your way before you Truly I say to you, among those born of women, there is not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptist. Yet, he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and violent men take it by force. For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John, and if you are willing to accept it, John himself is Elijah who was to come. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. When all the people and the tax collectors heard this, now isn't that interesting? The tax collectors were different from people. They were non-people, I guess, right? When all the people when all people in tax collectors heard this, they acknowledged God's justice having been baptized with a baptism. of John. But the Pharisees and the lawyers, lawyers here is the specialist in the Old Testament law. This is not attorneys Right. Pharisees and the lawyers rejected God's purposes for themselves, not having been baptized by John. To what then shall I compare the men of this generation and what are they like? They are like children who sit in the marketplace and call to one another and they say, we played the flute for you and you did not dance. We sang a dirge and you did not weep For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say he has a demon The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Yet wisdom is vindicated by all her children, that is her deed. So um one of the obvious questions here is what's going on with John the Baptist? Right, he had a pretty strong uh testimony. Uh he was um um Not pulling any punches when it came to speaking the truth and it got him in jail. Um he understood we saw earlier that he was Testifying that Jesus was the promised Messiah, who was greater than him, all those things, remember And here he's languishing in prison, and presumably some doubts crept in. John the Baptist was human. Um and Jesus' answer is, well, you know, all these things are happening Um serving as a testimony to who I am. And so um Um blessed are those who believe. And um Presumably that's the message they took back to him. And it may have reassured him, but even John the Baptist may have been thinking The role of the Messiah was to establish God's kingdom on earth now and had lots of political ramifications in most people's thinking. And here John is languishing in prison and it doesn't seem to be turning out that way. Maybe that's part of his the doubts that are going on in his mind But Jesus is um I don't know if he's encouraging John at this point, but he's saying um Yeah, you you weren't wrong, John. I am I am who you said I am. Um and although Jesus didn't explicitly say so Uh I think the implication is, John, what you thought was going to happen isn't really what's going to happen. quite that way. Um and what's important here is people's souls, not our our uh uh political and and national welfare. And it seems like he's saying, you know, look at the look at the signs and have faith. Right. Leave it. Right. Just like Nicodemus said, no one could do these signs that you do unless God be with it, right? And Jesus is basically saying that same thing, Julie. I think it's interesting it the the people's reaction was to acknowledge God. God's justice. It's not, you know, his work or is it it's it's his justice they acknowledge. And that's that's kind of at the heart of repentance is knowing what you deserve. So Pastor Folly Oh excuse me. Go ahead, Maurice. No, you go ahead. Um uh uh With um John proclaiming Christ as the uh Messiah and John being full of the Holy Spirit, um, do you think even as he was preaching and proclaiming that he was thinking that Christ was going to set up the kingdom on earth? I don't know. Yeah, we we don't know particularly what he was thinking. We know that was the prevailing view of most people. Um but he was also speaking prophetically and he may not have had a full um understanding of the implications of the truth that he was speaking prophetically. Right, that's what that's what gets me. If that's the case, then he was full of the Holy Spirit. I'm baptizing people, proclaiming who Christ was, even God Himself speaking, and he sees the Holy Spirit descending like a dove, and yet um he may not have the f may not have had the full picture of all that God was doing. Right. No, I think that's that's definitely gotta be true. Uh he was human. Uh when he spoke prophetically um This is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world, right? Um He had Certainly some understanding of what that meant, but probably nowhere near the benefit we have in hindsight of what that really means. So Yeah. Um I'm all we every time I read um This passage, I'm amazed at Jesus' testimony to John the Baptist. No one born of woman was greater than John the Baptist, meaning he's better than Moses That's interesting, isn't it? Very interesting. And John and we skip over that often, and that is an amazing testimony that he gave. But then he said Uh you have even greater than John the Baptist. So in what sense was Jesus saying that others are greater than John the Baptist? Well John is not going to live to see the fulfillment of the of um Jesus dying on the cross. Yeah. And and participate in that aspect of it. Right. Still interesting though. Very much. Yeah, I I hadn't thought about that yet. Uh David? Abraham? David? I never even thought of it. Easy. I'm only giving it orders. So how does God define greatness Oh, come on. No, no, no. No. For people who walk by faith, people who save. How does he how does he define greatness for us? You want to be first, be last. Right. Servants are he's not necessarily here talking about servanthood. He's talking about um opposition Uh I I think he's talking mostly about participation in the kingdom of God. And so those who um are New Testament believers, let's say, and who have trusted Christ for salvation. And certainly not yet at this point, but in a few years after he does pay that sacrifice and has ascended into heaven and people are are uh saved and uh ministering in his name. Um that just takes God's plan of salvation to another level. And um Jesus, I think, is kind of wetting their appetite here. Pastor Allen, my work uh colleague pointed out to me that they're oddly enough, they're still a sect uh albeit corrupted sect of people who are joptist followers. And it originated they their their leaders were influenced by the preaching of John the Baptist and were baptized with John's baptism and it just kept propagating, but that sect is still there in the Middle East today and it never matured to true faith, it's this corrupt set of beliefs that they hold to. Even though John testified that he was one preparing the way for the Messiah. Uh I guess they're still waiting for the Messiah, huh? Hmm. Okay. Well let's go to section 59 on page 85 And this again is only in the Gospel of Luke. Now, one of the Pharisees was requesting him to dine with him. And he entered the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table. And there was a woman in the city who was a sinner, and when she learned that he was reclining at the table in the Pharisee's house, she brought an alabaster vial of perfume. You know, this is interesting. She um kind of barched into the dinner, right? Uninvited, presumably. And standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. And kept wiping them with the hair of her head, and kissing his feet, and anointing them with the perfume. Now, when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself If this man were a prophet, he would know what who and what sort of person this woman is who is touching man and that she is a sinner. Now notice here that he's saying this to himself. But I'm pretty sure that if you and I were there, and certainly Jesus You could read the expression on this guy's face like a book. We just love the same thing. Oh yeah. Yeah, we knew all the things that this guy said. You know, it doesn't take a a rocket scientist to know what kind of woman this is And so Jesus answered him. He didn't need to draw on his ability to read minds, if you will, in this particular case. Jesus answered Simon, I have something to say to you. And he replied, say it, teacher, a moneylender had two debtors. One owed 500 zenarii and the other 50. And when they were unable to repay, he graciously forgave them both. So, which one of them will love him more? Simon answered and said, I suppose the one whom he forgave more. And Jesus said to him, You have judged correctly. Turning toward the woman, he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house. You gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss, but she, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she anointed my feet with perfume. For this reason I say to you, her sins, which are many, have been forgiven For she loved much, but he who has forgiven little loves little. And he said to her, Your sins have been forgiven. And those who were reclining at table with him began to say to themselves, Who is this man who even forgives sins? And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. So um seems like Jesus has a lot of encounters with Pharisees And here's one um who I guess got a lesson he wasn't expecting And it's not just the fact that Jesus can forgive, but it's quite natural that those who truly are forgiven much will be all the more thankful and loving. And uh I don't think Jesus was saying here that um Um where does it say it here? Um He who is forgiven little loves little, verse uh forty seven. So um the problem with the Pharisees wasn't that they lived unrighteous lives The problem of the Pharisees was that their righteousness was all superficial on the outside. It's not from the heart. And so Uh on the one hand Pastor Plumley? Uh yes. Victoria. I think it boils down to all of us should love much because all it takes is one sin to keep you out So, you know. But of course all of us can point to a lot more than one, right? And so we have much to be thankful for And to love him because he first loved us. So here's just a graphic illustration of that. And Jesus, as he often does when presented A situation like this turns it into a teaching opportunity. I guess this is before the Pharisees really turned against him, you know, to to look for his death. It's kind of like they they know something special about him, just like Nicodemus. Um You know, and so come and dine with us and you know, kinda fill him out, see what he's about. Yeah, I this guy's name Simon. Um I kinda think he was curious um what makes this guy tick obviously like naked Nicodemus observed and others you know it he's um These things wouldn't happen if God weren't working through him, but he still didn't have all the answers, didn't compute And so he was curious. Um but that's different from having faith. Yeah. It must have taken a lot of faith for this woman to actually do that kind of act uh publicly in in front of the religious elite, similar to the woman at the well, she came during the middle of the day when there would be very few people that she would encounter that might question her about her reputation or or her circumstances. But this is like a very public um Act of worship. Yeah, and so you you get this very distinct contrast between um repentance And sort of a self-righteousness. Right? And That contrast certainly wasn't lost on Jesus, and he made a point of of uh making a teaching point about that. Okay, let's go to section 60 again just in the Gospel of Luke Soon afterwards, he began going around from one city and village to another, proclaiming and preaching the kingdom of God. The twelve were with him, and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and sicknesses. Mary, who was called Magdalene From whom seven demons have gone out, and Johanna, the wife of Chusa, Gareth Stewart, and Susanna, and many others who are contributing to their support out of their private means. So Mary Magdalene was not the only one who was healed by Jesus, and some of these others were not told specifically what they were healed from, other than evil spirits and sicknesses. And it must have been an interesting entourage, right? Where You've got Jesus and twelve disciples and probably others as well, but then also uh quite a number of significant women who um We're traveling, they're all traveling together and actually helping to support the ministry of the Lord. Strong testimony there. Yeah, if that was happening to you we'd be a we'd be held issues. Wouldn't they forboth the legal and following them? Yeah, so uh you know um The men who left their jobs were following him, and women who had independent means were also following him, but also supporting him So that also is an interesting contrast with many of the crowds. Why did they follow Jesus? The spectacle of it all, the miracles, and maybe their own personal needs for healing or something, but it's just a spectacle. But here are people who are committing themselves The following. Good testimony. The the notion of these women who out of their private means of supporting Christ and perhaps some of those men that uh followed him, uh it's somewhat It it's it's not quite the same idea that we get when we think about women back during those times when I think for the most part we think that they were mostly supported by their husbands. and that the the women hardly ever were, you know, people of prominence. This seems to run a little counter to that notion if you if If if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, uh certainly some prominence here, although uh not royalty, but well connected, yes Um and later we're going to see that um The upper room where they met was almost certainly provided for them in a similar way. a very um sympathetic um probably a woman, possibly John Mark's mother, um owned that upper room and that became A gathering place for them on multiple occasions. Okay, well let's go to section 61, the parable of the sower And here's one that's in all of the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. I'll read from the blended account on page 87 When a large crowd was coming together and those from the various cities were journeying to him, he spoke many things to them by way of a parable, saying, Listen to this, the sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell beside the road, and it was trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air ate it up Other seed fell on rocky soil where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up because they had no depth of soil. But when the sun had risen, and as soon as it grew up, they were scorched. And because they had no root, they withered away because it had no moisture. Other seed fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up with it, and choked it out, and it yielded no crop. The other seeds fell into the good soil, and as they grew up, they increased, and they produced a crop some a hundred times as great, some sixty, and some thirty. As he said these things, he would call out, he who has ears to hear, let him hear. And as soon as he was alone, his followers, along with the twelve disciples, came and began questioning him: why do you speak to them in parables? And as to what this parable meant. And he said, To you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But to the rest who are outside, everything is in parables. For whoever has, to him more shall be given. And he will have an abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has, shall be taken away from him. Therefore I speak to him, speak to them in parables Because while seeing, they do not see. And while hearing, they do not hear, nor do they understand. In their case, the prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled, which says That while seeing they may see and not perceive, and while hearing, they may hear and not understand. For the heart of this people has become dull with their ears. They scarcely hear, and they have closed their eyes, otherwise they would see with their eyes, hear with their ears, and understand with the heart, and return, and I would heal them But blessed are your eyes because they see, and your ears because they hear. For truly I say to you, that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see. and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and they did not hear it. And he said to them, Do you not understand this parable? How will you understand all the parables Now, here then the parable of the sower. The parable is this: the sower sows the word, the seed is the word of God Those beside the road where the word is sown, or those who have heard the word of the kingdom and do not understand it Then immediately Satan, the devil, the evil one, comes and takes away the word from their heart so that they will not believe and be saved Those on rocky soil are those who, when they hear, immediately receive the words with joy, and these have no firm root in themselves, but are only temporary. They believe for a while, and then when affliction or persecution arises because of the word, immediately, in time of temptation, fall away. The seed which fell among the thorns are the ones who have heard the word, and as they go on their way, they are choked with worries and the deceitfulness of wealth and pleasures of this life and the desires for other things enter in and bring no fruit to maturity. But the seed in the good soil, these are the ones who have heard the word in an honest and good heart, understand it. And hold it fast, and indeed bear fruit with perseverance, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty And he was saying to them, now no one after lighting a lamp covers it over with a container or puts it under a bed. But he puts them in the lampstand so that those who come in may see the light. For nothing is hidden that will not become evident, nor anything secret that will not be known and come to light. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. So, take care how you listen. By your standard of measure, it will be measured to you. And more will be given you besides. For whoever has, to him more shall be given. And whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has, shall be taken away from him. So rather familiar parable, but um A lot of what Jesus is communicating here has to do with the sovereignty of God in salvation. And those who are not prepared by the Father Are not going to have ears to hear or eyes to see. Just like the the farmer Doesn't sow seed intentionally on the hard path of the rocky soil or the thorny soil, hoping to get some kind of meager crop out of it His intent is to sow the seed in the good soil that he's prepared. But in the process of broadcasting that seed, some of it falls along the other kinds of soil. So the issue is who has God prepared for receiving the seed, the truth? And um there's three categories of people here who um Are not genuine believers. The first one's obvious. The other two have an immediate response that's superficial, but they don't bear any fruit. And um were not actually prepared by the Father to receive the truth My conclusion, having studied this, is that Jesus was telling a parable about his listeners. His listeners probably included all four types of people. And he who has ears to hear, let him hear, was his theme. And Jesus didn't answer the question, why do you teach them in parables as directly as I might have, but it seems apparent that um um Just like a sower is not is intentionally not spreading seed where the soil has not been prepared, some of it may Go there, but that's not his intent. Um why would Jesus not be Sowing seed more um uh explicitly and and and carefully among Those other three kinds of soil. Well, again, it has to do with God's sovereignty and salvation. And the the more um Explicit and in your face that message is to those who are unbelieving, the more judgment comes down on them. So To an extent it's an act of mercy, but they're still unsaved and they're they're going to hell. Right? Your judgment will be last. But possibly, yes. So yes, who is that online? Uh it was Victoria and I, but Victoria doesn't have sweet Thank you, Ann. Um so I have two questions. Um is it true? Is it is it that the first three soils don't know that they are the that type of soil? And what is our response to that? You know, is it that we see different soils or we don't see different soils Um yeah, how does that fit in fit in with us? Yeah, good question. I think there's a good chance that people in the first category know that they're in the first category, they're rejecting the truth, they have no even a pretense about aligning themselves with God's word And so that may not be a mystery to them. The other two may be self-deceived, but um Maybe not always, I don't know. That's um some of them it may be as long as conditions are favorable, may want to Um appear as if they're they're um aligned with the message They may have ulterior purposes and reasons for that. I don't know. The more important question you had is what does this mean for us? Right? So um the reality is that unlike God, we don't know people's hearts. And so we're not necessarily going to know who God has prepared versus those he has not prepared. And who are who are the elect? We're not going to know Other than we know from a response that genuine repentance and a transformed life, oh, that must have been one of the elect. Right? But prior to that, they're probably no different in our understanding from one of these other soils. So we are told to soak broadly because we're not the ones doing the preparing of the soil. God is And we're not going to know the hearts of people. And our job is to so broadly proclaim the truth and let God do the rest. That's probably does that help, Victoria? Yes. Uh one more. Uh what about the fruit part? What about that's what I was going to comment on. I just comment, I find it very interesting that just as there were three categories of unbelievers, there seems to be three categories of believers based on the amount of their fruit. Was that your question, Victoria? The the the three categories of fruit? Yeah, yes, pretty much. You know, one bearing fruit, the other one isn't Yeah. And that's an indicator of source, but like a little a little plant is not gonna have fruit. Yeah. Well, I I don't know how much to read into the thirty, sixty, and a hundred I take it that he's making the contrast between fruitfulness and unfruitfulness Some people are going to be more fruitful than others for multiple reasons, probably. People are going to bear fruit in different rates, different timings. Their their growth is not all going to be identical. The people are going to be different. And the point he's making is Fruit is the evidence of a changed life. Foliage is not And it's it's in the first order of things, it's not an issue of how much fruit, but whether it's genuine fruit And so I don't think we can say there's only three categories, 30, 60, and 100fold. What about 50? What about 75? It's it's it's just an illustration that that there will be fruitfulness, some variety of fruitfulness. Um Miraculous. Well it's it's God it's God-generated fruitfulness, not self-generated fruitfulness, right? Um and that that's the contrast So uh Brian, sorry. So if if um if you truly believe there will be something that's not what we'll say through that So keep in mind that God is sovereign who comes to himself. It has nothing to do with what we're doing So we're witnessing to the unbelievers, but not knowing who in the church is truly a believer. We need to be speaking the gospel to everyone. Everyone. So if they're really a believer, we speak the gospel to them. It's a reminder of what Jesus did for them. Come to the cross, time for them, or the coming death. But if they're an unbeliever, God can use that at the time to speak to the heart. Maybe they were the book of life. Maybe this is when they truly became believe. We don't know. What's scary is the one that's growing up in the church, growing up with the thorns, intertwining with their growth. They've been in the church for decades And maybe they weren't a believer. Right. So so the neck the next part is if they weren't a believer and they were in the church and they were Speaking God's word, not really teaching it properly, but speaking God's word, can God use that speech coming out of their mouth to speak to others' hearts. So did God call others to himself through the speech that this unbeliever who was speaking to Yeah the the key is did everybody can you hear it was a good experiment. Can everybody hear Brian? Good. The the mic is working pretty well there, Greg. Um as long as I said it could be Yes, the the only thing I would add to that though is um well to ask the question Can you recognize genuine fruit? Can we as human beings recognize genuine fruit? It's God's word that's going to be blessed, not the messenger. It's God's word that's a lie. So an unbeliever speaks God's word. The word is a lie. It's not the messenger. That's that's for sure. That's for sure. But but see um that was the answer Right. There there's there's this possibility that there are peop people in the church who are not genuinely saved. Right. Right? However It ought to be true that anyone who professes salvation will be bearing fruit. And even the likes of us ought to be able to discern is that genuine fruit or is that just foliage? You will know them by their fruit. And you will know them by their fruit, right? So um while it's possible for someone to be in one of those other two soils and be in the church and not really be bearing fruit, kind of going through the motions, sort of like the Pharisees are all on the outside, right, but not on the inside. Over time, most of them, I think, will be recognized as fruitless And we ought to have a heart to reach out to them to definitely to uh give them the gospel and and hopefully God will be using all that process to work on their heart and draw them to himself. But it's not like it's a random thing in a church entirely. Some will be saved, some will be unsaved, unfortunately You know, we try to screen people coming into the church so that we can restrict it to actual believers, but we're not omniscient And we're not going to know with a short amount of time in each case, but knowing someone over a period of time, usually you can distinguish fruit from foliage. Yeah. Anyway, good discussion. We're gonna have to close off here. But um we have what one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight in the room Actually Roger was here for a while. He left. I'd encourage any others who can to join us next week. Let's close it for prayer. Father, thank you that you have given us your word to instruct us, to encourage us. to convict us and um that in it you draw people to yourself and uh We are just so blessed to have it. And thank you also for the the life of Christ, who uh comes through uh the the various gospel accounts in a way that just shows his character uh his uh both his humanity and his deity and uh even ministry strategy at times. And Lord we pray that we'll grow in our love for him as we study and uh follow his example. Thank you, Lord, for this great opportunity. We pray these things in Jesus' name.