But we are on lesson 22, and it begins a new major section, public and private proclamation. And so I don't know if you've noticed, but all of the sections here are from the Gospel of John And that reminds me, I think I may have mentioned before, that John's Gospel More than any of the other three covers a lot of the activity in Judea and particularly Jerusalem. That is not covered in the other gospels. And so partly because of that, we're all in John today. Several chapters here, seven through Ten. So um let's see here Section 105, Jesus arrived in Jerusalem for the Feast of Booze. Remember the Feast of Booze was one of the three celebrations instituted under the Mosaic Law where uh as much as possible every able-bodied man and uh others as well would come to Jerusalem and uh celebrate before the Lord So the feast of booths reminded the the uh Israelites of the uh time when their ancestors were wandering in the wilderness and living in temporary shelters. It was sort of a humbling time, but also a reflection on God's Provision and God's judgment of their lack of faith. So John seven I'm gonna try to read through these because I want to make some commentary as I go through. Let's see how that goes So we pick up in verse 11. You remember back in the previous lesson Jesus' brothers were urging him to go up to the feast, make himself known if it really is, you know, they weren't believing him. Uh if he really is who he says he is, then um with the feast happening in Jerusalem and everybody going up, it would make sense for him to go. Initially he told them he wouldn't, but then later he went privately. Well it wasn't privately all that long as we'll see in a minute So, in verse 11 of John 7, so the Jews were seeking him at the feast and were saying, where is he? There was much grumbling among the crowds concerning him. Some were saying he is a good man, others saying, no, on the contrary, he leads the people astray. Yet no one was speaking openly of him for fear of the Jews. Now here and elsewhere when it refers to the Jews Of course, all these people were Jews. What it's referring to here is the Jewish leaders, the leadership of the Jews. And so they were fearing the leaders. Uh because they knew the leaders were um opposed to Christ. First 14 But when it was now in the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple very publicly and began to teach. The Jews then were astonished saying, how has this man become learned having never been educated? I mean if he were educated, they would have known. Part of the system. So Jesus answered them and said, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. If anyone is willing to do his will, he will know of the teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak from myself. He who speaks from himself seeks only his own glory, but he who is seeking the glory of the one who sent him, he is true, and there is no unrighteousness in him. Did not Moses give you the law? And yet none of you carries out the law? Why do you seek to kill me? The crowd answered, You have a demon. Who seeks to kill you? Jesus answered them. I did one deed. And here he may be referring to his healing of the paralytic, earlier Gospel of John. I did this one deed, and you all marvel. For this reason, Moses has given you circumcision, not because it's from Moses, but from the fathers. The point is the circumcision was commanded initially of Abraham, right? It's certainly mentioned in the law, but it was a requirement long before the law If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath, so that the law of Moses will not be broken, are you angry with me because I made the entire man well on the Sabbath? Do not judge according to appearance, but judge with righteous judgment. So some of the people of Jerusalem were saying, is this not the man whom they are seeking to kill? People were aware of some desire on the part of the leaders to kill him. Look, he is speaking publicly, and they're saying nothing to him The rulers do not really know that this is the Christ today. However, we know where this man is from. But wherever the Christ may come, no one knows where he is from. Then Jesus cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, You both know me and know where I am from. And I have not come of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom you do not know. I know him because I am from him and he sent me So they were seeking to seize him, and no man laid his hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. But many of the crowd believed in him. And they were saying, when the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than those which this man has, will he? You see the connection between uh signs giving um uh authentication to the message. And verse 32. The Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things with them about him. And the chief priests and the Pharisees These are often the ones who it's referred to by the text as Jews. The chief priests and Pharisees sent officers to seize him Therefore Jesus said, For a little while longer I am with you, than I go to him who send me. You will seek me, and you will not find me, and where I am you cannot come. The Jews then said to one another, Where does this man intend to go that we will not find him? He is not intending to go to the dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks, is he? What is this statement that said, you will seek me and you will not find me where you cannot come? Now, on the last day, the great day of the feast, I noted that on that great day of the feast, uh the the priests carried a golden vessel filled with water from the pool of slum. A procession to the temple symbolizing the provision and salvation for God, all of which is fine. And so that's the tradition. Well, at that point, or during that day, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone's thirsty You see his connection here with the water. If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the scripture said, from his innermost being will flow rivers of living water. But this he spoke of the spirit, of those whom those who believed in him were to receive, for the spirit was not yet given because Jesus was not yet glorified. Some of the people therefore, when they heard these words, were saying, this certainly is the prophet that is the one who was foretold. And others were saying, this is the Christ. Still others were saying were saying surely the Christ is not going to come So a division occurred in the crowd because of him. Some of them wanted to seize him, but no one laid hands on him. The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them Why did you not bring him? And he offers almost an answer, never has a man spoken the way this man speaks. The Pharisees answered them, You have not also been led astray, have you? No one of the rulers of the Pharisees has believed in him, has he? But this crowd, which does not know the law, is accursed. He who came to him before, being one of them, one of the uh members of the council God said to them, Our law does not judge a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing, does it? And they answered him, You are also not from Galilee, are you? Search to see that no prophet arises out of Galilee. Okay, so um it's obvious that tensions are building here And Jesus knew that even before going, of course. The leaders, Jews, everybody was sort of anticipated his being there and being sort of It's a lightning rod in in the the events of that feast. Um And Jesus did indeed speak uh direct uh publicly, uh, but some of the things he intentionally made a little bit hard for people to grasp, like where I'm going you cannot come. The kind of thing that the disciples even probably didn't understand. until after until after a question yeah but I know some of you some of this in bold is there's I don't oh kind of get the connection there. Yeah you know normally when we do the The blended accounts, the font type indicates which of the four gospels comes from. Well here we're in one gospel, and the bold is just my way of saying this is important. Yeah. Okay. Or at least um it was when I was thinking about it. Okay. So um it mentions here that no one laid hands on him even though they wanted to There's a lot of dynamics going on. The ultimate dynamic is as it says here is hour has not yet come. Um and in fact um his month had not yet even come. This was Pisa Foods, not the Passover, which is eight or so nine. Seven, eight months away. But another dynamic is the people were afraid of the leaders and the leaders were afraid of the people. In terms of uh how popular Jesus was, um There's also a dynamic with as we'll see around the Passover uh the final Passover the interaction between the Jewish leaders and the Roman leaders, government. And now there is mistrust and fear of of all concerned. So all that's happening, but ultimately his time has not yet come, and so he was able to preach openly, slip away, and Even not only teach openly, but confront the leaders and be very um forthright with them. It's gonna continue that here as we as we go along. Any other thoughts here on this section? It's amazing the way he knows that they want to kill him and they just deny it, you know. They just And yeah, the war apparently gotten down. Isn't this the one they're seeking to kill? Yeah. Uh and so it made them well it seems like it made them realize, you know, that uh well, I guess we're had got now, but I was just thinking how he reads their minds, you know, he knows what they're thinking he without them saying it. He knows what's in their hearts Yeah, and you know they're between a rough and a hard place, especially if work has gotten up that they're and it's pretty obvious that they're opposed to them by the manner of questions and this kind of thing But if they don't take any action, people are probably thinking they're just a bunch of whims. All all mouth, right, no action. And yet if they do take action, then they're they're probably correct in assuming that there's going to be a big pushback from the people Um and they mention that explicitly uh during Fashion Week. You know, we don't want to do it during the festival because of the people. Yeah And I love how God shows his faithfulness in the midst of the feast of booths where he's dealing with uh rebellious leaders and he's being faithful to provide for them. and Christ and so what they had back in the Old Testament, uh what God dealt with in the Old Testament, he's dealing with, you know, in the midst of this and he's still been faithful in the midst of um so much rebellion to accomplish his purpose. So God will provide. His patience. Certainly his purposes will continue. Victoria, did I say again? Yeah. I I just want to comment on this this Jesus at this moment, you know, he's a man and he's being treated like that because that's what they do with politicians you know, you get a politician they defy the people and some people are afraid of other people and it's just so very depressing and he's saying stuff to them they're not understanding and it's so much like yeah they he's getting treated like a lunatic by some and a god by somebody else but when he comes back as a congress king congering And there'll be no confusion. No confusion. I would like I'm like, it's something. Sure. Right. Um over there where it says that that l last day of the feast, that great day of the feast when they carry the goat the water from the pool of silence. Jesus is saying, look what it says, he stood up and cried out. That doesn't mean he's saying he's whispering in the corner. He's shouting And he's saying, I'm through fulfillment of this. If you come to me you'll never thirst again. So he was confronting the whole group that place is gravity And it was a great deal of the peace meaning everybody's turned up. And you probably had to shout to be heard over the the rustling Yeah, but even at that, the fact that he's making that claim, that is a huge thing uh to him to have stood up there. Can this be the correct? This is the Christ. What were they meaning? What did they believe the Christ, who the Christ was Uh the crowd? Yes. All these de all these declarations they're doing, but who do they really believe that the Christ was? Well clearly um the crowd and even the disciples had a blurry understanding of the the nature, the purpose, the character, position, and so on of the uh uh messiah. But Um you know you see here that some of them refer to, well this must be the prophet, right? Well of course the prophet is also referring to the Messiah. uh Moses it was revealed to Moses that there would be uh a prophet uh arising uh like him Uh that was referring to Messiah. And so some thought he was the prophet, some thought he was the Messiah. Well it's the same person And so there was some confusion about his his uh role, his purpose. Um they clearly didn't have the benefit that we have looking back and understanding both by the prophecies and by his actions that the Messiah was both a suffering servant and a concrete king. If anything, they were thinking of him as a concrete king. Well in the in the beginning of your passage they also say um Whenever the Christ may come, no one knows where he is from. And yet at Christ's birth, Herod was asking The religious leaders, where is this Messiah supposed to come from? And they say Bethlehem. It's Jewish leaders here in Berth's um Uh 42, has not the scripture said that Christ comes from the sons of David and from Bethlehem? And so um That's interesting. Jesus didn't say, well, that's what I was doing. He just let it roll. Um they're gonna They're gonna be unbelieving anyway. So um no need to clarify. Yeah, no? Yeah, quick question. Wasn't Jonah a property from Galilee? Yes he was. They would have known that, correct? Sure. Yeah. I think It's possible here what they had in mind was any reference to a future prophet, but maybe not. I don't know. But it's crafts and information. So many lies leaked into SU. It's just like today. Yeah. Well, not only lies, but a lack of information. And um making conclusions that you think are rock solid even though you don't have all the information. Like you really was born a bit. And and Pastor Plumley, uh this is Linda. I was gonna say my Bible refers back to Isaiah 9. 1. where it doesn't prophesy a prophet coming, but it prophesies that a light will shine. in Galilee of the nations. It says, just quoting it, it says, In former times he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali. But in the latter times he will make glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. The people who walk in darkness have seen a great light Those who dwell in the land of deep darkness on them has light shined. So it uh in their own scriptures there is an indication that something is going to happen in that land up there that will be for their glory and for their light. So um they should have had some inkling that Galilee was going to be an important spot. Yeah, I I suppose if you challenge those leaders with that passage, um they might say something like, well, yeah But that doesn't say that he's actually coming from there. Uh he may be he and others whom God uh brings around. um can bring about that blessing through that area. Their point was his origins. Of course they didn't have all the information. They thought they were on solid ground. They they really had a zeroed zero tolerance policy toward Jesus didn't they? I mean Well see that's the point. Right? All the the the the prejudices because if he has if if the what this guy says is right and if he is is from God What what's the c what's the implication of that? Well they should believe them, but it also exposes them. Or at least no need for all their the trappings and stuff that they added to the law and and uh Their positions would presumably be in jeopardy if he in fact was king of the Jews, right? And so they had a vested interest in having a closed mind Do you recall that they ever acknowledged that he was a threat to them personally? Yes. I think around the time Lazarus was raised from the dead, Ananias discussion about the implications of this Right. And what Anania said, y you know nothing at all, you know, isn't it better for one man to die and then just do the whole nation? Yeah. Right. Right One uh disparaging statement that was made about Jesus is probably true is that he did not come from a particular educational or rabbinic training background. He's not one of us. He probably yeah he probably did not He was not tutored and educated under a particular rabbi like Gamalial who would have attracted all these people who wanted to be trained under a person of that stature. So I I don't know if Jesus ever took any instruction other than it's his parents There there probably would have been um educational opportunities in synagogue. Um but you remember a much earlier events in Christ's life where this the aspect of this education came up when he was twelve. When he was twelve. And he was in the temple speaking with the the leadership there and they marveled at his education even at that point. So um There's certainly some combination probably of his just receiving the typical education of a Jewish boy during that time, and the fact that being God He uh how how can you combine in your mind the The fact that he was all-knowing as God and yet grew in wisdom as a human being. But clearly he knew the scriptures uh whether he in his in his humanity he had to grow in that understanding but I'm guessing he didn't struggle with the understanding of those things that he was learning as a human being. As God, clearly he was the author of those scriptures. So Um he didn't need the kind of training that they were expecting, the credentials that they were expecting. Yeah. Well, let's go on to one of six. Got a lot to cover here today. Um The end of chapter seven and the beginning of chapter eight here are in brackets because uh They're not in the earliest manuscripts we have at the moment, but uh there is some evidence that they existed uh along with the rest of these these verses in even earlier manuscripts. But go ahead and read it. Everyone went to his home after that, but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people were coming to him, and he sat down and began to teach them. The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery. And having set her in the center of the court, they said to him, Teacher, this woman has been caught in adultery in the very act. Now, in the law of Moses, in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such women. What do you say? And they were saying this, testing him, so that they might have grounds for accusing him. This is one of several traps that The Jewish leaders tried to publicly set for Jesus. But Jesus stooped down and with his finger wrote on the ground. He'd love to know what he was writing on the ground. But when they persisted in asking him, he straightened up and said to them, He who is without sin among you, let him be the first to throw a stone at her. And then he ducked. Right. He stooped down and wrote on the ground again. And when they heard it, they began to go out one by one, beginning with the older ones And he was left alone. And the woman, where she was, in the center of the court. Straightening up, Jesus said to her, Woman, where are they? Did no one condemn you? And she said, no one, Lord. And Jesus said, I do not condemn you either. Go. From now on, sin no more. So as is typical with all these traps that the Jewish leaders try to set for Jesus. Um, uh, uh, yeah, yeah. Uh exposed their uh inconsistencies, uh shallowness of of thought. And um in this case particularly they're sin. So, you know, there's some obvious observations here. You know, they brought the woman. Why not both of them? the woman and the man. And um it's a pretty good chance that the reason she was caught in adultery was that she was set up, possibly, just for this very purpose. Who knows? But um Jesus saw through their hypocrisy and um Now it's it's important here to see that he didn't just let her off the hook, right? Uh he he wasn't saying that the law uh against adultery isn't important, but rather he was emphasizing that um Sin needs to be uh not just forgiven, but forsaken. Right, so it says go from now on sin no more. And um So, you know, it just reminds us that forgiveness uh is not just sweeping the the offense under the rug and forgetting about it. But just like when a bank forgives a debt, a bank takes the hit uh the the impact was on them. And in this case, Jesus didn't just sweep it under the rug. He knew that he would be Pain for that sound. And if indeed she was a believier at this point, we don't have any uh Indication she does call him Lord, but that's sort of a respectful thing to do. Whether that was because of faith, uh perhaps, we don't know But he didn't condemn her. He challenged her to crusade. Maybe she did. And it's like the easiest sparency got the charting so uh essentially. Yeah, yeah, it's something did happen. Because again, um now that he's exposed that they're all sinners They didn't want basic implications for that, so it was probably. But it's it's amazing how devious this trap is. I mean it's there's in their mind there's you know, and to anyone else there's no escape from this trap. I mean no matter what he says, in one way or another they can accuse him either by the Jewish law or by the Roman law. And so he's he's caught, you know, there's nothing that's no way out. And just you know, even in this last week when they challenged him time after time You know, it was an inescapable trap. It w it's just amazing the way he was able to deal with that And it's something how this happened early in the morning while he was teaching, so they had to muse over this for a while to plan out this uh evil scheme and to uh use this woman to um not caring about her. So the um just to see to how evil their hearts are and being a religious leaders to try to uh trap him um is amazing but it does reveal something about um just because they y you have knowledge of no information um god looks at the heart Yeah, Pastor, I think the the role in this story that I identify with the most is probably the crowd. you know, wanting to um call out other people for their their sins. When do we know When to, you know, try to get the speck out of our own eye and when to rebuke another person for their sins Yeah, well there's some um yeah this this harkens back to last week's um section on church discipline You know, on the one hand, we're told to um uh Address sin, rebuke it, call people to repentance, and if they don't repent, even to remove them from the church But in other contexts, we're told to turn each and to write later in that chapter in Matthew 18 to forgive 70 times 7 And um not be quick to um uh respond to an offense And so how do we know when to take the initiative to address sin on the part of someone else versus uh Turning those G and being gracious and being forgiving. I have two comments, two comments here. Number one in relation to what you're just saying Is it not possible that we're to take action when the sin that we notice is being a detriment to the church as a whole? Yes So that's a that's a thought there. But my other thought is back to this story about the woman taken and adultery. What's going on here? The Jews were not allowed to put anyone to death And if they had started stoning the woman, then the leaders, the Jewish leaders could have said, hey, this guy is inciting a riot And could have turned him over to the Romans at this point as inciting Uriah. So that I think that may have been a part of their underlying volunteer or at least authorizing by his response. Right, yeah. Um that would be the right thing to do. Well the bull setup they didn't bring the man in. Both were to be such Yeah. The whole thing was a setup. I think there's no question about that. Uh I have a question about that. Not allowed to put someone to death. They managed to still indeed Steven. So how did that work? And it was later. Well when they really w I know. When they really wanted to, they would just whip out the stones and start throwing. So you know it'd be over before they could stop it. It'd be over Well, getting back to uh Jonathan's question, uh Mel Rose uh raised well one um uh Clue or one uh context in which it's important to address sin, and that is if uh more generally, not just if if the church is um Uh what was the word you had, undermined or I I say an embar I said an embarrassment. But more importantly than that is um uh Christ. He is jealous for the purity of his bride, the church, right? And if if the church is seen in the world as being uh hypocritical, you know, they think they're holier than now, but they're no different from us, kind of a thing, then that brings shame to price. And that would be something to act on quickly. Several other scenarios though hope that goes quickly. One is um A young believer, uh young in terms of new believer, typically has brought all sorts of baggage with him, sinful habits And so on into the Christian life. And it it wouldn't be helpful to that person if we not being God gave them a laundry list of things, you know, you've got to choose this, this, this, this, and this in your life. And just overwhelm the person with with Really? That's what this Christian life is all about. Rather than coming alongside him and helping him see from scripture something in his life, maybe the priority area that needs to to conform with uh scripture. And in time, those things will, as he grows and matures, will be However, an older believer who's more mature in the Lord and knows better and does it anyway, we need to address it much more quickly, right? Because he's He he knows better. Likewise, if if you know somebody, he's a friend of yours who offends you, actually sins against you And you say, where did that come from? You know, I know this guy, and that's that's not him. Well that's a good time to be gracious. Turn the other cheek. And yet, if that becomes a habit, it's happening all the time now, now you need to go and intervene because it's not just a a passing thing that's that's uh Yeah worthy of turning our cheek gracious about. So those are several. I guess that helped Yes, thank you. Okay. Well, one quick comment, Pastor Allen. One one other person we could identify with is the the woman caught um because we like she were guilty we're guilty of a lot of things and yet our status now is that we actually have no accuser And we're called to go and sin no more. Yeah. All right, Section 107. We're still at the the feast Then Jesus spoke to them saying, I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of light. So the Pharisees said to him, You are testifying about yourself. Your testimony is not true. Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I testify about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I come from and where I am going. But you do not know where I come from or where I'm going. You judge according to the flesh. I am judged, not judging anyone. But even if I do judge, my judgment is true For I am not alone in it, but I am the Father who sent me. Even in your law it has been written that the testimony of two men is true. I am he who testifies about myself, and the Father who sent me testifies about me. So they were saying to him, Where is your Father? Jesus answered, you know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. These words he spoke in the treasury as he taught in the temple, and no one seized him because his hour had not yet come. Mention it for the second time here Then he again said to them, I go away and you will seek me and will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the Jews were saying, surely he will not kill himself, will he? Since he says, Where I am going, you cannot come. And he was saying to them, You are from below, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. So they were saying to him, Who are you? Jesus said to him, what have I been saying to you from the beginning? I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you, but he who sent me is true, and the things which I heard from him, these I speak to the world. They did not realize that he had been speaking to them about the Father. So Jesus said, When you lift up the Son of Man Then you will know that I am. The word he is actually not there in the Greek. No, but I am. He's this is the title of the name of God, right? And I do nothing on my own initiative. But I speak these things as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. As he spoke these things, many came to believe in him So Jesus was saying to the Jews who had believed in him, if you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. They answered him. Now the thing here, I'm pretty sure, is not the Jews who believed in him, but the rest of the crowd Because what it says is they answer them, we are Abraham's descendants and have never yet been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever, the son does remain forever. So if the Son makes you free, you will be free indeed. I know that you are Abraham's descendants, yet you seek to kill me because my word has no place in you I speak the things which I have seen with my father. Therefore, you also do the things which you have heard from your father. The answer said to him, Abraham is our father Jesus said to them, If you are Abraham's children, do the deeds of Abraham. But as it is, you are seeking to kill me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. This Abraham did not do. You are doing the deeds of your father. And they said to him, we were not born of fornication. We have one father, God. Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me. For I proceed forth and have come from God. For I have not even come on my own initiative, but he sent me Why do you not understand what I am saying? It's because you cannot hear my word. Cannot. Not only will not, but cannot Hear my words. You are of your father, the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning And does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and a father of lies But because I speak the truth, you do not believe me. Which of you convicts me of sin? If I speak the truth, why do you not believe me? He who is of God hears the words of God. For this reason you did not hear them, because you were not of God. The Jews answered and said to him, Do we not say, rightly, that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. But I do not seek my own glory There is one who seeks and judges. Truly, truly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have deep. Abraham died, and the prophets also. And you say, if anyone keeps my word, you will never see taste of that. Surely you are not greater than our father Abraham, who died. The prophets died too. Whom do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, if I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God. And you have not come to know him, but I know him And if I say that I do not know him, I will be a liar like you. But I do know him and keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and you have seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am Therefore they picked up stones to throw at him because Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple So another note here is that another part of the Peace of Boots is the lighting of four large lamps in the temple area. celebrating and and so on. And here again, Jesus is identifying himself as sort of the the fulfillment of that picture, that he is the light of the world. I I see. It's interesting here to know. They picked up stones. They're in the temple. There are stones in the temple thing. Can you explain 35 The slave does not remain in the house. In actually things. Yeah, the slave does not remain in the house forever. So the slave is Uh the point is that he's he's not a part of the family. The slave is typically not um uh covered by any inheritance He's he's he's temporary. He's a worker, he's temporary, and uh but the son he's part of the family, he's part of the inheritance. Verse before that says everyone comes you know, comes into but you're not really part of the family of God. Is that the idea? You slave his hand If you're a slave to sin, you're not a part of the family. You're not a son. Freed from sin. His point was to be freed from sin. And um we see in places like uh Galatians where That that connection of being free from sin and being in Christ places us uh inheritance Shannon and what you want, we we are not born of fornication either, are they thinking like Gentile spiritual fornication or something. Or maybe they think Jesus was born in fornication if if they got wind of Mary's pregnancy Apparently there's plenty in their lot too. I mean law and all that, so is that spiritual fornication they're talking about? They said that in response to Jesus saying you are doing the deeds of your father. Who is he referring to? Yeah. And so um they said to him, We were not born of fornication. In other words, um we're legitimately descendants of Abraham, not somebody else. Well Jesus was referring to Satan as their father, the father of their their sin and rebellion, and so on. So Um they're not understanding at all what the scrubs of significance of what is the thing. Because if they're thinking like live up fornication, we'll know it's clearly in their background and if they're they're not even thinking spiritually I guess right? And the irony is amazing too isn't it? They they were so willing to accuse Jesus with a woman caught in adultery if he's had to stone stone him and here there go to pick up stones and stone Jesus. You know, think nothing of it. All right, let's quickly go to 108 here. Chapter nine. As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents? That he would be born blind. Jesus answered, it was neither that this man sinned nor his parents But it was so that the works of God might be displayed in him, which we're about to see. We must work the works of him who sent me as long as it is day. Night is coming when no man can work. While I am in the world, I am the light of the world. He's reminding them of that again. When he had said this, um And it's interesting that there's no reference here to the man asking to be healed. Maybe he did, but there's no reference to it But when he said this, he spat on the ground and made clay of the spivel and applied the clay to his eyes. He said to him, Go, wash in the pool of sible one. Which translated as sent. So he went away and washed and came back seeing. Therefore, the neighbors Those who previously saw him as beggar were saying, is this not the one who used to sit and beg? Others were saying, this is he. Still others were saying, no, but he's like him That guy couldn't see, this guy can't. And he kept saying, I am the one. So they were saying to him, How then were your eyes open? And he answered, the man who was called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to Sioux and wash. So I went away and washed. I received sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I don't know. And they brought to the Pharisees the man who was formerly blind Now it was the Sabbath, of course, the day on which Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes. Then the Pharisees were asking him again how he received the sight And he said to them, He applied clay to my eyes, and I watched, and I see. Therefore, some of the Pharisees were saying, This man is not from God because he does not keep the Sabbath But others were saying, how can a man who is a sinner perform such signs? And there was a division among them. We're seeing this dividing of the people many times here, right? Um and in in fact uh Christ has actually called us to be a fork in the road. That there would be people who were drawn to Christ because of us and people who are repulsed from Christ because of our testimony truth. Anyway, same was true of Christ Verse 17. So they said to the man blind again, What do you say about him since he opened your eyes? And he said, He's a prophet. The Jews then did not believe it of him, that he had been blind, and that he received the sight until they called the parents. of the very one who had received the sight and questioned them, saying, Is this your son, whom you say was born blind? Then how does he now see His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son and that he was born blind. But how he now sees, we do not know. Or who opened his eyes, we don't know Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself. And his parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews. The Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed Christ to be the Christ He was to be put out of the synagogue. For this reason his parents said, He is of age, ask him. So a second time they called the man, who had been born said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. Talk about a leading, leading a witness, Frank. He then answered, whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see And so they said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? And he answered them, I told you already, and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? You do not want to become one of his disciples too, do you? Well, he's kind of digging in. They reviled him and said, You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he is from. I love this. The man answered and said to them, Well, here is an amazing thing that you do not know where he is from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not hear sinners, but if anyone is God fearing and does his will, he hears him. Since the beginning of time, it has never been heard that anyone open the eyes of a person born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. And they answered him, You were born entirely in sin, and you're teaching us? So they put him out of the synagogue. Jesus heard that they had put him out, and finding him he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? And he answered, Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have both seen him, and he is the one who is talking with you. And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshiped him. Notice that Jesus accepted that worship. And Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, so that those who do not see, may see, and those who see may become blind. Here he's referring to spiritual seeing as well. Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things and said to him, We are not blind too, are we? Jesus said to them, If you were blind That is, if they were physically blind, you would have no sin. In other words, that would not be the issue. But since you say we see, your sin remains They don't see anything spiritually, even though that's their role they're supposed to. Um this discussion between this man and one of my favorite narratives of the Bible. It's classic you I can't wait for that to come up with the Joseph. But again, Jesus here is highlighting the need to be able to see spiritually, and he's using this physical blindness as an object lesson. And that Jesus not only heals physically but also spiritually. And some who are blind Uh he he can heal, but he's not obligated to. Your sim remains, you know, your sim remains now effort is trying to get somebody else to take away that sin. Yeah, that's right. And and elsewhere Jesus says um They disciple others in that and they become worse than you even. And they didn't do it I I agree with Bill. This is a great passage. And and you know, I mean the blind man wasn't looking for Jesus But Jesus came into his life, you know, and and intruded in a way, you know, and he he opened his eyes. And and it's not like this man initially understood And, you know, as he's being questioned, it's like he's coming to realize just exactly who Jesus is. You know, it's not It initially, it's like, you know, well, you know, I don't know who he is. But as as they continue to question him, it becomes more and more clear exactly who he is, that that at the end, you know, he worships him. And and who the Pharisees are. He's starting to see their hypocrisy. Yeah. Yep, very interesting. I also find it interesting that Jesus told him to go wash in the pool of Siloem. the very pool where the priest took the golden vessel to get the water. This is the feast of Boose And it's interesting that he involves the guy in some um um demonstration of faith by obeying what Jesus said. It's very much like Elisha telling Naaman to go wash in the the River Jordan, which seems to be um an offense to him and yet he was convinced later to go ahead and do it. Obeying that is sort of a demonstration of faith. I think that that may be one of the reasons why it's often the case that that God calls us to get involved in um some act of obedience to a as part of his blessing us and answering prayer With the lighting of lamps during the feast of booths, is that to commemorate the pillar of fire being led by the pillar of fire during during the wilderness time? Possibly connected, I don't know for sure. And the water would be when the water gushed out to sustain them. Possibly I think there are a lot of traditions and so on layered on to the basic uh um celebration. But the harvest festival, right? Bas it was basically a har it was time of harvest, yeah. And it was time for them to give rejoicing for God's provision. Um Okay, section 109. We're gonna get there. Truly, truly I say to you, he who does not enter by the door into the fold of the sheaf But climbs up some other way, he is a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is a shepherd of the sheep. To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. When he puts forth all his own, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice. A stranger they simply will not follow, but will flee from him because they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech, Jesus spoke to them, but they did not understand what those things were which he was He had been saying to them. So Jesus said to them, Again, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the chief. All who came before me are thieves and robbers. The sheep did not hear them. I am the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved. I will go in and come out with my pasture. The thief comes only to steal, kill, and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep He who is a hired man, a hired hand, and not a shepherd, who is not the owner of the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them up and gather them, scatters them. He flees because he is the hired hand and is not concerned about cheating. I am the good shepherd, and I know my own, and my own know me, even as the Father knows me And I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. I have other sheep which are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will hear my voice, and they will become one flock with one shepherd. For this reason, the Father loves me, because I lay down my life so that I may take it again. No one has taken it from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have the authority to lay it down and I have the authority to take it up again. This is the commandment I received from my father. A division occurred again among the Jews because of these words. Many of them were saying, he has a demon and this is the same. Why do you listen to him? And others were saying, these are not the sayings of the demon possessed. Uh demon cannot open the eyes to the blinds, can he? So that division continues. Uh Um Jesus proclaims himself to be the light of the world and uh Living water and good shelter. And some understand and believe convicted, others not Anyway, we need to close up