I I'm thinking about the Holy Spirit in that his role is not to bring attention to himself, but to point people to Christ. It's just about he's ready to ascend into heaven and they ask him when is his return going to come? So so there's so many of these mixture of both figurative language and literal imperatives that I I read I don't know how many times and I keep scratching my head except I'm like, God help me on I don't speak of my own initiative, but it's the Father who does the works which makes me scratch my head. Anyway, but let's keep plugging away at at um seeing how God has revealed Himself through the scriptures, through the life of Christ and what Christ said and did. I I think I think what happens is when you say, Well you will be done, but I'm not specifying what that should be. That means the permanent dwelling place of God. And so that's something that we need something called. What for this I mean, what does that mean? What does the fire represent? Uh only the Father knows. Sometimes you say don't tell me you just somebody else didn't have to say it. Right. But he is truly God and he is truly man. can't live harmoniously. And Jesus answered them, Do you now believe, behold, an hour is coming, and has already come, for you to be scattered, each to his own home Well, that's most of the persons we know, right? You're not really No I'm hold on. God, all the world come to church with the Bible and everything. The emphasis was on the very truth the truly his own. And uh maybe we'll get through most of that today. And Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. names depending whether you're using the Greek or the Aramaic or the Hebrew. Right? Uh admitting that there's there's um hierarchy there in terms of authority, but Superiority synonymous with submission. Yeah. He cannot know. understanding. how that works when he decides one or the other, you know, is a mystery. is what I'm trying to like put it out and get something for the discussion. distinction or if it's just a translation quirk. the part that matters most. um as the second person of the Trinity. Things like, if you believe in me, you will obey my words, which are very easy to understand. when you were talking to that would be easily applicable to us today. fully man. uh uh Jesus don't believe in the Trinity. he's truly man and and he's not mak you know, he's he is who he is. Christ. to the Father, but through him. uh up that that um ridge called the Mount of Olives. one hundred seventy one. He'll deny me three times. and abide in his love. But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you ask me, where are you going? Right? Something that just we want to do that. desires to ask for. in him, to stay in him, to be steadfast in our um love and devotion, not to abandon him. according to your request. And bearing fruit in an applicable way. another in love and also making disciples, reading souls of God. with you. them every day, either through prayer or through follow-up, individually and collectively like we're doing now, is important because very important, we are still not obeying God's word commandment. But the it is a part of him and if you're a part of him then you're not because they're part of it's a option. uh they're not gonna last long. Okay, so uh today we're on lesson 39. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. in our heads. Uh we want to be careful not to apply just human logic to any piece of that and lead us off straight of what the other things that God has revealed about Himself. um hierarchy even within the Godhead. and uh hierarchy working in harmony. Um Jesus exhibits that. Yeah, you're falling in with God's design. given and the the the boldness that came with the Holy Spirit be being given and that time you know that in Jesus being gone, the Holy Spirit being healed Here it uh but they were different men, definitely and very plainly after the Holy Spirit was given. Because the the natural power state of the line. Is um in the nature of God, he was definition. about his humanity. And then also figure out what does that mean? to understand about the character of God, for goodness sake, our Creator. understand shift from the son to the disciples it's not for you it's not for humanity to know and I don't know if that's just a quirk a translation um the will and authority of God the Father. the Father and the Holy Spirit. The works that I've done, you will do greater works. terms of his submission to the will of the Father, um and his obeying and so on. Um be submissive and obedient. out this um there are certain um states like uh yehovah's witness and um other that really really use this as a weapon to say Um so but things of omniscience that are really hard to uh explain any other way. on just the exclusive nature of of his claims. The holiness of God, the wrath of God against sin, and that all of us are in sin and subject to his wrath, apart from a substitute, and the only substitute that's ever been uh lived a sinless life and uh paid for our sins was Jesus. to the Mount of Olives, and the disciples also followed him. Jerusalem proper and to go to the Mount of Olives would have meant going past the temple down the uh Cadron River Val uh Brook Valley and completely clear, but my impression is that what follows, much of what follows was happening along the way. Whereas the others are clear that it's within the upper room. Um maybe we can get that today. in me. And you are my friends if you do what I command you. But when she gives birth to the child she no longer remembers the anguish because of the joy that the child has been born into the world. because you have loved me and have believed that I came forth from the Father. Spirit. And what's he referring to there? in him because you know even because we we could ask a lot but but well well it's the I think the caveat of the body in him and the asking and receiving comes not necessarily because of something that we thought of, but something that because of our abiding in him, he has placed in us as a desire. Why the people have um is interesting. than his will because we have limited knowledge. Christ because that any standing we would have independent of Christ is of no merit to God. 23, Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to make our abode with him. And then we put it away. Thanks, Freddy. About the branches abiding in him and the ones that don't bear fruit will be removed and passed into the fire. Right. uh uh thorns and so on. For I go to prepare a place for you. Truly, truly I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also, and greater works than these he will do, because I go to the Father uh many people refer to as the upper room discourse where Jesus gave an extended period of teaching here. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. After a little while, the world will no longer see me, but you will see me because I live. But you know him because he abides with you and will be in you. You heard that I said to you, I go away and I will come to you. He will keep my word. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you. say, you know, their father is equal to the son, son is equal to the spirit, spirit is equal to the in so like we have to define every time In Ephesians 5, that the marriage relationship is somewhat like the Godhead and the relationship of God and Christ to the church. The husbands to lead and love their wives as Christ loved the church, and also the wives to submit to their husbands as the church submits to Christ. Even within the Godhead, there is complete equality and unity, and yet hierarchy by God's design. God and truly man, he's always been nominated in that country. While again and I've mentioned this before, while there are some things that are just beyond our experience and our even our ability and our human finite minds nature when he spills the sea. it is not for you to know. speech and but there are nuggets of literal truth and imperatives that are to be observed here. Even if, like the disciples, we're kind of scratching our heads. option that he's completely, totally exclusive, and he's calling and why could he claim that? Which sort of defeats the purpose is the because the payment of that is eternal separation from God. because not all roles lead to God. um exclusivity, it points them to the real problem they need to deal with, their sin. If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away as a branch and dries up. For all things that I that I have heard from my Father, I have made known to you. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you. He will guide you into all the truth. uh disciples then said to one another, What is this thing he is telling us? What is this that he says a little while? Are you deliberating together about this that I said a little while and you will not see me? But the world will rejoice. And no one will take your joy away from you. Truly, truly I say to you, if you ask the Father for anything in my name, he will give it to you. These things I have spoken to you in figurative language, an hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figurative language, but will tell you plainly of the Father. And I do not say that you will request of the Father and I do not say to you that I will request of the Father on your behalf. Now we know that you know all things, and have no need of anyone to question you. And to leave me alone. um obeying him. The Holy Spirit is not an it. Okay. Pray for salvation for your son. that's what you're asking for, but you're also uh under his authority and can see that for the pizza uh I accept your will for it if it's not um the authority of Christ. Um initially with even some enthusiasm, but they uh fell away for one reason or another. they're long, they're they're but they don't bear fruit. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and disclose myself to him. Uh we're not talking about three different gods here. And was being tried. Not fees too. He's um he's got the glorified body. which I don't have to be as a full human nature. I did you exactly find out that's going to make a sense. And so in both cases he says it's the father's decision. That's a smart word. Matthew 26, 30, Mark 14, 26, and Luke 22, 39, which, when blended together, say, after singing a hymn, Why would they sing a hymn? And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, that this very night, before a rooster crows twice, you yourself will deny me three times. the person making the accusation to Peter, how he responded, all those details. Because but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, because of this the world hates you. A little while and you will s no longer see me. In the world you have tribulation, but take courage. to abide in and so he cuts them off and puts them in the fire. the central valley of California where there's lots of great uh and there there are offshoots that don't belong. And you know the way where I am going. I will ask a Father, and he will give you another helper, that he may be with you forever. In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. And the word which you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. And has nothing in me. uh interaction, submission, hierarchy. So we know that's true, but how it all fits together is it's outside of our ability to fully understand, I'm sure. And one way that there is a mysterious but true uh likeness there is that In Ephesians five, for example, um uh scripture tells And I'm sorry I do not know the reference for it on hand, but I could find it the day when it says no one knows the day or the The second person of the Trinity, in his human experience, at least, was led by the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity Something that helped me, I was listening to uh one of those um panel question and answer things with you know John MacArthur R. But after I have been raised, I will go ahead of you to Galilee. the person making the accusation, the um uh the words that Peter said, who he had directed them to, and all those things And the way they're presented in the Gospels. Abide in me, and I in you. Just as the Father has loved me, I have loved you also. If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. They have both seen and hated me and my father as well. When the helper comes, whom I will send you from the Father, that is the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me. But if I go, I will send him to you. I have many more things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. But these things I spoke to you, so that when their hour comes, you may remember that I told you of them. um a hang up with the use of the word person referring to God. And that's been true ever since Pentecost. Right. the the vine brings to the branch. Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not come to know me, Philip? What then has happened that you are going to disclose yourself to us and not to the world? By the way, for what it's worth, but maybe before I say that, Carolyn, you had a thought. But several things I wanted to highlight, you may have noticed in several places here, Jesus is linking our love for him and our obedience to him, right? And but Jesus, being equal with God, willingly submits to the will of the Father. And so to say that it's inferior to submit to one who has authority is to make you inferior to that person. Jesus was fully human. Yeah, well it it gets a little harder though because the passage Ann was talking about is Acts 1. Right? And and things that that are clearly uh within time and space in the in the life, the earthly ministry of Christ. Um where not continually, but sometimes he does reveal um supernatural uh attributes. And so Matthew and Mark continue the narrative here in section 174. When we're blending together the accounts that appear in all four of the Gospels, it's hard to blend them together without taking this little tidbit into account. Try fitting all those details together with only three denials when you can't. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away. So that whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he may give you. They will make you outcasts from the synagogue, but an hour is coming for everyone who kills you to think that he is offering service to God. He will glorify me, for he will take of mine and will disclose it to you. From the Father and uh have not and have come into the world, I am leaving the world again and going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, that I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? Peace I leave with you. Now, I have told you before it happens, so that when it happens you may believe. And that's hard enough, but to understand that there's actually hierarchy within the Godhead. Jesus, God the Son, submits to the will of the Father, and he says very explicitly here, the Father is greater than I. Is really heresy because Jesus submits to the will of the Father. And so it's a bit of a mystery. Um the the timidity of the disciples until the Holy Spirit was given. Or if it's in in the in the Greek is it is the pronoun different Yeah it may well be. What is it? Uh to section one hundred seventy-three. Paid for those things. You will all fall away because of me this night. And here it's as they're making their way or actually at, it's hard to tell, uh, to the Mount of Olives where they actually have left the upper room so that it may bear more fruit. My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. This is my commandment, that you love one another, just as I have loved you. He who hates me hates my father also. But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. And concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you no longer see me, and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged And that's why they use personal programs, pronouns in Scripture for God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Because we understand that the only standing we have before God the Father is through Christ. In that section reference in the U. And um you know i i in our in our minds it's hard for us to fathom the nature of the Godhead. Um one more thing. Uh Mark twenty si uh Matthew twenty-six thirty-one and Mark fourteen twenty-seven. Now that may be hard to to swallow if that's not your traditional understanding, which for most people it's not. And you will testify also, because you have been with me from the beginning. And Jesus is very clear here, referring to him always as he. Trinity, one God, three persons, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. Yeah. Um yeah. Even if we admit that we're not going to put God in a box and figure it out relative to our experience, it's still worth our pursuing the character of God. the context anyway of his drawing on his deity in those various occasions. Several times, particularly uh right before the temptations in the wilderness, where it says he was led by the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil for forty days. Uh the application of that for us? Well, because it's true, okay. conversation here that Jesus was having, not so much a conversation, but teaching time, to his disciples beginning in John 15 and continuing through 16. Okay. For his own God's own purposes. The Lord's Supper. He refers to his own obedience to the Father. He was still confined in time and space. Jesus, as the second person of the Trinity, submitted to the After singing a hymn, which may well have been one of the psalms, he came out and proceeded as was his custom And Peter kept saying insistently to him, even if I have to die with you, I will not deny you. If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have sin, or at least an awareness of sin. But that was temporary and that was not universal. So taking this is um you still need to obey those two things, loving and making disciples. You'll know them by their fruit. Another thing that's uh theologically very interesting here is where he says um And so in some way that still is not really easy for us to comprehend, Jesus to uh do various things, go places, and um uh in h even in his human experience he was submitted to the will of the Father but also the guidance of the Holy Spirit. didn't know something, he asked about this or that, and and uh he was operating at that point more fully in his humanity. Yeah. Because they're not true, because they're not God, okay. Well, who else is eligible, qualified, to pay for my sins? Coexist, all that sort of stuff. Luke and John record it while they were in the upper room and refer to a denial before the Rooster Crows at all. What? But if you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. So does that mean then that if you do when they ask something for asking is an issue because not not necessarily that just because they're And in our normal experience, we think, well, submission means inferiority. And the implications of that on our lives. exercise any any aspect of of his deity. And the issue here is fruit bearing. Well, there are a lot of pieces there that are worth a sermon in and of themselves, probably. But the reverse is also true. His divine his divine nature obviously one. Because in one verse he does say it's it's not even the fat not not even the son will know only the father. I mean it's clear that God is just revealing things about Himself that are not that just don't compute in in human terms. But I must convince that when I have read this passage from John here all the way through seventeen Right. Allows us to serve Christ and grow in Christ, become more conformed to his image. things that last for eternity, uh the character of God being reproduced, that kind of thing. Do not let your heart be troubled. Exactly. Well more knowledge. They're all omniscient and yet there is I mean it's God is omniscient. He's affirming the Trinity here. Because people because then you get the idea you have you know, a split personality and you think of it, well is he being God here It doesn't make it any easier to understand necessarily, right? I love RC but I think I would push back a little bit. Okay, but that's still hard to grasp. Or at least not completely. So there are a lot of of women who bristle at the idea of submitting to their husbands because that would be to admit that she's inferior to him. Otherwise, we would say, well, one hand he doesn't know everything, and the other hand he knows everything. If all roads lead to God, Christianity can't be true, therefore all roads can't lead to God. Yeah, that word authority is important here. Just I was just gonna say Well, yeah, I used to have the same issue that you did until someone pointed out to me that the the the the issue in in the the foresaw Philippians two. But also to bring to remembrance and to reveal even more to the church and particularly these apostles. The issue is proof there. Okay. willingly set aside the prerogatives of deity in order to take on human flesh. I have found I have had some real difficult time. And uh they were talking about how Jesus was fully God, fully man, and R. But there are a lot of times also, then we've seen them as we've traveled through the gospels, where uh Jesus um There is reference to three denials again, but he says before the rooster would crow twice. I am the vine, you are the branches, and he who abides in me and I in him, he bears much fruit. Now, how does the humanity of God and his um they make I don't know, but you know it seems to me that it would be his humanity that As well as the Holy Spirit after Pentecost. What does the removal represent? And um we've already had, as you recall, the um So the uh our o obeying him arises from our love for him. And so yes, Jesus was fully human and fully God, but after his resurrection So there's much roll ahead that Jesus is referring to. Okay. The Passover has begun, the Passover meal with Christ and the disciples. I don't actually need this information about you because the one who has the power to decide when and how is the one who has And of course, people bristle at the idea of that exclusivity. Because if all world believes of God, then Christianity can't be true. All right. Yeah and w one uh one of the fruit here I think is going to be punctuality and so we better close our uh our time Yeah, exactly. There's only one way. Just remember that there's this little distinction here in particularly in Mark, but both Matthew and Mark placed this after they left There's much here, of course, about the ministry of the Holy Spirit, who, by the way, is always referred to in Scripture with the pronoun he. And so with that being said, we can be sure that we're going to receive it because it's actually coming from God who wants to work that out through us. And when other things creep in, they're gonna fall away. Roles of the Holy Spirit that Jesus mentions here is to bring glory to Christ rather than to himself So that indwelling of the Holy Spirit in connection with His leading us, convicting us, and so on. They had initially believed this when you see. But that there is hierarchy even within the the Trinity that we can't completely understand. And that's how you grow in really precepts. For example. You know, Jesus was still here, but Peter still feared and was kind of didn't want to be identified with them. Yeah. Yeah. Now that seems at this point to be um Something selfish or whatever, okay. Because ultimately as you're praying that you're saying, Never just as Jesus prayed, nevertheless, Lord, not my will, but thy will. And uh what I was gonna say is um there's a bit of a mystery also, and and Paul refers to it as a mystery. But it it gets at the very character of God, and it's interesting that in this passage So he says they what they say is he's truly God and he's truly man. And there's only one person who's done that. Um so that should sound familiar because we went through a similar passage while they were in the upper room uh last week and section Um really nice. If we obey Jesus and do his will, then we will be asking him his will. You know, so every day how I would apply this is to continue abiding in God through His words, to love people by interceding, praying, reaching out to God. Yep. No, that wasn't word, but yeah. Well, it's actually probably something that they would have done anyway as part of the Seder, the Passover Seder. I believe you're led to conclude that Jesus warned Peter two different times about two different sets of three denials. That's only two chapters, right? We are in Christ, having been saved. Because if I'm in him, then how would I be cut off, removed, and I mean what what what the But so that the world may know that I love the Father, I do exactly as the Father commanded me. Yes. Both his equality with the Father and His submission to the Father. Philippians two. Well that's the right solution. These things I have spoken to you, so that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be made full. And my father will love him. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. There's a verse that we bypass, we had to bypass verses. That person's sins need to be paid for. And what's interesting here is in that case um When you're looking at the the location and context of the denial They were just hanging around. Yeah, Larry. He was very freely talking about the future and and uh uh things that were to come and preparing his disciples and so on You will grieve, but your grief will be turned into joy. My peace I give to you, not as the world gives, do I give to you. He has more knowledge than the sun. I noticed the repetition from what she read previously in I guess chapter fourteen of asking. The more we obey him, the more we love him. Right. Minutia or irrelevant? Um we have personality because we're created in God's image, who has eternally existed in three persons Father, Son, Holy Spirit. Pentecost. S. Uh and what was he looking for there? And if if they uh are are living in a way that does not bear fruit, which in this case would be And yet all being equal in power substance. I would just like to ask the question. We're talking about one God and complete unity and yet uh Uh because I remember the verse too, but I was like, no that's Matthew. Yeah. And until someone resolves that argument, don't bother talking to me about it in religion. But it's the the the problem comes because the pride the pride of the world is working to make the difference. Okay, is that for just the apostle thought? For he will not speak of his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak. What did he mean by abiding in him? And now we get to John fourteen, which And even to this extent, even God's nature, that there's there's uh equality and I I think so as I think about them, it seems to me that because And if you take the Gospels as being inerrant, which they are, Uh any other things pop out at you here that you want to talk about? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may also be You don't submit because you're inferior, you submit because you're giving homage Which by the way is a good example for us. And that has implications, doesn't it? You're praying for it earnestly and you're asking that in the name of Jesus, you know. Think of it in terms of the parable of the four soils that Jesus taught, where um some people received the gospel, the seed. One fourth proof is a non- Yes. Also eternal, care uh carrying all the um attributes of God, the same as Let's let's just be um um whatever, don't worry about it. Uh that abide of course is just means to stay, to to remain uh in him He is on the present, omniscient. In his humanity, his human nature, he was omniscient, and yet in his Right. Tough bruh. And uh so this this this helps me appreciate me more to know exactly how to defend that when I see other people I just was wanting to comment on verse six. It's simple, right? So for instance, the commanded two things, which is to love one another, and also making disciples of all nations, if we abide in God And we are not loving and we're not making disciples, then we are not still bearing fruit In fact, even here Jesus says, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. In Matthew, before he was crucified, and I wonder if that distinction has any merit. In fact, he's very much saying there, if you love me, you're going to obey me, right? And the various um you know, speaking to the wind and it calms and and waves and raising people from the dead. The Holy Spirit is He, third person of the Trinity. Yeah, and there's something that always bothered me about the quality of knowledge. Even though he was uh equal, co equal with the Father and the Spirit, uh Um the we can pray in the name of cr excuse me, in the name of Christ. They're not they're those that's referring to unsaved people. Um it's one of those things that's that's hard to to get our minds around, that's for sure Uh teaches us that he uh emptied himself Um I'm thinking bumper stickers. Um it's not completely clear, at least I don't remember here that it's completely I have overcome the world Well, beginning at Pentecost, the Holy Spirit took up residence in in, indwelling, each genuine believer. The Holy Spirit would indwell certain people in the Old Testament They just and they soak up what the uh the vine uh the divine with you know grapes and they they're normal. Believe in God. No longer do I call you slaves, for a slave does not know what his master is doing. Let's see. Keep plugging away and ask God to help you understand. And uh again, a little while and you will see me. In that day, you will not question me about anything Definitely. Right. In other times like the answer, you see him functioning according to his human nature. Exactly. And here we have a very short account, but it shows up in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. I was struck by the things and I thought, wow, little wild. A branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides, that is, stays in the vine. Right. Uh he's just about ready to ascend into heaven. Yep. I mean he really got tired and he really hungered and thirsted and so on. He's making reference to his relationship both with the Father and with the Holy Spirit and so on. You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you It's like people in church who aren't necessarily saved and you'll know them by the fruit or lack thereof. From now on, you know him and have seen him. And he, when he comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment, concerning sin because they do not believe in me. That's our motto here in the middle. There's there's no uh exception, there's no other path, there's no other way. You know, you think of people like um Samson, even Saul, right? And so why why weren't they bearing fruit? Thomas said to him, Lord, we did not know where you were going. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. If you loved me, you would have rejoiced because I go to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. His human his human nature works. Well I guess good question. Then he said other things like the words the the words that I've taken you It's it's um it's it's something of a picture of how I I um I'm with you. Um there's uh that makes no sense. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also. We do not know what he's talking about. Yeah, Willie. The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own initiative, but the Father abiding in me does his works. Sometimes you see him functioning according to his development I mean you get these questions about well what about his omnipresence And they never were um a a branch that God intends to And we will come to him and will make our abode with him. That's uh that's when the trunk comes in. Exactly. Uh what's the imperative for us and what's the indicative? Yeah. Well company in the middle of the night. Abide in my love. So they're definitely interconnected. Partly because when you read it, some of what you see is spirit of language, is spirit Yeah. Okay, he repeated himself and this kind of thing. As of Pentecost, what Jesus is referring to here is it's going to be universal among all genuine believers. Jesus. There's nothing here to discuss, right? That happens to the believer. It's it's not uh the uh the plant came up four different times, therefore they were And so the marriage relationship, well thankfully it's only two and not three, right? And how do they qualify that though? And we also recognize that whatever his will is is perfect. Otherwise, believe because of the works themselves So what exactly should I be getting from from this You know God's kingdom is based on also the amount of souls that are Anyway, uh Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord But uh one of the reasons people don't believe in the Trinity is because they can understand it. In order for anyone to come to God and have a uh restored relationship with God Right. Believe also in me. But if submission were about superiority or inferiority, there'd be no need for submission Right? So um while we've been talking, uh I jumped to ask and I wonder if there was How does it all fit together? Because he's God, okay. Or you get someone else to pay them pay for them for you, pay them for you. Okay, so Jesus is telling them, I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. The fourth soil was bearing fruit. And I and I can't equate that with equal Right. Okay, you don't. A little while and you will not see me, and again a little while you will see me, and because I go to the Father. These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you. I'm going to suppose that what he said only the one of those, he's talking about We don't know how, but yeah. I came forth Well I I I I'm sorry, I have my slides in the morning. Um it's very clearly taught in scripture even though it doesn't quite all compute. So you know I don't know And so remember, they were in So that they weren't truly in but they weren't because they they couldn't have been a part of the vine if they're if they're being removed. Well no, yeah, I was just gonna say in our creeds and our uh it all Well we do have a bit of a clue as to um uh Um we have circumstances where we need to uh Yeah, all although um And if you were of the world, the world would love its own He he knows it all. And so we're not coming independent of that standing we have in Christ. He's making reference to all three of them here. One God, three persons T. This I command you that you love one another. By this we believe that you came from God. So the authority remains with him to decide the time. So you know, you don't think of him as, you know, half and half or If I had not done among them the works which no one else did, they would not have sinned. Um it will often happen. Exactly. And study that section that's coming up about the denials, and we'll have a lively discussion about it that time. And you know which ones those are because they don't bear fruit. Sproul said, Stop. For it is written, I will strike down the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered. But they have done this to fulfill the word that is written in their law. What should we be getting from this? Well, it can't be someone who has his own sins to pay for. But when he, the Spirit of Truth, comes And again a little while you will see me? I just want to get in right or see the exact message I'm getting from this youth. But Peter said to him, Even though all may fall away because of you, yet I will never fall away. And we're going to have uh a sheet here that takes you through that. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you, that you would go and bear fruit, and that your fruit would remain. And he says specifically in verse 28: the Father is greater than I. Yeah. Anyway, we do see Christ himself affirming the truth of all that I noticed you underlined and highlighted uh D um the article B and no one What are the uh Well that's for sure. I will not leave you as orphans. He's equal with God, and he's Okay? So he is the way and the truth and the life. That's one of the Father has superior knowledge to the Son. And he says, Don't ask me. And the only choice is that he pays for them himself. And if Christianity is true, then only Christianity can be true So I'm gonna be reading here, uh beginning with verse one. Um but Was he um omnipresent at that point? Is that applicable to us as well I will not speak much more with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. And we're coming to him um uh under the the They weren't plugged into the the the nourishment that the Uh we're still in the upper room. But again, that's not that's not a cop-out. And I would imagine not only apply to the apostles, the disciples, Because he knew it He knew. And um that actually forces those who bristle at the idea of of It's actually Matthew twenty four, yeah. Yeah. But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart In my name. So whatever he decrees will be perfect Jesus and God are indwelling us permanently. But I think the bottom line is it's not pertinent enough. And they gather them and they cast them into the fire and they are burned. Yeah. It doesn't mean we shouldn't continue to study, pursue, see what Scripture says, and go deeper in and understand I'll give you an example. The Father does the work. Greater love has no one than this, that he lay down his life for his friends All things that the Father has are mine. Jesus knew that they wished to question him, and he said to them, But there's also a caveat beyond that is we obviously No one comes to the Father but through me. He who has seen me has seen the Father. Exactly. It's not for us to understand. And it's really okay. Right. Which if we were writing the book, we wouldn't have written it that way. That's I don't like every time that paradox can't be solved unless Christianity He said at one point here, the Holy Spirit has been with you but will be in you. He doesn't just willy-nilly uh Right. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I ke have kept my father's command. Oh no, I'm using I'm not saying it's wrong to say that obviously well That is, the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive because it does not see him or know him. Whenever a woman is in labor, she has pain because her hour has come They had no route or they had uh Yes, and what you're saying is. You will live also. Right? These things I have spoken to you, so that in me you may have peace But it says that they are in him. Do not let your heart be troubled, nor let it be fearful. Even though Jesus was here, because in the uh when uh in in in when when Jesus was arrested But then in Acts the his his his appointed people who are not to understand. Um then Um yet not really. But in his in Ephesians two teaches us that in his um Uh I'll have to look at that. And if Christian Because of statements like this. But all these things they will do to you for my name's sake, because they do not know the one who sent me. But this verse is one of the most amazing verses to me in John 14 I and the Father are one. So um it's hard enough to figure out how you could be a hundred percent God and a hundred percent man. We don't we don't talk about Jesus and his two natures being fully God and You know, aren't we all about um uh what's the slogan? These things I've spoken to you, so that you may be kept from stumbling. In my father's house are many dwelling places. Well we should be getting from it that um uh Yeah, they always do. What does that mean? Yep. Along the same line, you think Right. But then he goes on and he says other things Um you see how often he's repeating this notion about um abiding in him. How do we know the way? His disciples said, Lo, now you are speaking plainly, and are not using a figure of speech But just as a heads up, we're going to see that when we get to the denial account That is from the Father. But that's going to be true of every genuine believer, at least over time. And um the disciples followed him And every branch that bears fruit, he prunes. Until now you have asked for nothing in my name. He who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me. It doesn't make sense up here to the fallen mind, and it's even hard for us to grasp, right? And then he goes ahead and he says These things I did not say to you from the at the beginning, because I was with you Some of his Are you reaching out to somebody and discipline them Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Yeah, it's Matthew twenty-four. But now they have no excuse for their sin. Therefore you too have grief now. I mean why couldn't someone else make that claim Then Jesus said to them. To remain Christ instituted the Judas, not Iscariot, many of these disciples had different But we got a clue um And as um Willie mentioned earlier, one of the Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves me, In one case he talks about I'm in the bath I'm in the When we think of persons, we think of human beings. So it's like a yeah like the wonderful Christian kind of They just they're and they soak up the the But I have called you friends So um And even calls him greater than I. Right. And all the disciples said the same thing too. For me. So um And so we're following his example. Remember the word that I said to you a slave is not greater than his master. To put to ask in his name? So if we're commanded to abide, then the result is that we will bear fruit. I will come to you. You're not guaranteeing that that prayer will be answered Yes. Which is the point. It has to be someone who is sinless and actually has He who does not love me does not keep my word. Um I have a question then. That's uh just uh a a r reality in the background of our pursuit uh on Spring I want to uh march on here Truly, truly I say to you, that you will weep and lament Um it's it doesn't allow for for any other But it seemed that this was truth. That he is the way and the truth and the life and no one comes to the Father but through him? Okay. But um We're not able to understand. Um We won't be asking What page is that? And uh These things they will do because they have not known the Father or me. Therefore I said that he takes of mine and will disclose it to you Right? But good distinction. In Acts he doesn't say I don't know. So there is nothing that we could ask for that would be any better He doesn't know the Jesus. Bill, my uh my takeaway is all this, I am not in charge For apart from me, you can do nothing. And he will disclose to you what is to come. Get up, let us go from here. We have limited knowledge. How can you say, Show us the Father? But uh for now By the way, we may have uh Um when Zika talks What does all of that I just woke up sight of God. John fourteen, fifteen, sixteen. And he obeys the word of the Father. But then when the Holy Spirit was Right. Yeah. So that he is Jesus and he is truly God. So he If it were not so, I would not have told you Right. And we see some evidence of it here in this passage. But why should that be a hang-up? Yeah, it they they cannot live synonyms They hated me without a cause. Um That's that's Anything that you asked And here it was the same picture that the Because there's something We're mere creatures. But if you carefully look at the location, the context. In that day you will ask in my name So you're praying specifically, you're you're really You were saying that Ask and you will receive, so that your joy may be made full. That is page 236. But And then you and and and then you add to that But I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice. So they were saying If I remember right, I I was raised in That seems to be a common theme. Um It's not good. In his glorified body not that he had less Maybe because you know So neither can you unless you abide. Um No one comes to But now Jesus doesn't know that something In Acts he says very specific And so there is a distinction even in the life of Christ. For the Father Himself loves you