Jesus himself fell asleep on the cushion in the stern, and a fierce gale of wind and a great storm descended on the lake, and the waves were breaking over the boat so much that the boat was already filling up the She came, fearing and trembling, aware of what had happened to her, and fell down before him and told him the whole truth, and declared in the presence of all the people the reason why she had touched So Jesus gets up and goes with him. They couldn't help her. And I can take anything to him. So as they get close to the house, someone comes to him and says, your daughter has died, didn't have to trouble the teacher anymore. But the Pharisees were saying he cast out demons by the ruler of demons. They're gonna die. the fact that they accused him of not caring for them betrayed their their uh lack of confidence in his goodness or his ability. You know, but they had experience with them, but they didn't experience this necessarily. between like fans fighting the guy on the back, you know, hey yeah this is great, this is great. Um that he and he heals this woman. Jarus' daughter is on her deathbed. Maybe they're just to be employed. Again, Thomas, before we go on, there's something leaving out here. The question was it seems to me that there are two scenarios. There are other times when he just heals them without them asking. Um but some people some people came to him and he challenged them if they actually have anything more but that's later on. Um I'm deviating from something I read. It looked to me as if it was preventing in some way. It's like they'd forgotten everything they had just learned. Um but this is this was challenging because if we come to God when we have fear, um would that yield a rebuke Um you just don't know. Uh I'm I'm right there with you. The no story. We say we know, Lord, you have said this, and we want to believe and trust in your promises, but we we see the circumstances around us. Um there's no hope for them, yet they have to recognize God's authority over them and He has the authority to cast them into hell Uh real quick with that upon me. Just one observation and and I don't have any research I've done to show that, but isn't it doesn't it seem that most of the time that Jesus is talking to the Gentiles, it's like Uh he had a lot of fans in those environments. of uh people he was focused on ministering to. Entering in, he said to them, Why make a commotion and weep? all the same Kalitaikum which translated means little girl I say you get up and immediately her spirit returned and the girl got up in the beginning Um so previously we see that people did that they you know uh they touched Christ and they were healed of all kinds of diseases. um her issue, even though it wasn't as pressing as um Jaris' daughter situation seemed to be. or for sorrow, but obviously if you don't have enough tears, so you pay mourners to come and fill the bucket. Right. Another reason. Again. of this recognizing and recognition of Christ as the son of David, Messiah. So tell us I have this question. decides faith. um uh intimate setting he would ask the person. And casting out demons, but also sometimes there was uh a personal touch where he would ask them and to acknowledge uh uh their faith in him. Go to God in faith and whatever else happens that we we're not actively required to exercise faith. Um uh and how gracious he is. Right. Judas and Simon. Uh all the facts they knew. miracle. And they stopped. The women of ways in the Glendic account. And saying they had little faith. them but why does he rebuke them for um the way they came out? Um, Jesus was not worried and uh comforting him as though he did not care, said something about where their faith was or where it wasn't they didn't realize the extent of his authority over nature. care but the the lack of faith which seems to say to me that fear has is probably some something along the lines of um the opposite of faith uh you men of little faith. Putting confidence in ourselves to preserve ourselves what God is with it is a serious problem. You know he he's experienced the same thing that they experienced, but he's not worried, he's not afraid, and they are. I'm sure we've all had similar experiences like that when you now you know you have your wits in and now you know I have nothing else to do. So is that so the C is not new to them? get the water out of the boat and and they're trying to take a human perspective which is sort of natural but in the background have looked like in that situation. Uh, instead of maybe accusing that the Lord doesn't care. who who fears has not been made perfect in love. You know, resting in the same boat that you're in, he's in the same situation and he's at perfect peace. And no one was strong enough to subdue him constantly, night and day. And the demons implored him, saying, If you are going to cast us out, send us into the herd of swine. And the demons came out of the man and entered into the swine. It reported to them reported to them how the man who was demon possessed had been made well. Power and authority over nature, and now we see that he has power and authority over demons. uh in in his instance they enter a man and it's many of them um they're asking for mercy they're asking for mercy asking for mercy to please put Uh I I came up in an environment where they say we have the authority to cast out demons and to find things and to do all sorts of things where people are trying to do. And so that's what he declared. the tomb but um n it was nothing that the people I mean the people in the town could see the power of the demons. had. Go and tell everybody, but when he talks to the Jews in a large way, it's like, keep this to yourself. And so he stayed by the seashore. And while they were all denying it, Peter said, Master, the people are crowding and pressing in on you. Wall for she was twelve years old. He gets up and follows him. They can't they come to him. had been Jesus so they knew his power. who touched them. You know, so God is going to encourage it, because this reminds me how much we need encouragement every single day from God's Word Nothing is too small for God in terms of any trouble that you have because thinking about the lady with the issue of blood and There'd be such a commotion of flute players in the crowd, noise and disorder, people weeping and wailing, but then Jesus you so uh that's a good reminder of us not to measure our need how God sees it. there in the room when she was resurrected, when she was brought to life. that she's only sleeping and for him that's all she was doing. doesn't eat, but the person who's alive does. Thank you. not be complete or accurate for that matter. Right, we're just living. As I mean so I really can't answer the the why is just we're living in this life things happen. to remember exactly. What was on about and uh you remember not necessarily an answer. And they went out and not only said it, but they spread the news all about him throughout the whole land. except in his hometown, and among his own relatives in his own household. said if the same things have been done in other cities like Saddam and Gomorrah, they would have repented um by now. Uh I mean it was his mercy to leave in that environment. And Jesus wondered at their unbelief. saying, Master, Master, teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? Was he worried? that he said, let us go to the other side of the lake. and they're not trusting that he's going to keep his word on that, you know, that they're going to die in the process. We don't know when that may happen to us, pray. Here they are, Christ in their mind is relying on them to get to the other side and they're realizing they're not able to do it. more appropriate faithful response on their part. Well I was going to ask another question. I need to remember how Christ handled it. This okay. John, who's one of these in the boat that experiences fear, he says, There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves torment. And shouting with a loud voice, said, What business do we have with each other, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? Commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. Because he was bound with chains and shackles and kept under God, and yet he would break his bond and be driven by the demon into the desert They were so extremely balanced that no one could pass by that way. For many demons had entered him. Into the abyss. From whom the demons had gone out, sitting down at the feet of Jesus, clothed in his right mind. Of the Pharisees and the surrounding district asked him to leave their region, but they were gripped with fear And he got into a boat and returned. And how he has how he had mercy on you. They're terrified of what he will do. They know their future that God will cast them out in the hell, but they don't know when. not publicize what had happened to him. pri primarily on the eastern side of Sea of Galilee, like this was. Jesus who by his voice can command them and heal the heal the the two men who were in for he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, and she was dying. And, you know, I it might bear up some more reason you know, some more study as to why, you know, he might have said that, but in in just And as he went off with him, a large crowd was following him and pressing in on him. and had spent all that she had, and was not helped at all, but rather had grown worse. for she thought, if I just touch his garments I will get well. And his other disciples said to him, You see the crowd pressing in on you, and you say, who touched me? Came from the house of the synagogue official, saying, Your daughter has died. And he saw commotion, the flute players, and the crowd in noisy disorder, and people loudly weeping and wailing and lamenting for her. for twelve years um comes to him and you know she went to physicians And after he checked his garment, uh he recognizes that power went out for him, so he turns to see And while he's coming, there's this big delay, you know, and it's like, come on, come on, you know, and so it's he trusts and and he follows. It's interesting that his faith is going to be tested. our time you know, like we think that the last minute is our timing, the way we see it. My issue right here is something that isn't life threatening. He's he comes through the midst of uh commotion. So her parents were completely astounded. Obviously they're going to know the girls up walking around getting a getting some food, but they're not going to be privileged to to be on the inside to know the details of what took place Why not praise him? When he entered the house, the blind men came up to him, and Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? After the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke, and the crowds were amazed and were saying, Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel. And he asks him, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They come to him for help, for the act that we believe. And such miracles as these performed by his hands. Um that means you better all right 1015. And he said to them, Why are you afraid, you men of little faith? even the winds and the water, and they obey him. Having God with them and looking at God's example, they didn't follow. question what in our opinion would have been a a and that's right in twenty twenty I know I know I that's why is offering answer that's I I feel like that I will like that but what I'm saying And who had not put on any clothing for a long time, and were not living in a house, but in the tombs It's this is that's amazing how these demons are responding to the authority and power of Christ. And this heals a response from the community. thinking about it, it seems that's to be the case in a large number of ways. Him and how she had been immediately healed. Really? And took him along with them just as he was. And they began to be swamped and to be in danger. If you think you're going to die, then there's something wrong with that. They're probably thinking, well, that's natural. help to um get the water out of the boat and just just taking a human perspective of the whole thing And we need to be trusting in God, not in ourselves. of handling you know what we face. And rise in praise. And when he got out of the boat and came out onto the land, immediately he was met by two men from the city who were possessed with demons. When the herdsmen saw what had happened, they ran away and reported in the city and out of the in the country everything, including what had happened to the demoniacs. And behold, the whole city went out to see what had happened. And he did not let him, but he sent him away saying, Go home, return to your people, and report to them what great things the Lord God has done for you. They use all sorts of means to bind them, to to to control them, but nothing that man can do could uh Uh I was gonna say one observation, this is one time when Jesus did not um ask the recipient of his miraculous work to be quiet and to has just about died. Immediately Jesus, perceiving in himself that the power proceeding from him had gone forth, turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched my garments? Um he encourages this woman's faith. Pentecostal. Yes. About this. did not believe in him. But he wondered at their unbelief. Let us go over to the other side of the lake. Of all that he has already done for them. I personally as I'm looking at this, I'm finding it astonishing that what Christ rebukes them on initially is not the fact that they say it is I'm sure we've all probably done that. He is completely confident in the providence of God and he is not actually dependent on those disciples Um our lives are not are not um under our control ultimately Seeing Jesus from a distance as they were coming out of the tombs, one ran up and cried out and fell down before him. What great things Jesus had done for him, and everyone was amazed. They recognize him, they submit to him, they acknowledge him, who he is what else? Control of Demonia. um uh gentile. But putting them all out, he took along the child's father and mother and his own companions and entered the room with the child belost. Afraid that his daughter will die, he fell by his feet, and he enforced him to come to heal his only daughter who was 12 years old. He didn't come saying, God, what have you done to my daughter? Paid, paid. He would have gave up if he had given it to the words of these people. That threw me off. Then he touched their eyes, saying, It shall be done to you according to your faith. And uh the things that God declares that gives him the most glory is output he is. And they believed that he could heal them and he did. In the face of evidence, you still don't believe. Where is your faith? So Jesus wants to get away from the crowd to go to the other side of the lake. He they accuse him of not caring. disciples didn't quite understand what Jesus was. Well I think reminding remembering like it was said before, the Lord said, Let us go to the other side. I implore you by God, do not torment me. What do you see the demons uh how are the demons responding to seeing Jesus? I would say the fans are uh are touching him and there's a woman who has this issue of a hemorrhage uh for twelve years. But Jesus, overhearing what was being spoken, said to the synagogue official, Do not be afraid any longer, only believe, and she will be made well. and how he responds to it. A weeping and and to laughter. Why challenge or why ask the question if they are coming to him and following him, why even ask them if you if they believe that he is able to He really not comes to me because of my um. So I I don't believe their faith was real. And he did heal them, and yet they disobeyed him. And killed them. Lesson fifteen on page ninety-four this morning. Yeah, sorry. Only believe and she will be made well. Well I think that the apostles were supposed to have faith and to believe in the miracles and the power that uh of God through Jesus Christ and they were lacking that I I I would like to uh mention something that I also found interesting there is that uh you know like w uh we as human beings have It says the spirit returned to her and she got up and began to walk immediately. And he's uh uh blessing people who have faith in him and he's gonna build enough people who lack faith in him. After he had warned them not to give you sternly warned them not to. It's not they didn't come to him, please do something. Necessarily. You know, and he is able to do that despite the storm. Then the storm was up. written and these disciples experience these things so we can identify and realize we have a savior that can take care of it. Doubt that he cares or loves us. They're submitting. So somebody read from verses 21 down to verse 31. That even in this issue, that if she could just touch Christ, so the crowd wasn't enough to keep her away, the issue, her signal was enough to keep her away, she got close enough to touch him. Says stop weeping, the child is not die. Um but but people were saying that that was a sign that they had faith because they said yes and I don't think so. But this is blatant disobedience. The saying is that only God can save somebody. As he always does. Well you don't be eating big anyway, so anything else? Right. Okay. Moses asks that. It says now on that day when evening came, when Jesus saw a crowd around him. Um but in this particular case they're fearing for their lives and it ought to be all hands on deck kind of thing to try to And they are not thinking about that at all. Yes. So there was a purpose in him saying that not to we read previously that he wasn't taking um When Jesus had crossed over again in the boat and returned to the other side, a large crowd gathered around him, and the people welcomed him, for they had all been waiting for him. He starts to recognize this woman's faith. It's probably what led to their distrust or their lack of faith as far as um whether he cared for them. Or they could have followed Pastor Gabe's January 3rd sermon from Psalm 3. It sounded good when I was younger in the faith, but to actually think you do have that authority and power, you put yourself in a bad situation. How important was this encouragement for Jerry's? Alright, uh Jesus gives sight to the Jesus gives sight to the blind, cast out a demon, and is falsely accused of A strong storm comes up and a strong bustle wind, and the great storm descends on the lake. And he's trying to tell them, no, um, you you need to be trusting God. Well, I mean the disciples did too. Right. But whenever he healed other, you know, without uh asking them he just did it and they didn't need to do that The man at the w at the pool, for instance. Maybe after church. Right. They know fully who he is as the most high God, uh son of the most high God. And um so they acknowledge him for this. The business. I think they may not they may not have been you know of salvation or I tell you, Ann, when I was first saved I wasn't immediately a hundred percent obedient. We will face situations that may not exactly be like this, but they would be similar in the sense that in our own circumstances we will find ourselves incapable I'll go ahead and read. Hi, this is Sharonnay. I think it's a judgment. Jesus didn't only want to be known as a miracle worker. We're living. Thomas, um, excuse me, this is Anne. Was he afraid? Just verbal, even just verbal authority over them. Now read. It's historical time coming. They are both afraid of death. Or it's a shit off. And so they come to him while he's sleeping and uh say, Teacher, teacher, do we not care that we are perishing? They're in a situ a new situation for them that they've never experienced before with God. And the many listeners were astonished, saying, where did this man get these things? Why do you so pretty much? In fact they made it worse. what was the real so forth. Jesus went out from there and came into his hometown, and his disciples followed him. But but but but even so, why is the story told to us? So God does recognize who we are, correct? Yeah, I was thinking about that. Are not all his sisters here with us? The wind died down, and it became perfectly calm. Did you all hear that? And that can have to do in two things in this, right? So in the midst of all these people touching them, somebody touches him by faith. You paid them to mourn. And so having trouble with disease, death, nature, he's proving his point that he is the Messiah But they went out and spread the news about him throughout all that land. Well this little thing that's the lacquer. Jesus gets up and follows him. 37 and he allowed no one to accompany me except Peter, James, and John. I did a spreadsheet before computers and of all the miracles of Jesus. So what else? Please come and lay your hands on her so that she will get well and live. It's superficial. So then he turns to him. What about Jarus? That's a theorem environment. I mean they're yielding to his lordship. He just does because he's so good. I want to ask, why does Jesus rebuke them? Is that a reason to get a review from the Well I think it's it's challenging his character, yeah. It just occurs to me, Thomas, that um before the storm whips up and Jesus is in the back of the boat, lying down, resting, going to sleep. And in reality, he wasn't relying on them to get the outside. Now there was at a distance from them a herd of many swine eating nearby there on the mountain. Instead of this situation, he had a purpose in going over to the other side to deal with these demons these demons. He doesn't rebuke him and he gets up and goes with him when he rebukes them So he heals them. And he wondered at their unbelief. They still took offensive. Why is unbelief so powerful? But in this situation, he rebukes them. And sometimes there are situations that God will put us in where you must exercise faith, acknowledge it. No amount of human effort can do anything against these people. So with this healing, the Jesus' fame spread even more about what he did for this man And he's willing to answer. Um and I think maybe you you already have the question. Well there is a significance where he was proving who he was, like when he was doing things for the masses and some things for personal uh But one of the great things God uh declares about himself is how good he is. It was amazing. No, he was resting. You wouldn't have a story if they had had solace. Is this a Jewish environment? Real quick, what's the difference between him being afraid that his little daughter will die and the apostles being afraid that they may die In fact they took offense at him. It's getting told him to you know allow him to go and broadcast the information So he heals the woman, he recognizes her fate, which stops him from pressing forward with Jerry. Maybe a public confession? You've got confidence in the situation where you're comfortable with. Let's go on to the next one. They know there's a time coming. And immediately her parents were completely astounded, and he gave them strict orders that no one should know about this, and he said that something should be given Just just him being so good. Uh explain that again and uh so the come to him he asked them, do you believe that I can do this? Wouldn't that have made it worse for them to be eat that stage there and did more good for them? It's not necessarily new to, you know, like Peter and and uh James and John, Andrew and so on So that's uh because of time, let's move on. It seems to me that if every time somebody went to Jesus, okay, that he wanted them to They recognize his miracles, they recognize his wisdom, but they take offense at him personally because they think they know who he is. He's had a hard day, a long day of teaching, and he's he's relying on us to get him to the other side They needed to exercise their faith in him. Do you still have no faith? So God comes in and he's done a shit. As Jesus went on from there, two blind men followed him, crying out, Have mercy on us, son of David. You don't know when fear will grip you and uh we may come to God in fear and ask him for help. I have something to say as well that I noticed from this story. The only child. Yeah, fear is the opposite of faith. And so that that's interesting. Um he recognizes it. I was trying to understand this what what is going on here? Of the crowd. What are you just doing? And the uh so Jesus answers their request. But with the uh Gentiles he didn't spend the much bulk of his time with them, he spent the bulk of his time with the Jews. While he was speaking to them, one of the synagogue officials, named Gyrus, came up and on seeing him fell at his feet, bowed down before him, and implored him earnestly. She's about to die. But he stops to address her, which is interesting. Like how can you this is where these people come from? Um they didn't believe that I think it was a judgment. Oh what would they have proved to be in state? Then they sailed to the other side of the sea into the country of the Garacines, which is opposite Galilee. But as he was getting into the boats, the man from whom the demons had gone out was imploring him that he might accompany him. What's the difference? He's in a Jewish community. Alright? Why are these people afraid of what God has done in healing this man and what happened with the swine? And he said to her, Daughter, take courage, your faith has made you well. And on his way, the crowd is pressing him. But then believing in Christ, she thinks that if I could touch his cloak, she would be made well. You know, Jarius's request was urgent. He does want free medals. Sometimes there is. What's hold on real quick what's the term since we're here? Right. They have no confidence in seeing what they saw in Christ. So he rebukes them for that lack of confidence in him and for the confidence in their abilities in the midst of something they have no control. They know they're going to be destroyed. But asleep, and then he saw laughing. But it's it's superficial. So their confidence was in their ability to you know keep themselves, but they couldn't. So I think the question still stands. So he gave them strict orders to tell no one that no one should know about this. And it was to prove that she was alive and not a not a and not a and not a spirit. No, not preventing. What would have been the appropriate response to show Solid thing? And he allowed no one to accompany him except Peter and James and John, the brother of James. Okay. Only God can give somebody the power to believe in him. Right. Really good folks on the fact that they spread his fame? And this is more fierce than I mean several of these guys are very experienced on the Sea of Galleries. Stop weeping. He or you know, you don't care for my daughter. They knew Jared didn't have the same experiences, I guess what I'm trying to say that's your power. He heals them and then he uh but then the Pharisees are there So what do you mean by that faith does not be real? So um in the midst of all the evidence, in the midst of the facts they knew, they still They were employing him earnestly not to command them to go away out of the country But it is interesting that he had Gentiles go out and spread his name in those communities. And other boats were with him. For it had seized him many times, and no one was able to bind him anymore, even with a chain So before this comes about, before this storm comes about, before they're um they make they think they're gonna die, is there something wrong with coming to God and being afraid? No. I can attest to it. So he he was doing a couple of things. It seems to me that if if my if I'm drawing the right conclusion here that there isn't a need for And it was amazing to me how many of the miracles require no faith on the part of the research. So they launched out. So it's not a I hope we make it to you know, he's saying what we're going to do And um they didn't see that What could have been a a a better response for them to show that they had confidence in a situation Uh page ninety-six. So he went away and began proclaiming throughout the whole city and the copolis While you're looking there, Thomas, um just uh And Christ comes in and shows his problem over death. They came to him accusing him of not caring, like he was sleeping. Yeah. Do not trouble the teacher anymore. You know, when they come and say, Forget it, don't bother to teach her any longer and Jesus says, you know, just believe, you know, he he follows the word of Christ, you know. But God gives him this word to encourage him. I find that sometimes it's definitely prepared, at least in your mind if nothing else, that when I face a situation like this And the whole herd rushed down the steam, bank into the lake, and was drowned in the sea. Thank you. Sometimes you know somebody comes to Jesus for healing, like we saw the the lady uh in the grand section, and then And they took offense at him. He rebukes them for being afraid. No. So Jesus is going back over and he tells him to go to his people and declare to them what God has done for them Like you would think, okay, her situation is more urgent. Yes, okay. So there's that sense of uh you know the loving trust that that you have the savior right there So uh again when people engage with these demon demoniacs He ruined their economy. I think the paid mourners. Jesus told them to give her something to eat, and that was very significant. They came to him. Right. Well these people the the town, no one could get near these guys. He could command them by his voice. They they woke him up. Uh Jesus gives sight to the blind, cast out a demon, and is falsely accused. So Jesus has been healing blind people the lane over time now. They didn't even obey him. Why is this so powerful? Little thing that lacquer? He displays these character qualities to people and it's just who he is. So uh to be rebuked for being afraid and they rebukes them twice, do you still have no faith? What would have been the more appropriate faithful response on their faithful response? Prayer believe when we all have those encounters, we make sure we have confidence in God. Well in the in the Jewish community he was he became very, very popular to the point where he couldn't move around freely. Then somebody actually has a great knee and they touch him and he recognizes. And when they speak to Jerry as a brother, the teacher, Jesus encourages him. Right. They are asking permission for something. What else do you see in his interaction? Immediately her hemorrhage stopped. So Jesus comes back to the other side and the crowd is waiting for him. So that those details, that that knowledge is going to be withheld from them in judgment because they would not believe Thank you, Moray. She was just sleeping. Okay, please can you uh I mean I really can't go beyond that. You know, it doesn't take any quite uh requests, it's just who God is. So with his mercy that's a good thing. What is the power of unbelief? However, you know, she still reached out in faith and Jesus still cared about Lack of faith. Because when we can't do that, don't even care. Uh uh Leave, for the child has not died, but is asleep. Yeah, declare it. So he challenges people in different ways. A demon making a prayer request. They were only to point to the fact that he was the Son of God who came So why does he rebuke them? So looking at his example, they didn't follow But then you get in the situation where you have no confidence, and then the fear sets it or the anger sets it, and then you go to God They know I mean they're like, have you come to Tormas before the time? When my grandfather died, well we're page warners because my mother was supposed to fill a bucket with her tears to show her remorse So um and I think that that the the their lack of understanding And Jesus asked them, What is your name? What determines when Jesus does the miracle of healing without the recipient having asked for And he mentions compassion, loving kindness. Is not this the carpenter, the carpenter's son, and the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joseph? And he began to implore him to come to his house, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death He's able to deal with any issue. How can these people uh This is a only job. What determines when that happens? But I noticed that these men said they had faith and believed him And they came to Jesus and woke him up Now he doesn't rebuke the man for being afraid that his daughter is about to die What type of crowd is this? Don't tell them. Not all middle of the needed faith, but this was one of them that was required I always wonder then why did that inhibit Judah's ability to do the They were fearful, fearful, and amazed, saying to one another, What kind of man then is this that he commands? It's just so that we might be able to learn how to handle situations like this. Um so these would have been possibly influenced by Jews, but um very much uh Um guess the second point is And they came out to meet Jesus and found and observed the man And even though they know that a demon can only be a demon, right? God threw something, did something. Seventy six And he said to them, Why are you afraid? What does he really rebuke them for? Yeah, they their trust was gone. But behold, as they were sailing along He was screaming among the tombs and in the mountains, and gashing himself with stones Well, what does this say about any of us who are saved? So you gotta speak up because the mic is up here. Right. He was he was wiping out disease and sicknesses What do we think might have been a good way to have dealt with this in a faith-field manner? And Jesus here is showing like the last minute is not what they thought, it's his last minute. Right, that's God. Then he got up and rebuked the wind and said to the surging waves, Hush, be still. Well there for their fear. Only God can deal with these people. They came, they were both afraid of death He recognizes who we are. I mean it's it's it's a performance, not a yeah. He's in a Jewish community, and he doesn't want this news to get out about what he's getting for these people Um about the fruit and things like that. They know their future. He he was like, You're the only one who can heal my daughter. Past and we preached that in this last sermon It doesn't just say and he warned them, he sternly warned him not to say anything This is in the face of evidence. Say that again, Victoria. I mean they had seen him on words and healing. He came running to Jesus. Yeah. Declare it. I'll go ahead and read the first one that account Lack of faith? Yeah And you God isn't that worried, but they are and this rebuke is not based on ignorance, it's based on what they That's a good question. God is the real deal. And he gave orders to them But they can't be saved, they can't be redeemed. But Jesus, overhearing what was being spoken, said to the synagogue official, Do not be afraid any longer. Okay, so these stories are But in the midst of this interaction with the demon-possessed man in Christ Uh I don't know, is that a difference? God wonders at unbelief. So he didn't put confidence in him. A woman who had been suffering from a hemorrhage for twelve years and had endured much at the hands of many physicians You just never know you come to God with a prayer request or need. Right, the crowd. As they were going out, a mute demon-possessed man was brought to him Isn't it interesting that Jesus' purpose to go to the other side was to deal with the situation? He looked around to see the woman who had done this. And I love too uh you may think of somehow God is a great encourager And so they went into the room. Messiah, right. We're making a big deal of oh they had faith and others didn't have faith. Are we still here at 1015? And their eyes were open. He's relying on the Father. That goes to the question you asked. You know, she's at the point of death. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor They could see the influence and power of the demons and yet Jesus Jesus got up and began to follow him, and so did his disciples Well, Jarrus was being tested that he was getting to know the power of God. They say yes. Declare it. The thing I was trying to get at is is I mean is is there a lesson to be learned that whenever we go to God we we must Come on, but he asked them if you believed I can do this And he could do no miracle there because of their unbelief, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people. After hearing about Jesus, she came up in the crowd behind him and touched his cloak Was critical. But unbelief, he wondered at their unbelief, after all that they do He does not deny anything, doesn't it? But Jesus said, Someone did touch me, for I was aware that power had gone out of me So what are they doing while they're waiting to be paid to to mourn? So in judgment, because they did not believe, they were um he told them not He's getting wet And you know when um uh And so I guess in a sense it's that's the lack of faith, you know, it's like we're going to the other side. I I was reminded of uh this verse in first John. So previously we see that Jesus had The flow of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her affliction He recognizes who I've been walking with him for some years I believe prevented not his power prevented what he could have received. Save us, Lord. And so when they wake him up, they they they want his And he gave them permission and said to them, Go This is a side job. And so when we think about the Psalms of Levent And um uh Uh was that you Moria? And what is this wisdom given to him? That would have made it much worse for them in the face of all this evidence Leaving the crowd, Jesus got into a boat, and his disciples followed him They think they're going to die, but he rebukes them for the sphere. Tell me what do you see As you go from weeping to hearing Christ say that and then laughing Well there there's also the fact that So that's just a reminder to me that um, you know, God cares about all of my issues, all of my problems. In the line of David, the Messiah. They just they were in the moment. You follow me just you want to make me kid because you ate more And I decide I would love to engage with you about this part, uh, but we gotta move on Somebody else God is able to deal with any issue. So the two blind men recognized him as the son of David. Recall your protector, rest in peace, raise your petition Did it require faith? Faith is powerful, but unbelief is also powerful. They knew he could help them, or they believed he could help them 36 And God deals with the real painful situation for the family When the Sabbath came, he began to teach them in their synagogue. 29. The very man who had the legion, and they became frightened. I'm not gonna bother Jesus with Um I'm not saying we should always live by faith, that's for sure. Why is it so powerful? They accuse him of not caring. Go to peace and be healed of your affliction. He sends them into the swine. They began laughing at him, knowing that she had died Taking the child by the hand, however, he And so he touches their eyes and say, it shall be done to you according to your faith. And in the midst of this travel, uh Okay. He did. They didn't believe that he had the power to raise her, you know, like he said And we do we need we have to declare what we believe And in the midst of all this, uh his disciples or apostles are threatened. You know, and so that's the example to follow And in the midst of this Would you help us, please? Um but they don't know when. So her faith was in the midst of a crowd And Jesus sternly warned them: See that no one knows And he said to him, My name is Legion, for we are many. Only God can deal with demon-possessed people. Did somebody pick up the next section? Okay. So I guess my question is what would have been And when they saw him, all the people of the country And so he needed uh he wanted freedom to uh move about and do ministry with the Uh I mean we're just living What are you doing sleeping? What is the mood of faith? They were putting confidence in their ability to preserve themselves. You should have seen enough already to convince you that For he had He's not in a rush to get to Jerry's house So he if he comes to help somebody, I think it's exodus 30 That's why it's interesting too that he Uh that's one more Alright, let's go ahead and break. They came to the house of the synagogue officials What does it say about ministry? You gotta come now. Because a ghost So yeah, it's Uh Did Jesus just There's sometimes just living God does something unique for you Um but uh few more minutes. I'm and the disciples They cannot function in any other way. And but he challenges him, do you believe I am able to do this? Now I go to God instead of going to God So this is another long one, I'm gonna break this up with read I mean they were completely dangerous and powerful and here comes Have you come here to torment us before the time? And so he's afraid that his daughter's gonna die. Gotcha. This is just my observation on the Save us, Lord. It just not I think Yes. Um it is God's responsibility to res Just as Jesus broke bread. What type of crowd is this that they can go from one Uh many years ago, long ago I know for me not And so now this fear of them being having no control of the situation. But when the woman saw that she had not escaped notice Yeah. And that So they know there isn't And in the midst of this crowd, uh synagogue official Jerry comes up to us. Or uh The swine the swine goes early into the swine They weren't thinking So you got a daughter twelve years old about to die and a woman who's had this issue And so he enters the house, they follow him It is uh What was that Okay And he says, little girl, I'll teach you to get up. They said to him, Yes, Lord. But but the things that happen I think And he did. And it might be neighbors. Um I find it If they had the faith Please. And so Don't delay He accepts the acknowledgement of it And so before he rebukes Only God has authority over these people. Do you not care that we are perishing? But I think it's about While he was still teaching speaking, someone Does anybody understand the significance I'd like to hear what Christ Yeah, because the mic is here. And so uh That's the problem So then they're no different from the others, really. They uh Um So it's different. And so Do you have uh So But he We do, he heals them. Once his work was done, he went back to the other side. So I was uh my question Okay See that's where I got confused that. Those who had seen Gotcha. This is what we're going to do. Yeah. He