Now today's lesson, which is lesson 12, is a continuation of the Sermon on the Mount that Thomas began to talk about last week. So obviously our look uh at the life of Christ will not be focused on um his interactions or the places that he went to as much as it is going to be on the content of what he taught in the se in the second half of the Sermon on the Mount. Now the way this particular lesson is broken out, there are five sections in the notes. Each of the five sections, there's enough material in there to make for a uh an hour-long class. But obviously because we only have um what 45 minutes, we're not going to be discussing most of it at length. There are going to be cer specific, I guess, um ideas and thoughts and uh teachings that we may spend some more time on. But I just wanted to let you know that we're largely going to be discussing the content of the second half of um the Sermon on the Mount. Um I would like to have someone um help me do the reading of the passages I should mention though before we start reading Matthew 6, 1 to 18, that the bulk of the account in our lesson is drawn from The book of Matthew, uh, I'm guessing that's probably because uh Matthew's account is more expansive and it is more of a an eyewitness account than Luke's account. The last section does incorporate some of Luke's account into a blended version of the notes. So I'd like to ask if somebody could start by reading Matthew 6, 1 to 18, please. No, I can do that. It's a long passage. Beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed by them. Otherwise you have no reward with your father who is Just a second, I'm right. Who is in heaven? So when you give to the poor, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets so that they may be honored by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. But when you give to the poor, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing so that your giving will be in secret and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. When you pray, you are not to be like the hypocrites For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners, so that they may be seen by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. But when but you when you pray go into your inner room, close your door and pray to your father who is in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you And when you are praying, do not use meaningless repetition as the Gentiles do, for they suppose that they will be heard for their many words So do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. Pray then in this way. Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors, and do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen For if you forgive others for their transgressions, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others, then your father will not forgive your transgressions Whenever you fast, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance so that they will be noticed by men when they are fasting Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face So that your fasting will not be noticed by men, but by your father who is in secret. And your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Thank you So I I think that in trying to understand what cr what Jesus is teaching in this section of the sermon it's helpful to remind ourselves of who his audience um was. From my reading of it back in in Matthew 5, I believe it he was primarily addressing the disciples. Now there were obviously others as well. I would imagine there were some there that were just following for uh either for the excitement or or or there might also have been uh some gentiles as well who had believed. But his primary audience to whom he was directing the sermon I I believe was the disciple. So I think uh looking at it from that uh perspective sort of um helps to uh interpret or or yeah understand uh what he was teaching you. So the question that comes to my mind is um what is the motive for the practice of any kind of righteous work? Why do people do righteous work And what kind of reward are they seeking? Because here you'll notice he does talk, he does talk about um People who practice their righteousness out in the open are receiving their reward in full. So I guess my question has to do with why do people practice righteous works and what do they hope to get from that practice? Now I think the the Obviously you can come up with a lot of answers for that. I think the answer is relatively simple. They're either trying to please God or they're trying to impress God or impress people Now Jesus does point out three examples of um Works of righteousness. The first one in verse 2 is giving to the poor. In verse 5, he talks about praying And then in verse 16, he talks about fasting. I suppose you could also add a fourth one where in, as he does a quick segue into teaching how to pray, he talks about forgiveness. So I guess you could say four, if you would. He assumes, he assumes that his disciples that they will give arms, that they will pray, and that they will fast. His emphasis seems to be on why they're doing it and on how they perform those acts of righteousness. Uh now let me ask this question. Since he seems to he he brings out the fact that uh um People that perform this act of righteousness in public receive their their reward in full. Do you think he is precluding public performance of righteous acts? No, I think it's the motive behind it. Okay. I I think that's absolutely true. And even in our notes, uh uh uh the notes point out that acts of righteousness are done to please God, not men and and that um but but then let me ask then if if the motive is what determines um the acts of of of righteousness. How do we perform it in such a way that we don't get the accolades of men? Now, obviously I'm drawing an application there. I'm assuming that what he was teaching the disciples applies to us. I think I think there are some righteous acts that never need to be public. Giving never needs to be public. With what kind of circumstances would you have that you would need to announce to everyone that you are a giver? No. Um then they're blowing a trumpet. That's you know why would you need to blow a trumpet for that? So I I'm assuming it's a reality that some people actually did do that. Um forgiveness You mentioned that as a righteous act. Well, um it depends on the circumstances. Was it was it a public Was it a public sin that you were forgiving? Is it a private sin? Sometimes nobody needs to know that you've forgiven somebody else. That's between you and God. So I think there are some righteous acts that are public and some that are not. And when you drag the f non public ones into the public, you just blow the whole thing away. That's my opinion. Yeah. Now before we go into the next text uh did anybody want to say something? Yeah. Um before we go into the Yeah, go ahead. This is Tammy. Um Uh um I guess I go back to Jesus' example. He did lots of righteous acts. And a lot of them were public. He gave a lot of his time, he healed people, um, he's on the cross, he's praying for his enemies, um, he's forgiving them So I don't know that whether it's private or public really determines the motive. It's an interesting perspective. Although I think if Jesus brought attention to himself, because he is God, he's totally deserving of it. Well but I think it's an interesting perspective anyhow. Uh what I would like to draw our attention sorry Henry uh just another uh building on that real quick. Um You know, the note that I added there is that acts of real righteousness are done to please God, not men. That's true, but I'm pretty sure there are a lot of people, many Pharisees probably included Who genuinely were trying to please God. But they assumed that pleasing God meant doing things rather than living by faith. And so from God's perspective, he's looking at the heart. They might have thought that they were trying to please God. But deep down they're trying to justify themselves before God, and that's not an attitude of faith, it's one of works. So can't you cannot control I'm sorry. No, go ahead. You cannot control how somebody responds to your good works. Um if the motive is to honor God And the emphasis is on your private time with God. God rewards publicly. So however God chooses to reward you publicly for your private times, that is um God's prerogative with uh I can't act control of somebody praising me for anything I do or say. My my response to God is uh my responsibility. Okay Yeah, Henry. I just wanted to offer this that I know it's important for each of us to be living in pretty close fellowship with the believers around us at at church and sometimes other believers. And that close relationship affords the opportunity to really to speak to each other and ask questions about our motives or things that we've observed And so that's what we should be doing. We should be sharpening each other. We should be maybe questioning each other, not in a um assuming the negative, uh, because that would be actually a a scriptural prohibition to assume an evil motive. But to to actually live in close enough um contact with those around us where we have the freedom and um And we have the responsibility to ask questions and find out if we see something that doesn't look right or sound right, to um to just approach that person, not in a confrontational way, but in a in a loving, close fellowship way. So we should invite those kinds of relationships. I guess small group is supposed to be that. And small group leaders have spoken definitely into my life when they saw something or what that just didn't look right or sound right and so I I had to take it. I had to hear um hear the the Holy Spirit. So So hopefully we should we should know each other well enough and we have a relation a close relationship where where we invite that kind of input Yeah, uh from my own perspective also one of the things that I was thinking about was in the area of praying. Um a lot of times because we meet publicly and invariably we're called we're you know we we have to pray sometimes it is easy to um unwillingly draw attention to ourselves when we when we pray at least a month as I think about it, you know, I think that's something that can happen. Although In in the specifics here, it's talking about meaningless repetition. I feel I feel as though, you know, whenever I am doing something that draws attention to myself as opposed to leading others to look to God or to give God credit that somehow I am perhaps, you know, indulging in this hypocritical um act of righteousness. But anyway, um I hope I don't regret what I'm about to do here. Uh uh sometimes I can go on it you know into rabbit holes. But there was there was this particular um if you look at verse 13 In that passage, when Jesus is teaching them how to pray, giving them a model prayer, he says, do not lead us into temptation. I don't know if you if you were if you uh caught the news in 2017 when the president Pope authorized, I guess, somebody like excuse me. Some uh body that was responsible for um either editing or updating the Catholic Bible And he asked, I guess he he gave approval for them to change that passage to say something to the effect, uh, do not allow us to fall into temptation As opposed to what it's currently says in us, which is do not lead us into temptation. And I believe that The reason why, or might be, maybe not, but uh we know from James chapter 1 verse 13 that it says um let no one say when he is tempted that he's being tempted by God for God cannot be tempted by evil and he himself does not tempt anyone. So obviously God cannot tempt anyone with evil. One of the commentators that I was reading said that before um that before the writing of the New Testament, that the word that is used for temptation there was never used in this in the sense of enticement to sin, but rather it was used as uh to mean testing. Obviously the way the word is used now can I mean has a sliding scale that ranges all the way from uh testing someone to lead to greater purity and growth in faith all the way to the negative, which is, you know uh um tempting someone to fall into sin Now, um if we if we if we um accept that when Jesus was teaching them when Jesus said do not lead us into temptation, he wasn't talking about um praying that God would not lead us to sin, okay, if we if we accept that, which means that that was not the case. But then what would happen is he it would seem like he was Teaching them to pray not to be led into being tested, which is also strange. I would like to to hear your opinions if you have any on the subject. I mean While we we agree that you know God does not lead anyone into temptation for the purpose of them failing or falling into sin, what We read throughout most of the New Testament that we will face persecution. We will face in fact even in James 1, James 1 chapter verse 2, it talks about us facing trials with joy. So if Christ if Christ is praying for us not to be lent into testing, what do you suppose he was talking about? Does it seem strange to anyone like it did to me that he would ask that we would ask that? Um the first Corinthians chapter ten passage. Um they'll put us in any situation beyond what we can handle. Um Uh you know, if you know I can't handle this, if you don't protect me from that. Okay. Any other thoughts? Okay. Well, uh I will say that um It did seem strange to me at first, but then when you think about it, maybe it's not so strange after all. If you think about the fact that Christ, for instance, was led into the desert to be tested, to be tempted by the devil And you look at many other instances where even though even though it seems like just give me a second, let me get my buttons. Right. Even though for instance we are told that um there will be There will be um persecutions, there will be difficult times that come and and and things of the sort in the world The Bible still tells us to pray that we would that we would have leaders that will uh lead in such a way that we would lead peaceable lives. So on the one hand, it is true that these things will happen, but It's not so strange that we would pray that God would perhaps moderate the impact of those difficult circumstances. That's probably the way I can explain how I came to a resolution of this particular aspect of the prayer. I will move on and um so let's move on. Will somebody sorry. Oh Henry, uh this is Julie. I I just was reading um MacArthur's comment on that and he said this petition reflects the believing one's desire to avoid the dangers of sin altogether. I never Thought of it in terms of the dangers of sin, but that might be another perspective. Interesting. Okay All right. Can we have somebody read uh um the next um passage please? Um Matthew 6, 19 to 34. It's another long passage. I can read it. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also The eye is the lamp of the body, so then if your eye is clear, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other You cannot serve God and wealth. For this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink nor for your body as to what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not worth much more than they? And who of you, by being worried, can add a single hour to his life? And why are you worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow. They do not toil, nor do they spin. Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these But if God so clothes the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will he not much more clothe you You of little faith, do not worry then, saying what will we eat, or what will we drink, or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things For your Heavenly Father knows that you need all these things, but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things, food, clothing, etc. , will be added to you So do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will care for itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. Thank you. Uh the the Jewish philosophy of the day, you know, uh was something like this that uh the the person that the Lord loves, he enriches. So we we see in in places like Deuteronomy 28 where God promises to bless the people materially if they walked in obedience to his word, and he also promised to discipline them by reducing them to poverty and want if they disobeyed. So naturally the Jews thought increasing riches was a sure sign of God's blessing and approval, and their highest goal then was to accumulate as much material wealth as they could. But Jesus was teaching here that material goods can be lost. They can be lost to thieves, they can be lost to moth and rust. But on the other hand, it is also possible to store treasures in heaven. where it's eternal and permanent. The challenge is in accumulating wealth there is that danger that one will become that one will you know become uh uh um a lover of that which they have you know accumulated after all I think you read you read somewhere that where um a person's treasure is there his heart will be also So it it uh and Christ is saying here that, you know, i if if you end up accumulating all of this, you may end up, you know being enslaved to what you've accumulated because that's where your heart is and that it's not it is not possible to serve two masters at one time. You're either going to love the one and hate the other. So if if your your love and affection is for the things that you've accumulated, the money that you've accumulated uh it will be difficult for you to at the same time uh uh be serving god wholeheartedly and the flip side is also true if your uh uh um worship and love and affection is directed at God. You will not be enslaved to the material things that uh you obviously have not accumulated at that point. So this This teaching was addressing the false attitude of the Pharisees and the Jews of his day towards money. Now, from verse 25 to 34, he now he sort of switches a little bit and talks about uh um the fact that uh their accumulator accumulation of wealth was really more a substitute of for their faith If one has material means, that person may not see the need to trust God today or tomorrow. It seemed wise to the Pharisees at the time to accumulate uh all this wealth so that their future will be secure, but Jesus commanded them not to worry about their lives or their bodies. Why did he why did he say, you know, don't worry about your life? He gives three reasons. One is Our lives consist of more than just our physical being. A person's life Is not entirely wrapped up in their physical uh presence. Because after all, you know, when a person dies, their physical body is still there, but they're no longer there. And then secondly he points out that you know the Father cares for all of his creatures and They are more valuable than his creatures. And third, he says, you know, he he's telling them that, you know, planning for the future Okay, is not a a a sufficient substitute for faith Their lack of faith, because they were, you know, they they accumulated wealth and plant and all of that made them no different than the pagans who did not know God. So it is fruitless to worry about the future when we've not been promised a permanent future here in this present earth. So basically that's what he was he was telling them, you know, addressing their attitudes towards uh uh money, uh pointing out to them that you know their their focus and emphasis on gathering money was simply uh uh uh an attempt to plan for the future which represented actually a lack of faith and that their lack of faith made them no different than the the the Gentiles who spent their entire life and focus attempting to gather all those things. Now um there is one I don't know if anybody uh found any particular part of that passage um uh impactful and would like to talk about it, but if not, there is this one one section that I would like to bring up and hear what um Um you all have to say about um yeah about it. It's it's from verse 22 where he talks about uh the lamp, the eye of the of the lamp Sorry, the eye is the lamp of the body. So then if your eye is clear, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. What was he talking about there? Maybe world uh world view and how we process our circumstances and how we see the the world of world about us and um the the wisdom and provision of God in that worldview. So if we have a a corrupted worldview, it We we basically operate out of misinformation and we we operate corruptly. Okay Anybody else had any thoughts about that? Yeah, I've always been uh told that it's um I don't know if you guys can hear me. Eric, here we go. Um I've always been told that that's um be it best interpreted as basically whatever you're looking at, whether that's um you know your entertainment choices, your video games, your movies, your um you know Facebook or whatever whatever we spend our time um really looking at uh because those things are the things that uh as the next verse says here we tend to treasure uh in our heart And so those tend to be the things that we fall in love with as we spend more and more time watching those things. Um and then uh then we end up it's a putting our heart away from God. You know, as we end up watching, you know, movie after movie. I know that happens to me with Facebook. You know, I'll I'll get on there and look for somebody's birthday, wish them a happy birthday or something like that. Next thing I know I'm on Facebook for, you know, an hour and just watching, you know, clip after clip of you know, those dogs or cats or something, you know, but um I have to be very careful to kind of guard the things that I I'm watching because I can waste a lot of time, time I could have been spending with the Lord that now I've I've wasted with other things. So I have to be very careful to guard the things that I look at. I think that's what that means. Well if if uh Okay Bill you wanted to say something? Bill go ahead Bill Byler or Bill Roos? Bill oh sorry, Bill Roos. Oh thanks. Yeah, no, I was um I I was thinking that uh this you know, echoes that part in in uh first John that talks about the lust of the eyes, right? And it seems that that the eye here m is probably referring to what you desire Right. Um I think I think that, you know, uh you know, what what you watch like that may be a a legitimate application in our modern times, but I don't think it could be the the interpretation of of what Jesus is saying here to the audience. But I think he has to be speaking more about like that which you desire because in the context he's talking about uh who your master is, you know what who you serve, what you seek after, uh what you will eat or drink or what you will wear. So the I is just m maybe kind of metonymy for um you know, w what you set your heart on, what you what you set your sights on. And then if your desires are good, uh then your actions will be good. If your desires are toward the Lord. Could could could be I sorry, go ahead. Who was gonna somebody was going to Oh it it was it's Karen Milligan here. You know, I'm thinking, and maybe this is not the interpretation that um the Lord, you know, meant was going after, but could it also be the literal eye, the red eye that drinks too much and um is or drugs too much. Do you know? It you can tell when you look at people who don't have clear eyes. Um they're unlikely to uh have that relationship because again the lust of the eye or whatever so maybe but like I think about that literally. Matthew Conaghey an actor once said he always loved that verse And he likened it to the fact that, you know, if your eyes are clear, then, you know, you're not uh using substances to medicate your you know, so just an ideal. Okay. Henry? Um Yes. Donna? Yes. Hi. I have notes in I have notes in my Bible from a sermon by somebody. I'm not sure. It might have been at Pope. where they said clear equates to like generous or single focus and bad is like stingy or divided focus and I assume that was relating to what the original word was, but the idea of being single focus, you know, focused on the things of the Lord versus divided focus I don't know. Pastor Plumley, does that sound familiar to you at all? Uh I I don't remember the sermon, but um I'm just checking the language here and yes, that does seem to be what's in view Um the eye is what focuses on what's in the heart. What Bill will say in those Okay, and I guess I'm gonna defer to Pastor Plumby on this one as well. Can be I uh I know that the the uh The metaphor here can be I think it's almost straightforward if you look at the you know the body uh and the eye in the context of the body. Uh Incidentally, the eye is where light comes into the body. And obviously if the eye is bad or you can't see the entire body will be in darkness. But could the eye also be referring to the heart, maybe? And i i if it is, which would mean that a heart that is set you know uh uh on God so as to hold onto his commands, it would be the equivalent of fastening uh on God's laws. So I I I think it's also interesting as po uh as uh Bill was referring to, uh he moves from uh uh talking about the heart to the eye Um it's on connection. He's talking about what's happening on the inside. Yes. Right? And Um where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And if you're focused on things that are not good then you're gonna be storing up things that are not good in your heart. And that's gonna have consequences. Okay Let's move on. We'll move on to section uh 53, which is judgment of others. I would like somebody please to read uh the blended account I can do that, Henry. Please bring it so that you will not be judged and do not condemn and you will not be condemned. Pardon, and you will be pardoned. Give, and it will be given to you. They will pour into your lap a good measure, pressed pressed down, shaken together, and running over. For by your standard of measure it will be measured to you in return. And he spoke a parable to them. A blind man cannot guide a blind man, can he? Will they both fall in To a pit a pupil is not above his teacher, but everyone, after he has been fully trained, will be like his teacher. Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye and do not notice the log that is in your own eye Or how can you say to your brother, brother, let me take a speck that is in your eye when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye, you hypocrite First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother's eye. Do not give what is holy to dogs And do not throw your pearls before a swine, or they will trample them under their feet and turn and tear you to pieces. Thank you. Um it is it is very common in our day and age to hear people say, do not judge. Um but it's obvious that Jesus is not forbidding um any kind of judgment because if you think about it, the very uh um moral distinctions that are made in this sermon on the mound require some decisive judgments to be made. I believe Jesus is calling his disciples not to be judgmental. Because if they are, they in turn would be judged. Uh and not just not just by the people that they judge, but by God himself. And in the same way, right in the middle of his admonition against uh hipo hypocritical judgmentalism, he calls them to be generous. A judgmental person who is not forgiving or loving actually testifies to his own arrogance and impenitence and in doing so he shuts himself out of God's uh forgiveness. Jesus' admonition to remove the plank in one's eye before attempting to remove the speck in another's is not an injunction against helping a brother or sister who is beset by some sin, but rather it is it is a call to self-examination and repentance in order that one might be spiritually sensitive and better able to help those who have faults or are struggling with some sin. In our notes, there's a comment that says we are not to judge hypocritically So we should examine ourselves before, not instead of helping others. with their sin. Took me a minute to figure out what it was saying there. Um but the idea is um It's not that we're called not to help others, but that before we do that, we should first look at ourselves and be sure that we have dealt with any um sin perhaps of the same kind that we're attempting to help somebody with. Now I have a question for us in verse six of that passage. Jesus says, do not give what is holy to dogs and throw your pearls to swine. Who are the people that he is referring to as dogs and pigs? I think those who are re rejecting the truth Those who won't accept it. So Yeah, those are those are unclean animals. Okay, so would you say would you also say that he is um instructing them not to evandelize those people? I think it's after they've been evangelized, they continue to reject it. You don't continue to um and um share with them. I mean it's like those um who have even what they have will be taken away It's it's kind of a judgment on them. Yeah. I I look at that uh you know, and I and I I I I think uh He obviously his directive was not that he would that the Gentiles would not be evangelized, but that there are some people that give clear evidence of rejecting the gospel, either through vicious scorn and hardened contempt And for those people, it doesn't make sense to invest um you know valuable time and energy. Not that not that, you know, from a practical standpoint we shouldn't be praying for them still, but You know, it just does not make any sense. It is actually a waste of resource to expend uh an agenda. I think that's what it is um the general idea there Okay. Uh unless somebody has something else to add to that, we will move on. Well, go ahead. No, you go first. Okay. So I wonder about us. Um, you know, when maybe it's not just still is as big as rejecting the gospel, when a Christian is doing something that's clearly against the scripture. Um they are in that moment acting like a pig or a dog. I think um I think that's how God sees rebellion. Period. Whether this person is his child or not. That's And and I'm reminded of the scripture that says that Jesus didn't argue or cry out on the streets. So even with people we know, when they're just not ready to hear something, there's no point in keep you know, trying to uh keep trying to talk to them. You you say that once and it's up to them whether they understand it or not. Okay. Greg, you were going to say something? I was just going to comment on that verse 37, do not judge so that you will not be judged. Um, I I think that's often used not in the context. I mean the you know because if you read further down uh it talks about for by the standard of measure it will be measured to you in return. So so it's not that you and and the way it's misused is I've you know I've had homosexuals tell me, you know, do do not judge, you know, you're not to judge me. Well, I'm not judging in in that sense, but it it's to be guarded and be cautious. um for by the standard that you're using, that that will be a measure, you know, that will be used against you. So You know, it's and it's if you're witnessing to them and talking to them about um the lifestyle that that they're in and trying to convince them of of the truth and you know to to come out of that and then they respond, you know, you're judging me. Well You know, it's it's yeah, you don't want to it's not that I I it's any sin will cause someone to um you know God will judge all sin and You know, it doesn't it really doesn't matter if it's if it's homosexuality or stealing or lying. You know, it it's Any any sin, got you know, God is going to judge. We're all sinners. And so I just, you know, you you're you judge in the sense of of wanting them to come to repentance and you recognize that their error and you're trying to open their heart and open their eyes to see that air um so that they they they can see that and and come out of it. Henry, I would like to to add I don't know um I think that also it means that that verse and is about it you know, like when you encounter foolish people. So someone who is foolish and that can be a believer also. There's somebody who's foolish. So foolish is not gonna listen. And there's plenty of verses in the Bible that talks about that. So I think that Um this is uh in this verse what he's saying is, you know, like don't invest in though in those people. Don't give, you know, uh your pearls what you have. Um to people that are not gonna listen or they're are gonna be you know be upset or they're going to you know, like Greg is saying, they're gonna turn things around to you and everything so that's a person that is in a situation of foolishness. That's how I understand it. Yeah, and I think there is there's a very real sentence in which it's just continuing the thought of the previous verses. The important thing when we see someone else, some but even if it's a sin in someone else, it's important for us to um uh check our own heart first and not be hypocritical. Um and then it says then you can help take the speck out of your brother's eye. Well what if what's in your brother's eye is more than a speck What if there really is a log in your brother's eye and they're not responsive to your coming to them trying to help, that would be more giving what is holy to dogs and so on. And so don't it it you you're helping them is not dependent on you so much as it is the Lord using you to do what he's gonna do in their heart. Um so don't overplay your hand or you know your your role, I guess is what he's saying. Thank you. Um So I'm sorry, Greg. I I I I'm not trying to uh except that uh I want to be a little more conscious of time this time around than I was the last time that we met I'm going to read the last blended account, section 54. It says, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened. Or what man is there among you Who, when his son asks for a loaf, will give him a stone, or if he asks for a fish, he will give him a snake. Will he? If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask him? In everything, therefore, treat people the same way you want them to treat you, for this is the law and the prophets. Um and in your notes it points out in very uh I think this is uh There's an economy of words in some of the comments that are in these notes that I like a lot. So I'm just going to read this. It says, God answers prayer with goodness, meeting our needs like a loving father. And he goes on to say, treating others the way we would like to be treated refers to courtesies, which are universal, not preferences, which are individual. Now, if you remember, last week we had a sermon that was based on this passage where Pastor Meek taught on asking and seeking and finding and finding and there is no way that I could possibly improve on what he had to say. But there are uh a couple of observations that struck me that I would just like to emphasize again before um If we have a minute or two, then maybe somebody else can make a comment before we close. But the reason we are to ask with with expectations, because it says that he who asks receives It's because of the goodness of God. And he is contrasting that against us humans who by nature are evil. If we who are evil know how to give good gifts to our children, how much more? But how infinitely much more will God who is Good, the very definition of good, how much more will he give good gifts to his children? The other thing that I wanted to point out was that now while it is possible to take the those um three ways or three means of of making requests of God, the ask, the seek and be uh and and the not. What it's possible to take them individually and maybe just dwell on each one It's interesting, and I think this is something that Pastor Plumby pointed out last week, the progression. Okay, that progression seems to grow in intensity as well as in duration. So I I I I was I was particularly struck by that so such that you know I I I hope that And we'll no longer just be looking at the the the process of asking God at asking and then thinking it thinking that perhaps seeking is an entirely different endeavor all together. But it is all strung together. The process of going to God with a request should, if necessary, involve asking, seeking, and knocking. And God, who is a good God you know, um will not only answer, but answer in a in a manner that reflects his goodness. So I think we have about a couple of minutes if anybody wanted to chime in there and uh just Yeah, Henry, we have one more section. Could I read that blended account? Yeah. What is we do Let me Let me go ahead and read that blended account before we close, all right? Enter through the narrow gate, for the gate is wide and the way is broad that leads to destruction. And there are many who enter through it, for the gate is small and the way is narrow that leads to life, and there are few who find it Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Grapes are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor figs from thistles are they. So every good tree that bears every good tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, nor can a bad tree produce good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So then you will know them by their fruits. The good man, out of the good treasure of his heart, brings forth what is good, and the evil man, out of the evil treasure out of the evil things evil treasure brings forth what is evil. For his mouth speaks from that which fills his heart. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles And then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Therefore, every one who comes to me and hears these words of mine and acts on them, I will show you whom he is like. He may be compared to a wise man who dug deep and laid a foundation and built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and slammed against that house, and yet it could not shake it, and it did not fall, for it had been well built, founded on the rock Everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand without any foundation. The rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and slammed against that house, and immediately it collapsed, and the ruin of that house was great. When Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. Which Jesus came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him. Well, uh in closing, I will just say that um At the end of the day, Jesus addresses the pathway to eternal life. He talks about, he pairs four warnings, one about two ways, two trees. two claims and two builders. Okay, and obviously the focus is still the kingdom of heaven. And some will enter it And some will not. But the sole basis for those who do not enter or those who end up in this tragedy is their response to his words. So yeah, how they responded to the words of Christ determines um where they end up. Okay. Um well it I I think we are pretty much