We are nearing the end, but it's a fantastic end. Today we are on uh lesson forty-nine. And there's three sections. And these begin on page two ninety. Um the first section is Jesus' body buried after Confirmed dead. Section 204, the woman followed Jesus' body to the tomb. And then the third one is section two oh five, Jewish leaders get Roman soldiers to guard Jesus' tomb. A little timeline for where we are starting last week and as we uh move through the next uh several lessons. So Friday, Jesus dies and is buried, dies by around late afternoon, and then buried early evening, and this is speculation, but it's based on the fact that the Sabbath preparation begins Friday evening. Um and we'll read a little bit about and dive into why it was so important to get Jesus into the grave Because this is also Passover week. And so it was critical since the Sabbath was the next day to have everything ready have prepared. Saturday, the Passover Sabbath, Jesus is in the grave. And Sunday, Jesus remains in the grave and resurrected sometime on Sunday. Could someone read Mark 9, 31, 40. Matthew 12, 40. Someone want to read that one too? So we see again another um prediction, prediction is not the right word, uh foretelling that he would be in the grave for three days And three nights. So again, covering that Friday, Saturday, Sunday. That reference, someone could read Matt Matthew twelve, forty. Why would this be so significant? Why is it significant that he has to be in the grave for three days. Buried and then raised again. This seems very straightforward. But what seems straightforward isn't straightforward to the rest of the world. Let me read um some Ideas from the world. This was from ABC not that long ago, 2010. For two thousand years, the crucifix has been a potent symbol of Jesus' death and Christianity. Now one Swedish theologian says that despite the crucifix's proliferation in art and literature, there is scant evidence in the Bible to indicate that Christ was killed on a cross. I don't know, maybe this guy should have been at lessons forty-seven and forty-eight, right? It was pretty straightforward. Um claims to be an evangelical evangelical preacher and theologian. He spent three years combing through thousands of ancient texts to research His recently completed four hundred-page doctoral thesis. Four hundred pages. I guess the lessons forty-seven forty eight probably didn't make it. I would I actually kinda wanted to go and like look for this four hundred page thesis, but that'll have to be for another day. 'Cause I would um boy don't you feel s just tragic that someone would spend that much energy and time almost it just seems like the sole purpose of erasing the truths of the Bible. Um if nothing if nothing else We need to come away knowing that the Bible is true and we need to know our Bible. Because it is clear not just what is written in Matthew, but also if we go back to Isaiah, um, clearly our Messiah would would die And we raise again. And crucifixion, I'm gonna go a little bit more I'm gonna look back at some of the other verses that clearly talk about the crucifixion. Because the crucifixion is very real Right, right. So um let me give a little a little bit of an analogy. We go up to Chicago every year. We drive off. We start off in Maryland Thursday afternoon we drive to about Ohio somewhere and then the next day we drive a remaining way. It's probably fifteen hours of driving. But when I get there and someone asks, how long did it take you to go from Maryland to Chicago. I say, about two days. Did I drive forty eight hours constantly? No. So if we look at the time of Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection, the three days So we know he was crucified and buried on Friday. So there's Friday. Friday night in the grave in the tomb. Saturday in the grave. in the tomb and then Sunday, the third day, probably later in the day, he's resurrected. So he's actually buried three days. Part of Friday, all of Saturday, part of in the grave. So it would be Friday night. Saturday night. I think there's also two different groups of Jews who would had different ways of tracking days and nights as well. I don't know if that would impact that understanding. In fact, I was actually gonna to bring that same point, um touch on some of the other um fallacies that people have pushed regarding um his death and his resurrection. Yeah, in fact just to kind of uh the idea of crucifixion. Um in um in Psalm twenty two sixteen um It reads, For dogs encompass me, a company of evildoer encircles me, that have pierced my hands and feet. That's a picture of crucifixion. Um John twenty 25 where Thomas says, unless I see his hands, the marks of the nails and the place m and place my hand in his side, I will never believe nails. Again, that concept or picture of of crucifixion. An interesting uh statement that he makes, if you choose to just read the text and ignore the art and theology, imagine that ignoring the text, there's quite a small amount of information about the crucifixion. I guess I wouldn't be surprised, but um it's kind of selectively choosing your resources. Um so clearly, whose fiction is there? Another um why it's so important that we spend time on the crucifixion and burial in a tomb, um, what a great way to undermine the Christian faith. That's why this is so critical. Um I don't know how old this idea is, um I don't know how well it's embraced anymore, but uh the swoon hypothesis I'm just going to give you a couple ideas of what else is out there. Um proposed that Jesus did not die on the cross but merely fell unconscious. It was later revived in the appearances of the risen Jesus. Proponents of the swoon hypothesis believe that Jesus allegedly fell unconscious, he swooned and then survived the crucifixion and then regained enough strength to appear before them while he was still alive. Um the crucifixion was a bloody horrific. You uh your arms are nailed to the cross, your legs are nailed to the cross. There is no way you're just gonna survive that and walk away. You gotta really, really push the envelope on on Um this is another um I mean it's it's and the reason I bring these up is just because um attacks on the Bible are out there. Um and so we need to be prepared in the gospels to know exact what really did happen. Um this was another um uh guy who suggested that Jesus deliberately fade his death using drugs provided by the physician to appear as the spiritual Messiah. Um another very strange idea, um but it's out in out there is um a group of supporters um who were members of Jesus' secret society had not expected him to survive the crucifixion, but hear but heard groaning from inside the tomb when Jesus had regained consciousness in the cool, damp air They then frightened away the guards and rescued them. When the guards were put in place to um guard the opening If they went back to say, uh, we messed up, we slept, they stole the body, they would have been killed themselves. So no way are a couple of war torn military Romans going to allow a couple of guys uh to wander in w wearing sandals and and roll away a s a a tomb, uh a stone and take out Jesus Very, very unlikely. Uh one more. Um another theory was Jesus had fallen into a temporary coma and somehow revived without help in the tomb. Um So there's a lot of attacks on the truth of Christ's death and resurrection. The whole point of this intro is really to bring to light that there are attacks on the legitimacy of the Bible from all kinds of angles, and so we really need to be able to defend the truth. Um and we know that the Bible clearly is our main source. And it's interesting all the details and you know why Why this giant stone? Why sealing it? Why having guards there? Because if Christ didn't die and was raised, then we would be lost. So this is a very critical thent. And it's interesting how God uses hateful, unbelieving world and uses them as a uh in his plan to really solidify the truths about the death and resurrection of Christ. Well, uh to to get to your point about why there's so many books and again back to Dr. Plumley's point, um it just don't want the accountability. So I'm gonna make a book or find the things that I want to that that that that justify the w my lifestyle. So that's for that point. But the you know the wide and narrow gate a lot of people will not believe Um so let's go into section two hundred three, let's read the section. And uh again, blending the accounts from all the four gospels. And we'll read the blended section. Um would someone like to read that on the bottom of page two ninety one? So um yeah, Jesus died on the cross, but the fact and the why he died is infinitely more significant or equally more significant. If we look at um what the Apostle Paul writes in uh 1 Corinthians 1, 3 to 6 For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures. And they appeared to Sif Cephas, then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred other brothers at one time, most of whom were still alive, though some had fallen asleep. So again, uh solidifying the fact and the importance that he died, he was buried, and he was raised according to the scripture Acts 26, 22 to 23, again another scripture uh saying the similar uh fact. To this day I have had the help that comes from God so that I stand here testify both the small and great saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass, that the Christ must suffer, and that by being first to rise from the dead He would proclaim light both to our people and to the gentle Gentiles. Um So the confirmation that Christ both died and was raised. Um and there's a great amount of support, not just in the Gospels, but also in the New Testament, in Acts and First Corinthians. Um we can be confident that what we read is true. Um and it's it's a shame that the world refuses to take these eyewitnesses account as part of uh supportive evidence for what has happened to Christ. Let's read some of these uh I wanted to read some of the bullet points So we talked a little bit about Friday as a day of preparation for the Sabbath. Um begins Friday evening. um which was uh uh a tradition uh according to the Jews, uh since you weren't allowed to do work on the Sabbath, the preparation was typically the night before. So Friday night. Um now since the Jews wanted the soldiers to hurry the deaths of those who were being crucified in time for the Sabbath, they asked for their legs to be broken. Again, this wasn't just to cause pain, but it was really to um quickly advance uh the death. So by having your legs broken you couldn't support your weight, your lungs would fill up with fluids Um so you would essentially suffocate. Um now the soldiers confirmed Jesus' death by piercing his side, uh so they didn't need to break his legs, thus fulfilling God's providence the required for the Passover sacrifice, which uh I think it's back in So back in Exodus twelve, forty-six and numbers nine twelve where um the sacrifice was not to have broken bones. So uh very interesting that not only is uh this on the Passover which would require uh sacrifices of n the bones not being broken, but here the greatest sacrifice, Christ, no bones being broken. Um the new tomb belonged to Joseph, and there's a reference back in Matthew 2760, who is rich enough to afford this. Um again he was a prominent member of the council um and a disciple of Jesus, although secretly. And Isaiah fifty f this comes from Isaiah fifty-three, Isaiah fifty-three nine, which has multiple references to um to Christ. His death and his resurrection and his crucifixion. Um the tomb was nearby, it was in a garden, um, so it was close by. Uh the tombs of this period were often configured within a multiple of bodies could be buried together, yet it had separate compartments. The stone, which was like a giant wheel, was to minimize the smell of decay. What was kind of interesting is they had like it's not just like a s like a small boulder. It's a giant rock and it's typically in the shape of a wheel. And they would have it kind of up on the top and they would push it down a ramp and it would get lodged in right in front of the opening to the tomb. Um I mean it was extremely heavy. It would be and the only way to really remove would be you'd have to kinda like push it back up. Um so it wasn't just like a little rock And the fact that it was sealed um and that had two guards to to watch over it um incredibly unlikely that someone would be able to come move move the rock and take away the body. Why don't we go to um section two oh four unless there's any questions. And again, um one aspect of this class is that we think about application How can we use what how can these texts impact the way we live, the way we interact, the way we what we believe? Um they should solidify our faith. Um Let's read uh section two hundred four. The women follow Jesus' Jesus' body to the tomb. This is on two ninety-one. It's very short, but um what do you think the significance is scripture having examples of women. Because women were at best a second class citizen. I think it's very telling um that the women you're gonna see in the next couple of sections, all of a sudden there's like talk about all these Marys and all these other women um at the tomb, following following Jesus to the tomb. Typically women would not be um would not have be in high regard, but we see that they are specifically focused on here And in the next section. Upcoming section. Let's read that. That is in bottom of 291. I can read it. Now the women who had come with him out of Galilee followed and saw the tomb and and how and where his body was laid. Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, the mother of Joseph sitting opposite the grapes. We talked a little bit about all these there's a couple of different Marys um in in in these verses or in these uh passages Then they returned and prepared spices and perfumes, and on the Sabbath they rested according to the commandments. So at least two women were eyewitnesses of Jesus' burial. Now if you were a a a Jew at the time, um the opinion or the or the witness of women would not be held in high regard. Yet we see here in scripture that they are. I think it's very important um in how Christ has um just opened uh to the kingdom everyone for everyone who would be a believer. And how he is changing the way um the people uh can approach God. Now also we see the women freely approaching God. So again the the take home is that um for the for that section there are women real identified persons who a who watched and observed uh where the tomb of Christ was. You also see that they're not fearful. I don't know why we don't hear where the disciples are racing to the tomb. And again it's interesting that just reading about the women, where all where are all the men here? Let's read uh section two of five. Uh this is um all from Matthew twenty-seven sixty-two to sixty-six. Let's read this section. This is the uh Jewish leaders get the Roman soldiers to guard Jesus' tomb. Now on the next day, the day after preparation, this would have been Saturday, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together with Pilate. And this is also an interesting group of people since the Jews would hate Rome and hate their um you know oppression over them. Now all of a sudden we see another scene where they're confiding together and working together. Um And said, Sir, we remember that when he was alive, that deceiver said, after three days I am to rise again. Therefore, give orders for the grave to be made secure until the third day. Otherwise his disciples may come and steal him away And say to his peop say to the people he has risen from the dead, and the last deception will be worse than the first. And Pilate said to them, You have you have a guard, go, make it as secure as you know how And they went and made the grave secure, and along with the guard they set a seal on stone. So here's a direct command from Pilate, sending you guards, you're gonna seal it, um and the guards would understand um to fail would be death. Um so there is no reason to believe um that they weren't going to do this and see it through. Um Now if you had no ceiling of the tomb and no guard, again, it would be claimed that the body of Christ was stolen in order to discredit the resurrection. Um interesting notes, both the chief priests and the Pharisees, though in opposition to one another, knew that Jesus claimed that he would rise again on the third day So they agreed that the tomb should be sealed lest the disciples seal the body to deceive others. And then of the two groups only the Pharisees believed in a future resurrection, but both groups disbelieved that Jesus would rise again. So they were had their own uh their own interests, their own desires, their own their own needs. to see that this what they would call deception would not occur and gather together with pilot to make sure that this would not happen. Um Um and then given their interest in preventing any testimony about Christ's resurrection, they would have extra motivation to debunk um any such claims if they could. So we saw that the three sections, Jesus' body buried after confirmed dead, the women follow Jesus to the or Jesus' body to the tomb. And then the Jewish leaders getting the Roman soldiers to guard the tomb. So there's this major buildup to the most significant event ever, which is going to be his resurrection. Um has anyone ever had what do you think about why there's so much emphasis on this event? What does that impact how does that impact your life? How does that impact uh how you interact with those who um do you not believe. I mean you touched on an interesting thing. What you were before, none of this made sense to any of us. And so what does it come down to? It comes down to only God can change the heart. So that So that the scriptures come alive. So um your prayers are good and um the prayers for that God would sovereignly change and unfree return. Because that is it's it's it's tragic in one sense, and yet it's hopeful that we can pray to God so that that that change will occur. Um but it is not we shouldn't be surprised um that people reject God and that the scriptures don't make any sense because that's what that's what we that's what I did as an unbeliever. Well and it wasn't until God made that change to Oh this stones. Well you mentioned the resurrection. The resurrection clearly distinguishes and defines um and kind of separates from any other religion. Um and it's not just rumor, it's embedded in truth that can be verified. Um and fulfills prophecy. So um yeah without the resurrection we would be like any other. But the resurrection being true shows that God's wrath has been satisfied and that all he said about himself, believing in Christ, and who he said he was and what he has done, that's what a believer is is. And that's why that that's why Christianity, the relationship with Christ, is real. Well that's why that's why we pray, right? Pray that the words will That God will use those words to pierce the hearts of an unbeliever. And to your point, I mean if Christ can say I'm going to die and and be raised again, and he does, therefore can't we believe everything else that he says and everything that's prophesied about him And so there is that hope that uh yes indeed he was God. He did he did die. He did take on the punishment and the wrath for our sin, and he rose again. So let's just not believe this section of scripture That's the believer thing that follows or precedes and follows. So yeah, there's some hope. There's some I can't do it on my own, but I'm not supposed to. Well you know, I mean why we preach verse by verse, why we don't you know We cover every aspect of the scripture, not just well we don't talk about revelation or we don't talk about um we make it a point to to because all scripture is good teaching. rebuking, um kind of fine. Um and yeah, uh there are deceptions everywhere. So that's why um we gather together. That's why we have small groups um to kind of because it's easy to be blinded. And so keeping each other accountable um it really is it it's it's it's it's really a method of loving one another. Um Because it is easy to do so by keeping each other um by not isolating ourselves, um and being in each other's lives, um to God uses one another to encourage, to to teach. Um Um it's not just skeptics, um it's also heretics. And there are a lot of them in church. Um they all have a bank as a common denominator thinking through the evidence from um just a a human um perspective and experience. So for example, early early on, uh the church was struggling with those who couldn't come to grips with the fact that Jesus was fully God God and fully man. So one heresy started from the presumption that okay fully human, but he's not fully God. And so that led to all sorts of contradiction scripture, right? And But it starts with just human thinking or human experience. The other heresy was that he was fully God, but not fully He was just a spirit. And this account of his death and burial made it clear that he was fully useful. He was buried. Um how can God die? Alright, that's that's a hard one to but but Jesus being fully human experienced everything that we do But because he was fully God, yet the grace was to keep him Anyway, it's not just skeptics, but it's it's people who, because of their assumptions, get led astray into error, even when they're trying to come to grips with what And brought out in you know um you know as we're going through first John, you know, the the the um the false teachers coming up and And again, implanting ideas that are not biblical, uh having that works mentality, allowing different ideas to creep in that are not um Any other thoughts, comments? It's kind of a a tragic story, but one of the um when I first became a believer, um I was at UCLA and surrounded by these brilliant people and there was one woman, she was diagnosed with cancer because she would spend uh every last moment of her life in the lab looking down microscopes I'm like, God is just screaming at you the bottom of that dish. I think she just no matter how smart, no matter creation is staring back at her, uh just would not believe. So it's it's I've kind of like found like in science you're either like a diehard believer or you're just the other end of the skeptics. It's not a lot of in between. Which I guess is the way it should be, right? You're either a believer or not believer. You either see the light or you do not Um but it it's sad that um you're working with creation and yet just we're gonna be held accountable, unfortunately. That's our sin. It just blinds us. And just the symbolism there of when we do full immersion, you know, that's part of the sym symbolism, right? Is is putting to death that old self. And I think one of the aspects of the gospel hope that is shared in that is Jesus as truly man went through that death and yet he had victory over he demonstrated victory over over death. And that's the gospel message that we get. That's the hope that we get Um through that. And the significance of it too, I mean, it's freshly back in the times you know, times of the disciples when you as a discipline as a Jew, if you were baptized and you you essentially got up and said, I am forsaking this lifestyle of the synagogue, I probably won't be able to get a job in this in this town anymore. My parents have shunned me. It was a big it was a it was a major statement. Um and so um but that symbolism of the old is gone, the new has started. No other comments or questions, I'll close this out in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, it is a uh uh such an assuring a blessing of assurance that we know that your word is true. That what you said you were going to do you have done. Um or do we just give you um our utmost worship, especially today, knowing who you are, knowing that you have taken on the wrath that we deserve. Lord, thank you for such a clear picture and how you um not only use your disciples and the women, uh but also unbelievers to unfold your great sovereignty. Lord may we embrace it, may we um speak it, may we share it, and may we give you um all the glory you deserve. And it's in your name we give you great things