All right, so last week uh we didn't quite finish the previous lesson, so I think we're on page Uh one thirty three, section ninety-three, the last section in last week's so uh hopefully We'll get through this and today's sections. We'll see how it goes. So uh you know we had a very pivotal section, our last section last time, where Jesus asked his disciples, Who do the people say? that I am and then he asked them, Who do you say that I am? And of course Peter sort of sort of uncharacteristically, but uh there were a few times, uh he nailed it, right? You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Um uh but then we get to that, which is right after that. And so I'm on um page one hundred thirty-three and I'll read this is in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. I'll read the blended account From that time, Jesus began to teach his disciples that he, the Son of Man, must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things. and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. And he was stating the matter plainly. Um, and to some extent they heard it and another extent it was over their head. That this is just not what they were expecting, they're not prepared for this. And Jesus is trying to prepare them for this, right? Peter took him aside, in fact, says And began to rebuke Christ, saying, God forbid it, Lord, this shall never happen to you. So Peter um just prior to that nailed it when he said, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. what was his understanding about his being the Christ, the Son of the Living God, at this point, probably you know, we have the benefit of hindsight. Right. Um Peter understood a lot, but connecting the dots completely, I'm sure, was was hard. Um, this shall never happen to you, he says. But turning around and seeing his disciples, Jesus rebuked Peter in their presence and said, Get behind me, Satan. So Just before this, Christ commended him, saying that um how was it um Blessed are you, Simon Bar Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my father who is in heaven And here he's saying to him, Get behind me, Satan, because uh the idea that Jesus wouldn't come to fulfill what he came to do is uh a thought that Satan would want to put in the minds of of people. Through through his friends, through his disciples. Yeah, yeah, sure. But of course Jesus recognized that immediately. He says, Get behind me, Satan. You are a stumbling block to me, for you are not setting your mind on God's interest, but man's And he summoned the crowd with his disciples and said to them all, If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. you kind of put yourself in their shoes. Take up your cross daily and follow me. When we hear that, we think of cross as being the work of Christ, sacrifice, uh death I don't know exactly what was going through their minds when they heard this. They wouldn't have thought that he was going to the cross, except he just well, he didn't say specifically the cross, but that he would be killed. Um but what is that cross from our perspective? What's he saying to us? Take up your cross daily and follow me. To die to self. Right? We see that taught throughout the New Testament. That we're to not be following our own personal interests, but rather God's interests, serving him. dying to self and living for Christ. Well yeah, we don't see it in scripture. It was uh post script but from Christian history yeah, we we learn that Yeah. Um and apparently all of them, with the exception of John, um, were martyrs eventually. This statement, take up your cross and follow me, uh he said uh at least a couple of other times, and we're gonna get to them. Um well actually we got to one of them already in Matthew ten, thirty-eight, that was section seventy-seven. So he's already said this once, he's saying it now again in the context of uh his Going to the cross, literally, and he'll say it again in uh Luke 14, 27, and that's in section 124 coming up. Um so it's a theme that he's repeating And it needs repeating because when they first hear it it's, huh, probably, right? And it's easy for us to gloss over it too. And not focus on the seriousness of it. Yeah, and an another way of thinking of it, the way I often think about it, is our natural tendency is to go to God as a last resort rather than as the first resort Uh you know, we can manage things on our own, but in those rare occasions when we can't, we think, we go to God. Well that's that's putting self first, right? Uh it's not just abilities, but it's also priorities. That's where we die itself, right? Um okay, I I'm in in the middle here somewhere Must deny himself, take this cross, daily, and follow me. For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save, find it For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and to lose or forfeit his soul? For what will a man give in exchange for his soul? So, you know, our our soul is that immaterial part of us that that um goes on forever. Now the destination of where it goes forever depends on salvation, but um every individual's soul, the real them on the inside, the immaterial part, spirit, the heart, the including the conscience and all that Um, that's eternal. God created it to be eternal. And um what will a man give in exchange for his soul? That is, in exchange for the penalty that each soul is due, right Um and what's the answer to that question? What shall a man give um in exchange for his soul? You can't. There's nothing, right? There's nothing we have or can do that will rescue our soul. So What's he talking about? He's talking about priorities here, right? Eternal with eternity in mind, what are our priorities? And if our priority is all about us, then that's going to go up poof and smoke. And and the only the only uh real alternative is to die itself, surrender to the Lordship of Prize, and uh live with eternity in view For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him when he comes in his glory. and in the glory of his father with his holy angels, and will then repay every man according to his deeds. And Jesus was saying to them, Truly I say to you, there are some of those here who are standing here who will not taste death Until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom, the kingdom of God, after it has come with power. We're going to come back to that in a minute. But um clearly this this whole section here, actually beginning with the prior section, Jesus is really focusing on priorities getting their thinking straight about who he is, the work he's going to accomplish, but perhaps right here, more importantly, they're their response to that, their thinking, their application of it. Um and that's going to continue because it's a hard process to really internalize And to change our our lives. Any other thoughts here? Questions? We're gonna pick up a couple of these themes already. By the way, uh here where he said uh at the outset Um the Son of Man must go to Jerusalem, suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, chief priests, scribes, and be killed after three days rise again. compare them on re on multiple occasions. And this appears to be the first one, at least that's recorded. But as we move into today's lesson, we're going to see three more times Three s so making a total of four, even at this early stage, where he's preparing them for what's to come. Right. So w what would have been the disciples' mindset about the the role and and uh purpose of the Messiah at at this point. So restoring Israel to its former glory, which means independent from Rome, so there's a political aspect, but also I think they were genuinely Um seeing the ms the role of Messiah as being a a spiritual one as well. Spiritual leader. So that combination of political consequences, but spiritual leader and yeah, they didn't see the suffering servant at all, right? Um and so if you're if you've got that mindset and uh you're quite convinced of it, how are you going to respond to the stuff that it seems to be way out in left field It's gonna be, huh? Or um like Peter, that'll never happen, right Lord? No. Um But I guess Jesus knew that it would take some time for them to be prepared. But even with all the the teaching and the the revealing of the details to them. When it actually happened, they still weren't prepared for it. I'm not sure that anybody could have been But um uh fortunately there is enough prophecy in scripture that he opened their minds to it in the resurrection appearances so they say, Ah, now we see in hindsight that this was the plan all along. Um but certainly that wasn't the kind of teaching that was prevalent, um, apart from Christ during those times, those messianic prophecies, uh everybody's mindset was on the the victorious king part of Messiah, not the suffering servant part of Messiah. In fact soon, I think it maybe next week, um, we'll get uh James and John asking if they can be at his right hand and his left hand in the kingdom and who's gonna be greatest and all this sort of stuff. Their mindset was on this this kingdom now, this restoration of Israel's glory and political uh freedom. But you know, isn't that very natural that we get our minds set on certain assumptions and that's what they are, they're assumptions. But we get to the point where we believe those assumptions are truth, and we don't test those assumptions, in this case against Scripture, against whatever Um and particularly in their case, Jesus' words. But yeah. We're going to continue the the theme here a little bit as we move to today's lesson on page 136 This is the transfiguration. Some six to eight days after these sayings, by the way, um Matthew and Mark both say it was six days later. And Luke says it was some eight days after these sayings. Um and all of them are continuing from the previous section. Yeah, thoughts I just had to confirm. Uh and so there's some question about, you know, was it six days or was it eight days? Well, um we usually speak the way that Matthew and Mark do, six days later. So six days from now is when Saturday. Right. Um Luke on the one hand is being approximate, he says some eight days. But he appears to be using the sort of the Hebrew n uh way of um uh characterizing time, right? So um when When you're born, how old are you? That's a trick question. Yeah, yeah. See the Chinese Say you're already well. The mindset is this is your first year. Yeah. Right? This is your first year. So you're starting from You start counting from when you say go. Right? Um and um in the Hebrew calendar of course with we see this with the resurrection Right? Was it three days later or was it on the third day? Technically it was on the third day, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. The Friday actually was he was crucified of course it was the whole Uh but his his death was clearly in the afternoon, maybe late afternoon on Friday. Not much of Friday left, particularly on their calendar. And the resurrection was when on Sunday? First thing Right? So a little piece of Sunday and a little piece of Friday, but it counted as the third day because they're on the calendar three different times. Friday, Saturday, Sunday. And so Luke may be using that typical mindset, but it also is clear that he's being just sort of rough. He wasn't giving an exact uh time there. I personally the the question is w why would they even mention how long they because often we get transitions that give no reference time reference, right? I think it has everything to do with the previous verse. And I think all three of them. Yes. And the it there's a question of whether it's in the same chapter or not, depending whether you're marked or Matthew or Luke. But the very previous verse in all three cases was um Jesus was saying to them, Truly I say to you, there are some of those who are standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. Um And then we lead right into the transfiguration. So I think the point is it was Uh no more than a week later, this happened, which was a a a very um pivotal event and uh it included only some event. Right? Not all of them. Well let's go ahead and read this and then we can come back and discuss that. Um so he took along Peter, James, and John, his brother, and these three uh people have kind of characterized kind of being the inner circle of Christ's disciples, the ones who attended things like this and the the healing of the or the the the resurrection of the girl um Cyrus's daughter and um I think there were some other things too. Maybe in Gethsemane they were a little bit closer to him. Um anyway, took Peter, James and John his brother and went up on a high mountain by themselves The high mountain may have been uh Mount Hermann, which was the vicinity they were in near um Caesarea Philippi. And that's the highest mountain around. It's really the only snow capped mountain you can see in Israel. Um and so they probably didn't get to the summit, but it was um definitely a high mountain. Uh took them up by themselves to pray. And while he was praying, he was transfigured, and the appearance of his face shone like the sun Now if they're praying, why were they looking at him, I wonder? Um there's probably more than just there's probably some brightness of light And uh maybe even a little bit of sound, I don't know. Anyway, uh and the appearance of his face shone like the sun And his clothing became radiant and exceedingly white, and gleaming as white as light. Behold, two men were talking with him, and they were Moses and Elijah. I wonder if they had name tags on But somehow they knew it was Moses and Elijah, who, appearing in glory, were speaking of his departure which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. So they got it The disciples didn't get it, right? Now Peter and his companions had been overcome with sleep, but when they were fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men standing with him. And as these were leaving him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, let us make three tabernacles. That is three tents, temporary places. Make three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. Um And then this is the great part. Not realizing what he was saying, for they became terrified. He knew he had to say something. It's just his nature. He had to say something. Even if he didn't know what it was or what was appropriate, you gotta love fear While he was saying this, a bright cloud formed and began to overshadow them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud. Then, behold, a voice came out of the cloud, saying This is my beloved son, my chosen one, with whom I am well pleased. And then I think, looking at Peter, he said, Listen to him. Don't talk. Listen to him. When the disciples heard this, They fell face down to the ground and were terrified. I think I would too. And Jesus came to them and touched them and said Get up and do not be afraid. And all at once, when the voice had spoken, lifting up their eyes, they looked around and they saw no one except Jesus Himself So um why do you suppose Jesus invited Peter, James and John to this little meeting? Um he probably knew that as as he did with the the raising of Jairus' daughter that he needed some eyewitnesses not just for something to be revealed to them later, but to actually see. And John apparently makes reference to this in the first epistle of John, chapter 1. Jesus had been talking about his his uh sacrifice, his death, burial, resurrection. Uh wasn't computing with them uh and it it still won't compute with them as we'll see going on. But um I I'm guessing, based on what's said here, that they heard this conversation between Jesus and Moses and Elijah. And they knew it was something about his death in Jerusalem and so on. And that's what they had just talked about. Jesus had just talked about Um, and so I guess it's hard to know exactly what uh what Jesus' purposes were here, but I think it serves the purpose of um sensitizing them, if not for the present, but certainly in the future, for the reality that this is God's plan God's timetable and um they need to get with the program essentially. Well I'm not sure if you're just about to get to this, but um the connection between the prior section where it talks about some of the the standing here on his definitely. Is what happens in the transfiguration a complete fulfillment of that or is it just, you know, I mean obviously at least this his part, those standing here are so out of that. Right. Right. Um most commentators think it's the primary, I think they would s use the word primary fulfillment of it. Um the interesting thing about that though is where where he said that, he said, some of you Um there are some of you who are standing here and I think all three of those accounts make it clear that the only audience were his disciples. I may be wrong. No, no, look at Mark, verse 34. And he summoned the crowd with his disciples and said to them, If anyone wishes to come after me, and so on. Um So it may be that the sum refers to only the believers, maybe there's some in the crowd who were not believers, um, but then perhaps a an initial preview of it was seen within a week by these three men. Preview of coming attractions, that's right. Um certainly they were face to face with his glory. Right. Um, right. Okay, let's move on to section ninety five on page one hundred thirty seven I'll read from the Blender account again. As they were coming down from the mountain, he gave them orders not to relate to anyone the vision they had seen until the Son of Man rose from the dead So he's back on the scene again, right? And just like after the raising of Jairus' daughter, uh he told them, Don't tell anybody, even the other disciples For now. And they kept silent and reported to no one in those days any of the things which they had seen or heard, I suppose. Um they seized upon that statement, discussing with one another what rising from the dead meant. No um why would there be some question? Well but um I'm sure all of them believe that there would be a resurrection at the end, or one final resurrection. That's like um Martha when Jesus is talking with Martha right before raising Lazarus. Well I know that you know we'll we'll all raise at the end. Um but Jesus seemed to be thinking of more immediate future, and that was where they were confused. So they asked him, Why is it that the scribes say that Elijah must come first? Come first before what? The Messiah And he answered and said to them, Elijah is coming first and will restore all things. And yet how it is written, uh of the Son of Man that he will suffer many things and be treated with contempt. But I say to you that Elijah has indeed already come And they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they wished, just as it is written of him. So also the Son of Man is going to suffer at their hands. Then the disciples understood that he had spoken to them about John the Baptist. So the the very last verses of the Old Testament The way the Old Testament closed was this promise of um uh this sort of messianic promise of the restoration of all things and turning the hearts of the sons to the fathers and all that. And the angel made reference of that um about John when um his when the angel met with his father, um uh Zechariah. And uh so Jesus saying, Yeah, uh, John is the fulfillment of that. Um but notice here again, he's he's um keeping in the forefront of their minds this his his um Going to the cross, sacrifice, his death, his resurrection. And so this is the second of four in in quick succession here And so coming down from the mountain, uh they see a crowd around this demon possessed boy and his father. And so we pick up that account on page 138. So on the next day, so is that day one or day two? It's the next day, the way we think of it. When they came down from the mountain and back to the other disciples, they saw a large crowd around them And some scribes arguing with them, and immediately when the entire crowd saw him, Jesus, they were amazed and began running up to greet him. And he asked them, What are you discussing with them? And a man of the crowd came up to Jesus, falling on his knees before him, and answered him, Lord, teacher, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic that is um uh demon possessed, uh and is very ill. I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only boy. I brought you my son possessed with a spirit, which makes him mute and whenever it seizes him, he suddenly screams and it throws him into a convulsion and it slams him to the ground and he foams at the mouth grinds his teeth and stiffens out. I brought him to your disciples and begged them to cast it out, but they could not cure him. And he, Jesus, answered them and said, O unbelieving generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring your son here to me. And they brought the boy to him. When he saw him, immediately Spirit threw him into a convulsion and said slammed into the ground and began and he began rolling around foaming at the mouth and he he Jesus asked his father how long has this been happening to him? And he said, From childhood, it has often thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him, and the only and only with difficulty does it leave him, mauling him as it leaves But if you can do anything, take pity on us and help us. And Jesus said to him, If you can? In other words, what is he believing here But in fairness to this guy, his disciples couldn't do it. And they had actually um cast out demons before. They had healed and so on, right But this one wasn't happening quite so easily. And Jesus uh said, All things are possible to him who believes. Immediately the voice father cried out and said, I do believe Help my unbelief. A lot of people have quoted that one, right? When Jesus saw that a crowd was rapidly gathering, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, You deaf and mute spirit, I command you Come out of him and do not enter him again. Quite authority, right? After crying out and throwing him into a terrible convulsions It came out and the boy uh became so much like a corpse that most of them said, he's dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and raised him. And the boy was cured at once and he got up. And Jesus gave them back to his father. And they were all amazed at the greatness of God. That's the way it should be, right? If God i if if something happens that couldn't be explained only by God doing it, then who should get the glory? God, right? That's the point. Um they're all amazed at the greatness of God. But while everyone was marveling at all that he was doing, he said to his disciples, Let these words sink into your ears He may have used some emphasis like that, I don't know. For the Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men But they did not understand this statement. And it was concealed from them so that they would not perceive it. And they were afraid to ask him about this statement. When he came into the house, his disciples began questioning him privately. Why could we not drive it out? And he said to them, Because of the littleness of your faith. For truly I say to you, if you have faith the size of a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move. Nothing will be impossible to you. This kind, that is this kind of uh demon, cannot come out by anything but prayer and fasting. Um We're gonna see later in section one hundred fourteen another example of a persistent or a difficult dem it's you know say range and difficulty I guess um um where Jesus referred to um uh a demon going out and then finding seven others more evil than it and then coming back and and uh it so casting it out once isn't necessarily the end the end of the story. And uh that apparently was the case here too. Well, like you said, he's clearly um addressing their faith But in doing so he's he's saying that it's not the size of your faith. Well if it's not the size of your faith, it gives just a teeny weeny bit of faith. It's the object of your faith And what is the correct object of our faith? Yeah. And that is our faith. Right, yeah. And so It may be, I'm I'm kind of just reading into this maybe, you know, they've had experience casting out demons. And um that amazed them. They came back and reported, right? Being human, doing something so supernatural, they may have thought, wow, I could do that and very easily lose sight of, no, it's God doing it through you. It's not you doing it. Right. Um not to say that they were all proud necessarily, but um Jesus is saying, put your faith in the right place. No matter how small it is, and um God will use you as he's pleased. Now, it's also true, we see here and we see um elsewhere in Matthew twelve that some demons were harder to um um cast out than others. Um But in all those cases it needs to be done under God's authority, submission to Him, uh not for our credits or anything like that. Um Very much connected with that um that point he's already been trying to make. It's dying to self and letting God work through you. Uh, you know, you you're not God's best gift to um the world. Um you're but servants. Yeah. That God can can use. Ah, good question. Is is there some uh is is this a good example and maybe even teaching that Um fasting is is a part of of um what God expects. Um I wouldn't necessarily go to this as a primary passage. I think it's It's reference to it is is helpful, but there are other more clear passages about our responsibility to fast, like in Matthew 6 and probably some other places. Um but yeah the answer to the question is fasting is or ought to be a um a common uh discipline that that um believers would um would follow. Typically the fasting would be um for special reasons, purposes, occasions when uh complete dependence on God, um uh f focusing on the the challenge at hand and making sure that I'm not doing this in my own strength but um doing it in submission to him. Those would be some occasions when when it might be helpful But of course Jesus' teaching on that in Matthew six in the Sermon on the Mount is you know don't be like the hypocrites who make it obvious that they're fasting and look at me, you know, I'm I'm Goody two shoes. He says do it in private. Don't let anyone ha get any thought that you're fasting. It's between you and God Um and it's getting your heart right with God for this challenge that you're facing or that you're facing with someone else for them. But his point here, I mean that where that fits in here, is that yeah, it's like we've been saying, it's What's needed here is complete submission to uh God. It's not about us. Um yielded to him, it's his power working through them, um, not their own skills or knowledge or anything. And fasting helps to focus those realities. That's a part of taking up your cross daily and following him. The focus is on him, not on us. This is all about um touches on philosophy of ministry, right? How should we go about ministry? Is it just like uh other work tasks that we would do. No, it's all about God. Right? And needs to be done in His way, in His power Um and we need to be aligned with that. Um or we're gonna be potentially doing more harm than good. Well that he's he's changing you a little bit at a time And when you look back you realize wow he's made up a lot of change, right? But yeah, um he's t it's all about him, not about us That's mainly the point I think that Jesus is getting at from several perspectives here. Um taking up our cross daily, submitting to him, uh obeying him, uh being his representatives out in the world Uh all of that. Okay, well that's uh hey, I think we're gonna get there. Um section ninety seven on page one hundred thirty nine. From there they went out and began to go through Galilee, um, which meant that they were kinda going kind of southwest from where they were. Um Mount uh Herman. So they went uh began to go through Galilee and he did not want anyone to know about it. Know about what? His being there. Why? As soon as word gets out, what happens? Who wrote crowds? Crowds and everything. Now did he not like the crowds and the people? No, he loved them. He was compassionate toward them. But there came a time when he needed to focus on this preparation of his disciples. And um for he was teaching his disciples and telling them the Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men and they will kill him. And When he has been killed, he will be raised on the third day. But they were deeply grieved and did not understand the statement, and they were afraid to ask him. They're just regular folk, just like us, right? But he saw the need to keep saying it. And um for once maybe the best thing was to Not respond, not to say something. Even Peter didn't say something here. I it it's hard to know what's going on in their head, except that we know that their expectations for the Messiah, and they believed he was the Messiah, their expectations were completely different from what Jesus was telling them Yeah, yeah, for sure. Yeah, we get caught up in activity and often our communion with the Lord takes a toll Um so he was seeking every opportunity to prepare them well. Um I'm sure even knowing that um um They weren't going to completely give it until after it happened. And so then he opened the scriptures to them. Now I why wouldn't he have just opened the scriptures to 'em before his sacrifice, saying, Look, here's what the prophets say, here's what all of the the scriptures say must happen to the Messiah. This is what's going to happen to me. If I were doing it, I think I would have just laid it out like that before it happened. Um but there's a sense in which well he knew that the scriptures also said that um um they would be scattered. And why would they be scattered? Because they're They're afraid and and uh unprepared for it all. Um and we read here earlier that um Uh, I guess it's from Lou, but they did not understand the statement and it was concealed from them so that they would not perceive it. So he needed to keep saying it, but he must have understood that that uh they weren't capable of understanding it. But they would one day And they would remember that he kept repeating this and that it's consistent with prophecy. And so after the resurrection and certainly after Pentecost, um they had all the pieces And uh suddenly everything was kinda coming in place. Yeah. So that's the fourth time here. He's and we've seen him all f all four of those times today. Uh there are references earlier in his ministry like um In John's Gospel when he cleansed the temple the first time early in his ministry And he said, um, no sign is going to be given to this generation except the sign of Noah or actually that occasion he might not put it that way, but he said, um um just as Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days, so the Son of Man uh will No, I th and w w what he said at that occasion was, Tear down this temple And in three days I'll rise it aga raise it again. And they took that to mean the Jewish temple and he was referring to his own body. And John makes the commentary that we didn't understand this until after the fact, but that's what he was referring to. And I'm sure a lot of these things he was saying here didn't make a lot of sense to them until later, when the the events happened It would he explained it to him after the resurrection. Um yeah. Okay. Uh section ninety seven. Oh it just did that. Ninety-eight. And this is just Matthew. When they had come to Capernaum, those who collected the two drachma tax came to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the two drachma tax? This is a Jewish tax, not a Roman tax. And he said, Yes. Yes he does or yes he doesn't, I don't know. And and when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth collect customs or poll tax from their sons or from their strangers? From sons or from strangers? And Peter said, Well, from strangers. And Jesus said, Then the sons are exempt. However, so that we do not offend them go to the sea, throw in a hook, presumably attached to a line, and take the first take the first fish that comes up. And when you open its mouth you will find a shackle A shekel is um four drachmons, and so there's enough there for both of them. Take that and give it to them for you and me. Um so several principles here I think are are important. One that um we don't want to be an unnecessary offense to unbelievers. And we see that in multiple places in the Gospels and in the epistles. Um and you know we can by way of technicality, say, oh we're you know we're exempt from something or we shouldn't have to do that or whatever. But um we want to be cognizant of the impact that we're having on other people And so we want to not cause them to stumble and and miss the big things because of something little. The other thing I think that's important here, and we see this everywhere, we haven't commented much, but when Jesus told Peter how to pay the tax. A he used Peter's expertise, fishing. But I don't think Peter ever caught a fish with with a um a shekel in it. Maybe he didn't have a check. Um so what he asked Peter to do was something that Peter said, oh That's that's in my wheelhouse. I can do that, right? But it was something supernatural that even Peter himself couldn't do. Um why didn't Jesus just say, here's a shekel go paint for t the two of us. He wanted Peter involved in the the miracle Right. And it's often that way when God performs a miracle, when God intervenes, when he commands us to do something, um Um you know, you you look at at the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew six, when Jesus says, you know, don't worry about your your food and your clothing, um, look at the birds of the air and the lilies of the field, how God cares for them. Um he's not saying not to work. He's saying just don't be anxious. Don't fret. Your Heavenly Father is going to take care of you, but does that mean that we have nothing to do? No, we have a lot to do. We need to be hard workers. We need to be diligent. We need to be faithful to do what we're called to do, but even though we recognize that that in and of itself isn't sufficient. It's not even the core of it. The core of it is God's provision for you. But he involves us in the provision. And it always works like that. Um well I say always. I mean there there's some times when miracles happen that are just, you know, out of the blue, but when he commands us to do something It's all it's usually with the recognition that ultimately he's the one doing it, but we have a role to play, right? And our faithfulness is important, our diligence is important, but our mindset is even more important But the mindset is God is the one who's caring. God is the one who's providing. God is actually doing the mirac. It's a miracle here. And he's trying to see he's trying to teach Peter to trust in him Peter has a role, he has things he should do, but ultimately the solution is God's. Okay. By the way, for anybody who's Curious. Uh this is in Matthew. Um it's called a customs or poll tax. A poll tax is a tax that's imposed on each person. So it's a specific amount each person would pay. So it's not a percentage of anything, it's um it's a per person tax. And it's connected to the word poll the way we use it nowadays, taking a poll or something, it's it's getting input from each person. Um and there were several things like that. But this one was one that was commanded in uh do I have a reference? Yeah, in Exodus. Um Um so that's what that is. Well, we're supposed to end, I think, now the twenty of is it? But I hardly ever do it. Um But we had last week's last section to do, right? So we had reason. That's right. Father, what a um humbling and enlightening thing it is to observe Christ from the pages of Scripture and to glean from that study uh an understanding of um his heart for us, character, his methods, and uh Lord it just gives us many reasons to trust him more and to take up our cross daily and follow him. We pray that we'd be faithful in that That would be growing in that and that would bring honor and glory to you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.