All right. Well, welcome to the fourth quarter of the Life of Christ. This is not the fourth out of five. This is the fourth quarter as we've been studying through the the Gospels and drawing from all four of the Gospels as we go through chronologically. I hope you've seen If you've been here with us, you've seen um the character of Christ, not just the actions of Christ, but the character of Christ. And um how it's kind of like the nation of Israel, uh how many of his close followers, including the disciples, um just didn't get it. And um Then we realize, you know, if we were in their shoes, we probably would be acting the same way. Um and we're going to see today, I mean the title of this lesson is The Failure of the Disciples. Um let's not point our finger too much at them because if we were in their context and with the mindset that they had uh um developed, I guess, over a lifetime, uh we would have pretty much had the same response mindset, I guess Anyway, the failure of the disciples. I'm on page 240 in the notes, section 169. And Here, as in um uh much of what we're going to be looking at, uh it's drawing for all four of the Gospels. Uh we're in the upper room. Uh if you remember You know, Jesus has washed their feet as an example. He has um uh begun teaching them that to be a leader they need to be a servant of all, right? Um well here we get to the part where Jesus announces that someone will betray him and we see of course that it's Judas. So I'll be reading from the blended account. As they were reclining at the table and eating, he said, I do not speak of all of you. I know the ones I've chosen, but it is that the scripture may be fulfilled, he who eats my bread has lifted up his heel Against me. Now that's a quote from Psalm forty one, verse nine, where uh David, who was the author, uh, was recounting a lot of the the opposition he was getting, and he did that in quite a few psalms Um but Jesus is saying here that this is actually, while it was true of David, it was also prophetically true of the Messiah. And so Verse 19 from John. From now on, I'm telling you before it comes to pass, so that when it does occur, you may believe that I M P Truly, truly I say to you, he who receives whomever I send, receives me. And whoever receives him When Jesus has said this, he became troubled in spirit and testified and said, Behold, the hand of one betraying me is with mine on the table. And so they understood clearly one of us, he's he's saying, is going to betray him. Truly I say to you, That one of you will betray me. The disciples began looking at one another at a loss to know of which one he was speaking. Being deeply grieved, each one of them began to say to him one by one, Surely not I, Lord. And there was reclining on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, which of course was who John, who was writing that that gospel. So Simon Peter gestured to him and said to him, Tell us who it is of whom he is speaking. And he communicated that by his gestures You know, sign language. Um verse twenty five. And he, that is John, leaning back thus on Jesus' bosom, said to him Lord, who is it? And Jesus answered, It is one of the twelve. He who dipped his hand with me in the bowl is the one who will betray me, the one for whom I shall dip the morsel and give it to him. For indeed The Son of Man is to go just as it has been determined, and it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for him, for that man, if he had not been born. And they began to discuss among themselves which one of them it might be who was going to do this thing. And Judas, who was betraying him, said Surely not I, Rabbi. Jesus said to him, You have said it yourself. So when he, Jesus, had dipped the morsel, he took and gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. And after the morsel, Satan then entered into him. Therefore Jesus said to him, What you do, do quickly. Now One of those reclining at the table, uh no one of those who were reclining at the table knew for what purpose he had said this to him. For some were supposing, because Jesus had Jesus, Judas had the money box, that Jesus was saying to him, buy the things We have need of for the feast, which is going on for the whole next week, right? The feast of unleavened bread. Or else that he should give something to the poor. So they're just they understood now it was Judas, but why he told them to go, they didn't connect it with the betrayal and they were still pretty confused. Um or else they should give something to the poor. So after receiving the morsel, he, Judas, went out immediately and it was night. So Um it seems like even after all this happened and Judas left, um, because Jesus didn't specifically say Judas is going to be the one betraying me and sort of confronting him there. Um he was pretty clear with Judas himself, um, but the others were not clear what he had said, why he had said it, what Judas was going to do, and it was sort of They didn't make much of it at this point. Um and I'm guessing, because of all that, that because there's so much that Jesus said, particularly in these later days, that was kind of over their head that um they weren't sure what he meant and they kind of dismissed it. I I don't think they were were uh grieving or because they didn't understand Uh it's only in hindsight that they really understood. Yeah, I think I think it's the latter because all of them basically asked the same question. And so so as to not give himself away to the others, he had the same response that they did. Right. One by one they were all asking basically the same question. It's not me, right? I hope. Um yeah, so John's on one side of him and Judas is on the other. And so he's able to have a sort of a a local conversation. Yeah. But the others apparently heard that he said whatever you're going to do do quickly. But because they didn't have any context, or do they they weren't connecting the dots, they didn't understand what he meant. When you think about the context There's a lot of tension built up and building up between official Judaism and Christ And he's getting more and more um vocal and challenging to the Jewish leaders. Um and actually, uh I now forget I think it was right before the raising of Lazarus when there had been a fairly pointed um confrontation with the Jewish leaders and They were picking up stones to throw to to stone him. Um but they departed from Jerusalem for a spell and um uh when news came that that Lazarus had fallen ill And then they were waiting until he actually died. Jesus was waiting until he actually died. And Jesus said Judas Jesus said, um, let's go back to Bethany. And they're wondering, well, he's already dead, you know, what are they gonna do? But Thomas, at that I think it was at that point, said, okay, kind of sarcastically I think. Said, all right, let's go back so we can die with it because they knew that him being back in Jerusalem is going to be a lightning rod for more of this confrontation and maybe stoning. And if they're going to get him they're May well likely get us as well. They might miss Jesus. Um and so I think the context in their mind was this tension And but their expectation was that Jesus would basically overthrow them, he would take over the throne of of King David and and all was well. they were reinforced I think in that presumption with the triumphal entry, thinking that he was being heralded as as the Messiah and uh the ducks are falling in a row, um and so they were less and less ready, I think, for the possibility that um the Jewish leaders would actually win and prevail. They were very much thinking that it's here and now in the sense it's it's sort of a political kingdom, which you know, the kingdom of David and and so on. It was all here on this earth. It was God ruling through him, but it was very much a a um a here and now physical kingdom And of course when Jesus was interrogated by Pilate, we haven't gotten there yet, and Pilate asked him, So you are a king? And he says, Well y yes, but my kingdom is not of this world. And people weren't understanding that. In fact Pilate didn't understand it. Um yeah. So uh yeah, betrayal. Well of course Jesus had told them multiple times that he was going to be handed over to the religious leaders and actually specifically said, crucified, but on the third day he'll arise. And of course this didn't compute with any of his disciples. It went over their head and um not even his announcement here helped them to put those pieces together. Um and I think I mentioned was it last week that God may have actually supernaturally Um kept them in the dark. Even though Jesus was explicit for their eventual understanding, the more confused they were now and the more scared they were at the crucifixion, the less likely er uh it would be in anybody's mind uh these disciples were able to conspire to steal the body and pretend that he was alive. They were in no condition to do that. Um and it was it was very real. They were scared, they were had a completely different mindset than what Jesus was teaching them. Um and And so when he said this, someone's going to betray him. It didn't compute. Okay. So um for what it's worth, um I became aware of a question that we're not actually going to cover much at all today, which is on the next page, 241, or begins on the next page and keeps going. Was the Lord's Supper instituted after Jesus left The upper room, after Judas left, uh, or was it before? And it turns out if you look at all four of the Gospels, you don't get any direct answer to it. You have to make inferences. Um Why does it matter anyway? Well the reason it matters anyway to some is the words we have recorded of Jesus, this is my body which is given for you. Who is it given for is a question that's foremost in many people's minds. And um if ju if Judas was present, then it may have a different meaning than if he wasn't present And so I'll let you read through that. I'm not going to spend a lot of time today unless you have some questions. But it's all laid out and for what it's worth, this is just my take on it. This is not inspired like the Bible is, but I try to deal with scripture uh from what we know. Okay. So with that Uh I'm on page two forty-four. Jesus rebukes the eleven for seeking to be the greatest. Does it sound like deja vu? We've been there already, right? And this is now uh only Luke's account while it was in the upper room. Other accounts came earlier at other times, but this one is in the upper room. So section 170 Uh and there arose also a dispute among them as to which one of them was going to be regarded as the greatest. Now think about the context. What had Jesus just done here in the upper room? Yeah. Demonstrating and teaching them that they should follow his example and be a servant of all, right? But um there arose a dispute Not just a question, but a dispute. So they must have had different sides on this question, right? No, I'm certainly the greatest. Anyway, he said to them, the kings of the Gentiles lorded over them And those who have authority over them are called benefactors. But it is not that way, this way with you. But the one who is greatest among you must become like the youngest, that is what? The most junior not senior. Uh and the leader like a servant. For who is greater? The one who reclines at the table or the one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at the table? But I am among you um among you as one who serves. You are those who have stood by me in my trials, and just as my Father has granted me a kingdom, I grant you that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom. And you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So he's he's teaching them again the need for um humility. servant leadership, um being servant of all, not being served, following Christ's example. But he does tell them that You have stood by me in my trials and he could have said parenthetically, and you've got more to come, um, and that you will Sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. But what doesn't he say? Which one of them is going to be a greater throne than someone else, right? Uh basically what he's saying is, yeah, yeah you you've gonna there's gonna be honor and and uh responsibility and so on in in his kingdom, but there's no particular distinction between them. You'll sit on twelve thrones. Yeah, yeah. So uh I've I've noted there in the first bullet the the previous sections we've looked at where he's dealt with this issue. You know, one of them was uh when Peter and John apparently coaxed by their mother. uh said, uh grant that uh we can sit at your right and your left in your kingdom, meaning at a higher position of of of uh recognition at least, let alone authority perhaps, uh, than the others. And uh so it's not just they're not computing his his uh teaching and predictions about his coming crucifixion and even the resurrection, but it's other things like this that just didn't compute. Um yet. Eventually it would. And maybe Jesus knew that with the coming of the Holy Spirit, um they will an end the resurrection. The combination of the resurrection and the the Holy Spirit uh starting with the Pentecost, turn these guys around. Um and of course the Holy Spirit was instrumental in bringing to mind the things that Jesus had said and said, oh now I get it. Connect the dots and so on. There's a lot of that going on Jesus spent forty days with him after his resurrection and connecting a lot of those dots. But right now it was sort of business as usual. Um maybe I I don't know But maybe they're thinking which one of us is greatest because Jesus talks about leaving. And if he's gone, who's going to be in charge? So that's sort of the natural human way of thinking, right? Uh I don't know. But anyway, it came up again and he gives them An answer that's pretty much like he's given before, but it on this occasion he says that in reality you are going to be honored, but by implication the honor is equally shared. Um yeah the question is, is there a way you can tell uh by virtue of your service to the Lord here uh what your degree of honor will be in the Kingdom to come. No, I think the the the principle we see in Scripture is that there will be um honor given to those who have um uh been faithful to the Lord and it's probably going to surprise us um what God honors. It's probably not going to be from a human perspective what people honor. It's going to be humility. It's going to be trusting completely in him, obeying him, um representing him well at the very least. Um But ultimately what's going to happen with those crowns that people are given? Cast those crowns at the feet of the Of the Lord. So it's all him. Uh the second bullet there, I I just want to get you thinking. Put yourself in Jesus' shoes. You know, you spent all this time with these guys. and you're you're involving them in ministry um and you've discussed this very topic of who's greatest on multiplication Um and here they are right before he gets turned over to the religious leaders. He I mean he's gonna die tomorrow. And these guys still don't get it. Just think how discouraging from a human perspective that would be. Now Christ, of course, knowing the end from the beginning, um knows that the resurrection is going to and his appearance to them and discipling them afterwards. And then the coming of the Holy Spirit is going to make a huge difference. But even so, these are the guys you're going to lead the ministry to, right? Um And I think I mentioned earlier that in Matthew 28, right before the Great Commission of verses 18 and 20, verse 17 says, as they assembled, some doubted. Not exactly and this is even after the resurrection, some doubt it. Not exactly the the team of world changers that you might want to have, right? The A team. On the other hand What better context in which the world would see that this is all of God and not of very sophisticated capable people? It's all of God. And God can use anybody. Okay. So you gotta imagine Christ here is kind of if I were him, I don't know, I can't imagine that. But biting his lip. Um but he didn't he didn't cease from teaching them, even though he knew that much of it was going to be over their head right now. The Holy Spirit would bring it to their recollection and it would all come together eventually. But right now, um they weren't connecting. Okay. Any questions, thoughts there so far? Um no, I uh this is all Jesus isn't being taken by surprise here. Uh disappointment, yeah, probably natural. But um it's not like he was depending on them to be go-getters and and um The the fact that they were just real people and had flaws and even sin and doubts and so on, um Um didn't stop him, didn't prevent him from doing what he needed to do. I mean you look through all of the scripture and you see the accounts of God using people in spite of them. Right? And it's the same thing here. And so his coming again is is not because of any failure on people's part But uh it's just a part of the original plan that there was a period of time and at the is at the appointed time he'll return and usher in uh his kingdom. Uh Um now that doesn't mean that our failures is without consequence. There are consequences to our failure. Um and I think in the most general sense, if we fail him, he'll raise up somebody else, right? He's not limited. Um but we we can bear consequences of of uh our disobedience or lack of faith, um, to have more consequence on us than it will be on God accomplishing his ultimate objectives. He's going to do that anyway. But the question is, is he is he gonna do it are we gonna allow him to do it through us, or are we going to allow ourselves to fall short? So that's um that's a a good summary of what we would call the sovereign will of God. And there's nobody who can change that. It's just his decree and his his plan and he's going to carry it out. But we're still accountable when we resist that. It doesn't doesn't limit his ability to continue to accomplish what he set out to do, but our involvement in it and our our our um lack of involvement or or our uh resistance and not uh lack of full cooperation at the very least has a bearing on us, not on God. God's gonna do what he's gonna do anyway. The um complexity, I was gonna say irony, but maybe the complexity of that is to an extent it will be on this earth in the millennium millennium, right? But that's not the totality of it, right? It's it's y you're right, you need to think um uh it it's a spiritual kingdom, an eternal kingdom, not a kingdom of this world. And Jesus said, My kingdom is not of this world Right. Um but yeah, they they probably had I mean all they knew was kingdoms of this world. And Uh the one they preferred was the kingdom of David, and the son of David was going to basically restore that, and that's their mindset. Understandable given their context, but um we have the benefit of uh of being able to look back in time and have the fuller breadth of scripture see that uh it's bigger than that. Yeah. Well that's That's true in so many ways that as we go through life, our perspective is here and now. But if we were to interpret the things of life from an eternal perspective, we would probably do some different things. Uh interpret things differently, uh respond to things differently. Keeping that eternal mindset as good um in general, but certainly when considering the the the ministry of Christ, it's crucial Consequences uh associated with our not particip uh obeying and and doubting and And whatever. The Apostle Paul gives an example in 1 Corinthians 3 of leaders who would be establishing ministry and conducting ministry, uh and um his warning is to be careful how you build that. Uh you can build with um gold, silver, and precious stones, or wood, hay, and straw. All of them are construction materials. But in the final analysis, what's going to happen to those building materials when they're exposed to judgment the fire of God. The wood, hand straw is going to burn up. It's it's not doesn't have any eternal value. The gold, silver, and precious stones is what's going to come through that is purified. And Now the gold, silver, precious stones, and woods, hay, and straw are figurative of the our effort. And he was focusing particularly on those who were building the church and building the church, the the ministry of Christ and and so on. But I think there's there's certainly application to everybody that we need to be careful how we build on the foundation. And he says the foundation is what? Price. And once it's exposed to the fire, if all you have built with is wood, hay, and straw, what's what remains after the fire? Just the foundation. And he says, if that's the way you build Um he who builds in that way will be saved yet so as through fire, is what it says. Um so nothing to show for it. If we're building with disbelief, disobedience um selfishness, those things are not going to be they have no eternal value and so they're going to vanish and we've got nothing to show for it. And related to that, Paul speaks of the judgment seat of Christ as a time where believers, where their their eternal destiny is not the issue because they're believers. But there is a judgment, nonetheless, of our our obedience to him as believers and uh that's ref the the Greek word for that judgment seat is abhima, which um it's the word used in the Olympics when there's a um judges, you know uh uh 7. 1 and uh uh eight point two and whatever the scale is, uh the judging that goes on. But if it's a race, uh really the clock is the judge And whoever has the shortest time is the winner. Do the do the ones who come in second, third, fourth, and fifth and sixth get punished? No. But they're not rewarded. All that effort and they're not rewarded because their effort wasn't strong enough. Well, in the Olympics or any kind of race like that. And it's similar to that. I if we are not faithful in serving Christ, um, we'll have nothing to show for it and therefore nothing with which to glorify God. In the end. So that's the eternal consequences. But there could be temporal consequences as well. The conviction of the Holy Spirit. prompting us and we're we're he's nudging us to to step out in faith and to be obedient and to uh serve the Lord and others and we're resisting that and that conviction of the Holy Spirit can um be real uncomfortable sometimes times. Sometimes he uses a two by four to get our attention, you know. Um but there could be practical um consequences here and now as well. Um the guilty conscience, a um uh Um the fruit of living a a worldly life as opposed to a godly life. Worldliness breeds what? Dissatisfaction? Um just the the Well, like Jesus said, you could gain the whole world, but if you lose your soul, right? Um, what does that gain you? And so Yeah, there could be lots of of consequences here and now, but there's for sure going to be um consequences of disobedience for eternity. But it's so natural for us to focus on the here and now And we we need to discipline ourselves, we need to seek God's enablement to continually look at uh our circumstances and the world around us in light of eternity. It doesn't come naturally. The natural thing is to think from a worldly perspective. Does that help? Okay. 171. I'm on page two forty-four. Jesus prepares the eleven for his departure. And I'll read from the blended account that starts on page 245 Therefore, when Judas had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified. And God is glorified in him, meaning God the Father If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and will glorify him immediately. This is very much um I was gonna say reminiscent, but it it It's um similar line of thinking in John seventeen and in Christ's um high priestly prayer, where that that's much of the subject about God being glorified and Anyway, verse thirty three. Little children, I am with you a little while longer. Wouldn't you love that little children to be called that? It's affectionate. You will seek me, and as I said to the Jews, now I also say to you, where I am going you cannot come. A new commandment I give to you That you love one another even as I have loved you. That you also love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Have you think about how that works? How is it that the world will know that we're his disciples by the love we show to one another? How does that work out practically? And when some pe when an unbeliever sees that, what are they forced to conclude? Either you're crazy or you're influenced by somebody. And they might even say, what makes you tick? Why do you do that? And it's an opportunity to say, well, I'm following the example of Christ. Yeah. So Um verse 36, Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Now it turns out that um I think it was Thomas who was already, or Philip, who had already asked him that Yeah. And Jesus answered, Where I go you cannot No, it's later. It's not it's not yet. Peter said, uh Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered, Where I go you cannot follow me now. But you will follow later. Always specific here. Got Peter wondering. Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you right now? Good old Peter. Jesus and he says, I will lay down my life for you. And Jesus answered, Simon, Simon. You know his tone there was not wanting to be condescending, but and he's patient, um but It's almost like here we go again, Simon. Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded to sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you. that your faith may not fail. And you, when once you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. But he, Peter, said to him, Lord Will you I'm ready to go both to prison and to death? And Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly I say to you, Peter, that the rooster will not crow today until you have denied three times that you know me. And he then said to them, When I sent you out without money belt and bag and sandals, did you lack anything? Did you? And they said, No, nothing. And he said to them, But now whoever has a money belt is to take it along. Likewise also a bag, and whoever has no sword is to sell his coat and buy one. For I tell you that This which is written about me must be fulfilled, and he was numbered with the transgressors. For that which refers to me has its fulfillment. And they said, Lord, look, here are two swords. And he said to them, It is enough. Well, there's a lot in there. First of all Peter um is oversure of himself, which I guess any of us would be, but Peter especially, I guess. Um It doesn't record here how Peter responded to the news that um he would deny him, even in a few hours. for now. One thing I wanted to do here today though is we might be able to come back to some of these points if you've got questions, but I want to be sure to cover uh one thing in particular Uh because I'm not gonna be here next week. I'm gonna be at the membership class. I guess Jeff is teaching next week. And it's gonna continue coming up in subsequent weeks and Steve's going to be teaching while I'm gone in Columbia. And I want to be sure to kind of lay some foundation here for us. And so starting with What Jesus said here, a rooster will not crow until you deny me three times. What does that mean? It means a rooster will not crow until Peter has denied him three times. Right? Rooster's crow in the morning. They're not quite at the morning yet. Yeah. Okay. Um so um this is Luke and John. Both Luke and John mention this. In Luke, it says the rooster will not crow today until you have denied three times you know me. And John says the rooster will not crow until you deny me three times. Pretty much the same thing. Where did Jesus say this? Yeah, they're still in the upper room. Right? We haven't left yet. It's a long supper. Um later on If you go to next week's lesson, page 249, on page uh section 173 shows Matthew, Mark, and Luke all saying, okay, now they're leaving the upper room, they're going to the Mount of Olive, right? John doesn't mention when, but the all three of the others do. And then after that, in section 154, look at what Mark says Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you that this very night before a rooster crows twice, you yourself will deny me three times. And so uh Mark includes a slightly different uh warning to Peter in prediction at a different time. It wasn't in the upper room, it was after on their way to or at the uh uh Gethsemane. And that that's kind of a curiosity, but um Luke and John refer to uh only one crowing Three three denials, one crowing. Mark says, before the rooster crows twice, you'll deny me three times. Okay, well that's just sort of background. Um however When you go to uh starting on page two sixty-two, this is after we get through Gethsemane And the arrest. But on page 262, there is a summary of how each of the four Gospels report three denials. Okay, so the first denial, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Second denial, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and so on. The problem is, as you look at those, there's some inconsistencies. Inconsistency sometimes with regard to where it happened, who was making the accusation, who the accusation was spoken to, the content of the accusation, and Peter's response. And The things that are inconsistent this way are in darkened in gray. Um so some or all of those those characteristics are not consistent across the four gospels. Is that because the gospels have errors? No. Um Well, uh another important thing before we move on is if you look at the Gospel of Mark and you see this on page two sixty-two. Um After the first denial that's recorded in Mark, it says he went out onto the porch and a rooster crowed. And then that's Mark 14, 68, I think. And then later in Mark 14, after the third denial, it says immediately a cruister a rooster crow a second time. And Peter remembered that Jesus said before rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. So Mark is internally consistent and each of the others all report only Mark only reports three denials and each of the others record three denials. Um but there seems to be some inconsistency. And yet, if you look on page two hundred sixty-three, those same rows in this table are reordered. So that they're in the same sequence that each of the four Gospels gives, but some of the denials that are reported in one gospel are not reported in another gospel. uh in which case now the location, the accusation, uh his response, they're consistent. Um and they're consistent only if there are two sets of three denials, as Mark sort of suggests in his account. I I s I raise this because um two things. One, it's There probably aren't too many people around who take this view. This is not me, by the way. I was originally introduced to this. fifty years ago from a book called The Life of Christ in Stereo. Uh author is John Chaney, who did a lot of uh compiling and and and of the four gospel accounts with the conviction that every word of scripture is true, inerrant, without error But how can it be we've got these inconsistencies? And then it's on done that it's it's quite easy, particularly being guided by Mark, and the order in which all of the gospels give their accounts of the uh of the um denials that we all presume there's only three because each of the gospels says there were three, but none of the gospel says there were only three. Um in fact it kind of makes sense that in the in the hubbub around the uh the uh trial of Christ and coming back to the the uh the court of the uh religious leaders uh and uh the the soldiers on the outside, the servants there was c you know, in the wee hours of the morning, um it was pretty hectic, I'm sure. Um and so it ought not to surprise us that there were more than three. Um So the one thing I wanted to emphasize here is hermeneutics, which is the fancy name for interpretation, interpreting scripture. How do we interpret scripture? Do we interpret scripture based on assumptions that we're applying to scripture, or do we let scripture speak for itself? And it ought to be the latter. So I'm not saying that that this reconciliation of the four accounts that gives Peter credit, if you will, for denying Christ six times rather than three times. is is necessarily um the way it actually happened. In other words, my notes are not inerrant. scripture is, but I'm trying to treat scripture as inerrant in order to get here. And so it's it's about how do we approach scripture. And it's so easy. I think I may have mentioned this a few times. It's so easy to make presumptions we're not realizing our presumptions, but treating them as facts as if they were facts. But really they're just presumptions, uh or traditions or whatever. Um and so the impact of this is not very great whatsoever. I mean, it doesn't really matter whether he denied Christ three times or six times. What does matter is how we interpret Scripture. Doctrinally, this doesn't have much import. It's not that big a deal. But other fact, other places where we we are not careful in handling scripture, And imposing our assumptions on scripture can very easily impact very important doctrine. We need to be careful. So that's my main lesson here. Yes? Peter definitely thought he meant liberally because he wiped off the the ear of the the servant, right? I think it's it's no it's good to address that. I I think the the the main thing he was getting at was that he's leaving they're not going to be under his direct um protection. Um things are going to change. Uh he has been providing for them. He even asked them, um, you know, did you lack anything when I sent you out? and and so on. Uh and they realize, no, no, we're fine. Well, they're gonna be very soon encountering some of the persecution he's been predicting and uh they need to be prepared. Um well I I think you don't even have to make that d connection. I think mostly what he's talking about in terms of uh you know money belt and what uh what else um A bag. Yeah, and sword. Just the the provisions, um just be prepared. Yeah. Because and as you quoted, and we're going to see in the arrest scene, Jesus said, Don't you think I could have called twelve legions of angels down to defend me Um put your sword away and and he healed the the ear of the servant. And that's when Jesus said, uh he who lives by the sword will die by the sword. And so they were getting the wrong m Peter was getting the wrong message there. He interpreted it wrongly. Um and so Jesus must have b partly because of the the scope of things he mentioned there, it's not just the sword, but they're just it's just the message to be prepared. Um, I think. And just to be realistic about the changing environment with him going. Now, that environment and he even made it clear to them They're gonna be better off with him gone because now the Holy Spirit's gonna be indwelling each one of them and they're gonna be able to um uh do some amazing things. But it's still I think a message of times are changing, be prepared. Um Um be on the alert, those kind of things. And he's given some parables to that effect already anyway. So okay. Well, sorry to have belabored all that, but uh it's time to close. Um and uh Jeff will pick up on this next week as we continue the uh upper room. Let's pray. Father, thank you for uh your word. Thank you that Uh you have given it to us for our uh edification to build us up. Uh you've also given it to us to challenge us, to um direct us and uh We thank you for that. Thank you for your provision. Thank you for seeing the character of Christ on display in your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.