Okay. So today we are on lesson fifty, Resurrection Sunday. It begins on page two ninety-four. Um but I wanted to read or at least to list out the titles of the previous lessons we've had. So we did um kind of going back a couple lessons. The burial of Christ, the death of Christ, the crucifixion of Christ. More interrogations and sentencing, uh trials, denials, uh more interrogation and denials, betray and arrest. And what you'll notice in all these previous chapters There is tension, there is confusion, there's betrayal, instability, conflict, confrontation. Hatred, injustice, cruelty, and death. And Jesus' enemies were gathering together in strong opposition. You have the Romans, the Jewish rulers the crowds of angry people and the future during these previous lessons really seems bleak and unsure and it looks like it could be the end of what started to be a a magnificent entry of our king. And now notice what happens kind of these the remaining lessons. There's really the a hard break in the direction um for where we were If I had to give adjectives of the final three lessons, it would be victory, joy, peace, excitement, hope, assurance, strength, resilience, communion, love, fellowship, promises fulfilled. Another observation is we no longer see very many references to the Romans, the Jewish rulers Crowds of angry people. It's it's kind of amazing. I mean Jesus, disciples and the fellow believers are still moving around Israel, yet we're not seeing all this strife, confrontation, hatred like we did earlier. Um Those same intense opposition that we saw in the previous lessons, we're not going to see for the remaining lessons. Of course, believers will be the object of persecution And the disciples will die horrible deaths, but that's not the focus as we move through the final portions of the gospel. Where we once saw scared, unsure believers, we now see resilient strong, persevering to the end. So it's really a a dramatic shift. Um again, yes, the disciples are gonna die horribly deaths. There's gonna be oppression and abuse, but we see resilience that wasn't there before. We see a strength a a a a a faith that a faith that can be that can stand up to opposition because they know that their hope is real. Um so just before we get into the lesson, a general overriding approach that may have been difficult in the preceding chapters that worth considering through the remaining chapters. And it's kind of how I want uh um us to focus on is this change in direction of the believers, how does that impact how we live? And so I want to kind of take a little bit of a moment. I know usually we started right at the beginning. I wanted to look at the last page, at the discussion box. That's on page two ninety-nine. Because we really want to do application in this class. I think if we look at the people in the in the in the chapters as we go through this, we see how they react. And I think this is a good way for us to reflect on how do we react? Where do we stand in the faith? How do we worship? And I think there's some good examples and there's some bad examples. But what's really Incredible is we don't see a lot of the opposition that we saw previously. So I think that is a good segue for us to see how these chapters can impact us differently. very concerned about um well let's look at this discussion table. So if you look at the discussion table, there's several different people here and we can see how they um how they interact or what is their um examine the presence of the presence of or lack of faith and obedience in these lesson characters And we're going to see, for example, on the top there, the women, good, they show their devotion to Jesus as soon as possible by bringing spices to finalize his burial. They were surprised Um and pretty amazingly they were they were they were they were told about um you know they had the uh but we're gonna read about their interaction with angels. Um the bad thing was that they didn't immediately understand we're gonna see that. Um Peter runs to the tomb, he's marveled, but he didn't understand immediately. Mary Magdalene, she recognizes Jesus when he spoke to her, worshiped him. Um surprisingly the disciples were initially very uh initially refused to believe and they were confused as well. There are other winning in these in these next uh sections, worship Christ when he appeared. The soldiers were kind of interesting. Um initially they told the Jewish leaders that an angel had moved the stone and Jesus was gone. Unfortunately they accepted the bribe from the chief priests. And then interestingly we do see the chief priest here. We see that they bribe the soldier, and then that's about all that's about the last thing we hear about from them. So here are several characters in the next couple of sections, and by looking at how they act, what their obedience is. where their faith level is, that too should be how we should look at this section. How do we interact, how do we respond to Christ, and what is our level of faith? So let's go through this lesson. Lesson 50, burial of price. It begins on page 294. Um and as we go through this, let's think about why why is it so hard to believe in miracles? And if we do believe in miracles, how does that impact our faith? Because it impacted these characters very differently They were some were strong, some were weak, but this is something that we can take to ourselves. How do we respond? So there are one, two, three, four, five, six, seven sections. Some of them are very short, but they all give us a little window into how people respond in fairly So why don't we read, beginning on page 294? The first one, an angel rolls away the stone from the entrance of the tomb. We're only going to be looking at Matthew 28, 2 to 4. Again, just to paint the scene, sort of. Okay. I'm going to read the uh section there. And behold, a severe earthquake had occurred, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it. And his appearance was like lightning and his clothes as white as snow. The guards shook for fear of him because oh, the guards shook for fear of him and became like dead men. So they didn't actually die, but there were you know if you s an earthquake occurred right in front of you and this angel appeared, you would probably be a little motionless, like almost like you were dead. Um so different from the earthquake that happened in the crucifixion, um, but again a resounding uh event had just occurred. And so we not surprising that even these men of war uh were in great fear and probably just motionless, didn't know what to do, hence they weren't dead, but they probably kind of acted as if they were dead, not knowing really what to do. Section 207, the women go to the tomb very early on Sunday morning. Before we read the section, I'd like to read the bullet points which are on page two ninety-five um just to give us a little context of this section. Uh so there's three bullet points Yep. So there's all these women, we talked a little bit about them last sec last lesson. Um they are the first ones here at the tomb. So why don't we read our section? Um when the Sabbath was o over while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene and Mer mu Mary, the mother of James and Salomon, Salome, bought spices so that they might come and anoint him. So um they haven't seen anything yet. They only know they're going to the tomb. Their attitude is to go and worship. Very early on the first day of the week As it began to dawn they came to the tomb to look at the grave when the sun had risen, bringing the spices which they had prepared. They were saying to one another, Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb? Looking up they saw the stone had been rolled away from the tomb, although it was extremely large. So here are the women. They're gathering to worship and they're wondering how the stone It's gonna be moved. Any thoughts or questions or observations before we go and move on? Yeah, I mean it's i i I didn't really observe it until the other day. I was like, wow, I don't really hear the level of persecution we saw the last seven or so lessons. Um not that there wasn't persecution, but it's just it's you know it's and he He has overcome he has overcome death. He has been victorious. So where's our focus? Focus is now on, as we go, as we go further, we're going to see um uh Christ appearing and he's appearing to believers. He's he's with the disciples and he's giving his final kind of messages as to you know, I'm not gonna be here any much for much longer And so these are kind of like the final lessons. Unfortunately there's some things that aren't written here that we would be great to to know exactly what he was you know talking to disciples and believers about, but um what is here is really worth focusing on The other thing is a prerequisite, but it's hard to believe. Right, right. Well it it doesn't make sense from you know a a physical world, strikingly unnatural, sort of say. Um okay two oh eight angels tell the women that Jesus is risen Before going to the blended section, you have up on top there Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And I just want to read like the first verse of each section of each gospel. So Matthew, the angel said to the woman, do not be afraid. And then Mark, Mark 16, 5, enter the tomb They saw a young man sitting at the right wearing a white robe. And then Luke twenty-four, uh actually I'm going to read three and four. But when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men suddenly stood near them in dazzling clothing. Is it one man or two men? Well it's two men, but why as why does Matthew and Mark say just one? What's that? Yeah, yeah. So there's not like some strange contradiction here. It's there were two men, Mark and Matthew, are focusing on the one angel who is speaking. So one is quiet, one is speaking. Matthew and Mark are identify the one who's speaking. So I just wanted to in case that was a little unclear. But Matthew Marker referencing the one that's Okay. Um let's read the blended account. The angel said to the women, Do not be afraid. For I know that you are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, who has been crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, just as he said. Come see the place where he was lying. Behold, here is the place where they laid him. When they entered the tomb, they did not find the Find the body of the Lord Jesus. They saw a young man sitting at the right, wearing a white robe, and they were amazed. While they were perplexed about this, behold two men suddenly near them in dazzling clothing And as the women were terrified and bow bowed their faces to the ground, the men said, Why do you seek the living one among the dead? He is not here. He has risen. What's kind of interesting as the you know, like the soldiers, there was probably a different kind of fear, but fear. But the women are still like moving around, they're worshiping, they're interacting, whereas the soldiers that we saw previously were just they didn't know what to do these big giant fearless warriors were paralyzed and yet these women are interacting here. So kind of a unbelieving and a believer. What's the difference in how they interact? Okay, why do you seek the living one among the dead? He is not here, but he has risen. Remember how he spoke to you while he was still in Galilee, saying The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified. And the third day rise again. Go quickly and tell his disciples, and Peter, that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him. Behold, I have told you. And they remembered his words, and left the tomb quickly with fear and great joy, and ran to report it to his disciples, for tre for trembling and astonishment had gripped them, and they said, N said nothing to anyone for they were afraid. What do you think about how the women are reacting versus, for example, the soldiers? They left with fear and with great joy. They were trembling with astonishment. I think it's just an amazing thing that this Stone is rolled away. There's two angels. They're speaking to you. They're asking you why there should have been a decaying body here. It wasn't there. Um these angels are telling them something that Christ had told them earlier about. He has risen. Rising from the dead is a pretty incredible thing. There's probably just an overwhelming mix of emotion. Um it's a different kind of fear than like probably the soldiers. This is a fear of like, wow, this really is true So it's it's more of a um it's not a fear like I'm like I'm about to be killed, like walking the streets of Baltimore kind of a fear. It's more of a it's more of just like uh uh like your body is just and and plus they've never seen angels before. I f I would be the same thing, right? I mean I I I don't know how I guess I don't know how I would react. I guess it's all kinds of just a strong a str yeah a strong a strong feeling uh Overwhelmed. When you think through the appearances of angels in the gospel now something, what are the first words? Don't be afraid. So the the uh uh anointing piece? So I think yeah, so um anointed stay by the same. It was a the Egyptians would embalm Those who were dead and then the the Jews would splice it's really just to the decaying body would be probably pretty horrific. So out there. And they may have thought, you know, well we know there's a bunch of guards there and they've rolled this heavy stone. What would be the point of trying to come back the following day? The only other thing I wanted to kind of point out was in that last uh verse, verse eight, in section two oh eight, um uh a s uh trembling and astonishment had gripped them and they said nothing to anyone for they were afraid. So as they're running to do what they're supposed to do and go to the disciples, um they said nothing to anyone on along the way. And again I think that comes from that astonishment. that amazement. They were probably just trying to formulate how exactly do we explain this? Um but they're running. Did it say running, right? It said uh left quickly. Yeah. So go quickly to the disciples in Peter They left the tomb quickly, uh, ran to report it. So um they're on a mission. Um two hundred nine, which is the women report this to uh apostles um so Peter and John inspect the tomb. And kind of an interesting um something about the gospel of John. He doesn't refer to himself as John. You know, he doesn't say like, you know, Peter and I. It's always and the other disciple. Well that other disciple mentioned in the book of John is John himself. So for example, if you look at um that section John 20, verse 3, yeah, 4. Uh so Peter and the other disciple went forth. The two were running together, and the other the other disciple ran ahead faster than Peter and then back down in like eighth and and he saw and believed. But you don't really know is that really John um because he's just such a humble guy He's he doesn't refer to himself in the first person, so he's the other disciple. Is it later, doesn't he? Oh yes, yes. And yeah, in this section it's it's interesting. It's a common theme, refers to himself as the other disciple Let's read the blended section. So they ran and returned from the tomb and came to Simon Peter to the women. And to the other disciples whom Jesus loved and said to them, So here's the other disciple whom Jesus loved. They have taken away the Lord they have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. Kind of a strange response. Christ has risen, go and tell the disciples. Um they're excited, they're running. If you've ever gotten like really excited with great news and you get to where you need to go and you just like can't really explain it, that's because you're just so excited or just thoughts or writing I don't know of where the con I don't know where the confusion came in between the tomb and getting to the disciples, but He's risen, that's all you have to say. And they reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. Now they were Mary Magdalene, Joanna and Mary, the mother of James, also the other women with them, were telling these things to the apostles. But these words appeared to them as nonsense. and they would not believe them. But Peter and the other disciple got up and ran to the tomb. The two were running together and the other disciple ran ahead faster than Peter and came to the tomb first, and stopping and looking in he saw the linen wrappings lying there, but he did not go in. And so Simon Peter Peter also came, following him and entered the tomb, and he saw only the wh linen wrappings lying there. And the face cloth, which had been on his head, not lying with the linen wrappings, but rolled up in a place by itself, so neatly organized So the other disciple, John, who came first to the tomb and then also entered, and he saw and believed. For as they did not understand the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. So the disciples went away again to their homes Marveling at what had happened. So here you have one who would not b or did not believe and one who did. Um notice that the disciples would not believe Jesus had been raised based solely on the report of the women. But John in particular did believe when he saw the empty tomb. The women's testimony must have been confusing to the other disciples, since even they had not yet seen the risen Christ. Mary Magdalene apparently hadn't even processed what the angels told the women, but that's consistent with the fact that none of them anticipated the resurrection like they should have. This is the first time anyone has ever seen well, to see or or to really clearly this is something that doesn't happen all the time. And so really it's very, very you know, how do you explain something that in a world of physics, math and chemistry totally doesn't make any sense. Um so very hard to kind of um how do you explain something like this. Isn't it amazing how patient he is with us? I think that's really the the the the point to take away is how patient our God is. Um and and even even today, which which is kind of um ironic, but we have the whole story in front of us. We have you know, the entire picture and yet we still have our expectations and our weaknesses in faith. Um um we shouldn't look back at the disciples, although it's easy to do and I do it's like Christ has told you all that he was gonna rise and like you're you're reporting something totally different. Um yes, just the weakness of of men. So thank God God is a sovereign God. Um And yeah, I think it's a you know, so how can we apply this kind of scenario into our lives? Like how how how is our faith Uh it's a good reminder uh to kind of evaluate where where we where our faith is. Actually kind of an interesting story when um I with my family we visited uh the pyramids in Egypt. And they also have these tunnels to kind of go inside, but it's not like a yeah, like a walkthrough tunnel. It also have these tiny little openings And they actually, well, I don't think probably don't do it anymore. This is back in the 80s. They invited people to go ahead, you can crawl in there and and I was like, there's no way. And I was like a little kid. I was a little I was a little tiny kid. And I was like, I'm not even going nowhere. So yeah, they were There were not these big giant opening where you can just walk through and there's lights and yeah. Different time. Um section two ten. Jesus appears first to Mary Magdalene who tells the disciples. Um Okay, let's read this. But Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons, oh um I want to make a note on this. I'll make a note later Jesus appears first to Mary Magdalene and tells the disciples. Okay. The blended account. But Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons, was standing outside the tomb weeping. And so, as she wept, she stooped and looked into the tomb, and she saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had been laying. And they said to her, Women Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. So again, why? When she had when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary, she turned she turned and said to him in Hebrew, Ravoni, which means teacher. Jesus said to her, Stop clinging to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father But go to my brethren and say to them, I ascend to my father and your father, and my God and your God. Mary Magdalene came Announcing to the disciples who had been with him while they were mourning and weeping, I have seen the Lord that he said th these things to her. When they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they refused to believe it. Now before I go anywhere, the majority of this section is coming from John twenty. But I want you to note does anyone know about the section here in Mark sixteen? I've got some comments. The earliest and most reliable manuscripts do not contain verses nine through twenty. They were known to Um some of the second century fathers, uh, Erenaeus, Tatian, and Justin uh Marjorie. Um These verses though, if not part of the original text, may have been an attempt to bring this chapter to a more complete ending. Um these are some bullet points I got out of the MacArthur Study Bible. But this section is not in some of the earliest and most reliable manuscripts. What do you think about that? Now it is possible um that we're wrong about this. Perhaps there are Perhaps it was part of that. Just s the earlier manuscripts, perhaps the ones that we're that we have were not yet complete. Um but there is Um there are uh many very competent scholars who we put um John MacArthur um who say that um there are some problems with this section of text Now the good news is, um, and should always be our practice, we always take things um, and the great thing about putting these gospel messages together is that we can see and look at the consistency between all four gospels. And so if there was anything that was strikingly um like a a wrong doctrine or um Contrary to what the other gospels say, we would discount that, right? We would never take uh solely a uh uh a doctrine, especially a very uh foundational doctrine, out of a section of scripture that didn't match the rest of the gospel, that didn't match the rest of Scripture. So we always take um we always read text in context with the other uh scriptures. The good news is that there is nothing that contradicts the rest of the gospels here. There are some um curiosities here. I did want to point out, but again they don't. Um it it one commenter said um These verses, if not part of the original text, may have been an attempt to bring the chapter to a more completed ending. There's there's thoughts that it it it it ends abruptly at verse eight. Um And that some of the aspects of nine through twenty um kind of re repeat things that were said earlier or um references to um I think either uh disciples or kind of reference back to previous chapter, but the previous chapters were talking about the women, so there's a little bit of confusion, but there's nothing that would take away um from the main point of uh this section of Jesus appearing to Mary Magdalene and we'll also read later as we continue to go through uh eleventh or twelve through twenty, um there's nothing that's contradict that contradicts the remaining or the other Three gallons. But I do want to bring that out and highlight that it is not part of the earliest, most reliable manuscripts that we have today. So that doesn't necessarily mean it isn't some manuscripts that we haven't yet discover. So I just want to kind of put that out there. I'm going to read some of the bullet points. Note that these verses in Mark 16 are not in the oldest manuscripts of the New Testament. Mary Magdalene apparently returns to the grave, following Peter and John, still confused about where Jesus' body has been taken. Jesus in his resurrected body was recognizable but not immediately recognizable. This is consistent with later encounters with various disciples. Um could have been his voice, appearance. Um I hope when I'm resurrected I don't look the way I look. I'm hoping for at least some more hair. And better eyesight would be fantastic. Um stop clinging to me. I wanted to also kind of um this is yes Yeah, in that verse 17, Jesus said to her, Stop clinging to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father. And um if we look at uh like Acts 1 Uh three to eleven. We see that Jesus does not ascend for at least forty days. So um what do you think about what that stop clinging to me refers to you think they were just like grabbing on to them? Yes. I yeah, I think that's I think that's I think that's the way to to look at this. Um you're back, okay, great, we're gonna uh uh you know we have you again here. And he's continuing on his plan, which is there's gonna be a time when I'm not physically here And you need to no longer cling to me physically. Um because I will be going to the Father. So there's you know, I I think it's that clinging like, okay, we've got you back, we're gonna do you know, we're gonna bring the kingdom in tomorrow like like like we like we like we all decided we were gonna do. No. That's that's not the kind of clinging. There's a much bigger kingdom um that we're talking about. How do you think this uh impacts your faith, your worship? And it's interesting that that she is still kind of she recognizes Christ. She understood that he's going to ascend and be with a father. Um but yet she's still kind of holding on to that that she doesn't believe. It's like she's she's still kinda holding on to I guess things that she is comfortable with, perhaps would be the way to say it. It's kind of a difficult concept, right? I mean, here is someone who has been with you for three years. Three years. And then they die, dramatic death. And then you wait three days later and then suddenly you appear again. Your emotion is on high. You cited, um of course your your natural natural tendency is to go back to what the relationship we had before But that's not what Christ why Christ wants to bring them back to another level where you will worship me, you will believe me, but I'm gonna be with my father. This is you know, you are now my disciple, do what I said. So I think thank god it is a a period of shock. I was trying to kind of put myself in this scenario a little bit. Um and I kind of switched it around. What if so my dad is like eighty Seven or eighty eight. He will die one day. He would not come back. But if he did and I saw him, I would be like We're we're gonna go back to what we did before. Let's go fishing. Let's go talk. Let's go um um we used to go to Dog and Suds for I mean I I would wanna go back to what we had been doing previously and probably at least share the gospel a couple more times. But I would want to go back to what we had been doing for the last three years. So I think that's kind of uh referring to that clinging thing. I think it's more of a cling to what had been doing in the past. And so I can kind of see that w when my dad dies He wouldn't resurrect, but if he did, I would have that same kind of clinging and wanting to go back to how things were before. Physically. So I think that's it's not the greatest analogy, but if I could kind of think of how I would react, I would I could say, Oh, I could see that in my own life. I would want to go back doing the old things, the comfortable things. Um you know, we always want to you know, we're creatures of habit and comfort and that would be comforting just to kinda continue on. Um and that's not Christ's plan. Yeah, again kind of pointing out to just the um disorganization, the um unknown, um the state of the current disciples. Um It's not a real strong showing here. Um on page 298. Uh 211 coming from Matthew. And behold, Jesus met them and greeted them, and they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid, go and take the word to my brethren to leave for Galilee, and there they will see me. But so Jesus is appearing to the other women. Remember there's more than just Mary. Uh there are other women um and tells them to report this to others. He also tells them to tell the disciples to listen To leave for Galilee to meet him there. They worshiped the risen Christ, showing they knew he was God. So Mary Magdalene had already encountered Jesus that we saw in section 210. And then this event occurs later between the other women and Jesus on their way to Galilee. So he's appearing. He's appearing to other women now too. Uh section two twelve. Some of the soldiers informed the chief priests who bribed them to lie about what had happened. uh section here. Now while they were on their way, some of the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests all that had happened. And when they had assembled with the elders and consulted together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers, and said, You are to say his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep And so we're gonna we're gonna lie about us. Uh again, coming to that theory which even exists today, as Dr. Plumade mentioned, um, the disciples stole the body Um and if this should come to the governor's ears, we will win him over and keep you out of trouble. So again, the soldiers were had obviously failed. And presumably uh uh we're assuming that once this got word out, um they would pay with their lives. Um fifteen. And they took the money and did as they had been instructed, and this story was widely spread among among the Jews and is to this day. But it's interesting that's kind of about kind of about it. You would think there'd be like ma you know like the entire brig Roman brigade would be um out and about and rounding everyone up and you know, let's let's put this to an end and just kill all the disciples and all the believers and Hunt down this resurrected Christ, but we don't see that. Again, the rest of the section really is focusing on The final days with Christ, the final messages. There is hope, there is conviction of belief, there is fulfillment of you know the complete um you know the scriptures are have been made complete and he's gonna give the final instructions as to how to continue on without the physical presence. Christ. Why why do I forget who he is? I got the complete scriptures right here in in my phone. It's a great question, but I think we need to approach that humbly because we would probably be But it's a great application. So now that we do have the full story and all the scripture and uh the witnesses and um how do we respond Um and when we do respond wrongly and we will, what a what a what a graceful God we serve, um, who is slow to anger. incredibly patient with us. Um we too should recognize the victory, embrace the joy, um, and not be slowed down and distracted by earthly, worldly, irrelevant, insignificant things. We got through. All right. Any last questions, concerns, comments before we close? All right. I'll close this out Dear Heavenly Father, words cannot describe um what we see in these pages of Scripture. We pray that you will continue to bring out The magnificent victory we see in your son. May um we humble ourselves and um Learn from the disciples and believers and even the unbelievers how we can approach you. Um we pray for strength and faith. We pray for perseverance. Hold us in the joy and the hope that only you provide. May we be emboldened with sharing the good news. And may we be emboldened knowing that you are with us and that we do not have anything to fear. May we worship you today in glorious, glorious recognition of who you are. And it's in your name we pray and give Amen.