On lesson 5, page 36 of the notes. I hope you all have your copy of the notes handy. Last week we covered the baptism of Christ and the temptations and so on. And The actual baptism accounts, of course, were just in the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. John has what we're going to look at today, some interaction with John the Baptist that looks back at that baptism. And so we pick up here in John chapter 1. And can someone read that for me? I'll do that if you don't mind. This is the testimony of God when the Jews sent to him priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, who are you? And he confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. They asked him, what then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Are you the prophet? And he answered, No. Then they said to him, Who are you? So that we may give an answer to those who sent us What do you say about yourself? He said, I am a voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord. As Isaiah the prophet said Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. They asked him and said to him, Why then are you baptizing if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet? Now they s John answered them and saying, I baptize in water, but among you stands one whom you do not know. It is he who comes after me, the thong of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. These things took place in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing Thank you. Yes. So um uh you don't necessarily see it In this passage we'll we'll get more clues as we continue reading here in John 1. But this uh encounter apparently took place um after the baptism of christi And he's continuing to give the same testimony that he knew he was the one preparing the way of the Lord, and his baptism was a part of that. And so um I've got some references here to The promise that Elijah would return, the very last words of the Old Testament, and there by this time there had been a long silence uh from the close of the last Old Testament revelation until this time And so that revelation picks up again with the prophecy of John and the ministry of John Esther, um I looked on the map, and this Bethany is not the same Bethany that we're used to very near Jerusalem. Right Yeah, it's not it's not Bethany per s it's not the town of Bethany, but Bethany be Bethany beyond the Jordan on the other side. And actually if you look at uh the maps, it's actually um east of the Sea of Galilee, uh up further north than uh where the baptism of Christ probably even took place. So John apparently was moving around. And there is a a place um At the Jordan River that is called Bethany Beyond the Jordan these days, but I think it was misnamed. I don't think there's anything here that says it was at the Jordan. It's definitely beyond the Jordan. So uh yeah, that's not to be mistaken with the town of Bethany. Just like Caesarea. There is a Caesarea on the coastline of Mediterranean, but there's also Caesarea Philippi, two very different places. And uh in fact, this Bethany beyond the Jordan probably wasn't very far at all from Caesarea Philippi up in the northeast. But it's not really near the Jordan River, so what river was he baptizing in? There are lots of waters up there, mostly from the runoff of Mount Hermon. And um so yeah there's plenty of water up there. And it all dumps into the Sea of Galilee and then down into the Jordan River. Yeah Um okay, so it's interesting that The Pharisees were sending out um people who would be um probing a little bit. They wanted to keep their finger on the pulse. Should they cooperate with this guy or condemn him? I guess is partly what's on their mind. And they were scratching their head a little bit, but they would have understood, the Pharisees particularly would have understood immediately what John was saying. And that he was quoting from Isaiah 40 about the role of the forerunner of the Messiah. And um I'm sure that that registered with them. Now whether they believed it was correct is another thing, but they clearly understood what he was saying. And who he said he was. So um as we continue here, it says There are a number of events that take place over several successive days. And starting verse 29. It begins by saying the next day. So it's after this conversation that we just read. Could someone else read that passage? Verses 29 to 34? I can read it. But the next day he saw Jesus coming to him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes takes away the sin of the world. This is he on behalf of whom I said, after me comes a man who has a higher rank than I, for he existed before me I did not recognize him, but so that he might be manifested to Israel, I came baptized in water. John testified, saying, I have seen the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven, and he remained upon him. I did not recognize him, but he who sent me to baptize him in water said to me, He upon whom you He upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining upon him, this is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit. I myself have have seen and have testified that this is the Son of God. So uh last week we We had some question about the extent to which John the Baptist understood that Jesus was the Messiah. And We're getting sort of mixed signals there. He r John recognized that he should have been baptized by Jesus rather than the other way around. Although he doesn't say explicitly why he came to that conclusion, we we conclude typically that he um He has already understood at this point that he's the Messiah, but maybe not so. Um because here, um, as I think someone reminded us last week, uh at at some point or other God had communicated to John that the way he'll know who the Messiah was is that he'll see the the dove of the spirit descending like a dove on it. And John's saying here, that's what I saw when this happened. And um so I'm convinced that he's the son of God. Um so he may have had some uh inkling whether it's because as we were speculating last week, because his parents um may have said something to him. It may be that he had some connection with Jesus being distant cousins. It's hard to say how much he knew and was convinced of before he saw the Holy Spirit descend on him, but that was the clincher, for sure And so he's giving testimony of that all in the past tense. This is something that happened earlier. And he's mentioning it to those with him because now Jesus has just come, presumably returning from his temptations and so on. Um so any thoughts there, any other questions? Yeah, Pastor Pomme, if I may, uh one curious little detail there is um based on this account It's after he saw the dove descend well something like a dove descending on Jesus that he became convinced or knew for sure that this was the Son of God. So why did he ask him when he first came to be baptized? you know, I need I why are you I mean I shouldn't be baptizing you and you should be baptizing me instead. That's kind of curious to me. Yeah. It's curious to me too. Uh we're not really told. Um but Um he must have had some inkling of Jesus being different. He may have had quite a reputation in the family, in the extended family, of um never be needing to be corrected, for example. And growing up as as kids, um the idea of him Coming to confess sins at baptism would have been out of place. Maybe that's all it was. I don't know. We're not told. But he he may have also had some inkling that Jesus was the Messiah, but he wasn't maybe convinced. until he saw the Spirit descending like a dove. Yeah. Now what's interesting is later on we'll have another encounter with bath with with John the Baptist. You remember After he was in prison, he sent some messengers to Jesus saying, are you really the Messiah? And so um Yes, God had revealed things to him, but he was not omniscient, and he was human, and he probably had doubts, like all of us. Um and things weren't exactly going the way he thought would happen when the Messiah came. So that's probably also um contributing to his uncertainty and desiring to just double check. And you remember how Jesus answered Well you know by the miracles that are happening that um that yes, I am the Messiah. So um that was the very next day after those messengers from the Pharisees came, and then In verse 35, it says the next day, that is, the following day. There's a sequence of days going on here. And that sequence of days is another way we know that um The the account in section 18 is not the is not when Jesus was baptized. It's looking back at when he had been baptized. Because now Jesus is now interacting with God again and also gathering some followers, and that all happened after the um temptation account. Have to phone leave? Yes. I'm wondering if this is like day one on the job, day two on the job, day three on the job. He's starting his ministry, you know, he's come from, like you were saying, temptations. And this is like he's on. He's moving forward and he's begun his ministry. Yeah, and it was bang bang bang, right? Yeah. Several days in a row. There are a few other times, but um when in the gospel accounts it gives a sequence of days and you know how you're tracking in time. M most often it it just says on another occasion or later or on another day or something like that and it's not very specific. But here John is being very specific. Yep Well, let's go ahead and read this next section beginning in verse 35. Maybe we can break that up into two parts. Maybe thirty-five through forty-three, kind of halfway. Who could read the first part My beloved my beloved one flesh one flesh uh You want to do the first part or the second? I'll do the second. You go. Okay. All right. Again the next day, John was standing with two of his disciples. And he looked at Jesus as he walked and said, Behold the Lamb of God. The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus And Jesus turned and saw them following and said to them, What do you seek? They said to him, Rabbi, where are you going? Where are you staying? He said to them, Come and you will see. So they came and saw where he was staying. And they stayed with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. One of the two who heard John speak and followed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. He found first his own brother Simon and said to him, We have found the Messiah. He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, You as Samian, the son of John, you shall be called Cephas. The next day he pr he purposed to go to Galilee and he found Philip. And John said to him, Follow me. And Jesus said to him, Follow me. Now Philip was from Bethsa Bethsaida of the city of Andrew and Peter. Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We have found of whom we have found him of whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph Nathaniel said to him, Can anything, can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip said to him, Come and see. Jesus saw Nathaniel coming to him and said of him, Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit. Nathaniel said to him, How do you know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. Nathaniel answered him, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel Jesus answered him and answered and said to him, Because I said to you that I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than these. And he said to him, Truly, truly I say to you, you will see the heavens opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. Thank you. Good teamwork there, huh? Um so again, the sequence of days continues here And Jesus is beginning to gather disciples and a fairly natural um set of people to um gather disciples from would be from John, right? And um John had followers, uh helpers, um people uh also longing for uh the Messiah and uh John is indeed preparing the way for the Messiah. These guys wanted to be a part of that. So Again, John says, behold the Lamb of God. I didn't focus on this all that much in the previous one where it said Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. By lamb here, he's referring to the sacrificial system of the Old Testament law. And of course, those lambs and other animals and so on were sacrificed as blood offerings on account of sin. But as Hebrews tells us, the blood of animals can't take away. sin, all they can do is cover it over temporarily in anticipation of the real sacrifice that was yet to come And that's what John is announcing here, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, not just covering it. And um I'm pretty sure when he said it, particularly in that way People understood that this is the fulfillment of the whole Old Testament law and the Messiah. And so that probably got a lot of people's attention That's probably Karen. So thinking this week about sin and I was pondering the idea that of gratitude that we actually have a remedy for it in Christ. Um unlike, you know, the Old Testament law, it doesn't there's it's not a real remedy. It doesn't really cleanse the conscience, it doesn't really um purify us um in any ways. Uh w we're uh the the hymn that that came to my mind was nothing but the blood of Jesus And as I pondered those lines, what can take away our sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus can make us whole again. That is the thing that just struck me that um, you know, when we sin and our conscience is is seared, um Thank God, praise God, that the Lord Jesus was a sufficient sacrifice once for all. And that he makes us whole and that our sin is as far as the east is from the west and we can have peace with him in knowing that when we come with a truly repentant heart, forgiveness is is ours. And uh our relationship is restored and that was just very profound for me this week. Yeah. Excellent. Yes. Henry. Yeah. Pastor Plumley, can you speak to this? And I'm not certain if there is something to be made of the fact that John here says He takes away the sin of the world as opposed to him saying he takes away the sins of the world. Is that I mean uh I guess I'd just like for you to address the fact that they say sin as opposed to sins and what might be the difference if any? Is it is it just a question of the language that's used here or is there some other theological significance to the fact that it says it takes away it's another world? Well um I don't think you need to read too much into it, but from God's perspective, there's really only one problem. Everybody's sinful, and the solution is one solution. the what what Karen was describing, you know, the the sacrifice of Christ. And so um that doesn't mean that Christ's death caused all sinners to be saved, but um um It's it's the sin problem, I think, in in the singular that's that's being referenced here Um thank you. Yeah. Yeah, Kirk, did you have a thought there or something? Did I hear you? Guess not. No, no, I was just saying amen to our sister Karen. Thank you. Oh, okay, yes. So to go along with what Karen said, some of us in this group are also in Pastor Gabe's Bible reading group. And this week in the Old Testament we were up to uh Genesis chapter nine where God says, now you can eat meat But you know, the animals, but not with its blood in it, because the life is in the blood So the blood came very early, the importance of the blood, and it it hit me in reading that. Oh, that's why Jesus had to shed his blood So it's it's interesting how God ties things in together for s for those of us that are in that group. Yeah. Yeah, and actually the that um the purpose of the law of course was to foreshadow all that and to be a constant reminder that sin is pervasive, it's it's grievous, it's um uh heinous to God, um and that there needs to be a um a substitute for sin. And of course, that picture began in the Garden of Eden in Genesis 3 Where God, the first death in all of human history, in the history of the world, was when God killed animals to cover the shame of Adam and Eve. Mm-hmm. And of course they had to shed their blood, but the word blood wasn't mentioned, I think, then just in us, right Right. I was also just thinking about Abraham sacrificing an Isaac and you know, um when he was ready to bring down the knife, sacrifice him, God provided the lamb. You know, just thinking about the lamb that God provided. I I heard a message one time, you know, how God was preparing as as Abraham was going up one side of the mountain, the lamb was going up the other you know, at the perfect time whether God would provide the land at the right time. Yes, and of course, um that's a good segue into the next point I wanted to make. Uh Abraham's a good example Of those in the Old Testament who believes that God would provide the ultimate lamb. I'm pretty sure that what he mentioned, God will provide the lamb, he was thinking not just in terms of the immediate substitute for Isaac. But um perhaps based in part on things God had told him, I'm I'm thinking that Abraham had some understanding of a future sacrifice for sin that was being s symbolized by animal sacrifices, or even in this case um God's command for him to sacrifice his own son. Um but clearly the During the period of the law, there were people who understood that the ultimate sacrifice was yet to come. And uh they looked ahead to that sacrifice in faith just as we look back on it in faith. Now we have the advantage that we have it all unfolded for us. It's all there They had less information to go on, but they believed and obeyed God given the information they had been given. There may not have been many, we don't know, but uh clearly there must have been some. Okay, so um Jesus begins connecting with some of John's disciples. One of them was clearly Andrew, who goes and fetches who? His brother, Simon. And the other example here is Philip, who goes and fetches his friend Nathaniel. And you're seeing a very good pattern here, right? Which is what? Evangelism. Yeah, bringing people to Jesus. Um they they had verbal testimony, but they said you gotta come see. Right? Um a good example It's not entirely clear to us from what's given here in the record uh what uh Nathaniel was doing under the fig tree or how miraculous it might have been for Jesus to have mentioned that. I don't think it was because he had extra good eyesight. There must have been something here that was very clear to Nathaniel that There's no way he could have known that apart from divine intervention, even though we don't understand the circumstances. It's they're not provided as detail But suffice it to say that Nathaniel's response and Jesus' response to him suggest that it was miraculous And yet the way Jesus put it, hey that's nothing. There's much more in store that you're yet to see. I wonder if he was praying for the Messiah under the fig tree. Maybe. Wouldn't that be cool? Yeah. Esther Allen, I I was observing yesterday that the Jesus selection of the His disciples were Galilean. Maybe almost exclusively. There may have been some exceptions. But they they would have spoken a similar type of Aramaic or Hebrew with a with a certain accent And they would be clearly identifiable to other people in Israel and maybe beyond as being from Galilee. And But but I was thinking, well, if Jesus was trying to reach all of Israel, there would have been a mixture of other other subgroups Um but that's just kind of a a passing passing thought. Yeah, well we we know about the different um um Not so much a dialects necessarily, maybe there were, but um certainly accents, like we know in our country, we can tell where someone's from based on where they uh often based on how they talk. Um and we know from the um the accounts of Peter's denials that people linked him with Galilee because of the way he he spoke, right? And so yes, that would have would have been true. I think we'll learn a little bit more about the other disciples as as we um as we go along. I make a note here that when it says it was the tenth hour that John seems to be using the Roman kind of standard for keeping time just like we do as opposed to the Jewish uh day which began at uh sunup. You don't know you don't see evidence of that all that much here in this text, but as you look throughout John as as we will, there are some times where it just seems very obvious that he's using that uh Roman time. It's not a big deal here. It becomes more important in other locations, in other texts. So Pastor Plumley. Mm-hmm. Um the ten hour tenth hour is is when he got home, is that is that the idea? The tenth hour? Because for for John to say, Behold, you know, to point to him I'm thinking it had to be before sundown. Why would you point to someone before Um after. So it's kind of four or five hours later. Is that what you're saying? Well, it um um in verse. Thirty. Yeah, I mean the next day forty three. Uh no, before that. Um Look at thirty-seven. The two disciples of of John heard him speak and they followed Jesus And Jesus turned and saw them following and said, What do you seek? They said to him, Rabbi, where are you staying? And he said to them, Come and you will see. So they came and they saw where he was staying. And they stayed with him that day. So we don't know how long they were with him that day. So it's kind of a four to five hour lapse because I don't think John would say, Behold the Lamb of God in the dark. Right. It had to be light. Right. So there's they if we don't know how long it took him to get to where he was staying how long they stayed there, but in any case they stayed overnight. Um wherever Jesus was staying. And so The only reason I'm thinking this was 10 p. m. as we understand it is because of other passages in John. not this passage. But to be consistent, this one could have been 10 p. m. to be consistent with the other passages that John is using time in as well. Thank you. So uh Any other thoughts, questions on this passage? Did I have one about um the the men that he did choose, they were not of the high class. They were not, you know, um the upper echelon of society, the people of Galilee were not known for. You know, I guess th that would be um gaining good well, that's another passage, but He didn't go to high right, he didn't go to high society to pick his followers. He went to these lowly people, so we should not identify people about where they're from as to whether they're worthy to come to Jesus. Should just proclaim the gospel to anyone wherever they're from. Yep But but then later on, um people who came to Christ, including Nicodemus and the Apostle Paul, because of their background and the I guess the relationships that they had they may have had had access and privilege to preach where maybe the Galileans or the na um those from Nazareth, which was even a more disparaged subgroup of Galilee, if you were specifically from from Nazareth, you had an even more lowly reputation. But but Jesus did e eventually choose um people from all classes to um because of I guess because of their Um Yeah. Who was that? This is Steve. I was just gonna say um there's a great series uh John MacArthur has called The Master Where he kind of goes through all the disciples and how different they were and tells you pretty much as much as you could possibly know about each of them and just how interesting it is how God kind of picked uh people you know from all different walks of life, you know, and uh and and in this case, Nathaniel he's saying, you know, he he was showing prejudice in the notion that, you know, could anything good come from Nazareth And and yet, you know, in a very short period of time he's recognizing, you know, that that this is the Messiah, despite, you know, his prior previd prejudice that was evidenced. So um just just thought I throw that in Yep. Yep. I had a uh question for you. Sure. Um so kind of backtracking to the John the Baptist section, um you said there was some confusion about um what he really knew at that point. Um, I believe it's at a later point after Christ's earthly ministry that John the Baptist sent some disciples to ask him whether he was the Messiah Messiah and Christ's response was, you know, you see the miracles that I perform, those will those are basically the answer. Um it's a terrible uh paraphrase, but Um, when was that in regard to this? 'Cause it seems like in the beginning here he has like a pretty rock solid understanding that You know, the dove is appeared and he can see visibly that Christ is Messiah, but later on questions whether he's the Messiah or not. So Can you switch the light on that? Yeah I I don't think off the top of my head um how long that was after this, but you can tell from the the um the listing of the section headings in the front of the notes uh where that other one takes place Okay. But um like I was mentioning earlier, it's it's seems natural. Um uh John was just a human like us Uh it seems natural that partly because he's in prison, but um partly because It doesn't seem like this whole Messiah thing is unfolding the way he, like pretty much everybody else in Israel, was anticipating. Um like you know, the misinterpreting the first coming of Christ with what was prophesied to happen at his second coming And so the fact that he was confused and wanted affirmation, um, I probably would have too, you know. Um But at this point, this early on, he testified that yes, this is the Son of God, because I saw what God told me I would see. And um His doubt later probably was also contributed by the fact that some time had passed and that's how doubts creep in. All right, well let's let's go to a wedding. The wedding in Cana. Now Cana is just a little bit north of Nazareth, so it's not at all surprising that his mother would have been invited. In fact this says that Jesus and his disciples were also invited. Um and so they probably had some family connections or neighborly kind of connections with the the uh the couple or their parents. Uh who'd like to read for us there from John 2? Read it, Pastor Fomley. Okay. On the third day there was a wedding in Canaan of Galilee, and the mum mother of Jesus was there, and both Jesus and his disciples were invited to the wedding. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. And Jesus said to her, Woman, what does that have to do with us? My hour has not yet come. His mother said to the servants, whatever he says to you, do it. Now there were six stone water pots. set there for the Jewish custom of purification, containing twenty or thirty gallons each. Jesus said to them fill the water pots with water. So they filled them up to the brim. And he said to them, Draw some out now and take it to the head waiter So they took it to him. When the head waiter tress tasted the water, which had become wine, and did not know where it came from The head waiter called the bridegroom, and said to him, Every man serves the good wine first, and when the people have drunk freely, then he serves the poor wine But you have kept the good wine until now. This beginning of his signs Jesus did in Canaan of Galilee and manifested his glory and his disciples believed in him Amen. So here is a um the sort of normal um social occasion, um a wedding, a great celebration. And um it wasn't something Uh Jesus was this miracle wasn't something Jesus was planning to do. Actually, uh some of you I think have have uh watched that movie series, The Chosen. I think they do a great job of trying to reenact what this must have um been like. And um and yet Jesus does um Solve the problem, but he does it in a way that doesn't draw attention, at least much, to him. Because his time has not yet come. And we're going to see quite often going forward, even when he heals someone, he he tells them, don't tell anybody. Because he's finding that that um the more word gets out about his healing and his miracles and so on the more he's inundated with people, and it really limits his ability to build into the lives of his disciples. And um So there were a few here, including some of his disciples, who understood and believed because of the miracle. And so um it was a um sort of a foundational time for many of them to be a part of that. In reference to to that uh series, it didn't it show in there that the guy who was ahead of providing the wine became one of his Apostles. Disciples. Now that of course isn't biblical that I know about right. Um but seems fairly plausible. That can be true. Yeah. And that's true of a number of things they do in that film. Um they they try to be consistent and and not contradict anything in scripture but to fill in details that are somewhat plausible. And um Um that was one of 'em. Yeah. Thaddeus, wasn't that Thaddeus? Thaddeus could have been, yeah. Uh I and that's f what I when I first started watching that, I didn't like that because it was putting a lot of detail in there that wasn't scriptural and I and I had to go back a second time to start watching it to start be becoming more interested in it. But I did. And then I realized they were taking like a single event in Jesus' life And then building around that and putting a lot of detail in it that the scripture doesn't have it, you know, doesn't have in it, but that it is plausible as you say that that's the way it could have been. And so I I I felt mu much better about it after I looked at it in that way. Yeah, I I'm sure they wouldn't claim that they know that that's the way it happened, but they're just trying to fill a story in that's plausible and yet also consistent with what scripture does say. That's that's where and that's where it's uh they do that in thirty minutes when it takes you Fifteen seconds to read it. Exactly. Exactly. Pastor Plumley? Yes. I have a question about The miracles. Um, it seems that there are two kinds of miracles. One some that are public, some that are private. And I've never really Thought about that because when when we think of miracle, it's like it's your job to go out there and publicize it to praise God. But um, you know, the virgin birth to the people around because he didn't disgrace her, it was probably assumed that he was In fact scripture says he was, you know, the son of Joseph. And here's another miracle that he doesn't want everybody knowing about, only if you do. So I was wondering if you could talk about that in terms of today. I mean obviously God does miracles today, but I feel like we have been told that if if something happens it needs to be broadcast I'm not sure if that's accurate, but Yeah. Um I I think generally that would be The effect, whether it was the intent or not, it would be the effect is and we'll see that unfold here big time that as word gets out, um and it does get out, then all sorts of people come saying, I I One, I want to see a miracle. Two, I want a miracle done to me or someone I love, right? And we see that big time. the ministry of Christ. But in terms of motivations, purposes for Miracles. I I think we see in some of them, and this would be a good example of it, where he does a miracle out of compassion. for the person involved, uh not so much for the the um uh um the affirmation of who he is and why he has come, uh that's very much a part of many of his miracles And that's why he responded to John the Baptist's messenger saying, You see all the miracles that I've done, you know, you should have confidence that I'm the Messiah. And that was definitely a role of his miracles. But there were some of them that I think, even though they may have had that response, were motivated just out of pure compassion for the people involved And I think this was one of those. Thank you. Can I make a comment about the wine? Yeah. Did you take it? It would be delicious. Well, you know, as as you think about it, um I I don't think that this would have been alcoholic wine. And when you look at wine in the scripture, which would mean fruit of the vine uh where they didn't really have a a word for distinguishing between alcoholic and non-alcoholic. If you look at the quantity of wine that that he made, you know, with the 20 thirty gallons and six six jars. Um that would have given each person there at the feast Enough wine to drink that they would become drunk if it were alcoholic And I just can't conceive that Jesus would would make something that would allow people to become drunk at at the wedding feast. which is, you know, drunkenness is clearly spoken spoken against. So so uh you know, I think it it would be new wine and that would be in keeping with with Well we see, you know, in giving the first fruits, the sacrifice is the first fruits, um, something that's not decomposed, something that's not aged. So So I would think that that this would be fresh, pure, uh non-alcoholic wine, not something that you could get drunk off of Well, that's possible. Um but we know from the reaction of the people they knew this was um out of the ordinary and fantastic. Yeah, and which I think grape juice is. I mean I think you know that um that the fresh the freshness and you know, just like the the king, the cupbearer, you know, with fresh wine, they would squeeze it fresh into his cup it would be it wouldn't be fermented and I can't conceive that Jesus is going to make something fermented and alcoholic that you know the guests at the wedding would would become intoxicated over Can I just ask the question that um following that logic, one would why wouldn't one say that uh God would not make it possible to create wine that intoxicates because so much of it can be made in the world and people can drink and get drunk and God doesn't want people getting drunk. I don't know that you can sustain that argument that way Well this is this is something that Jesus created. It's a miracle of his. So are you saying that Jesus is going to create uh uh this beverage here and now and this quantity that would give enough, you know, the guest to drink plenty to become drunk, is is he going to do that? I mean, you can't I can't believe that he would uh do that, that he was going to create such quantity to allow people to drink to the point of intoxication Well but people can drink and become glottinous in their drinking, can't they? I think it's up to the individual to to to to the uh to moderate how much they drink. I don't know that it tells us in the passage that whether the wine was alcoholic or non-alcoholic. It it's uh it doesn't, but there's not a word uh they don't have a word to distinguish between alcoholic and non-alcoholic. And oftentimes it it it m means non alcoholic and and it you see that in the freshness of you know firstly squeezed and you know in other places it it talks about lingering long at the table spoken against them because Because the wine wasn't nearly as alcoholic as we have today, so they would have to linger long at the table for its effects to become apparent. And that's clear that's the drunkenness that's clearly spoken against But this miracle happened at the end, they were already drinking whatever they were drinking and so what he did at the end I'm sure they did not you know, drink all of the wine that he made uh towards the um end of this uh celebration. That's true, but just just think about Jesus creating something that is created instantaneously there and what he would create. Is he going to create something I mean, on the cross, you know, when when he was on the cross they lifted up something that would have eased his pain. And he refused it. He didn't want anything to dull his senses or to take away from from the effect of what he was going through. He he refused it So I you know, I just don't think that um he's going to create wine here. There you know, and and consider there there's certainly gotta be kids here at this wedding drinking this as well. You know, he's he's not going to do that. I just I can't can't believe that he would Well the bottom line thing is we don't know. However, we do know that God created lots of things that people abuse. Right? That doesn't mean that God created bad things, that means that people abuse them That's true. Um we don't know. But this is this is freshly created. This is they're drinking it now that he just made. So we're talking about this specific instance. Where he just created this fresh. So what what was it he created? Did he create something to cause drunkenness right there and now at this wedding? I think we also are going to see at some point that Jesus healed a lot of people too, who were blind, who couldn't hear, couldn't talk. And they took those new abilities, m some of them and went out and continued in their sin. I mean, I don't Not everybody that Jesus saves or not every miracle that he performs is going to change the heart. So just like he created line, if people can abuse it, he's gonna heal people who don't necessarily come to faith in him either and they take their new abilities, their new senses and go out and sin against him as well. They could. They could do that. Yeah, and I I mean uh the only thing I just want to I mean we see wine used in scripture and we we just automatically think of alcoholic wine. And I think that's not normally the case, actually. It's it's non-alcoholic inscription because there wasn't a word to distinguish between uh the difference levels of fermentation or non-fermentation, the the pureness of it. So so wine is fruit of the vine. I think that's fruit of the wine. Let's move on to section 22 because it's so quick and we've got to come to a close here. In verse 12, John writes, After this he went down to Capernaum, he and his mothers, and his brothers and his disciples, and stayed there a few days. And Capernaum, of course, is on the northwestern shore of the Sea of Galilee. It would have been quite a hike from Cana, but Not terribly far. It doesn't say that they went down there that night. They they went there and then they stayed there for a few days. And of course, Capernaum becomes a very central um location in the ministry of Christ. He sets up camp there as headquarters eventually, as we'll see. And of course, some of his disciples were actually from there, like Peter and Andrew. So um, or at least they were currently living there. They were from Beth Seda, but they were currently living in Capernaum. Okay. One last thing I wanted to mention on page thirty-nine before we wrap up I won't necessarily have time to go through these various questions and observations and things when we're together, but I would encourage you to add to this these Notes here with your own observations and learn some things about what do we see in the passage about the humanity of Christ. What do we learn about his divine attributes and his exercise of those things? What do we learn about his character And his ministry strategy, all the things that are going to be helpful for us to glean as we go through. And of course, there's usually at least one point of application. from each lesson. Okay, so let's uh go ahead and close in prayer