Today we're going to be looking at uh lesson forty eight. Um last week Pastor Le Pastor Floor Pastor Blockley began uh to t uh to take us through the resurrection of Christ and the appearances of Christ to uh Some the disciples. Do you guys remember how many appearances we looked at last week? Three. Were they three? Yes. So it's actually I think we I think we uh Mary Magdalene was one of the ones that we looked at last week. And then the other one was the women. Right? Okay. And then at the end of the class we um talked about how the sold the the the Jewish leaders were trying to um persuade the soldiers to report to Pilate that the disciples had come to steal the body of Christ. Yeah. Okay. So I so I just wanted to give us a little you know context as we go into this lesson. Today we're also going to be looking at the other appearances of um Christ after his resurrection to the disciples. So I will be reading um from the blended account on page two eighty six, section two thirteen, Jesus appears to two disciples on the road to Mayus. And I'm reading now. And behold, after that after what After he had resurrected, I guess. Two of them were going that very day to the country. By that buried day here it means on the same day of resurrection, right? Okay, to a village named Emmaus Which was about seven miles from Jerusalem. And they were talking with each other about all the things which had taken place. Verse 15. While they were talking and discussing, Jesus himself appeared in a different form and approached and began traveling with them. But their eyes were prevented from recognizing him. And as he said, and he said to them, What are these words that you are exchanging with one another as you are walking? And they stood still looking sad. I like to stop there for a minute. I guess it's it wasn't unusual that when you're traveling um in those days, you know, for someone else to come alongside you and, you know, you all just continue in your journey together. So as these these two disciples here are traveling from um Jerusalem to uh Emmaeus, a distance of about seven miles we're told, somebody just, you know, walks up alongside them and begins to ask them this question. Questions. Uh what are you guys talking about? Now from everything that we've read up till this point, it would appear as though this This was not at night. This was during the day. Okay. Exactly what time during the day I couldn't quite make out, but I I figured it was still daylight. And I I don't know if people back then, you know, had their heads covered when they walked. I I I I guess not. Or maybe they had long hair or something, but What I found interesting there was it said Jesus himself appeared in a different form. What form do you suppose that was? Okay. Yeah, I would imagine it was. Because his mind was huge. Yeah. So so why was My point being if you're walking alongside somebody, unless you don't pay attention to what they look like or you don't look at their face, you just assume, well, it's another human that's walking in a beside me. But they didn't recognize him. Okay. Their clothing must have been such that everyone wore clothing that looked alike or something like that. So there was nothing particularly distinguishing about him That's an interesting observation. You're correct in that you know he speaks to them. Is it possible that his voice was different, or is it that these disciples may not have been as familiar with him as as Mary Magdalene and the other disciples were possible. I don't know. Okay. So um I'll continue reading. eighteen. One of them named Cleopaths answered and said to him, Uh just uh point out that the Cleopaths here is not the Clopas the the husband of what was her name again Anyone remember? When John told us about the women who were at um Golgather watching the resurrection, we talked about a number of women. Okay, one of them was the wife of Cleopath. I just wanted to point out that the the Cleopath we're talking about in this instance, one of these two people who may have been men, or maybe one was a man, the other was a woman, you know, they're not the same individuals. Cleopath from my understanding was a Greek name, but Cleopas was more of a Hebrew name. Okay. So I'll just keep going. Verse eighteen, one of them named Cleopaths answered and said to him Are you the only one visiting Jerusalem and unaware of the things which have happened in these days? And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, The things about Jesus the Nazarene, who was a prophet mighty indeed and word, in the sight of God and all the people. And how the chief priest and our rulers delivered him to be to the sentence of death and crucified him So we see here Luke is pointing out that even though it was Pilate that ordered his crucifixion that the Jewish leaders were really the culprit here. They were really at fault. They were really to blame for his crucifixion. So I'm gonna go on. But we were hoping, this is twenty-one, but we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. I'll stop there for a minute. Um, what do you suppose they meant by he was supposed to redeem is they had hoped that he would be the one to redeem Israel The reason I'm asking that question is this. So the terms of words there, redeem, okay, has a significance. Why didn't they they they could have said we were hoping that he was the one who would deliver Israel if their perspective of what of who Jesus was and what he was his mission was was simply a political one But Luke reports here that Cleopaths mentions that um they were hoping that Jesus would be the one to redeem Israel. So my question is What do you suppose they their understanding might have been when they used words like this? And remember also at this point that uh Luke reports that they they looked at Jesus and there was sadness on their face. So what do you suppose that you know their understanding would have been when they said we were hoping that he would be the one that was in Florida So do you do you think that their understanding was such that they felt that Israel needed to be redeemed from Roman rule? Okay, mark you, when you use the word redeem It's not like saying um delivered from. Redeem has this certain uh uh connotation of paying a price for Purchasing. Purchasing, right? So if they're saying here that we were hoping that he would be uh the one who would redeem, and because he had been he had come from God, because he was mighty in word and deed. Okay. So so there there might have been that understanding that if God was working through him, God would be redeeming. The point I'm getting at is this. I think their understanding was not purely one of political um deliverance from from um the Roman rule that they had some understanding, maybe not very clearly of the fact that Jesus is advent and his mission was going to be more than just delivering Israel from the domination of the Romans. Okay. So but bear bear that in mind because as we read on I'm gonna try to point out a few things that I noticed reading this I actually think that's a good point that you make there. There was something about understanding in them, I I think. But let's go on and I think we'll we'll discuss some more about this. So uh where am I? Verse twenty one. But we were hoping that it was he Who was going to redeem redeem Israel? Indeed, besides all this, it is the third day since these things happened. But also some women among us amazed us When they were at the tomb early in the morning and did not find his body, they came saying they had also seen a vision of angels who said that he was alive Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just exactly as the women had said, but they did not see him. So I guess my the the thing that I was When when they spoke to him uh after he asked them, you know, what things are you talking about and they were somewhat saddened, it could have been that, you know, uh they heard that he had risen from the dead. Some of the women said that this that they sent him and then some of those among them, presumably this was John and uh and Peter, ran up to the the the uh the tomb and they didn't see him. Maybe that's why they were sad. You know, I'm not sure but you know just trying to make some connections between what he says here. Verse twenty-five. And he said to them, Jesus now said to them, Oh foolish and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have have spoken. Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? So Christ reproaches them. I mean he he is he's not in he's not in uh His choice of words here obviously it's not a commendation of the state of their mind or their understanding. They're they're sad because They've refused to believe the women who came back from the grave and said that they had seen him. Um Even though I think in the back of their minds somewhere they they knew that God was working something, was doing something here So Christ does rebuke them for not, for being slow um for being foolish and slow of heart. Yes, you were gonna say something Yeah. True. The two things that I wanted to bring out here. Remember how I I emphasized the the choice of words that Cleopaths used redeemed. Okay. The idea of redemption always has the thing about paying a price, you know, uh paying a ransom for. So there was that element of thought in their minds, however, however At this point in time, even if they knew that, you know, God was going to somehow redeem Israel, they did not know, or at least they did not quite understand How far, how high a cost God was going to pay to redeem Israel? So when the m when Christ came and he died and resurrected They didn't make that connection that, you know, this is how God was going to redeem them. Okay. Now I say this because in spite of the fact In spite of the fact that they had this notion of some type of redemption, but didn't know or at least did not pay enough attention or maybe did not remember some of the things that Christ had said, Christ does rebuke them Okay? For not believing all that the prophets had spoken. Now, I don't know how many of you remember everything that you've read in the Old Testament, you know, the i in in in uh the five books and and all the other books. And how many of you can remember precisely where it talks about the Messiah, you know, um dying or paying the penalty for sin? Okay. But somehow Christ rebukes them, which means he's he the expectation would have been that they would believe what the scriptures had said My question to us is, given the state of mind that they had at that time, I don't know how much uh th they probably all went to the synagogue or something and you know we're taught we were taught from you know the Old Testament, as I think we are also we've been able to learn from. Exactly how believing of the scriptures are we? Today. At the end of this of today's class, one of the application points that We should take from this class is to ask ourselves the question, okay, how much of the scriptures do I believe? If I do not believe all of the scripture because If you as you look at this, you notice that Christ is saying all of it. You know, in some form or fashion, all of Scripture you know, points to Christ. Maybe not directly in some cases, but invariably when you take the entire um word of God as we have it, it points to Christ. At this point Christ rebukes them So what do we expect will be um how are we gonna face the Lord if You know, we have to answer for the fact that we chose in many cases not to believe what the scripture says. And in in what ways do we do that? Okay, I would ask us to Examine our lives, our belief system, the things that we agree with, subscribe to, listen to, stand for in light of you know, the entire scripture. So that's one of the application points I'd like for us to take away from this. But I'll continue reading here. O foolish and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? Then, beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, he explains to them the things concerning him in all the scriptures. And they approached the village where they were going and he acted as though he was going further. I know initially when I saw that I thought wait a minute, he acted a lot. Was he pretending? Not really. I don't think that's what what um we're supposed to understand by that that. I mean obviously if they had arrived where they were going, okay, um I think I think they would have needed to invite him to join them you know, as opposed to him just assuming oh I'll just go in with you. So I think that's the the the idea here. But they urged him, saying, Stay with us, for it is getting toward evening, and the day is now near over. So he went in to stay with them. When he had reclined at the table with them, he took the bread and blessed it, and breaking it, he began giving it to them Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him and he vanished from their sight. So remember we read that um They were prevented from recognizing him when he first started walking with them. I don't know exactly you know how far he walked with them, but it must have been a considerable distance. Seven miles is is quite a way You know, so it would have taken them some time. So through that whole time they didn't recognize him. Okay. Eventually, after he took the bread and broke it They now recognized him. Now one could make the assumption or one could simply say, oh, uh the reason why they recognized him was as he was breaking the bread, perhaps they saw the nail print in his hands Okay. That would be um you could say that that might be a simplistic explanation, but scripture tells us specifically that this it is at that point that they now recognize him. I'd like to know what do you th why do you think that in God's providence he chose for them not to recognize him until that point? Exactly, exactly. Yep. I think I think perhaps they would have been so excited they would not uh have been able to listen to anything you have to say yet Well are you assuming that they were at uh at the uh Passover meal that the way he broke the bread? Yeah, I d I don't know. I don't know. I think I think you know we're sometimes we're temp at least when I read this thing. Yeah, it's it's easy to just look for a a simple explanation and it's You know, what seems natural. Except in cases where scripture specifically states that they were pre God God in his you know in his sovereignty, in his wisdom decided they will not yet recognize Apparently yes, this was just another regular meal because we don't we don't have any records there. In fact the Passover this was The Passover was the prior week, remember? It had just ended. That is that is interesting. Maybe that's maybe that's what led to them you know also recognizing him. That's uh that's a a Well, I think there are a few things that we know. One one is his resurrected body um uh was the same body, except that it's now um a glorified body. We know that his resurrected body was recognizable We know that his resurrected body still bore the imprints of you know the nail and his in his hands and his his sleeping hands perhaps. We'll see later that also uh uh uh the where he was pierced in his side was still there. So I'm assuming that he's uh he would have been recognizable. Okay. And since I don't know what m manner of clothing they wore back then. I'm gonna guess that uh it would be a little difficult to recognize somebody purely by what they wore. So they probably all wore something similar, maybe some type of robe or something. something like that. So uh uh the the part of your question that's tough for me to uh attempt to answer is the fact that it was daylight So you would you would you would assume that they should be able to recognize him from you know by his facial features. But they didn't. Perhaps they didn't look at him, but either way, one thing is clear, God didn't want them to recognize him. until the point where he broke the brain. Okay, so I think that's interesting. I I I I actually like to I like the fact that you brought that up because it does point out that if they had recognized him, then he wouldn't have had a chance to to at least let them realize that they were not believing of what the prophets had said. So yeah, I think that's a that's a a valid point. Okay, so um we read in verse 32 here that they said to one another, this is after he had just vanished, they said to one another, Were not our hearts burning within us while he spoke to us on the road, while he was explaining the scripture to us Yes. I don't know how to respond to that. Yeah, you're you're probably right. I I think two things are clear to me. Uh one is um these these two w when they were when they left Jerusalem had only heard that some women had seen Christ and uh that the disciples who went to the tomb had not seen him. So at this point they were not convinced that he was actually um risen. Okay, so one of the purposes I would imagine of Christ appearing to them was to give them a chance to actually see that he was he had risen. And the other thing was uh Christ needed to help them understand that you know that the things that was happening the things that were happening that day were actually already uh spoken of in uh um i in the prophets that all those things were actually true. It's true that they may not have completely understood how it would unfold over time, but at least they were true and they needed to believe it and And I believe that's one of the reasons why it's recorded here for us. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, we don't know. We we can speculate but we don't. Yeah. Yeah Yeah, I I don't know for sure, um, but I yeah. The the expression our hearts were burning within us. I I The only thing I can say is I I know uh times when I read scripture and it just seems to resonate r remarkably my heart. So I'm I'm gonna get to something similar to that. Um Yeah, but you know this other thing about you know Christ's appearance. Remember that this is not the only time when he appeared and he was not recognized at first. Remember when he first Sh when uh Magdalene was at the tomb. Okay, she turns around and sees someone that I I don't know, I'm just imagining stuff here. You know. Maybe she saw his from his neck down to his you know, knee or something because either she was in the cave already or or what. But anyhow, she did not recognize him at first. So um why I can't explain Explain that either, except to say uh like uh someone pointed out a little earlier ago that you know if when God deemed it necessary, he opened their eyes so that they recognized it. Good thing you mentioned that yes. Well, we didn't know what that form is, but we surmised that um He was obviously in human form, but there must have been something about the way he looked or appeared to them that made him unrecognizable to them Now it says a different form, but I couldn't tell you what that is. I mean I don't think he he he appeared like, you know, a ten foot tall man or anything like that. So yeah, Yeah, I don't think we'll be able to answer the question about the form. Only I can say is when he appears, okay, we will be like him because we will see him just as he is. That's all I can say. I would love to be able to just you know appear in America and then the next second I'm in Nigeria. Wouldn't that be cool? Forget American Airlines That's an interesting Yeah, that's a good point, yeah. Well you you're beginning to convince me that perhaps there was something about the way he looked that was different That is true. Okay, let's move on. Uh section two fourteen. I'm reading from the blended account. They got up that very hour and went away and returned to Jerusalem and found gathered together the eleven Oh, by the way remember that it they had told Jesus when they were traveling with him that it was getting to uh it was getting late in the evening. Okay. Okay. So in spite of the fact that at this point in time it might have been maybe a little treacherous to to s start a journey back to Jerusalem, but they were so pumped up that you know they decided they were they needed to go back and tell you know, the eleven. And by the eleven here, um this it doesn't mean that there were Exactly eleven of Jesus' disciples there because as we will read later, uh Thomas wasn't there. But anyway, um so going on And they got up that very hour and went away and returned to Jerusalem and found gathered together the eleven and those who were with them. So obviously there were more than eleven people. Okay, um verse thirty-four, saying the Lord has really risen and has appeared to Simon. Now it's not the the two who just returned from Emmaus who said this, obviously because they were not there. It must have been those who were there on their return to Jerusalem that mentioned the Lord has really appear uh risen and has appeared to Simon Uh I don't think we have anywhere else in scripture except in First Corinthians, as your note points out. Um um below of the Lord appearing to Simon Peter. But just s let me finish reading this. So the Lord has really risen and has appeared to Simon. They began to relate their experiences on the road and how he was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread, but they did not believe them either I I find that astonishing. Who is it that did not believe them? The eleven did not believe who Yeah, at this point it does mention that you know he had appeared to Peter. So it would have been the other what eleven you take No, it wouldn't have been Clopas because uh Clopas and his companion had just returned from Emmaus to the other disciples who were gathered in the Ah we don't know that for sure. It doesn't tell us. Yes. No. And the other people. So Exactly. Turn the run and work another seven miles back, yeah. You were about to say. Yep, it was getting dark Did you want to say something? Or just to point out that these people must have been, you know, I don't know you know, so hyped by by Yeah. Okay, I'm gonna move on just because I'd like for us to get to the last section here. Uh 215. Afterward, when it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and when the doors were shut where the disciples were for fear the Jew for fear of the Jews while they were telling these things. Now, um I imagine that this is probably the same residence where they had had the Passover and the disciples have gathered and when the two from the Mayus came back. This was the same occasion. Okay. Apparently um they shut themselves in for fear that the Jews would come looking for them. Why would that be the case Uh-huh. Uh-huh. So the the the soldiers had gone to the Jewish leaders and you know, although they they did not Uh remember lastly when we're talking about this, uh can you imagine the soldiers going back and telling them that the body's no longer there when their very purpose for being stationed at the tomb was to make sure that that didn't happen and that somebody had the the guts to break the seal, the Roman seal that was on um the covering. Can you imagine that? So it it makes sense that the disciples at this point were scared that, you know, they could come looking for us After all, the other night when they arrested Christ, you know, they had all just, you know, run away. Okay. So yes. Yeah, I can't imagine what the emotions would have been at this point because They start out on Friday, you know, and this terrible, terrible event that took place, the crucifixion of Christ. And now this after the Sabbath is it's on s on Monday? Well it's it's it's it's uh on Resurrection Day and they were hearing the stories about some what some people citing uh some people going to the tomb and his body was not there. Some people uh some ladies encountering angels and Mary Magdalene and a couple of others others actually seeing Christ himself. I don't know what do you what kind of emotions would they have had at that point? You know, excitement, sadness, what? It's hard to say. Um so anyway, going on. The first day of the week and when the doors were shut where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, while they were telling these things He himself appeared to the eleven themselves as they were reclining at the table, and stood in their midst, and said to them, Peace be to you. But they were startled and frightened and thought that they were seeing a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? Why do you doubt? Why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself, touch me and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have. I think this sort of answers that question about, you know what form he was. It was actually it was actually flesh and blood. Flesh and blood. Flesh and bones. Forty. And when he said this when he said this, he showed them his hands and his side and his feet, while they still could not believe it because their joy because of their joy and amazement. I never thought anybody could, you know, be in disbelief just because they were so joyful. Now the disciples then rejoiced when they saw the Lord. He said to them, Have you anything here to eat? as if to say, you know, if you still have any doubts, how about I eat And show you that it is really I They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate it before them, and he reproached them for their unbelief and hardness of heart. Because They had not believed those who had seen him after he had risen. So Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you, as the Father has sent me, I send you also. And when he has said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Spirit. If you forgive sins of any, their sins have been forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they have been retained. But Thomas One of the twelve called Didymus was not with them when Jesus came. So the other disciples were saying to him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see his hand I see in his hands the imprint of the nails and put my finger into the place of the nails and put my hand into his side I will not believe. There's some uh oh There's some interesting things here that I'd like us to just take a quick stab at before we end today. Notice notice that in um verse 21 he says, So Jesus said this to them, peacefully with you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. What do you suppose he meant by as the Father sent me, so I'm sending you? And who was it directing this at? When when when you when you say as you know as this happens, that's the same way that this happens. What do you mean? Similarity. Similarity. So but so in what way had the father sent him? Or so there's two things here. Could be. So I I just just to point out that there are two ways you could look at it. Since the Father sent me, I'm sending you also. So what you're about to do, what you're going to be doing is simply a continuation of what I was doing. Or you could say in the same way that the Father sent me, that is the same way that I'm sending. Either way, I'd like to hear what you think is meant by as the Father sent me, I also send you. Okay, just so you know, I don't have a particular answer that I'm looking for. Okay, let me ask you this also. Now, right after he says that, he says, uh he says, and he had this uh and he said And when he has said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. Is there any connection between you know what he just said about sending them the way the father sent him and the fact that um shortly after seeing that he now breathed on them and says receive the spirit is there a connection there That's definitely true, yeah. Okay. he specifically it couldn't be in of uh all of that. My personal feeling was well the way the father sent him, like he said, you know, his introduction, um his um lunch into the into his public ministry had to do with the Holy Spirit. Perhaps that's what he was referring to here. But before I before I be before you before I conclude that that's exactly what I think. There's one one other issue here. Um this this passage here I think has caused, you know, some I don't want to say controversy, but some discussions in certain quarters uh about people who who've read uh Luke's account of the Pentecost and and this account this and John's account here Um in our notes uh it points out this is Okay. The third the third point here is that Jesus gives them an initial commissioning, sending them out no not that, I'm sorry. Okay. The fourth point it says that as he did in his Olivet discourse, Jesus reminds them again that he will send them the Holy Spirit, who will empower them to be his witnesses. He didn't actually give them the Holy Spirit here. Now because we're almost running out of time, I'll just say this First, uh I I kinda agree with that that this is not where they were they were given the Holy Spirit. Okay But I uh there's a slight twist in how I think about this. I found out that in the Greek where it says breathe on them, the on them In that phrase there is not there in the Greek. So it just says breathe. And then it goes on to say receive the Holy Spirit. So I was wondering Is it possible that he just breathes and he says to them, in my own words, hey, expect to receive the Spirit or be ready to receive the Spirit? I know that I I've not explained that as much as I'd like to. There's there's a whole discourse I suppose we could get into um that particular uh verse there. So I'm sorry that we're not going to be able to discuss it anymore because we're just about out of time. So, um yeah, so we'll we'll um end there. Yeah. All right, so um let's pray and then um what's around the first of the