All right. Well, If you remember, we didn't exactly finish last week's lesson. So we are on page 181, wrapping up Uh lesson twenty-nine. And hopefully we'll be able to get through that and also the lesson for today. So we're on page 181, section 142. And if you remember the chronology here, Jesus was with probably a fairly large group of people making their way to Jerusalem for the Passover. This is now the the final Passover that Jesus would attend. And uh last week he was in um Jericho, right? Remember he healed Bartimaeus and his friend, and and so now he's on his way up the hill, mountain, to toward Jerusalem. So on the way, he gets to um Bethany. Bethany. And he stops in at uh his friends Lazarus, Mary, and Martha. So in section 142, which is taken only from John, we read, now the Passover of the Jews was near. And many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover to purify themselves. So they were seeking for Jesus and were saying to one another as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all? Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he was to report it so that they might seize him Jesus, therefore, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. So he's he's getting close. Yeah, he knows that well he he had been here in Bethany to raise Lazarus from the dead earlier in the same chapter, chapter eleven of John, but then subsequently uh went back north, you remember? And uh now he's making his way back to to Jerusalem all over again. Um it does Yeah, you know, the the the drama in the background here of pretty much everybody knowing that the Jewish leaders were out to get Jesus. Uh and yet everyone the the most of the people were um If not believing in Christ were we're at least um impressed by all the miracles. It says something's going on here, right? And um they're asking questions like uh this This it must be the messiah, the or the prophet or the um um you know, the the chosen one. And the so throughout here we we've seen Um people wrestling with who Jesus is. And now that the Passover um the Passover, the the one where he's actually going to be um sacrificed. They didn't know that, but they knew things were coming to a head. Uh he is a marked man, according to the the Jewish leaders. And so when it says the chief priests and the Pharisees, it talks about, it includes both The Sadducees, who were the chief priests, and uh Pharisees, both of those um groups within within uh Judaism were out to get 'em. And yet They didn't know exactly how to do it because on the one hand several places we read that um um the the people were afraid of the Jewish leaders, but the Jewish leaders were afraid of the people. And um So it wasn't exactly clear how things were going to develop, but it was clear things were coming to a head. But can we say at this point that At least most of the people thought at least that Jesus was doing good. He was good. And most of the leaders thought he was Yeah, most of the leaders saw him as a threat because if what he did and more importantly what he said was right It undermined their their position, their authority, their interpretation of of Scripture. And they saw him as a threat, for sure. Um when Jesus was before Pilate, he Pilate reflected that they leaders were envious. So what were they envious of? His power, his his popularity. In fact the following popularity, the following Uh Okay, well that's that's sort of transitional, but then while he's in Bethany There's another event here that's instructive. And uh we're here, we're on page 182 in the notes, section 143. This also is only from John. So they, that is, Lazarus and Mary and Martha, made him a supper there, and Martha was serving. Deja vu all over again, right? But Lazarus was one of those recl reclining at the table with him. Mary then took a pound of very costly perfume of pure nard. And anybody have nard? That's close. That's close. Very aromatic, right? Um anyway, it was costly. Um and she anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, who was intending to betray him, said, Why was this perfume not sold for 300 denarii? That's like 300 days' wages. And given to poor people. Now, he said this not because he was concerned about the poor, but because he was a thief. And as he had the money box he used to pilfer what was put into it. You see John's commentary here. Um Therefore, Jesus said, let her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. By keep it here, he's not talking about keeping the perfume. She's actually used the perfume. But rather keep it um as a as a uh a memorable gesture of worship for him that she would keep in her heart. And the she would keep it for the day of my burial. For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have me. So there have there were and and um Are several events somewhat like this? They're actually different events recorded in the Gospels. We saw one of them earlier in section 112. Uh I don't believe the person there was named. Um and um this one was key Because it seems to be the tipping point of Judas. Where he already, as it says here, he was intending to betray him. But this was kind of a straw that broke the camel's back, in his thinking, apparently, because what we see is then shortly thereafter he started making arrangements with Jewish leaders And Jesus' response is interesting. Um There was nothing inherently wrong with giving the money to the poor. In fact, that was the challenge he gave to the rich young ruler, right? But um Judas was missing the point of this in that it was not only worshipful but actually somewhat prophetic, preparing him for his his um sacrifice on their behalf. Um so perfumes and so on like that were used routinely then for um preparing the bodies of those who had died. And um isn't it interesting that her brother Lazarus had died and his body was prepared and And yet he was raised by Jesus and now she's preparing Jesus' body for burial. Interesting. It it it would seem odd to me that you would be preparing a living person five. So I am not sure whether what she was doing whether she actually meant it to be, you know, preparing his body Um but one thing does seem um obvious though, she obviously adored um The Lord. So And all the more after the resurrection of Lazarus, right? So I would imagine that what she was doing at this point was simply an expression of that emotion. Adoration, but Christ obviously uh interpreted to mean you as buried in body for Yeah. Yeah, I think that's that's very much uh gotta be true, everything you said. What we don't know is how much she understood, perhaps even more than the disciples, about his upcoming death, burial, and resurrection Um it's possible that she perceived more than the rest of them. Kind of went over their head. Um she may not have been present when he described those things, but um um but we don't know what he was telling or what Exactly. Yeah. So um I I think it's fairly safe to assume that she didn't have uh uh um an accurate understanding of all the events that were about to unfold, right? Um and that she was she was working from an attitude of of worship and devotion to the Lord and sacrificial even. Jesus di uh uh interpreted it as somewhat prophetic How much of that she knew? We don't know. But um it wouldn't surprise me that she had put two and two together better than a lot of other people. Because her heart was was in tune to that that understanding. Yeah. Okay. Um So this is really Jesus using this opportunity to try at least to prepare the disciples. Um one more time for his upcoming sacrifice. He had spoken multiple times of his um being mistreated and even crucified by the by the Jewish leaders and that on the third day he would rise again and here he's now making reference to his burial Um which he didn't apparently specifically say was about to happen within the next week. But um he's bringing them back to this theme again to get them mentally prepared, which appears to have again gone over their head. Um anyway, very interesting uh dynamic going on here. Yeah, Victoria. Where are they from that? It's a perishable. Why would you want that if they want it? How did go with that Um and then she has that so when you get it to must buy it. Very curious. Yeah. It's not like the wise room they came with stash set. Yeah, we don't we don't know, but I think e even as God was um kind of working through her in a prophetic sort of way. He probably um sovereignly orchestrated her having that and her willingness to to use it in this way. Um but but Victoria, you you struck a on a Thoughts fell in my head. We know that her only brother, who they dearly loved, Lazarus, had died shortly before this then and you would think she would have used that spice to prepare his body for burial and and would not still have it. I it's very interesting that she was still has. Or it may be one of two she had. Who knows? Right? Interesting. There's many stories in the Bible that I wish I had these I had to say this is not one of them. That would be a very awkward meal. They had gone there for dinner and this girl was sitting putting cream on this I was a volunteer to do the day. You know, some things are awkward and we slip over it, but Jesus didn't make it awkward. He turned it into a thing, but that socially is an awkward thing. You bet. Yeah. Yep, right there with Martha. All right. Well, uh Bethany As it turns out, it would have been fairly strategic for Jesus at this point, because um this was the Sabbath, right? Uh let's see, where does it say that? Previous verses said six days before the Passover. Um So I'm pretty sure this was on or around the Sabbath. And Bethany would have been just Beyond the circle, the radius that the um the Jews in Jerusalem would be permitted to walk on the Sabbath. Does the religious traditions, not the law, uh, but the religious traditions required that they not I mean you had to walk around a little bit on the Sabbath. but not to go too far because that would be too much like work. And um so they were very picky about how far you could walk on the Sabbath and to go from Jerusalem to Bethany was just beyond that, apparently. And so um While Jesus knew that things were coming to a head in this conflict with the Jewish leaders, um uh uh there wasn't much chance that they were going to come all the way to Bethany because they'd have to stay there before going back. They couldn't make the trip in one day Um so I'm told. Interesting little little uh cultural background there. Okay, let's go ahead and begin today's lesson on page 184. We get to the triumphal entry. So Jesus makes his way from Bethany. Um to I don't know how to pronounce it, is it Besphagi, Bethage, probably Besphagi. Besphagy. And then the Mount of Olives and into Jerusalem. You'll notice here on page 184 that here is one of the few events that made it into all four of the Gospels. And so we have contributions here from each. Um and notice also that we're now beginning they're on page one eighty four. We're now beginning the last Week of Jesus' earthly life. And look how much more notebook you've got. You know, the Gospels um have between them at least a third, maybe I forget now, forty percent. It's a huge percentage. devoted to this time period, and rightly so. And some of it's um just the synoptic, some of it's just John, but um Together they devote uh so much time to this last week and and and all the events and the teaching and and so on It's not that things weren't busy and happening prior to this, but even as John says, if everything were written, all the books in the world wouldn't be able to hold it all, right? So here we are in the middle of July, and we're going to be in this week and a little bit after this week with the resurrection. Between now and November. That's that's and we started back in December. So just a little thought. Okay, so on page changed everything. On indeed. On page one hundred eighty-five we have the blended account. So the large crowd of the Jews learned that he was in Bethany, of course. And they came, the crowd. They came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom he raised from the dead. raising from the dead of as you would imagine um was a hot topic and um something of a Spectacle, people wanted to follow up on that. Verse 10, but the chief priests planned to put Lazarus to death also. Why? Because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and were believing in Jesus. So Uh um in their thinking, this was all the more reason to get rid of Jesus. He was undermining them, their popularity, their as if they had any popularity. Um that their their position and their doctrines, everything was at stake, um, if Jesus were correct, which of course he was. Verse 12. On the next day when he had approached Jerusalem and had come to Bethagi. near the Mount of Olives. So he hadn't traveled very far here from Bethany to Bethagi. They're all sort of clustered there as you approach the top of the Mount of Olives that's otherwise called Olivet. Then Jesus sent two of his disciples, saying to them, Go into the village opposite you, presumably Bethagi. And immediately as you enter it, you will find a donkey tied there and a colt with her on which no one has ever sat. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone asks you, why are you untying it, you shall say, the Lord has need of them. And immediately he will send them back here. This took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet. Say to the daughter of Zion, Fear not. Behold, your king is coming to you, gentle and mounted on a donkey, even a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had instructed them. They found the colt tied at the door outside in the street. just as he had told them. And they were untying the colt when its owner said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of it, just as Jesus had told them. And they gave him permission. Um so um it's not clear here, and I guess it doesn't need to be clear Whether Jesus had somehow made arrangements and these guys were expecting him, and this was sort of the cues and so on, or whether Jesus in his uh omissions Um it could tell them what to do and what was going to happen. Or maybe some combination of both. We don't know. Doesn't really matter. But verse 35. They brought the donkey and the colt to Jesus, and they threw their coats on them and put them and put Jesus on the colt. And he sat on the coats, coats on the colt. And he was, as he was going, most of the large crowd who had come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, went out to meet him, and spread their coats on the road, and others were cutting their branches from the palm trees of the fields, and spreading them in the road. As he was approaching near the descent of the Mount of Olives, and let me pause there. So um Um Bethany, Bethwagi were on the um Maybe I should do it this way. This this uh this is um east of Jerusalem. So Jerusalem's here. Bethany, the thoger here, and Mount of Olives is kind of um a bit higher, and then it goes down into the um Brook Kidron. as as you then get to Jerusalem. Okay, so there the Mount of Olives is more like a ridge. And they're going to be descending probably the roads kind of go like that, um, down into the Kidron Valley. As he was approaching near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of the disciples began to praise God joyfully with a loud voice for all the miracles which they had seen. The crowds going ahead of him and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna to the son of David, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Even the king of Israel. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. Peace in heaven and glory. Hosanna in the highest When was the previous time Hosanna in the highest was used? At his birth, right? It's interesting. Yeah. So all of this, the blessed is you comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna, all that comes from Psalm uh 118. And people would have understood the term Hosanna to mean, save us, Lord, we pray. So, um there's undoubtedly a mix of people here, people who were genuinely um seeking to um worship him, to exalt what God was doing in their midst and and so on, but probably also people who were just around for the spectacle of it. Like it says, uh they wanted to see Lazarus because, wow, really? You were dead and now you're alive? Um just the the uh spectacle of it. Um And so it's probably quite a mix of people here. And um, as we'll see uh in a minute, even some of the Jewish leaders. These things his disciples did not understand at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, they remembered that these things were written of him in Psalm 118, particularly. And that they had done these things to him. So the people who were with him, when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead, continued to testify about him. This is the one. For this reason also the people went and met him, because they heard that he had performed this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another, You see That you are not doing any good. Look, the world has gone after him. So they were jealous. They were Angry, they were seeking a way to eliminate that threat to their position. And we see that actually in the next section. Where in um Luke's gospel on page one hundred eighty six Luke 19, 39. Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. W why what were they what was the reason that his followers needed to be rebuked at this point, if you're a leader of the Jews? Supposed blasphemy, at um kind of worshiping him, um attributing to him the the prophecy of Psalm eight one eighteen. Um And clearly making them the the religious leaders look kinda foolish. So was that they were irrelevant. Completely irrelevant. And so they said to Jesus, Rebuke your disciples. But Jesus answered, I tell you, if these become silent, the stones will cry out. Isn't that great? Yeah. The stones will cry out. So um that would have been neat to hear. The stones crying out, if it were to have happened, would have been just a mere act of God, right? attributing nothing to the character of the stones, right? It's all an act of God, a miracle. And that's sort of what's going on here, I think, that the the praise that's giving Jesus to a large extent probably is not Um for many of them, not all of them, but for many of them it's probably n not any more um from the heart than it would have been from a stone. That's my assumption. For some of them, clearly they they were worshiping from the heart. They were seeing him as um uh probably Messiah uh and even then they were probably um expecting that here he's coming to Jerusalem, he's going to establish his kingdom. We're going to be freed from all this nonsense with with Rome and even the religious leaders of the day. Just like At the feeding of the five thousand they wanted to make him king immediately, right? Uh so there's probably a lot of people in that sort of frame of mind. But um God was clearly working to receive praise even through all sorts of people, some of whom had a pure heart, probably others who didn't. Yeah. I mean, what's harder just don't crowd and change the heart Exactly. Yep. Yep. So it's all an act of God. And so when he approached Jerusalem in verse forty one He saw the city and wept over it. So he's probably working his way down the Mount of Olives into the Cadron Valley. And you can see Jerusalem in front of you. And the temple would have been very uh prominent at that point. And Jesus saw the city and wept over it, saying, If you had known in this day, even you, the things which make for peace. Which, given Jerusalem's name, is significant here. But now they have been hidden from your eyes. So he's saying this after he's been exalted and and lauded and praised by crowds of people, and yet his heart is heavy because Jerusalem as a whole, including many of these people probably, just don't get it. And for the days will come upon you when your enemies will throw up a barricade against you and surround you and hem you in on every side. and they will level you to the ground and your children with you, and they will not leave you, not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not recognize the time of your visitation. What's that? It is sad. That's why he wept. Very sad. Um and I think it's very very similar to why he wept before the raising of Lazarus. He was um burdened by the conclusion that most people just didn't get it. That he is the resurrection and the life. And even here, even in the midst of people, you know, you from from a human perspective, he would have been on cloud nine here But knowing people's hearts and knowing the shallowness of their understanding and devotion to be obedient to God, he wept And the destruction of Jerusalem, which of course was fulfilled to the letter in seventy AD. Um was a consequence of that disobedience to the Lord They're they're turning their back on him and not recognizing their Messiah when he came. Um Sometimes we don't recognize moments in our own life and it's moments. Do you know what I'm saying? We're we're saved, you know, we're in the word, but our flesh we fight against and and just in day-to-day life. Like I had an opportunity every day to pray. And the business of life got in the way. And I mean I confess that to Lord, Lord, I you're giving me everything and I'm busying myself with all these things that it's the tyranny of the urgent, which is a total lie. But sometimes we don't recognize Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. And uh what convicts me in this one is Sometimes I lean so much on the sovereignty of the Lord and other people's salvation that it's kinda like, well, they're not called well, they're not listening. Jesus wept knowing. I mean he's the sovereign lord over their lives and yet he still wept at what they refused. So when you have an Opportunity to share the gospel with someone. Don't just be like, I don't just throw down the bait, it's there, it's there, it's not that it's know that these people are about to face eternal destruction, you know, leveled more than the city will be. And we have that sort of compassion. It happens, I think this plays out in two dollars because I mean why you see what happened. I feel like the only time that's going to be one hundred percent real is when we're in heaven. And he's going to be happy with our worship because right now So The Pharisees asked Jesus to rebuke his disciples and Jesus instead rebukes them. Um sort of a common theme. Uh all right. Section one hundred forty-six. Uh again, this one's actually just from Matthew. When he had entered Jerusalem, all the city was stirred. And you could imagine with all this. Triumphal entry and and so on. It is in Mark also Uh there's a tad bit in Mark, yeah. Thank you. Jesus entered Jerusalem, and when he came into the temple, all the city was stirred, saying, Who is this? And the crowds were saying, this is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth in Galilee. And you know, so people could see from some distance, oh there's a stir going on, what's going on? Who what's causing the stir? And they said it's because of Jesus. And uh the blind and the lane came to him in the temple and he healed them But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he had done, and the children who were shouting in the temple, Hosannah to the son of David, they became indignant. How dare he? Right? And said to him, Do you hear what these children are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes, have you never read, Out of the mouths of infants and nursing babes, you have prepared praise for yourself. And if necessary, stones. Um So they would have understood that he was quoting from Psalm eight there. And uh it's it talks about praising God and what were these children doing? They were Praising Jesus. What was Jesus doing? He was telling these Jewish leaders, see the connection here, guys? Yeah. Um A little footnote here. It's the last bullet I have on page one hundred eighty six. You can see going from here we've got we're going from verse 11 to verse 14 of Matthew 21, what happened to verses 12 and 13? They're coming up next week because they are parallel to the um accounts in Mark and Luke Um oh the cleansing of the temple. You know I noticed that, don't you? Oh, I'm sure you do. Yeah, no. I can read Morag's mind. What's going on here? So you don't need omniscience to know people's minds, right? Okay. Um So we're going to see a lot of things happening during what we call Passion Week in the temple. And very early on, he's healing. Again, right there in Jerusalem again. Right under the noses of the people who are out to get him. Yep. So And then in section 147, Jesus returns quietly back to Bethany. It's a pretty good commute. And after looking around at everything, he left them and went out of the city to Bethany with the twelve, since it was already late, and spent the night there. It doesn't say specifically it was with Lazarus and the family, but um it's a pretty good chance. Um And why Bethany? Why go that far away? There were millions of people in Jerusalem for the feast and having having um a place like Bethany to retire to made a lot of sense. Uh we're gonna see, however, that he didn't go there every night during Passion week. But this w this night he did. It was a busy day. He started in Bethany and ended up in Bethany. Okay, any thoughts, questions at this point? The the whole uh idea of interpreting Old Testament prophecy, is it correct to say that generally that prophet did not know the future fulfillment of what they were seeking or or writing. Yeah. Yeah, I think we have um A hint at that in was it 1 Peter 1? That um even the angels didn't understand all the pieces of the puzzle of God's redemptive plan. But certainly the prophets spoke. And um didn't necessarily have all the all the the details worked out. But um by God's um inspiration they communicated what God wanted to have communicated. So it's for our benefit. And we have the advantage of being able to look back on events to see to see how those things were fulfilled. Um you can't really blame people who were um contemporaries of Christ for not having put all the pieces together because it's all spelled out for us. Right? Uh and so after the resurrection, when he went when Jesus um instructed all of his disciples, opening up the scriptures to then the Old Testament and showing how all these things had to happen, the pieces started coming together. And I've often wondered why didn't he just do that on day one? You know, um, wait until after. Well, um There are probably lots of reasons, but the fact that he did belabor the scriptures and show them how these things had to be made them all the more ready to um um receive the Holy Spirit and begin planting the church. Um in answer to Kirk, I think when the Old Testament prophets were writing a lot of this they thought there was just one coming. It was all about one time. Because especially in Isaiah you can see it does speak of the first coming and then it jumps to the second coming and it's like looking out at mountains ahead of you. You might see two and think they're very close together, but if you were down on the ground they were w way, way far apart. Like that's years in times of years. And they just thought I mean why would they think that their Messiah would come too? Although there were some probably in their mind conflicting accounts, right? You get both the king coming in glory and the suffering servant. It wasn't clear to them how this all fit together. Um but yeah, we have the advantage of not only looking back in time, but having extra scripture to interpret scripture. Um We can't we can't fault them too much for not being able to put all the pieces together um beforehand. But Some understood enough, like Simeon, Anna, right? They understood enough to worship the the child of Christ as he was brought to the temple. And um There were others as well. But I think they were the minority. And e but even then they wouldn't have all the details worked out, even from scripture. But um there's sufficient there for them To have faith. Saving faith. Good. Any other thoughts, questions? Anybody want to have been there at that time? Oh well. I see You'd have been well you'd been doing dishes you know the night before. Oh my god, can you imagine something coming to your high at your high climb on the bed But in that culture they didn't have to do. Pastor Allen, um speaking of visiting Israel, the I heard on the radio a couple days ago uh Pastor Robert Jeffers, the senior pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas. He has a group going to Israel like pretty soon, with within a year from now. So I don't know if that means it's safe waters or or not. Yeah, I I haven't I haven't heard um Yeah. That's the plan. To have a trip with Dr. Bookman on in March. Oh. March. This coming March. But that depends on Israel opening up fully, including all the places you really want to go that tourists don't go Um and so we'll just have to wait and see. No, there's just a b if I can talk to the rest of the world into going to Israel, I'd be glad to talk to you into it There's just a short period of time. You couldn't do it before nineteen forty-eight and they can be cancelled on a moment's notice because of the situation. If you've got the money, you've got the time, that might be the only time So I see it. Okay, continue later. Amen to that. Pastor, I got a note from Lon Solomon this week. And we actually went with him one time. And not in Israel, but he says that Israel is open now and they are going to go back there this year. And you know Well, since I had been there one time, he continued to say they said, We're going we're going so close. He read it all. Yep, things are improving the trace. Well, you can see they don't go and how do people Backyard. Looking at a uh stone. Yeah. Um I I have something off the subject too, since we have a little time. I watched the uh season finale of season two of the chosen and was very disappointed. I I do not believe that the disciples would build a stage a literal stage with backgrounds and everything. And then the women, including Jesus' own mother, would come and costume him to give his sermon on the mount. My Bible says Jesus sat down and began to teach them and they had him standing on this Totally uh uh I don't know if I'm off it or not, but that just was too too much. Yeah. Yep, um I agree. Uh I think they've they've generally done some pretty good work to provide plausible backstory to a lot of the events that are recorded in scripture. This one, yeah, this is too much covered in scripture to um depart from. Jesus sat down and talked to him people. He wasn't practicing and pra ahead of time. So you know, on stage and oh too much. Okay. That just reinforces the um the the reality that the only thing that's inspired is scripture, right? And why don't they make something like a show? Just taken just from scripture. You know, it's a Jesus film, it's just the Gospel of Luke. And the sight and sales that I have seen are very true to the Word of God too. I would have to say that Quick question pass around since the next four or five months is going to be covering such so familiar of stories and familiar territory. How do you how do you keep from just assuming that you know it and you never you don't really learn anything or apply anything from it Is there a way to avoid that? What was that? Remember your sins. Yeah. Well and I think maybe Jesus' weeping over Jerusalem is a good reminder to us that uh any of us are susceptible to getting into that mode of Um, oh yeah, same old, same old doesn't really have any impact on me and my heart and my life. Um but the whole point of scripture is that God would be conforming us into the image of Christ. And so we need to take the opportunity and a good reminder to um um Think through from God's perspective um what was going on, why, and what impact does it have on our lives today. So at the end of each of these lessons, maybe you haven't focused on them much, there are questions about um helping you to evaluate the the text in that lesson questions like what we learn about the humanity of Christ And so w what example do we see of the humanity of Christ in today's lesson? His weeping for Jerusalem is a good, you know, his compassion, his his heart for them, for sure. Uh what do we learn about his divine attributes? Anything about his deity? He accepted worship. He accepted worship both privately When Morag's washing the dishes and publicly as well. What do we observe about his character? What we learned about his ministry strategy. Why did he do what he did? Um so lots of things that we can So what did he do? What did we learn about his ministry? His ministry He knew that he was this was gonna be his final um Passover. Okay. And he knew that his sacrifice had to happen on the Passover to fulfill The Passover. Right? And so when he raised Lazarus from the dead, that would have been a logical time maybe from a human perspective to sort of all these events But he didn't. He had to wait for the Passover, right? He went up north, kinda came down with everybody else. Um He was very much aware of the timing. You know, often he would say, My time has not yet come. Now he knows his time is is coming. And he's orchestrating events to um keep that timetable. Well remember Johnstar for the novel team I I only do what the father tells me. Yes. Right. Right. It seems like the Williams family who served as missionaries and Tunisia they when they came to visit they expressed a little bit similar strategy is when they said that well they they need to be very careful about their identity in Tunisia. But at the same time, they were there to be known as Christians and to attract people. uh to the gospel. So it was this kind of dual uh self-protection, but then they ultimately it's we're in this country, it was kind of threatening country to Christianity. Christianity and God's gonna protect us or or not, but we need to be serving people and to be be known, be identified with Christ. Rather than fighting fighting your faith. Yeah. And Jesus of course, even we often saw at the beginning here, um he's very publicly active in ministering to people, even right in the temple area during this time. Sort of as um Um it has the effect whether it was not necessarily the only intent, but had the effect of provoking all the more, the religious leaders, but he wasn't going to stop doing what he came to do And um so he did. He healed, um, taught openly in the temple. Yeah, we'll get there next time. Yeah, we'll get there next time. Okay. Well, very good. Let's close in prayer.