We are on uh lesson nine, healing, teaching, and disciplining, cycling. It's really an exciting lesson and the one unfortunate thing is that in this lesson we don't see all the healings, all the teaching, all the discipling that's going on. So I would encourage uh everyone to kind of go back and look at throughout the scripture all the circumstances where we see all these events going on, healing, teaching, discipling. In fact kind of what I did uh the other day was I just kind of quickly scrolled through, you know, up at the top of each passage or so there's that little, you know, kind of summary of what you know, feeding the five thousand, healing a leper. It's not scripture, but it does give you an idea of what's going on. And I think it's really helpful to s really see the the vast amount of of lessons that are being taught. Um so today we're going to look at a few, um but there's really a wealth of great examples and things to read about Jesus' wife and how he's and what he's doing and teaching the the people and also those who would follow um him as his apostles. So again we're on lesson nine. We're gonna s uh start on page sixty-two And again, I'm going to look at more of the blended account, but of course the scriptures are right there above on page 62. I will kind of interject once in a while on kind of some really neat uh nuggets of truth that are found throughout these uh throughout this these scriptures I'll start reading and um we'll just kind of go go from there. So I'm going to start again on page sixty-two and verse twenty-one there, the um blended version They went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and began to teach. So here's teaching. And they were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them with his message with authority, and not as the scribes. A key word here that really jumped out at me is this word authority. And I would ask, why might Jesus have been doing healing, teaching, and discipline? Do you think he was just doing it for theatrical reasons? Heal some people, make some make some wise Uh counsel, um how to live life great, how to avoid trouble. I would say that his healing and his teaching is his side point. It's to show his authority. No one else. There were been prophets, there's been good teachers. Um you go to the synagogue and you learn about the law and how it applies to your life and the commandments. But really, Jesus Christ is a very different person. He's not just telling you the scripture. He's telling you that he is the scripture. He is this is a new authority And I really want to pull that out of out of this uh lesson. He's teaching with authority. Verse 23, just then in the synagogue, there was a man possessed by the spirit of an unclean demon. And he cried out with a loud voice, Let us alone. What business do we have with each other, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. So we're going to see this Not only are his healings and teachings gonna emphasize his authority, but even the demons themselves Recognize who this man is. This is not your ordinary prophet or teacher. This is the Holy One of God. 35. But Jesus rebuked them saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And when the demon had thrown him down in the midst of the people, he came out without doing him any harm. An amazement came upon all, and they came and they began talking with one another and di and debated among themselves, what is this new message For with authority and power he commands even the unclean spirits and they obey him and come out. And immediately the report about him was spreading into every locality and the surrounding district of Galilee. So even the people here are beginning to recognize the authority that Christ has. Um Last week, so I want to I want to pull out some additional verses regarding the authority of Christ. Last week, um, if someone can read for me, Luke four, seventeen to twenty-one. Let's see if this is the only place it talks about the authority given over or recognized as Christ. And then if someone else can take John 14, 6 and 10 to 11. And then I have a bunch of verses in John 10, but if someone can start with that Luke four paragraph and summer with Luke Four or John fourteen I would say that's that's pretty authoritative. People have been looking for this Messiah, for the one who would be recognized as a king, as a high priest And Christ says, I am the one who fulfills the scripture. Speaking of authority, very bold, very direct. Anybody have John fourteen? Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. 10 to 11? 10 to 11. Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak of my own authority, but the Father dwells in me Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. Yeah. Jesus pointing to his own authority, that he and the Father are one. These are very, very bold statements. Also if we look at John, John ten has quite a number of I'll just kinda mention a few. Um John 10, uh verse 7 to about 15. I'll just read a little bit of it. So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who come before me are thieves and robbers of the sheep. did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. Thief only comes to destroy and kill Come to steal and kill and destroy. I came that m that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the good shepherd The good shepherd lays down his life for his sheep. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, leaves the sheep and fleas, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them I'm going to jump down to verse uh fourteen. I am the good shepherd, I know my own, my own knows me, just as the father knows me and I know the father, I lay my life I lay down my life for the sheep. And then even 28. Verse 28, I give them I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My father who has given them to me is greater than all. And no one is able to snatch them out of the father's out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. Again, very bold, very authoritative uh very different uh message than what the people have been hearing up to this. Any thoughts on So I think it's interesting to talk about Jesus was teaching with authority and and points out not as he scribes. He describes the Pharisees for the experts in the law. You know, they were the ones that were ordinarily teaching and yet they recognized there's something different about Jesus and the way he taught. way the teaching was when they saw it. They could see the inherent overview. Right, correct. Yep, yep. And again we'll see that more with um and Jesus mentioned, you know, look at what I do. We're gonna see some of that here. And the in the uh teaching and healing. Yes. It it seems to me and I I was just thinking about this yesterday, talking to other football coaches actually. It seems like that the Pharisees sort of caught out of an authority that was based on fear. People feared disobeying or or disagreeing. Or being in conflict with them what Jesus taught the authority of love and this which is obviously much more appealing. Right, right, more feeling and also scribes were teaching on commandments that the people uh could never could never you know fulfill. And they were constantly doing sacrifices and they were constantly coming right back and being disobedient. Whereas Jesus is about to give an answer that will say Through Christ, um there will be no more continual requirements of sacrifice. That the final sacrifice is Christ. So the door and the shepherd. So we learned a little bit about the shepherd. Um so the door and the thieves. Um what what I say about so um yeah, trying to get in I say about a door and thief. Yes. I know a door Like having the keys to the doors mentioned in Revelation six I mean three that uh it's like the door is like the way to heaven and eternal life. Mm-hmm. So I don't know if that's I guess like a door, like if I want to get into a room, I go through the through the door. There's only one way there's a door. Yeah, you could try to hack through the walls with an axe, but um uh that's not gonna work. Um crisis is all the different ways to get to God, whether you're following commandments or try to you know, you your your circumcision and uh sacrifices and going to the temples. Um trying to to get there by works of your own is not the way to heaven. The way to heaven is through Christ because it's Christ who covers all the sins. It doesn't matter what we do, we're never going to be able to fulfill the wrath that we're due. We're not gonna be able to pay that penalty that we owe to God for the sins, for the disobedience that we've You know, we've rejected God. We can't do enough to make that to to to make that right to reconcile. The only sacrifice is Christ. Only Christ is the door to heaven. There is no other way. Yes, Miss Litty? Um I mean I I love God so much. I just know that no matter what we do and how we do it, yes, we are supposed to do everything With them out out to please him. But we can't exactly please him because he has the right to choose whom he may when he wants to and we can just keep working towards that goal to say well I did everything Well that's the me. I tried, you know, born a center, weed in my mother's wheel. Just don't give up Just don't give up because we don't know who God is going to choose. Oh God Father is accent You know, are saving all the people Jesus Christ ask him to save and it won't be lost in in the wilderness. So um just trust him, just trusting trusting in in him and and and not trying to over do it because nothing that we can do to please him. I mean you know what I'm saying that would get us into if I can guide maybe add a little clarification to what you said. I think you got two things here going on. One is Salvation. How do we get reconciled with Christ? And that's what's being talked about here. Only one way. Once saved, yeah, we show our sanctification by repentance, by turning from what we did in the past. to following Christ now. And so yeah, those good works, we are commanded to do good works, but they're not in order to be saved. You're saved and from there, I love doing good works I don't do them perfectly. I mess up a lot. There's forgiveness. But in terms of being saved, it's only through Christ. And that's you know, that's why we're giving that's why God is That's why he's calling himself the Dishak. That's why he's calling himself the door. Only one way to God. That's through him. It's the only way for forgiveness of sin. Do I believe demon possession happens today I've never personally seen it. Um could happen if it it did here. Mm-hmm. Right. Yeah. I I I don't have the knowledge to say I can't say emphatically no it never happens. Um It wouldn't change my thoughts on um yeah, I guess I would just say it it I have no way to say it doesn't happen, so I don't sound very clear answer, but Yes. Well in general what that would mean is is if anybody denies God and makes a mockery or curses of them and stuff like that. That has to be something of a demonic measure and stuff that would cause people to do that Could be, could be, or just our own just rejection of God. Um yeah, I would be a little bit careful in saying s someone who's rejecting God is always because of a dem demonic possession. Um it most likely is also just our own desire of not wanting God to control our life. But then where does that come from though? Absolutely that's what he wants you to do. Um or just rebellion against God. It's that's basically our natural state of heart surprise. And our hearts are hardened. minds are are closed. We don't see the truth. Um That's just our natural state apart from God's intervention. Right. Yeah. And um that seems to be different from the demon possession s much of the demon possession as we see in scripture where um it goes beyond the the normal sin nature to be Destructive out of control. Destructive uh some illnesses apparently. There's a reference I think to uh a deaf and mute spirit somebody that he had But um the rejection of God is something that's just natural to everybody. Yeah, I would be cau I would caution against just like blending everything, you know, the devil made me do it, kind of a stance. We're we're responsible for our rejection of copies loss. actual possession. Yeah, yeah. I would agree with that. And yeah, and like and and as Dr. Plummy has stated, the demonic possessions that we see in scripture, they're they're very extreme. incredible strength and just Adam and Eve were not possessed by saying that that tough, but they were definitely influenced by what Diane said. Mm-hmm. That's a good point too. I believe that a person who is not a believer who is not safe. What it believes could never be. Right. Mm-hmm. And there's some scriptures that talk to that too about, you know, once you know once saved, always saved. Um Yeah, well you can't have be indwelt with the Holy Spirit and some kind of demon at the same time. Okay. Let's continue here. So um okay. Let's go on to the next page, which is 63. Just a kind of a just a map to look at where Capernaum and again Dr. Pulley talked a little bit about about this Um, you know, why in this region again there's that um road that leads uh down to Egypt, major thoroughway, um travelers going up and down here all the time. Um so really if you want your message to go out to all the world and to um impact as many people as possible. This region here along this road um would be a great place uh to do the preaching, the healings, uh the teachings. But there's a little map for you. Um page sixty-four. account. Starting at verse thirty eight, maybe go a verse or two and we can kind of get everyone involved in in in some reading of the word. Oh, uh w uh we're on page sixty-four, verse thirty-eight, and the blended account. So uh thanks for it. That the um that verse Uh this was to fill what was talking through by Isaiah the prophet. That is in Isaiah fifty three, four. When do we read that? Here is Isaiah 54. I would never be able to do this for the Bible on this one. Isaiah 50 53. I'm going to read a little bit more than just verse 4, but this is a word coming from Isaiah 53, verse 4. Surely he has borne our griefs and carries our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was cursed for our iniquities Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. So this is that verse that's being referenced in verse seventeen. The other thing I wanted to point out, I've kind of alluded to it earlier, is even the demons immediately recognized Jesus as God. And this is not the only place. Um I'd like us to go to some other verses. Um the one thing I love about Scripture But then in these big truths, it's never just one verse that you get this you get truth like this. You find them throughout all scripture. When I became a when I first became a believer I would like take my Bible and I wish I had my old Bible because at least the first Bible I ever had Because I've got like a million little cross references just kind of scribbled in the sides. I can't really do that unfortunately with this anymore. But it was nice to see how a truth isn't just Off on its own. If you dig in deep, you'll find it throughout scripture. And this is another one where um We see demons, even the demons, are immediately recognizing Jesus as God. So I have Luke 8, 28 Does someone want to read that one? When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him and said with a loud voice, What have you to do with me, Jesus? Son of the most high God, I beg you, do not torment me. And then Matthew 8, 29 I especially love it when you get like 'cause I have a horrible memory. But when I can get like Luke and Matt and they're both in chapter eight and one's verse twenty-eight and the other's verse twenty-nine, it's fantastic it makes memorizing fabulous. Matt twenty-nine. And they cried out saying, What business did we have with each other's home? God, have you come here to torment us before the time? And this is where uh he sends them off to a herd of pigs, right? Um Mark one twenty-four. What do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to I know who you are, the only one of God. And then I have uh actually Mark had quite a number of them. 311 and 57 311 and 57. 311. And whoever the unclean spirit saw him, they bowed down before him and cried out, You are the Son of God And he strictly ordered them not to make him tell. If you're eat by God, you're not coming. In fact, even and then in in nine and Jesus asked him, What is your name? And he replied, My name is Legion, for we are many. And that's what again, uh sending them into a a herd of pigs So even the demons knew who this man was. And if anyone ever asked, like where does it say that Jesus is the Son of God? Well, even the demons knew that. Here's some several examples. And it's interesting how even the demons recognize what their ultimate fate is and yet They know what their ultimate fate is. And yet when people are told what their ultimate fate is, the well, it takes God to to to save the regenerate heart, right? Unregenerate heart. But we should learn from that, right? That um there will come a day when we will have to be where we will be held accountable for our rejection or acceptance of God So no one will be without excuse. Yes. Mark. It seems like in these verses, if the demons know they have a certain time period that they will be chosen today. But yet we as believers were not allowed to know that time. You know, so it seems like to me that you have the knowledge that there is a period, if they're going to that time, close time period. Yeah. Yeah, they they they know there is a time coming. I don't I would say they don't know the exact time, but they know in some future days, ultimately they will be judged And the same goes for us as well. Yeah. I don't know from these verses it seems like they may have actually thought that this was the time. It's I I have you come to torment me? Oh, it almost seems like they're oh, has the time already been come? Um So I don't I'm I'm sorry, I may have missed uh question. Your question was the Yeah, I I it's a it's a good question, you know, is this w were they anticipating that this was the final time where they would have to be f you know finally judged um perhaps that's what he thought um There's nothing in scripture that says the demons know the exact time. But they do know that ultimately they will be judged. I think uh you know the first time Jesus came is to say the second time he's coming to judge, and I believe that that's the time we're talking about. Um but I think it's quite beautiful how this is even before we even had revelation right written by John that even some of these references, even the demons knew, like, oh, we're we're going to eventually be judged, and I think it's just shows again just how this is completely gone God's word. Like how many years later was that actually written revealed to John versus even knowing that this was even like a steep preview of And and also actually kind of the interesting application is the demons have no choice their decision is fixed. You are to judge. You are going to be judged and it's not going to be good. Um whereas for humans, we're not there yet. You actually have a choice. You're not gonna be able to make the choice unless God reveals himself to you. But um The choice for the for the demons is done. There is no they have no hope of. And what a tragedy is To see these demons recognize Christ as God, to recognize that they will be judged. There is zero hope in front of all these people, and yet these people just kind of I mean some will some will be sick, but some are just kinda like these demons are trembling. They know they know the judgment of the bath that will come down upon them. Well I just About the fact that he is correct. We have all the evidence to me. right in front of your face. But yet we still choose the journalists. If you talk about that, it's a Romans 1 was a big was really a big um hurdle for me to go get over. Um when I was in school I I just all these brilliant people around me looking down microscopes all day long and yet just rejecting the clear evidence staring back at them. Well the Bible always told the spirit warfare. At least demons are a part of spiritual warfare. So the org run of time spots plus humans never seem to spiritual So, um we're not, you know we have no knowledge of it. That's why they're playing Christ is. We don't have that authority now that we have all experience. You know, guys open their eyes. You know, but at that time human, you know. They they read the gospel, they knew we were the judges upon it. But they weren't going to physically Christ was, unless he did all these very Yeah, we yeah, we don't didn't we don't necessarily need to see the spiritual things behind the scenes. Um Clearly, Christ is telling people who he is. He's doing these miraculous miracles. He's doing these uh uh incredible teachings, he's had this that's the whole reason we're looking at the life of Christ. I mean They didn't need a spiritual, some kind of demonic spiritual insight. They had God Himself walking amongst them. That should be sufficient. So we still wouldn't be able to see that as kind of well. Yep, that's true. But we can never say, well We can never say, well, I just uh I didn't have enough evidence. Oh no, I can't so yeah, yeah. So we can't say that. Yep, sorry, that back. Um no, I was just going to say that that um in looking at the last sentence or even um you know they're shouting you are the son of God but who teach them he would not allow them to speak because they knew Jesus Christ. So it's now the Lord was in control, right? Jesus was in control So he was able to there's a way and a time where he needed to be reviewed, and this was not you know, this you could have allowed something to say if you may not say what to hear It's good insight, yeah. Not only was he in control of like removing the demons, he also controlled their ability to speak or not to speak. Yeah. Good insight. I'm gonna be on time today. Um, I also wanted to um healings. Okay, so this was about the healing of Peter's mother. But again, like I had mentioned, not only are there like many examples of teachings. But there's also many examples of healings. And I'll just I'll throw some verses out if if if you want to write some down. Uh Mark two, one to twelve. For some reason I I put an asterisk by five to seven. I'm just curious when I'm not sure what that little asterisk means. Let's see what I wanted to write. Mark two. This is another healing. This is a Heals a paralytic. And then in 5 to 7, I wanted to read it. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven. Now, some of the scribes are sitting there questioning in their hearts, why does this man speak like that? He is blasphemy. Who can forgive sins but God alone? Right? That's right. That's true. They you they knew the revival. Yeah. So again, recognizing you know all these things that are going on as to draw the attention to Christ's authority. And again, if anyone ever asks, you know, where the Bible says that Jesus is God. Mark 2, 5 to 7. I also have Matthew 9 One to eight, especially two to three. One to eight. So uh again, healing paralytic Uh on getting into a boat to cross uh he crossed over and came to his own city. Behold, some people brought to him a paralytic lying in a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Take heart, my son, your sins are forgiven. Again, same wording. And behold, the scribes said to themselves, This man is blaspheming, but Jesus, knowing their thoughts, So why do you think evil in your hearts for which is easier to say? Your sins are forgiven, or to say rise and walk But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he then said to the paralytic, Rise, pick up your bed, and go home. And he rose and went home. And when the crowd saw it, they were afraid and they glorified God, who had given such authority to them. And one point I did want to bring up, when we talk about healing, this is a healing. Taking someone who cannot walk and just with a word a command. Get up and walk. They walk. It's not, you know I feel I might have some unknown, undiagnosed cancer and someone puts their hand on you, your cancer is gone and where there's no um There's no visible organic change. These are extreme organic changes. Immediate Unrefutable. These are real healings. Not the kinds that we see today on TV. Think of the stupid boldness that they had. Here Christ said, your sins are forgiven, get up and walk. This guy who they all knew was paralyzed, got up and walked And then he was the same version of paraphrase. They have nothing to do with I have the parable. He's not saying it's that's direct, but he's doing it by itself. Your sins are forgiven. It's not I am God. You know, get up the wall. No. the um professor because he he just said there sins are dealing. But they bring me that it just blows my mind. They even had the the whole system to come up and who died who is Well that I said they'll they'll kill them for all these things too. Oh yeah. I have a question. Yes. Um on the uh account on thirty-five, they say he was healing them And laying a hand on each one of them and he was healing them on verse six uh on verse thirty-three. But then in this account right here, your sins are forgiven. And some of them Jesus healed and is saved And some of them did you just heal and not not offer salvation at all. Well, we don't know. Not and like it it didn't say clarifying. Yes, it doesn't say but some of them they say that your sin are forgiven, but some of them are just I heal you. Very possible. Yeah, we're not told. There might have been some, but um for what we have written here The reason you know for what we have written here is for us today to see the authority of Christ, to see Christ. and and we're getting to the place where people are recognizing that he is God. So we'll see more of that as we come through. Right, Jesus is God to know their hearts and you would know whether or not he is just saying forgiven or not. Um absolutely, although our hearts are regenerate or unregenerate, um, but he chooses those who he desires Um changes so that all of a sudden they can't see or some kids did see before. Yes. I I I I think there's a reason for everything Jesus Christ allowed to be put into the book of life. Psalm fifty-one The song of repentance state that uh everything we do is that is not right, is against Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. And he allows us to know that in Psalm So when we pray, we pray that we uh somewhat in a sense apologize act of forgiveness for sinning against him because he's the creator of everything that lives with me. So we are we have a place where we can go with him His word to ask forgiveness in repentance. Um I'm asking you an idiot Well everything in scripture is for our edification, for our uh sanctification. Um Which is why we're going through this exactly, to be able to pull things out of Scripture um so that we can not just have the knowledge, but have a deeper and richer relationship with God, with Christ So all scripture is written um the point of God for our our edification. How to pray. I love going to the Psalms for, you know, if I want if I don't know what to pray, just pick up the Psalms. And read the psalms. And that will all of a sudden typically encourage you or give you like, oh, I should be praying about this or that or uh It's a great yeah, I love love going to south, especially for igniting that for life. Yes, part. I think these verses are also showing us that there are snakes that cause this to get sick to have those. And I'm thinking versus for saying that there there are some sum of the people that he feel or that they have These sicknesses are their health issues, not because of their sin, it's just because they have okay. Um and then others They were the ones who got the opening because of a sin that they were doing. Um, and I think it's also fair to that mother verse I don't know where it's at, but one of the apostles says who sinned was this guy's why was he blind or why was he paralyzed? Because who sent his parents or his? And Jesus said neither You know, it was just for this purpose. He had this owners. Mm-hmm. So that he could be worked by God might be dealing with it. Yeah, you're right. I mean there are organic sins or I mean I'm sorry, not sins, but um illness, disease, but this is the fall in the world, right? It doesn't um and w were some of those he did heal on in some of those instances, perhaps. But the healings that we see are these really miraculous that nothing's gonna change. There's no medicines that's gonna cure someone of being paralyzed. Whereas Yeah, if I get cancer, we do have medicines to cure that. Um but yeah, the healings, especially here, are really to to draw the reader's attention and the people to recognize God or recognize well recognize Jesus as God and that He has been given the authority to not only just instantaneously heal people But really, the real purpose to forgive sin. Let's go to can I ask you something? You just said that we have that as a debt terror uh cancer. Is that what you meant to say? No, like today, right? I mean you can you can get chemotherapy and there's some other treatments. Yeah. It's not a guarantee. Yeah, there are we we do have medicines that can cure cancer. Cancer. Oh certainly. Yep. But again, the purpose here are these miraculous healings. Again, to draw the attention or the tr to bring it revealed through that this is not just some ordinary teacher. This is not just some ordinary preacher. This is not just a prophet. This is a man with the authority from God. Therefore he is God as well. Living a perfect life. So I'm going to move on to page sixty-five, which is um Jesus prays, then preaches, and heals throughout Israel. So I'm going to read that blended account. When day came in the early morning while it was still dark, Jesus left the house and went to a secluded place and was praying there. Simon and his companions searched for him. They found him and said to him, Everyone is looking for you, and the crowds came to him and tried to keep him from going away from them. But he said to them, Let us go somewhere else. to the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also, for I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also. For I was sent for this purpose What is his purpose? So all these things he's doing, the healings, the teachings, um It's all for the one sole purpose at the kingdom of God, right? Verse 44. So he kept on preaching in the synagogues of Judea, and he went into the synagogues throughout all Galilee, teaching and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness amongst the people and casting out demons. The news about him spread throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all who were ill, those suffering with various diseases and pains. demonics, epileptics, paralytics, and he healed them. Large crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea. And from beyond the Jordan. So this message is rapidly, rapidly just going out. And spreading throughout the entire area. Um I do have one little bit of time. Sometimes I just throw little verses now, but I'm not sure why I threw the little verse now. But we're about to find out. I ru uh John 5 21 to 27 Oh, I think we did this last did Gabe do this last week or is he I think he might be preaching on it soon. John 5, 21 to 27. I wish we had time to really dissect this. It's really a fantastic section of scripture. Let's just read it. Verse 21. For the Father judges no one but has given all judgment to the Son. So he's raising, Jesus is judging, that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Honor going to the Son and the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God And those who hear will live, for as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself And he has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the son of man. Given authority He will judge. He raises from the dead and gives life. That's the purpose. of Jesus Christ. So that's the message he's he's proclaiming throughout the land. Let's go to page unless there's any questions, I'm going to go to page 66. Um Three fishermen become fishers of men. And this is where we're going to see the a little bit of a difference. He's out there, Jesus is out there, he's teaching, he's healing. He has kind of a little an additional um aim with those within his close circles. He's discipling. He's discipling. Not you know he's not doing miracles per se so that they would believe. He's now teaching his man how to fish for other men because when Jesus knows He will, you know, he has a he knows exactly when. He has a certain amount of time. He's got a timeline. And after that The continued ministry will be going out by using his disciples, right? So he's starting to train men how to be disciples, how to carry on the message Did someone read? Actually, could we just go ahead and end, instead of me reading, um could we have some volunteers to read Luke 5, 1-11? Now it happened that while the house was flipping around him and came to the Word of God, he was standing by the lake of Jenosaurus, and he saw two boats flying at the edge of the lake to the cushion He had gotten out of them and were washing the nets. He had gotten into one of the boats, which was like when he sat up and put out a little way from the land. And he sat down and began teaching the people from the boat. Well he had finished speaking but to Simon. So isn't he brought her and left back and asked for a patch? Simon Hamper decided, as you we worked hard all night and caught nothing, so I will do the DSA and down May have done that thing, so it's a great quantity of push. And our nuts began to break. Well just uh a quick a quick note Um Simon saying, you know, we've we've been fishing all night, we haven't caught anything. But I'll listen to you anyways. So there's already um An indication of faith there, right? Yeah. We've been fishing all night. I'm not gonna throw my head over the crowd. I know there's nothing there. That's not i even if I even I wanted to continue to fish, I'm probably not gonna throw it out in the deep anyways, I'm gonna throw it towards shore or something. Um but summon immediately we see immediate obedience because they're starting to get the idea. But this is not just some ordinary man. Oh sorry, seven. So they mostly partnered in the other room for them to come out from and they came from both the birth so that they began to with the time of your file that love from a Jesus these things. Go away from me, Lord, pardon us and Lord, for me and his peace and all the And so also we're getting the topic includes that we need for partners requirements And Jesus said to Simon, Do not fear, now he will be catching men. When they had bought him when they brought their both in land, they left everything in holiday. Wouldn't that be great? I wish I could do that with my own son, just like have him doing something, he's not listening, he's frustrated, so it's like son, just hit the nail over here And it would go in and he was just like, Dad, why did I ever why did I why don't I listen to you always? But Jesus is God, so I don't have that problem. But you can see the men are starting to see that there's more to life than just catching fish. And that this is not just a teacher of how to catch real fish. This is a teacher who's going to show us how to say it men. Right. As I was kinda looking at this, um I really notice a difference. So for example, when he's out teaching the crowds And again, we can go through the scripture and just kind of see some of those highlighted passages where it'll uh just give like a a little synapse of what's about to be, you know, what is in this next passage of scripture. Um we can see he's teaching the Kraus about you know the Beatitudes, lessons on God, the law, gospel, of the kingdom. Um But this is a little bit different. We see a little s a a change in how he is what the purpose is when God is teaching the apostles. He's teaching them to go out and ca and and really to to preach the gospel. For the crowds, he's teaching for salvation. He's teaching about you know repentance. He's teaching about um you know the sinful nature of man, uh he's teaching about himself, his attributes. Um he is showing the people that he is God. Um He's talking about salvation. Here, he's teaching the men of how to replicate what I've started. Sharing the gospel so that men can be saved Yep. Excellent, excellent point. Yeah. Trust, faith. Um because we're gonna need that. We need that. Um Even the apostles after they've been with Christ for three three and a half years or so, even at the end, um Peter just owns Christ. Like how could he do that? So yes, learning how to trust faith that this really is God Himself. Kind of putting myself in the shoes. of Peter and other fishermen. Uh why did this fit swell to make a living? Jesus had already previously, well, several of them were following. Very early Others and some of those he had previously said, follow me, but I want to make fishes with that. But they're thinking probably practically, what does following him mean? I mean I've got responsibility to care for my family, uh I'm I'm fishing because I need to do that But here he's giving them tangible evidence that he can take care of it. He says, follow me. And they're saying, okay, I don't have that excuse that I'm tied down to these responsibilities Because all Jesus has to do is say the word. So I can like Diane said, I can trust him. But trust him even that very practical sense of uh freeing me up being available following. Mm-hmm. Very true. It's also just a a good lesson for us today. So it's not just like, oh this is a great lesson. Let me go to the next. It's How was how do I trust God? How do I trust Christ? And we, you know, although they had this the benefit of being right there with Christ We also have a benefit in in in terms of we've seen the whole story before our eyes. Um and we know what's gonna happen. So we have a We can sit in our in our in our in our nice comfortable homes and actually read the entire plan of God. Um and even in our own lives, we've seen God's hands where we trust Him That application of trust. Um but the idea of trust, you know, we look at we we look at at these then and go like, yeah, God is in your midst. Why would you not trust? Well we should be able to say the same things about us, right? We also should trust. So when he said go away from me, Lord, for I am a central man, O Lord, that you recognize What he recognized. Recognizing a sinfulness, recognizing Christ Jesus as God Oh yeah, what an amazing experience it has to be when you like realize you are walking alongside God And that he doesn't just kill you i immediately. And yet he's there tenderly, you know, persevering, just like a little just like, you know a parent to their child who's disobedient, refuses to learn, and yet still just caring for that person. What why would you not trust someone like that? We have about five minutes left. I did want to um look at some of the discussion questions and and I would encourage everyone to like not just Close your book and come back next week, but maybe to really look at some of these questions. Um I really wanted to I think highlight uh the last two if we have some time. Um well I'm gonna read through the questions and if there's something that comes to mind we have about five minutes or so to discuss. Um On that page 67, what do we learn about the humanity of Christ? What do we learn about his divine attributes? What do we observe about his character? And number five, what do we learn about Jesus' ministry strategy? He's in the synagogues. He is uh he's teaching, he's healing. I mean We can see he's it it's not just like one or two, three healings. He's constantly healing. And he's healing doing miraculous healings. He's rebuking the demons Um there was also he rose early to prey in seclusion. That was one thing that we didn't really sit on for very long. Um but we see m uh regarding ministry strategy, do we pray? Do we pray enough Do we pray in seclusion where we're not distracted? Um as a takeaway just for myself Um I'll try to pray as I'm driving down 495. Not a great way to pray. Sometimes you gotta that's true. You gotta sometimes you gotta Yes, ma'am. Um, but this idea of removing oneself from distraction so that we could focus on prayer. Um That's something I know for myself I need to do more of. And again, you had mentioned the Psalms. What a fantastic source to jump off of if we're stuck and we don't really know what to pray about. Um psalms are a great source of igniting our our our thoughts um and refocusing our energies. um unto God. And this whole idea of ministry strategy, um we're all in some point in time in our sanctification. Just like Christ is teaching men how to catch other men, how to pursue how to uh continue the got the the gospel, the ministry, we too should be looking at younger folks who are coming up behind us because one day we won't be here And so we need to pass the time of good biblical teaching, wisdom. Um so I would encourage us, and you don't have to go very far There's a lot of folks who really would benefit from your experience, from your knowledge, and how both of these things can coincide. Um um in either their sanctification, uh correcting error. Um these are all parts of ministry. Um not just the ministry that we're seeing here on this page. Our own, we are all involved in ministries. And so we can take note of what we see here in Scripture and apply it in our lives to those kind of coming up alongside us. It doesn't have to be your son or your daughter. There's plenty of folks out here um who would really benefit from your knowledge, your wisdom. And your understanding of how scripture could be applied uh daily in our life. So think about that. At least that was one question They got me to really um think about what am I doing in the ministry where God has placed me. Because one day I won't be here again Um and then number six, what do we learn about his teaching? So again, he taught with authority, uh and he taught that many could hear We have about two minutes. Any questions, concerns? Um going back to the number thirty six And how Jesus responded when he was interrupted with his prayer or things. Something to keep in mind, uh even happened to me yesterday. I was grocery shopping and then I randomly saw an old thing that came up to me um ended up uh saying prayers and stuff like that and you know even too with uh you know with uh fishermen right becoming fisheries and then like your everyday stuff there's more meaning to that. And I think how we we can learn how to re how Jesus responds to those interruptions that you know us to keep in mind reading open the invitation of the Holy Spirit and listening to the Holy Spirit into that even a simple everyday um interaction can have a lot of weight and meaning in making things happen. So I think just those two things Yep, yep. And and and I too I've I unfortunately if I if I don't have any prayer time at all I will just be distracted for the rest of the day. And those little moments where I could step in, I unfortunately probably miss because I didn't spend any quiet time with God. Um tax the rest of the day. Well, I will I'm gonna I'm gonna pray 'cause I gotta listen.