Lesson 18, page 112. Um section eighty-two. I'll read this section and then uh When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gnesareth and moored to the shore. When they got out of the boats, immediately the people of that place recognized him and ran about and sent word into that whole surrounding district and began to carry here and there on their pallets all those who were sick to the place Uh Karen Karen Sharon Sharon. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Um was that sound good? As it is. Um To the place they heard he was. 56. Wherever he entered villages or cities or countryside, they were laying the sick in the marketplaces and informing him that they might just touched the fringe of his cloak. And as many as touched it were being cured. So what where did they come from? Does anybody remember? From last week. Ferneyum, were they in Fernium? Yeah, let's start with the first. So he left there and after doing a public ministry on the sign of what? What did you do publicly for people? The feeding of the Defeating on the five thousand. And then he did a private miracle for his apostles. What did he do for them? He walked on order. So he did a public sign for the masses, he did a private sign for his apostles. So now he arrives in a place where uh the people recognize him um as sending all of these sick people in the surrounding areas um on pallets to bring them to him and they were just hoping, believing that if they disjust the French of his garments, they would be cured. So why are there so many people in his environment On pallets. Um, I was doing a little bit of research and they said there were springs in this environment, mineral springs, and they were used for miscidemial purposes. And so there were a lot of sick people just laying around out in the open areas. So when Christ came, uh the people still even recognize that we came to him. So this When I looked at this, I thought that the people were under such false teaching for so many generations. They looked for anything that would help them. They were such desperate people that anything that they would uh that could be used for cure or to help them to alleviate their problems, they would use it. So God shows up and he actually cures them And so, um, and they believe that if they distrust the French of his garments, they will be cured. Now I think it came up before that some people thought that was superstitious. If you just touch Christ's garments, you could be cured. But uh do you all know why they they believe that they could do this If they just touched his clothing, they will be cured. Why was this even a belief? Because the woman who had been sick for so long just touched his garment and was healed. Yes. Many other people in other regions So this was known that if you just touch Christ, he can heal you. And so God did it. God had compassion on his sick And he cured many. But this is going to be, the next session is going to be the meat, the next two sections is going to be the meat of what we talk about today. So we uh are going to engage with this uh more in depth So I'll read verses 22 down to 30, and I would like somebody else to pick up from there, okay? Somebody pick up from 32 to 42, and somebody else pick up from 43 to 56 and somebody else from 57 to the end. 22. Section 83. It says the people refuse Jesus' spiritual demands. The next day the crowd that stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other small boat there. Except one, and that Jesus had not entered with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples had gone away alone There came other small boats from Tiberius near the to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks. So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor that his disciples, they themselves got into small boats and came to Capernaum seeking Jesus. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Redabi. What did you get here? Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, you seek me not because you saw signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Do not work for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him the Father, God has set his seal. Therefore they said to him, What shall we do, so that we may work the works of God? Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God that you believe in him. Boom he has sent. Somebody thirty to forty. What they have. We have a reader. What then do you do for a sign so that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers ate manna in the wilderness as it is written. He gave him bread out of heaven to eat. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, it is not Moses who has given him the bread out of heaven. But it is my Father who gives you the true bread out of heaven. For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world Then they said to him, Lord, always give us this bread. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will not hunger, and he who believes in me will never thirst But I said to you that you have seen me and yes you do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will certainly not cast out, for I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me This is the will of the Him who sent me, that of all that He has given me, I lose nothing but raised it up for the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who beholds the Son and believes in him will have eternal life. And I myself will raise him up on that day. Therefore, the Jews were grumbling about him because he said, I am the bread that comes down out of heaven. Thank you. Somebody else points you down to the um Fifty sixty. Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down out of heaven? Jesus answered and said to them, Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the prophets, and they shall all be taught of God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father except the one who is from God. He has sinned the Father. Truly, truly I say to you, he who believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate The manor in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread which comes down out of heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down out of heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread also which I give for the life for the life of the world is my flesh. Then the Jews began to argue with one another, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in yourselves. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. He was I supposed to stop there? 56. Okay. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him Thank you. 57 to the end. As the living father sent me and I live because of the Father. So he who eats me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread which came down out of heaven, not as the fathers daton died He who eats this bread will live forever. The things he said in the synagogue as he taught in Capernaum. Therefore, many of his disciples, when they heard this, said, This is a difficult statement Who can listen to it? But Jesus, conscious that his disciples grumbled at him or at this, said to them, Does this cause you to stumble? What then if you see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life The flesh profits nothing. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and are light. But there are some of you who do not believe For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that did not believe, and who it was that would betray him. And he was saying, For this reason I have said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted him from the Father. As a result of this, many of his disciples withdrew and were not walking with him anymore. So Jesus said to the twelve, You do not want to go away also, do you? Uh Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. We have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Jesus answered them, Did I myself not choose you the twelve, and yet one of you is a devil? Now he meant Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him. Thank you. I'll read the notes section real quick. It says note the parallel between Jesus' two statements. Everyone who beholds the shrine and believes in him will have eternal life. And I must say the last day. He who eats my flesh beholds him and drinks my blood, believes in him, has eternal life, and I will rise him up on the last day. Thus he eat his flesh is to behold him and to drink his blood, is to believe in him. Beholding him means to come to him, which is possible only if the Father gives the person to Jesus and draws him to Jesus. So when uh when they find him and they ask him, Rabbi, what did you get here? He responds to them By saying you seek me because not because you saw the sign, but because you ate from the field. When did they acknowledge that they recognized the sign? Back in verse 14 from last week. They saw the miracle of the feeding of the 5,000. They said, if this is truly the prophet, it was to come And so, um, but he says, you're not seeking me because of the sign. You're seeking me because your bellies were filled. And the next day, which is, you know, from the the next day, after their bellies were filled, they're seeking him for more food. They want to be filled again physically. The sign meant nothing spiritual. They wanted physical satisfaction, physical fulfillment, not spiritual fulfillment, or spiritual satisfaction. And so he confronts them with it, but he teaches them spiritual lessons. And Why do people see Jesus? Right. A lot of people who see Jesus. Some people see Jesus full physical Set the gratify gratif gratify gratification. Gratification thing. A seeking for physical gratification. Life better, um, pay bills, um Healings. Healings, right. Um always physical. But the physical things that he needs that he needs are the points of the spiritual spiritual He uses physical to point to the spiritual. He does not limit himself to meeting people's physical needs yet to keep them desiring to be satisfied with physical material things. That is not the source of satisfaction. Physical things, food, clothing, health, does not satisfy a person spiritually. It just is limited. God has designed us for eternity. So for them to seek Jesus diligently just for another meal, he confronts them what they need to really seek him for. And so when he Says you uh do not labor for the food that perishes. Um And they engage. Do not work for the food that perishes, but work for this food. And verse 29. This is the work of God that you believe in him whom he has sent. So they don't know who he really is. They don't sample what he is. The sign is done. And so they want to use it as another means to fill their bellies again. He will not do that So why did he choose even do that to feed them? What why would why did God choose to do that? Right. He had it was his choice, right? To have compassion, to meet a physical need because they were in a desolate land. But does that mean that's what he's going to do all the time? Right. So to seek Jesus to meet have an ex another experience To me, the physical gratification is not what God, that's why God blesses people to always seek a physical gratification. Thomas can ask Sorry, I was gonna I was gonna say Thomas there's something this this this passage is is filled with so many questions for me Um Jesus says do not work with No, I don't like I'm not asking that actually. Um Jesus says to them do not work for food that perishes, but for the food that leads to eternal life. And their comeback to him was, okay, what do we do to do the works what shall we do to do the works of Christ? And then Christ says to them, this is the work of God, that you believe in him who sent me. Okay? Help me, help me here. The first time of the a number of times I've read that specific um section that says this is the work of God that you believe in him whom he sent. And I often thought it meant, okay, the work of God that you need to do is to believe in him who sent him. But as I was reading earlier before this class, it just dawned on me that What Christ is actually saying is that or what he might be saying is this is the work of God, the fact that you believe in whom he has sent Is that what is that how you read that particular. Oh, okay, so you're saying the work is to believe and not that the work I mean the believing is what God has done Right, and and and in this context and who got it sent. Remember, they saw the sign But they're not coming to him because he was he's uh fulfilling the sign as being a messiah. They want to be filled with food. And so uh so their response is what I'm sorry So their question about wanting to do works with uh doing the works of God is actually a pretense, if you would, because they say um um What shall we do that we may work the works of God? Because it's like saying, okay, what shall we do so that the things that God is doing, we are the ones doing it all, so that the things that God is doing, we will be doing along with Him But what do people think they can do to uh uh to please God? Good works. Works. They think they can do good works And they cannot. They want to earn something. They can't ask. And they just want to know, what shall we do? That we may do these works. And he's saying believe. You can't do the work, you must believe in the one who can do the work, who has done the work. And so he eventually he he's going to expose that he's speaking spiritually, but they don't understand that right now. And so um So then they asked me 30, what sign do you do that we may believe in you? What work do you perform? So then they go back to the food again. Our fathers ate manna. So it's the next day the bellies were filled yesterday and we want to be filled again. So here's another work. And I like how they are very honest and bold about what they want I'm glad they're not sugarcoated with them. We want to be fed again and we don't want to work for it. And um it's it and then he used the word, as it is written, he gave them bread out of heaven to eat. So then Jesus uses that to say, what, truly, truly how many you it's not Moses who gave you bread. It's my father who gives you the true bread out of heaven. 33. For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world. I'm not going to go through the whole text, but he's telling them that he came down from heaven, that he is the bread of life. And I think this is the first time he uses this. Is that right, Pastor Fornley? I am the bread of life I think so. I am Yes. Well the first reference to the bread of life for sure. Okay. The first reference to the bread of life. That came down out of heaven, that he's the one that came down out of heaven. And he who comes to him will not hunger. And he who believes him will never thirst So what did he want them to what did what he teaching them? You will get hungry again no matter how many times you're sick. It will never satisfy you. But if you come to me and believe in me If you hunger and thirst for righteousness, you will be satisfied and filled. So what does God want His people to do? Hunger and thirst for righteousness, not physical food. You would not be satisfied by hungering and thirsting for promotion at work. You would not be satisfied in this life. Nothing in this life can satisfy us. God did not design it that way. He designed for us hungry and thirsty for him for righteousness, you will be satisfied. I love that that God knows what our needs really are. It is not limited to physical gratification. So but he's speaking of eternal life and uh eventually he's going to teach them. So he is the bread of life. And why doesn't he use the word bread, not just plain to mana, but what is the significance of bread? Just practically speaking. Bread is food, right? And the basic of food. The basic food. So about the best thing if we're we're gonna break bread together, practically we're gonna eat bread What do you mean? And fellowship. In fellowship. And um uh And brand sustains physically, right? Jesus sustains for eternity. I think there's also a parallel In that in that those days, that culture, they ate bread every day. So just like we need they needed bread every day and they drank water every day uh for their physical body. Jesus is telling him that he's the bread and later he says he is the water. Or I think he told the woman at the well he was the water of of life too, and they need that every day for their spirit, not only to nourish their body, but to nourish their spirit. I think that's what he's trying to show them Right, and does not God show us that today? It's not really physical things you need to really satisfy you or uh complete you, it's me You need spiritual nourishment. Seek first the kingdom of God, and then all these things will be added unto you. All these things will be added to you. The things that are not first God's kingdom is first. So it's easy to miss that. I mean he's speaking directly to them. And then he says, oh, I'm sorry. He who comes to me would not hunger, he who believes to me would never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. So I think they declared the sign, declare him the prophet. But they miss who he really is. You see me, you experience me, but you do not believe in me All and why? Because all that the Father gives me will come to me. You can't come to me. You can't see me who I am because it has not been granted to you If you when you hear that, is that cold? That God is doing miracles, He preaches His Word, but the only people that can come to God are the ones that the Father draws to Him How does that sound? No matter what a person does, no matter what Jesus preaches, no matter how many signs he does before them, they cannot come to him unless the Father grants it. What is the wisdom in that? God isn't control. God isn't controlled. What else about the Father? He's sovereign. His will is sovereign. He makes the choice. So no matter how much you pray for somebody. No matter how much you plead to God, only the Father saves people. We do not save anybody. Thank God we can pray, we can uh declare the word of God, we can do good works to the Father's Spirit, but only God saves a person. So people are not saved because we pray necessarily, not to give us credit, but God did answer our prayers. He works through them in his sovereign will. Study the word, because God works through them, but it is his choice. for so long. God's sovereignty and salvation. Yes, because man's free will versus God's sovereignty. Because in our finite minds it seems very unjust, you know, that hey I can't come to you unless you call me. And finally, the only way that I could settle it was in Psalm that said I don't wrestle with things that are too too hard for me to understand. Like mean child I rest at my mother's breast because there's no way that we can really reconcile in our logical mind how that works. Um it to me it seems a total trust issue in God's goodness. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, because everybody deserves to go to hell, right? Well yeah, well you don't know that when you're first saved though. You know a lot of people don't know that everybody you know, that that's the argument that's given is that we all deserve to go to hell, so therefore God is Merciful and that he selects a few to be with him. But again, in our human finite mind, why did he select me over Don't blow. You know, it's it's it's let's be real about it. That's really hard to understand and to see the goodness in that. The only way that you can do it or the only way I've been able to do it is to trust that his ways are so much higher than mine. Because you tell me how you can do it logically. From a man's point of view, how you can do it I read this and I struggle with that. I was reading this and I was struggling with that fact that not struggling in, oh I just don't feel fair, but my goodness, thank you for saving me Yeah. Well I another sorry. Uh Brad Yeah, I was um reading the book um well I can't remember the name of the book. Oh. Yes. Oh I was reading this um this book I can't remember the title, can't remember the author, but uh I was talking about albums So um the irresistible grace part, we were going out and we're preaching the gospel and um we're presenting the uh Um presented the gospel and God is calling that person, he's going to accept the free gift of salvation. He's going to. But with the person who's presenting The gospel of the believer who out of obedience is simply presenting the gospel. He has the peace, knowing that God is sovereign And I'm simply presenting the gospel out of obedience. Not worried about, I mean I'm concerned about who's coming, especially if it's a relative or friend. I want that person to come to know Christ But the peace and the comfort comes when I know that God is sovereign over who comes to him. And I'm getting the joy knowing that he's using me to set Present the gospel to that person. And when that person accepts the free gift of salvation and confesses with his mouth, her mouth that Jesus is Lord and I hear it, I get so excited knowing that God used it. It'll give the glory though. It who gives the glory. He gets the glory. He gets he's sovereign over everything, but he's choosing within his plan to use me and every other believer just to proceed And that's what we did. So related to uh what Karen was saying, that we get the peace. No, we know we're not doing anything. We're not we're not trying to convince someone. It's all got it. Right. So so it's not. Oh my gosh. So you you asked, you know, is this being cold? Is God being cold? Well, no, we have to remember, you know, God is just in all of his ways. And so he's not being unfair, you know, in judging these people. These peop you know, all of us are guilty and condemned before him. We're all unrighteous, you know. And it's not that that people want salvation and God doesn't get it. People don't want salvation. They don't want him. And so they're not willing. So it's only by God's grace and mercy that he intrudes in your life and he he creates a new spirit in you. You know, the the old is is passed away, it's buried. And and he raises you n a new creature, a creature. You know, still does not answer the ultimate question. You're a hundred percent right. I am so grateful that God's sovereign. Which you guys are saying is very comforting and it those things are true. They're true. But it's still in the in the finite line does not answer the question that ultimately I believe we have to trust God, believe in His goodness, believe in His sovereignty I I have not found a way to reconcile it in my finite mind. You know, you hear the argument that we all deserve hell, and we do. We're fallen sinners None of us want God. It's by his grace that he put that new heart in us. We had nothing zero to do with it. But you still get down to the point with your loved one. And of course you know God loves our loved ones way more than we even do. So I mean I get all that. But I'm just saying that God is so great He is so above our comprehension that when you just look at it on a human level, guys, how do you you know and he doesn't even make the choice based on us. Right. Like he doesn't even make it reasonable to your life, but you could do no no and Anne came one time described it like you're in a grocery store and there's a whole aisle of cereal boxes and you go down and it's the same you know raisin brand and you just pick a box. I mean I just don't think we have any way to really understand it. That's all I'd just be honest about that. We know what we know. I think uh definitely uh helps us to understand is that he is all powerful, all he can do whatever he wants. He does not shrink back from his position. Um is accepting it is the hard part sometimes. Yeah. And um but even We cannot earn God's favor. But somebody would think they need to do something to earn God's baby even after being saved. That's not what I'm talking about. I am talking about God's sovereignty versus man's free will. There have been the illusions and really smart people over the years that have tried to reconcile it. You can't. You can't because If if God and and R I tell you the closest I've ever gotten to it, I think it's Romans twelve. It's but so are you, O man, to to you know, where we just but if he goes on to say what is Romans I said, what if in my mercy I saved a few and then the others I didn't to show my rack or something along the line. That's the closest I've got to be able to uh even remotely wrap my mind around it. But God is, you know, I guess if we are sinners, I get that God has been nothing but merciful and gracious Can I add something to what Karen is saying because um I'll play a little bit of devil's advocate here. In my former church A close friend of mine, who was a believer, and told me she prayed every day for her mother's salvation. She knew her mother was not saved And her mother died in her sins. And this friend asked me, why did God not choose my mother? And I had no answer for that. I did not know what to say. You know, can I say something? I think uh I've read about this too and a lot of that I think is uh realizing the nature of God. God is free to do what he wants to do. He even said before we're born uh he is determined. So we know that like like Karen is saying, there's nothing in us that makes the determination of God choosing us or not choosing us. But it is the character of God. He is totally free. He said, um he said, I hated Esau and I loved Isaac uh i even before they were born. So that's the nature I think that's the nature of God and if God is we have to let God be who He is. And I think uh you're right, you just it just boils down to trust. And another thing I thought was kind of interesting in this um passage that we're we've been reading about um kind of how God is a little bit obscure here. It says, I am the bread of life, and he who comes to me will never hunger, and he who believes in me will never thirst. And yet If you read that just on the face of it, they must be thinking, uh, I'm getting hungry after you fed me. I'm already getting hungry and I'm already getting thirsty. So I think, you know, God sometimes allows us to have to grapple with some of this stuff because that is a spiritual aspect he's talking about, not physical. But yet he puts it in a physical form. He who comes to me will never hunger, and he who believes in me will never thirst. Even though those people are looking at him and thinking, I'm already getting hungry and thirsty. And so what does this mean? I think it's kind of interesting just uh the juxtaposition of how he expects us to grapple with this and get down to the spiritual truth rather than looking at it in the physical like you've been saying Right. And so he uh we'll move on. This settles it, but we studied Romans precepts and it's in uh chapter nine, verse twenty two, because this this is really the answer thing. What if God, willing to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much long suffering the vessels of wrath. Now listen to this part, the vessels of wrath fitted for destruction and that he might make known the riches of his glory or the vessels of mercy which he had alone prepared unto glory. So it makes a distinction between the vessels that he's already prepared and the vessels of wrath that we were all destined to be. So that's actually um if you remember Karen, that was a a verb tense thing because um in our language we only have active and passive verbs. In the Greek they have active, middle, and passive. And in the active sense the the The subject acts on the verb. In the passive, the verb acts on the subject. But in the middle voice, the subject acts using the verb upon himself So it means that God didn't prepare them for destruction. It clearly said in the other one, the active voice, God prepared some for eternal life. But the ones that were prepared for destruction did it to themselves. It uses the middle voice They prepared themselves for destruction, not God prepared them. He's speaking to people that that are not ignorant to what has just happened, but they are blind by their sin And God has um revealed truth to them, but their sin blinds them. And so we're gonna go on again 20 minutes. Um sorry, Thomas. Thomas Thomas. I'm sorry. I wanted to kind of put up overall perspective on this. Excellent conversation. Um But you know, there are a number of key doctrines, very key doctrines, that we can't get our minds around. You know, the Trinity Jesus is completely God and completely man. How do you get your mind around that? And this is another key one. uh in terms of God's um sovereignty in not just salvation but everything else and uh man's uh W we don't say man has a free will based on what we see in Scripture. Man does have a will because he's created in God's image But our will is always subject to God's. He is sovereign. We have the ability to choose and we have responsibility for those choices. But the the bottom line with all these conundrums that we can't get our mind around is that God has revealed these things in such a way that we have to use our minds, but we're compelled to use faith. And that faith ultimately comes from him. We don't generate that faith. And With that faith and with our study, we can delve deeper into some of these things that are hard to understand And this conversation has kind of helped, I think, to to do that. Um and we don't so we don't want to just say, oh well, it's it's just a matter of faith, I'll I'll accept it blindly. Well, we do, but we also need to keep studying. And uh uh uh applying and wrestling with the entire scripture, not just one single verse. And that's true with all these things that are difficult to get our minds around Some things in Scripture are extremely clear and a no-brainer, but um we're called to live by faith, and God has revealed enough so that we can use our minds, but we're uh n needing to rely on faith as well. So just a just a little wrap up. So go ahead, Thomas, you've got just a few minutes, right? Thank you, Pastor. So God does a mirac a sign, he does a miracle. God proclaims the word and they're still blind to it. They're coming to them for physical sustenance But he's now helped he uses that to point to their greater need for eternal life. You need God to provide. God has provided something for you that they will reject. So go down 42. So, in response to him saying that he came down out of heaven as the bread of light, they say, is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph? Whose father and mother we know. How does he say, I have come down from heaven? Say, don't grumble among yourselves, no one can come to me unless the Father Who Sidney draws him is also an encouraging for Jesus does. It's um encouraging to know that only the Father would draw people to him No matter what I do, no matter how many miracles I perform, only the Father would draw people to me, based on the miracles and based on my word. And so um, and he's gonna raise them up on the last day. So why are they seeking Jesus? They're seeking Jesus for a meal. Why does anybody seek Jesus? I do not know, but Jesus confronts all people to accept him for who he is. And what was the first we transition to the blood? And Jews were. Alright, look 51. Then the Jews began to argue with one another, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? He has to take a man. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood He doesn't back off. He gives them another peace. Eat my flesh, drink my blood. You have no light in yourselves. Who eats my flesh and drinks my blood? Had eternal life and I will raise him up on the last day. So get a person, just believe that Jesus was a good teacher and be saved. Can a person just because a person is serving in ministry, does that mean that they're saved? What must every sinner do to be saved? There's only one way to heaven. So what must every sinner do in response to Jesus to be saved? He says, Eat flesh and drink my blood. We do it in communion. What do we do? We recognize what But he was sick for us. His body was what? Broken for us. Yeah, what what about the wine? His blood was poured out for us. Alright, so we need six feet, which his body was broken But we have to accept that, correct? His body was broken Blood was shed. We are saved. We believe that we're sinners and God had to die for our sins. If a person does not recognize that, I do not believe that they are saved. People love the religion of Christianity. They love the good people, the good work, the fellowship, but they don't necessarily love Jesus Christ. They love serving in church. They don't necessarily love Jesus Christ, nor do they accept that they are sinners and they need Christ to pay for their sins. A lot of people, I didn't know that. I went to church for years. I didn't understand that. And I was singing in children's choir. I was doing all kinds of things. I wasn't saved But I like the religion of Christianity because I grew up in that environment. But when I was in front of what the gospel by God worked, I said, oh, I didn't know that Yeah. It's like who owns your life? Do you want to own your own life or do you want Christ to be the Lord of your life? It's who's who's in control? And when you Just taste, stick your tongue out and taste something. You're not ingesting it. You're not making it a party. When you come to Christ, you have to fully embrace who He is. You have to take in His Lordship, His His ownership over who you are. He is now Uh in he i he is your life. Right, God being down in heaven as a man. And bring that down again. And it it's that and accepting that his death and his resurrection are the only sufficient payment for my sin. It's not my good works, it's not anything I do, it's not anything I am, it's Christ And his work and his work alone. Right. And circumstances do not determine whether you save the net. It's only Christ So anyone who has a family member, I forgot what you were, you give them Christ and who he is. And if they don't accept Christ, they never did Christ has done everything for us, for us to be saved. He came down, he became a man, he shed his blood, he rose again from the dead. That is the only thing the Father accepts That's what he's given us to me. He gave us unto us. There is no other way to heaven. So it's uh you have to give people the whole story of who Christ is, what he's done He was the only one that could do it because he was the only sinless person. He was without sin, so therefore his sacrifice was accepted by the Father. Right, exactly. So the the the the animal. Because it's it's a life but God is saying, you know, this is your life. You drink my blood because it's my life I'm giving to you. It's a transfusion. It's a Right. And uh it was now I know we didn't get deep into this uh because we were stepping on the sovereignty of God, but he's speaking he's not speaking of physical Getting and drinking blood, he's speaking spiritually of eternal life. Um But did they know guys? I don't think I've put that. He says it. No one can come to me unless the father draws him. But he did say later on that the things I've sent to you are spiritual. The flesh profits nothing. Oh no to the crowd. Okay. He's promises a parallel and then he's us and but he began with that with um explaining to them this is a uh You come to me for your physical needs, but I am here to meet your spiritual needs. But I use a physical need to point you to the spiritual need So the the uh um I mean that happens with us all the time. Um even today we're not here to just gratify the flesh We're here for to uh live for the kingdom of God. But that can't be skewed by a lot of responsibilities that people have where the physical dominates and God is left with mere crumbs of our life That's just the practical um thing I can't do for me. So yes, they understood I I would say they even declared the sign, but they didn't understand the significance of it But didn't you always speak in parables to the people most of the time? Didn't you always speak in parables to the people most of the time? I'm sorry. Yeah. Is there parables? Yes. In the said at the at the end of the slide says, Oh well now we know you've heard it because you don't speak in parable stuff anymore. It decides to say that. So I mean I think I think the few things. Well if I I was there when people talk about now, that's kind of weird. I mean he healed people to good person and gave us bread and all that. So when I can see their confusion, why can be confused? But that they will only focus on yes. Um when my husband and I first got married, there was a soup kitchen below us and occasionally we would work at the soup kitchen and it was uh like a ten minute bible study ahead of time and then the meal. And we saw a lot of people come in, well obviously for the meal. And um it kind of reminds me of that study. Like the Lord is giving all this deep stuff. But they're relating it to just getting the meal, like oh I think that's a parent. It really is. You know, they say truly true they say You seek me not because the signs you saw, but the loaves and you are filled. And then on verse thirty, they're like, What sign do you have for us? You know, what work are you gonna perform? And what really reminded me of it was um was how when you work at a soup kitchen and you do the little summon ahead of time, a lot of times through the line as people are passing by, they'll they'll say a phrase or two back to you from the scriptures to try to butter you up to get something else. I see that right here and it may be taken a little out of context, but our fathers ate the man in the wilderness as it's written He gave them bread out of heaven to eat. And these people came to the mill. The Lord said, You're here because your bellies were fed. You know. And then they're saying, Hey, by the way, you know You know, God gave them our our fathers ate manna and they gave them bread to eat. They're still focused on that that meal thing and the Lord's trying to get 'em to go into this deep stuff, but unless the Holy Spirit enlightens us, we're still in that state of where's the bread, dude? Like I don't know. Right. Like I think the next five minutes goes to section 84. Thank you all for uh engaging. Very spirited discussion. So this is a sh what's a fast reader? Pastor Blum, are you a fast reader? I'll do it. I'll do it. After these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee, for he was unwilling to walk in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. Then some Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered around him when they had come from Jerusalem and had seen that some of his disciples were eating their bread with impure hands, that is, unwashed. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they carefully wash their hands thus observing the traditions of the elders. And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they cleanse themselves And there are many other things which they have received in order to observe, such as the washing of cups and pitchers, and copper pots. The Pharisees and the scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with impure hands? And he said to them, Why do you transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? Rightly did Isaiah prophesy, view hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far away from me. But in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the precepts of men. Neglecting the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of men. He was also saying to them, You are experts at setting aside the commandment of God in order to keep your tradition. For Moses said, Honor your father and your mother, and he who speaks equal of father or mother is to be put to death. But you say if a man says to his father or mother, Whatever I have that would help you is Corbin, that is to say, given to God. You no longer permit him to do anything for his father and his mother, thus invalidating the word of God by your tradition, which you have handed down. And you do many such things as that. After that, he called the crowd to him again. He began saying to them, Listen to me, all of you, and understand, there is nothing outside the man which can defile him if it goes into him, but the things which proceed out of the man are what defile the man It is not what enters the mouth that defiles the man, but what proceeds out of the mouth. This defiles the man. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. When he had left the crowd and entered the house, then his disciples came and questioned him about the parable and said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this statement? But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly father did not plant shall be uprooted. Let them alone. They are blind guides on behalf of the blind. And if a blind man guides a blind man, both will fall into a pit. Peter said to him, Explain the parable to us. And he said to them, Are you still so lacking in understanding also? Do you not understand that whatever goes into a man's mouth from outside cannot defile him Because it does not go into the heart, but into the stomach, and is eliminated. Thus he declared all foods clean. And he was saying, That which proceeds out of the man, that is what defiles the man. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed the evil thoughts, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries. deeds of coveting and wickedness, as well as deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness, all these evil things proceed from within, and defile the man But the eat with unwashed hands does not defile the man. Thank you.