We are getting close to the end. So today we're doing lesson 36 and it's going to be exposing the Jewish leaders. And we're going to start on page one. We're going to start on page 214 and section 156. It's a small section, but it's a critical section. So I'm just going to read this through and um let's see where we let's see how these go. Verse 41. Now when the Pharisees were gathered together as he taught in the temple, Jesus asked them a question. What do you scribes think about the Christ? Whose son is he? And they said to him, the son of David. Does anyone know what the son of David is? It's really a messianic tape title. That's what he's asking. And they said to him, the son of David, he said, Oh, uh, who do you think the Christ whose son is he? And they said to him, the son of David. They understood uh who the anointed one was. They understood the concept of a messiah. And he said to them, then how does David himself, in the Holy Spirit, call him Lord, saying in the book of Psalms, and this is Psalm 110. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool beneath your feet. If David then calls him Lord, how, in what sense, is he his son? And the large crowd enjoyed listening to him. No one was able to answer him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day on to ask him another question. So they knew that who the son of David was. Why do you think he was why do you think he went back to this song? Because uh Old Testament Jews understood that the Messiah was gonna be the son of David. So who is he talking to in this psalm? Yeah. He is. If we go back, um now if you look at this psalm specifically in the context of the time, um There's a couple of words in there, and it just says Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord, and I kind of goes back and forth, and there's all these pronouns he, he, he, he, and it's a little bit hard to follow But essentially, that first Lord, if you go back to the Hebrew, is Yahweh. And then the second Lord, to my Lord, is a little bit of a different word. And it's used to identify the human king of Israel or the Messiah. And as you go through this Psalm, we don't have a lot of time to to to really n uh go through it word by word, but um if you go through the psalm There are references to that this is not just a human. This is more than a human. For example, it is uh in this same psalm it says to uh sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool. It also identifies this Lord as a priest in the Order of Melchizedek and that he will be sitting at the right hand of God Himself. Um and then in context of the surrounding other uh Old Testament verses. such as Psalm 2. 7 or 2 Samuel 7, 12 to 16, even in Isaiah, there are links that the Messiah to the Son of God. Now it would be very difficult For an Old Testament Jew to see anything other than the Messiah being solely human. Only God is God, God is one But Rother, the take-home message for the Old Testament Jews in this psalm is that God the Father and the Messiah are two distinct persons. They are two distinct Person um and it's later clearly revealed that through the life of Jesus, that this awaited Messiah, Jesus, is the person who is both distinctly human and God at the same time. It's really only after we get into the New Testament that this becomes more clearly revealed, that the Messiah is both human, man, and God existing as one person And this is really a difficult concept for the Old Testament bel uh Jews. Um but as you go through time, and especially once you get to the New Testament, the Gospel of John is all about Jesus being God. We have a greater revelation that this Messiah, who is Christ, is both man and God. And so this is a very difficult question for the Pharisees. Kind of the interesting part of this section is how The Pharisees and the scribes who are to know and are teachers of the law and know the prophets were not able to answer him, and that they were really afraid to answer him. They had nothing else to say. Any questions on this? Yeah, it's all in there. And then once you start getting further through their timeline, it becomes more and more revealed and more clear the Messiah is Jesus. He is human. He is God. But at that at this time of like when the Psalms are written, it would have been it would have been difficult to to s to to think of a Trinity with our separate persons. But yeah, there are different there are uh even in Genesis there's the Holy Spirit and God. So there are hints, but as you go through, as we come through this timeline, it becomes more and more evident um of who the Messiah is and his nature. And that there are both, or all I should say not both, there are the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. All three distinct persons Well they um yeah so they they understood it as just as uh someone who's gonna rescue them from the oppression that it was gonna be Hugh and that he was gonna be through the line of David. Um but it's not clear to me that they knew that it was Hugh the Messiah would would be beyond just that. A mere man who would uh rescue them from oppression. And also in that same song uh referencing him the Messiah to uh a h a holy priest and yet somehow David's not even in that line. Of Levites? So how do you how do you how do you bridge that? Well I remember when I when I was growing up, I would get letters sometimes in the mail that would say Master Jeff So so um but in the context of this psalm it's definitely comes from those those words adnoi, so it's more than just my boss, my my king um it definitely has an elevated um a higher significance of just simply a master boss. I think it's interesting a lot of times to ask questions. It's not provide information to them, you know, but it helps them to it helps the people, you know, kind of put together, you know, can you connect all these thoughts in your head? You they had enough a a wrong idea that messiah would be. And he was kind of helping them to kind of clarify that. And you can see that in the end it says, no one Right, right, right. And also what's kind of interesting, also you'd mentioned that was uh in that last verse, it says, and the large crowd enjoyed listening to him. They're actually enjoying the the frustration that must have been going through these Pharisees and scribes. It's really making that distinction, really separating two Yeah. So it's it's it's it's so yeah, he's using it. I I tried so hard to go into the Hebrew. And just it's not just the word itself, it's the words that precede it, it's the words after it. It's the little there's a little swiggle on top of this. character and it it can mean completely different thing. Um so there is some variation in there like you've mentioned. Um but the terms here, kind of the brute terms, um do are more uh reserved at one like well understood and just God the Father. But as you go through and you look at some of these terminologies, there is a little bit of lack of error. description grayness to it, a little bit of variation. Yeah, understanding the um terminology is is critical. As well as the context and the audience um and who's saying what. The r the reason for the low-hanging fruit when crisis Talking about something much more on a grander scale. Any other questions before we go on? Next section. Which is on also on the bottom of the two forty And the majority of this is coming from Matthew, Matthew 23. Look at one set. Okay, I'm just gonna read from verse one to about, I'm gonna call it three B. Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to his disciples with all the people while all the people were listening, saying in his teaching the scribes and the Pharisees Has seated themselves in the chair of Moses, therefore all that they tell you, do and observe. So stop there That's pretty fantastic, isn't it? It sounds like he's sounds like he's making a gr pretty nice good compliment, right? Do everything they say and do, right? Anyone know what the seat of mo uh chair of Moses is? So the chair of Moses is an expression that's used to identify a position of authority in the instruction of the law. There was a legitimate sense regarding their role of teaching, deciding matters that pertain to God's law. And that's what the scribes and the physics were supposed to do. But unfortunately now They had gone beyond their authority and now they had added on top of Scripture on top of God's law, they had added their own traditions And so this do and observe all that they tell you is referring to what's in the scripture only. Because from now to the end of this section From three B all the way down to like thirty six, Christ is gonna be unrelenting. It's almost like if you can imagine like I had to go to the vet one time with my cat and a bag And I had to re I know, it I know. I'm gonna I'm you're staying with me on this one. I tried to get the I tried to get the cat out of the back But but it was not a cat that I brought out. It was this wild demonic beast that was going to come that was going to say So these parties are in the back and and Christ is about to just Just go in there and just um whip them up into hysteria to the point that they're getting they're you know we are now getting closer and closer to the cross. Um And before we get there, Christ is going to unleash seven woes and he's just going to be just it's like just poking that cat in the back. He's really going to go after him on the cat. Okay. Apparently the custom was synagogue, they would read the scriptures while standing, then they would sit down and about it, sample it out of Christ and got up and posted Right. Um so it would be called chair of Moses or Moses uh Um because synagogue that was the place it was like the here we have a pulpit, stand behind the pulpit. Well there you would sit and Moses speak about what Moses said along. The picture of one Oh okay. Yes. It looks comfortable, doesn't it? But they had now gone way beyond just scripture And so that's what we're gonna see. Christ is going to um really condemn them for what they've become. So let's continue reading. Let's read all the way down to that's probably about uh fourteen Okay, share of us, therefore do and therefore all that they tell you do and observe. Okay. But do not do according to their deed. For they say things and do not do them. They tie up heavy burdens and lay them on men's shoulders. But they themselves are unwilling to move them with so much as a finger. But they do all their deeds to be noticed by men, for they broaden their phylacteries and lengthen the tassels of their garments. You know flactors were like these little leather boxes and they had the Shema Deuteron. They had versus inside these uh little boxes and they would either put them on their foreheads or on their on their um they would wrap them onto their um r uh arms. And they were doing this just to to look important. And length of the tassels of the garments, beware of the scribes who like to walk around in long robes and love the place of honor. at banquets and the chief seats in the synagogue and love respectful greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi but by men. But do not be called rabbi for one is your teacher And you are all brothers. Do not call anyone on earth your father, for one is your father, he who is in heaven. Do not be called leaders, for one is your leader, that is Christ. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, and this is what we're going to go through. Oh. But the greatest among you shall be your servant. Whoever exalts himself shall be humbled, and whoever humbles himself shall be exalted But woe to you scribes and Pharisees um to Okay. Uh first off, um All the way through time uh from that first three to twelve, uh the main point to see here is a hypocrisy. There's a lot of hypocrisy. And he's pointing out um of both the scribes and the Pharisees, they're saying one thing, but they're doing something else. Um in fact, um it was in this Okay. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you shut off the kingdom of heaven from people, for you do not enter yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. Interesting uh observation. Um they're actually doing more harm than good to the people. People are just blindly following them trying to do all these um rituals and ceremonies that have nothing to do with the scripture or have little to do with the scripture or being added upon the scripture. um rather than learning description who God is. Um to the point that that they're leading them down the Down down a path away from God. Verse 14, Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, who devour widows' houses and for appearances' sake offer long prayers. These will receive greater condemnation. Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you travel around on sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he becomes one You make him twice as much a son of hell as yourself. Pretty hard pretty hard terms. Um Woe to you blind guides who say Whoever swears by the temple, that is nothing. But whoever swears by the gold of the temple is obligated. You fools and blind men, which is more important, the gold or the temple that that sanctified the gold? And so these are the these are the Pharisees and scribes saying these. Whoever swears by the altar, that is nothing. But whoever swears by the offering on it, he is obligated. Some notes on it before I get too far. The Pharisees are essentially saying, um, okay, you're gonna make a you're gonna make a I'm gonna make a promise. But they're almost like they're making loopholes. They're saying I swear by the temple, I'm going to do this, this, and that. Oh, but I don't really have to take it I if but if I don't say I swear by the gold of the temple, well then I really have to come through on the problem. So it's kind of like I don't know if you've ever gone to you know all the time when I was in elementary school, someone would promise something or say something, and then at the end they would say, Oh, but I had my fingers Cross behind my back. So I really don't have to come through with that promise. That's kind of the same thing here. They were very double-minded. Setting up these loopholes really for the purpose of deception. They especially had developed reasoning really to sub subvert the truth. They would say one thing and they would say, you know, by you know, I swear by the temple, well but if I don't say I I swear by the goals of the temple, then I don't really have to follow through. So it's very deceiving And Jesus is pointing this out. Verse 19, you blind men, which is more important, the offering or the altar that's that sanctifies the offer. Therefore, whoever swears by the altar, swears by both the altar and by everything on it. So the message is whether you swear by the temple or you swear by the gold of the temple, may your words be true. When you say something Follow through follow through with it. Um and Jesus isn't con is condemning them because they're they're not doing that. They're saying one thing but they're doing something. There's a lot of you know you mentioned you know what goes on today. There is a lot of great application um in this in this passage. One of them is um Yeah, Lake Ken. Make your words be true. If you promise something if you say something, um don't fall back from it. Yep, yep, and I think Going up your application, I think uh very long along the same lines. Uh we have to we have to guard against being deceived. Um we need to be discerning. Um You know, it it's it's sad to see these leaders of the Jewish nation were essentially just leading the people the wrong way. Um and as you mentioned today we see preach on TV, are we being discerning? Because there you are leading people the wrong way. It's a very similar. We need to be discerning. And always ask, you know, well what does the Bible say about that? Um so being discerning um and the whole idea of false teachers, uh very appropriate pull out of this passage as our own application too. Well that's why we should be sharpening one another, right? So Uh-huh. Also kind of one thing I was thinking about when talking about these, um, you know, you know, making a word, you know, telling the truth. You know, when we say something, stick with it. Um, how many times, I'm just talking about myself has someone asked me to, you know, will you pray for me? And maybe I pray one time. And then, you know, a week or two later they come back and say, oh great news. I'm so thankful you've been praying for me because what I wanted came through or God and I just kinda like you know sometimes I just say, you know, I gotta say I I only prayed one time. It w I was a sincere prayer but but really um I need to be praying all the time And if I and if I don't, then I need to I need to man up and say I hadn't or you know um I need to take those promises seriously. Um Yeah, 'cause we are you know, we're we're ambassadors of Christ. I mean, even uh uh especially if like um when you have this uh opportunity to speak to somebody who's not a believer And you're telling them, Oh yeah, I'm gonna pray for you. Well, am I how horrible to like not pray for them. Say I will, but but in reality not Um so you know again I'm just looking at myself. When I say I need to pray for someone, I'm going to pray, I need to pray. too, right? There's nothing wrong with saying, you know, I I can't be part of this ministry because it meets on Monday mornings and I have to go to work. Um or sometimes if we um realize later that we didn't fulfill the promise, um well what a great savor to go back and you know, seek forgiveness or at least you know, um I promise this, I'm not gonna be able to fulfill it. Um at least let me try to help find someone to take my place. Um th that speaks loudly and it's truthful And you know, we are only humans. So um when we make a mistake, let's quickly repent and resolve as best we come. Whereas in this section, clearly these so called leaders were just um something they were making promises and just very flippantly um um not fulfilling what they said they were gonna do. Yeah, God uh or Jesus is really revealing the internal heart here. You know, they look great, they've got these long robes, um, they say great things, they have long prayers. But Jesus knows that it's immediate This section is still blending of words. It's 99% nasty. But there are some details that he pulls out of Mark and Luke. And actually I can actually There was one. Back in uh verse fourteen that woe to you scribes and Pharisees, um Hypocrites verse. Um it's actually not found in the earlier manuscripts of Matthew. Um it's it's suggested that it may have been added later by a scrub a scribe later on, but it is in those in the Gospels of Mark and Luke. And so um what you see there in Matthew isn't in that at least that one that one verse fourteen um isn't in the earliest original manuscripts But it is in Mark and Luke. So that's kind of the beauty of this of this Life of Christ course is it it's combining, it's blending all four gospels. So we get fullest um in that verse fourteen they do are referenced in Mark and Luke. So it didn't just kinda come out of nowhere. And again, the the beauty of this study is that we'll blend everything together. And whoever swears by the temple, well, swears by both the temple and by him who dwells within it, and whoever swears by heaven swears by both swears both by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you tie the mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier provisions of the law, justice and mercy. And faithfulness. But these are the things you should have done without neglecting the other. You blind guide, you strain out a gnat, to swallow a camel. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. I c I could just see them cr well, they're probably weren't cringing, but I would be cringing. Um for you clean the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside they are full of robbery and self indulgence. Again, they looked great on the outside. It was what was inside, um just full of death. Um verse twenty six, you blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and of the dish, so that the outside it may become clean also. Verse 27, Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs, which on the outside appear beautiful, but inside they are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanliness So you too outwardly appear righteous to men, but inward you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous and say, if we had been living in the days of our Father, we would not have been partners with them in shedding the blood of the prophet. So you testify against yourselves That you are the sons of those who murdered the prophet. I mean could you imagine being these fair Like the last section we saw the crowds kind of getting a chuckle out of Jesus, you know, pointing out you know You know, confusing the Pharisees. At this point, I could only imagine the crowd is just kind of like being silent because Jesus is just unloading woe after woe, condemning, condemning hypocrites Um, you know, supposedly the righteous men, and Jesus is calling them nothing but dead men's bones and unrighteousness. Um verse thirty-two Fill them fill up then the measure of guilt of your fathers, you serpents, you brood of vipers. How will you escape the sentence of hell Therefore, behold, I am sending you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city, so that upon you may fall the guilt of all the righteous blood shed on earth. From the blood of of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah the son of Barajek, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. Truly I say to you Okay I'm going to stop there. Thoughts, comments, questions, concerns. It's it's a pretty condemning passage. um directly pounding on the so-called leaders of Israel. Can you expand on verse thirty two at all? Yes, fill then up the measure of the guilt of your fathers I think he's he's saying you're gonna you know, you are guilty of all the blood of all these you know if they're saying that they're righteous. The Pharisees say they're righteous, but Christ is saying you're going to be guilty of all this uh righteous or unrighteous or unrighteous bloodshed that you are responsible for In fact he goes on from there, from thirty-two, if you looked at um like thirty-five. Well actually even just thirty-four. Um here he's saying, uh I'm sending you prophets and wismen and scribes that you're going to kill and crucify. You're guilty of the blood of these prophets and scribes that I'm sending you. And then in verse 34, it talks about you're going to be guilty of the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah. whom you murdered. So he's condemning them for the effects that they have regarding they're going to be guilty of murder Um and Christ being the ultimate. Um you've had these prophets, you know, Jesus has has been sending prophets, wise men, and each time the leaders of the law ra rather than welcome welcoming them or at least um at least dialoguing with them, they just simply want to hold on to what's theirs to the point that they're going to kill them. Or has them k so it's really all of this guilt is going to be placed upon you because y they're the leaders of the Jewish nation and they're allowing um they're allowing the merge of prophets, wise men, um in Christ himself. I think Dr. Pelly rightly said it's they need to own up for what they're doing. They're saying they're righteous, but really you're you're killing you're you're you're You're you're killing the righteous people. You you are as guilty as if you were there and you you as if you were there with Cain and Abel. You are acting as Cain. You are killing righteous people. Um even just even the uh like when we had the uh those parables, the parables of um where the father sends in his um servants, they kill him, he sends in servants again, they kill those servants, and then he sends in his son, they kill the son. Um that they need to own. They need to own up to their um you know their they need to own up to what they're doing. Okay. And they're and they refused. That that that portion of scripture talks about having this you know, taking the the sins of the Father, um yeah, that was Uh like if someone was crippled or or or they were born blind, there's people would say, oh, that's because your great grandfather did something. Different from what's being said here. Here is just owning up to um what you claim you claim you're so righteous, but no, you're you're guilty for as for murder. Um you're as guilty as Cain was with Abel. And they're trying to get out of that. But they're kinda I would say they're two distinct um issues. Right, right, right, right. Um spiritual and also physical real, because they are responsible for uh with Christ especially. You know, what happens to Christ coming up. This is on this is on the heads of Pharisees and Scribes. Any other thoughts? Uh verse thirty-six. What's kind of interesting is we're going to go from one extreme almost to another extreme in the last couple of verses here. I think it's really an interesting twist. Verse 36 through 39. Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her? How often I wanted to gather your children together. The way a hen gathers her chicks under her wing, and you were unwilling. the Lord. Um in this last few verses, um, all of a sudden Jesus really kind of switches. Um he's he's righteously angered and now all of a sudden he's sorrowf uh sorrow sorrowingly mournful over Jerusalem. He just sees, you know, um you know the he sees Israel, just the chosen people And they're just refusing his they're just refusing him. And Jesus is just watching them walk away and he's he's sorrowful. that this is happening. Um I mean just imagine the pain of watching and knowing that the people whom were chosen b by God were eventually not only would not only completely reject, but also kill the very son of God. Um and that this refusal to recognize the Messiah um will result in God removing his protection and his blessing. And we see that not too long after that. You know, 70 AD, the entire Jerusalem is just destroyed. So um Jesus sees this coming and um and yet they they just they walk away. It's a very sad, uh sad scenario. Um but interesting how Jesus goes from a very strong moment of condemnation to Mournful very quickly. And then he has a promise in verse 39. The great thing about God is that his promises are forever He is faithful. And in that verse thirty nine, uh we see that Jesus acknowledges that in the future, when they do finally recognize um Jerusalem will be restored. Interesting that you can if you want to go and read uh Ze I don't have time to really go through it, but Zechariah twelve, one to ten speaks a little bit about this. So it's an interesting um Old Testament prophecy to look at Um but it's very comforting to know that God just doesn't completely let go. There is a plan for Israel and God will see that his kingdom will be established and Jerusalem will be that plan. And there will at some point in the future Jews will be coming and acknowledging him as Lord. And this is the easiest one to go. Section 150 Miss any any questions on on that before we go to the last? Uh section one fifty eight. This is uh Jesus Commands the widows might and um the emphasis is on sacrificial giving over giving out of surplus or access. So why don't we read that section? Would someone like to read? And I had kind of two interesting observations telling If you agree or not. Um first off, Jesus saw this event privately. He did not call attention to anyone. Um and there's no indication that he, you know, made some kind of big public announcement like, oh, everyone wait, look, woman is giving all that she has, it's only two cents. What he does instead is he after this incident He actually draws his disciples and he he's speaking just to the disciples here um to teach this lesson. It's kinda like a little private lesson. You know, you And you know, many times my s my I've when I've been with my kids and we see someone like really misbehaving, kind of like, you know See, that parent needs to discipline their child. Most of the time, well what w what Hong and I would do is when we get home, well like, you know, did you see what was going on in the store? Um What did that look? Did that look silly? Did it look um so it was kind of a a public event, but he didn't bring public an announcement or attention to it. But he used it as a teaching lesson and he used it specifically for his disciples because he wanted his disciples to see it's not about the amount you give, it's really the sacrificial way you give. That's really kind of a the take-home message. Um again, a great application for ourselves. Um last section. So I think there's a lot of really great applications Whether it comes from discerning false teachers, um in the earlier sections, um we also saw uh especially in this one, um sacrificial giving. Um and then throughout the whole section we see that God is not interested. in the outside. He's interested in what's going on in our heart. So I think there's um a whole host of applications um that we can um do today. Actually it's not that he's not interested You need to do the right thing. Yes, yes. Better, better. Yeah. Don't kill and murder people and say even if you did it for rape. I'll uh end us in prayer and uh Dear Heavenly Father, your word is powerful. Your example is clear. May we take what we've learned today. Um and apply it in our life may be concerning. Um may we walk righteously, but may we walk with a heart that desires to seek you things um that are pleasing to you. May we edify one another um and encourage each other in the faith. We look forward to worshiping you with a true heart. Um and we do uh And we look forward to how you are you will sanctify us as we move closer and closer to our final days with you. And it's in your name that we give all thanks, praise.