So we're on lesson thirty-one, page one ninety, in your notes. And you remember um where we're at chronologically Uh Jesus. Um well actually if you could turn in the back to um Matt Uh nine eight on page three nineteen if you uh can turn to that easily. So you see now toward the bottom there is Bethany, and that's where Lazarus and Mary and Martha lived. And so after he raised Lazarus, and we saw that um was it last week? The week before, uh, it says that he moved north. into Samaria to a town called Ephraim, and that's labeled with a six on the map. You see that? And then he must have gone further north because uh he later A healed to ten lepers, member, and uh one of them particularly came back and and said thank you. Um that was up at that location seven. And then he apparently um got together with a caravan of people who were on their way to Jerusalem for the Passover. And they would have taken this solid route along the uh the eastern side of Israel down in the Jordan Valley. Probably on the opposite side of the Jordan where there was more more of a um a plane, uh ease of travel and so on that would be the typical route. Um and that's where we find them today. They're moving south towards Jerusalem, but um where all of the northern Israelites would have traveled. Um and keep your finger there, we'll come back to that. Well a actually, uh you you see Down as the arrow turns the solid arrow turns to the west again, that's Jericho. It's labeled as place nine. That's where they're going to be a little later on in our lesson today. Okay? So the he's move moving southward and then westward. to Jerusalem. Okay. So on the way, we're at section one hundred thirty-nine, page one ninety. Matthew and Mark pick up this account of James, John, and their mother asking for big things. And it's possible that in her mind, in their mind, they were pretty sure that things were gonna come to a culmination here. And their expectation was, I think, that he was going to establish his kingdom formally and they wanted to be a part of it and a a prominent part of it. So let's see what it says. I'll read the blended account. Then the mother oh by the way, Matthew It says that the instigator here was their mother. Mark's account doesn't mention the mother. And so apparently all three of them were involved in this request and the interaction with Christ. And so we'll see that a bit in the blended Account. Then the mother of James and John, the two sons of Zebedee, came up to Jesus with her sons, bowing down and making a request of him, saying, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. Now is that pretty bold? And he said to them, Well, what do you want me to do for you? And she said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit one on your right and one on your left in your kingdom glory And you can just see Jesus' eyebrows. But Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink or to be baptized with a baptism with which I am baptized? And they said, we're able. not knowing at all what they're saying. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink you shall drink, and you shall be baptized baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized. But and and so what's he saying there? Um long term anyway, um, they're going to be persecuted because Christ was persecuted, um, ostracized, and yet they're going to be empowered also by God to do You know, the planting of the church and and uh building the kingdom. And they had no clue what this was going to involve. Um Verse forty, but to sit on my right or on my left, this is not mine to give, but it is for it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father. Hearing this, the ten, that is the ten other disciples, began to feel indignant. with James and John. Calling them to himself, Jesus said to them, You know that those who are recognized as rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great men exercised authority over them But it is not this way among you. But whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant. And whoever wishes to be the first among you Shall be slave of all. Just as even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many. So, on the one hand, Jesus was probably discouraged that they had asked such a thing. On the other hand, I think he was probably happy that he could use this as an object lesson so that all the disciples would know that The kingdom of God is not like the kingdom of men. And uh the the general uh desire and and um motive of people who are in positions of authority and responsibility in the world is to kind of lord it over, right? To to uh even be uh excessive and and uh take advantage of the position for personal glory, personal gain, whatever. And Jesus said, no, it's not like that here. Those who would be the greatest among you should be the slave of all. And who of course is the best example of that? Jesus Right, who came not to be served, but to serve. So a very interesting introduction, if you will, to what's about to happen, which is the whole Passion Week, the death of Christ, resurrection, and so so on, establishing the church. Um that's why I'm thinking she was probably the uh instigator. Uh what's interesting here, um is that James and John uh may have been actually related to Jesus. We're gonna pick this up and infer this. um when it gives greater detail about the people after the resurrection. Um but apparent it it seems like the most likely explanation of all the data in scripture is that their mother was actually related to um probably to Mary, Christ's mother. We don't know that for sure, but uh it seems to be likely Which may explain some of their audacity and her audacity. Okay Yeah, it's pretty clear from scripture that uh in multiple places that the disciples and even the broader crowd had this idea of what it would be what the Messiah would be like, what the times would be like, what he would do. And they had this paradigm and they're trying to interpret him and his words through that to the extent that they are listening. And um we're often like that. We approach scripture with our own paradigm in mind, right? And it limits our under or our seeing what's actually there. And so we're no different Typically. Which means we need to be not just given to that, but alert. Am I bringing my presuppositions? to this passage? Or am I letting this passage in the broader breadth of scripture speak for itself, not limited by my constraint? That takes discipline, because we need otherwise it's just going to happen and we don't even notice it Uh you reminded me of something though, that uh James and John. Um James, of course, was the first of the twelve to be martyred You see that early in Acts. John, on the other hand, was the only one not martyred and he went through a much longer life of perse largely persecution. Um and so they experienced the the the range of ostracism and so on that Christ did. So let's move to Jericho. Jesus heals Bartimaeus. And here we've got Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Then they came to Jericho as he was Leaving with his disciples and a large crowd followed him, Jesus was approaching Jericho. Isn't that interesting? So he's leaving Jericho and he's approaching Jericho. It's because there are two Jerichos Or Jer there's Jericho um the the older residential area of Jericho and the newer um Business district or um um what's the word? Municipal uh affairs. It's just like today, yeah. Um of course the original Jericho was destroyed and then um built up a little bit. But at this this time and archaeologists and historians have have uh have found that indeed There were two very uh distinct regions of Jericho. I guess it was a zoning issue or something, right? Um so you've got the residential area and you've got the Business district. Um so anyway, he's he's um leaving uh the new Jericho and approaching the old Jericho. And so in between there, two blind men Now, again, Matthew indicates two, and I think both the others indicate only one, Bartimaeus, and the conjecture here is that Bartimaeus was particularly noteworthy afterwards as a follower of Christ. He was somewhat uh because of his father or because uh his involvement in the ministry and and so on after coming to Christ. Um but he was the noteworthy one and was the focus um of Mark and Luke's account, even though there was somebody else there as well, according to Martha Matthew. So anyway, two blind men, including a man named Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, Bar in the Hebrew is son, right? Bar mitzvah, son of the law, right? Or son of not the law. Anyway. Bar Timaeus means son of Timaeus. Simon, Bar Jonah, Simon, son of John. Right. Anyway, yeah. Um they were sitting by the road begging. Of course they were blind, probably incapable of holding a job. And they called out um now hearing a crowd going by, uh T, in this case Bartimaeus probably began to inquire what this was, and they told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by. And they, apparently both of them now, called out, saying Lord Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on us. And those who led the way were sternly telling him to be quiet. But he kept crying out all the more. Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stopped and commanded that they brought him to him, brought that they be brought to him. So they called the blind man, saying to them, Take courage, stand up He is calling for you. Throwing aside their cloaks, they jumped up and came to Jesus. And when they came near, he questioned them, What do you want from me? What do you want me to do for you? Now it was pretty obvious what they wanted him to do, and he knew that. But what's he asking for? Yeah, to m to to verbalize it, to to to interact with him It's an expression of faith. I'm coming to you to heal me. I believe you can do that. And they said, Lord, Rabbonai, we want to regain our sight. Moved with compassion Jesus touched their eyes and said to them, Go, receive your sight. Your faith has made you well. Immediately they regained their sight and began following him on the road, glorifying God. And when all the people saw it, they gave praise to God. Um Jesus had healed other blind people Uh this was pretty straightforward. It says he touched their eyes. Doesn't say any like sometimes he would create a little bit of mud right out of the soil and ply it. Um and And tell 'em to go wash wash it off. In this case he just touched their eyes. Um probably not the eyeball the cells, but their eyes were closed and he just touched them. And they immediately regained their sight. Um interesting he told them go, but what what they did was follow him. I guess I would have too. I nothing specific has come to mind, but um often with the miracles Jesus did tell people to do something. Like with the ten lepers, which was I guess the most recent one, um, he didn't actually heal them and then told them to go. He told them to go, tell the priest, which was the command of the law that you've been healed. And they turned to go, and it was as they were turning they got healed because they by faith understood that what he said was going to be So that was at some distance apparently. Um they were lepers after all, they they were used to being outcast and away from people Um but sometimes he wanted to see some expression of faith on their part, and I think that was partly why he asked them what they wanted to hear. Other times he just did a miracle and wasn't asking anything Um I'm sure the context was important in his mind. Um the opportunity to be teaching and building the faith of those who were around was probably a factor. But in any given case I'm not sure what the reason was for the specific method. No, the Huntsdover woman. I think there the context was It was on the Sabbath and he wanted to challenge the rulers. But I'm I'm sure there were some. But often, most often I think, he wanted to see some expression of faith. Jesus recognized that faith. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Um I'm not aware that we know anything more about Bartimaeus and his involvement, but he's clearly following Christ at this point and um naturally I mean, he opened his eyes. Um, but can you imagine being a part of the early church? I'm one of the ones he healed. Let me tell you my story. Um be fascinating. Okay. Um there are times when it's not clear what faith the person had, but I think part of that one was Clearly compassion, clearing up the um misunderstanding of the stirring of the waters tradition and all that sort of nonsense. But also challenging the religious leaders because it was done on the Sabbath again. Okay, so uh in section one forty-one, he entered Jericho and was passing through. This is now in Luke, the story of uh Zacchaeus. And so um he's presumably passing through the residential part of Jericho. And there was a man there by the name of Zacchaeus. And he was a chief tax collector. And he was rich. How did the tax collectors get rich? Yeah, so it was it was the expectation that they would earn their living from the proceeds of the tax collection. That wasn't the issue. The issue was They overinterpreted what was their share. Um and people knew it. What's that? One percent So you know, zero doesn't mean anything, right? Um so everybody knew that. Everybody knew that was going on, but um they were collecting taxes for who Rome in this case. And of course that was bad enough. There would be a sellout and they're getting rich by it, and so they were hated Right? Now his he's a chief tax collector. He apparently had a well they're they're probably it's probably a a a Ponzi scheme, you know, with multi-level marketing or something where he's getting a percent of their take anyway, you know. how hated these guys were. Zacchaeus was trying to see Jesus, who Jesus was, and was unable to because of the crowd, for he was small in stature So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree in order to see him, for he was about to pass through that way. When Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to Zacchaeus, Zacchaeus Hurry and come down. For today I must stay at your house. And he hurried and came down and received him gladly. What does that indicate? Very rich. You know he's probably got a good house. Well what what does it say about Ciccia? He's not exhibiting the kind of behavior you would expect. of a religious outcast. He's actually seeking out Christ, right? So there's some sign of faith here. I think we know more as we read on. Right. And as we interpret those actions in light of what we see later, we may be able to give him a little bit more benefit of the doubt. But so far, it's kind of a curious thing. Anyway, he hurried down, the Huron came down and received him gladly. When they, that is the people around, saw it, they all began to grumble, saying, He has gone to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. He's obviously a sinner. And if that's the case, what's that say about Jesus? Either he's ignorant of it, he doesn't care, um in their thinking, right Zacchaeus stopped and said to the Lord, Now I'm pretty sure there's a lot happening between verse seven and verse eight. Probably at the meal. Jesus probably had conversation with him. But anyway, Zacchaeus has him to himself, and he said to the Lord, Behold Lord, half of my possessions I will give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I will give back four times as much. What's that indicate? Repentance. Restitution, right. His heart seems to be right, right? Seems to be a genuine faith. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house because he too is a son of Abraham. What did he mean, he too? Yes. Yes. So all these Jews were coming down hard on him because he was a sellout, but Jesus is saying no, he too is a son of Abraham, and not just by physical descent. I think Jesus is saying here also he is a son of Abraham like Paul uses the term in Galatians, where it's those who believe are truly the sons of Abraham, the believer. Right. And it's just like um that example of I think it was a Pharisee who I think it was a tax collector who said, Lord, I thank you that I'm not like this man Right. And you know, kind of patting himself on the back and and so on. But what does the tax collector do? He said, Lord be gracious to me a sinner. And Jesus made a point of all that. He says, um uh Um that one, the repentant one, truly went home justified. And so that's the same picture here, except it's the crowd who is uh Uh indignant. Um oh yeah. Yeah. In fact Matthew is sometimes called Levi, but Zacchaeus is definitely somebody else. Uh it's possible they might have known each other as the same um Trade organization, no uh anyway, verse ten, um he too is the son of Abraham, for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. And this is just a prime example Verse eleven. While they were listening to these things, Jesus went on to tell a parable because he was near Jerusalem. And they supposed that the kingdom of God was going to appear immediately. So we're told explicitly that was everybody's at least the disciples' mindset. Okay, this is coming to a crescendo, it's going to happen in Jerusalem, uh he's going to take over and yay, right? So he said, a nobleman went to a distant country. to receive a kingdom for himself, and then return. And he called ten of his slaves and gave them ten minas, one mina each, and said to them, Do business with this until I come back. But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him saying, We do not do not want this man to reign over us. When he returned, after receiving the kingdom, he ordered that these ten slaves to whom he had given the money be called to him so that uh he might know what business they had done. The first appeared saying, Master, you're mine has made ten miners more. How did that happen? Just kind of sat there and it's it's like it's it's like uh the the the loaves and the fishes that were multiplied uh it just it just happened. Investment, right? They were managing the master's resources. That was their job. They were his servants, his slaves. He was involved in various investments and they produced well and um Uh where am I at? The first appeared and said, Master, your minor has made ten more. And he said to him, Well done, good slave, because you have been faithful in a very little thing, you are to be in authority over ten cities So that track record of um managing well the master's resources has been put into your trust. uh gave the master confidence that he could trust him with even bigger things, right? The second one came saying, Your minor master has made five minas. And he said to him also, you are to be over five cities Another came, saying, Master, here is your miner, which I kept, put away in a handkerchief. So he didn't steal it, for I was afraid of you, because you are an exacting man. You take up what you did not lay down and reap what you did not sow. What's that mean? In what sense does he this master take up what he did not lay down and reap what he did not sow? He didn't invent the money. He had people do it for him. Right. He had y we would think of it as hired hands, but they were servants. They were slaves. That was their job to manage the resources of the owner. And what they're saying is we were we of we're offended or we're um He, anyway, this guy didn't like the fact that he did all the work and the owner got all the benefits. Well, it wasn't all the benefits. What what did the owner, the master, do? He provided for his slaves But he was entrusting them to um invest and make productive work out of uh his resources So to his credit, this guy understood that the mina belonged to the master, not to himself. He d the master didn't give him the mina out of the goodness of his heart to, you know, use it however you want. It was clear to him that his job was to use that. of the master's resources to uh advance the owner's interest, not his own interest. Do you say a lesson there for us God has given us lots of resources. And as his servants, which is really a tamer word than the biblical word slave, as his slaves, our job is to advance his interests, not ours. In the process he'll take care of us, like any master would his slaves if got any wisdom. Um but our job is not to use the master's resources to advance our interests, but rather his interest. And so that's not what this guy understood, and that's not what he did. Verse 23, yeah, but their being rewarded handsomely is not so much monetarily, but rather in authority, responsibility, um which carries with it um you know position, maybe prestige, but you're still a slave. Our natural tendency in pretty much every area of life is it's all about me. And I think that's where this guy is at. It's all about me. What's in this for me Right? Where in reality what Jesus is saying is, no, you're like that sl you're like these slaves. Uh God is the master. We're his slaves. Um fortunately, as a master, he's the kind of master you would want because he always does what's right. Um and our role is to advance his interests, not our own. Uh and and that that's a continual submission on our part. It's not a w one and done thing. It's a continual Recognition like these other slaves, it was a no-brainer for them, okay? I've got these resources or this minor Uh I know my job, I'm going to go out and do it to the best of my ability. Now in our case, doing things to the best of our ability has the advantage that's not even addressed here, and that is God equips us. God empowers us To do what we ought to be doing, right? It's not just our effort. That's not the issue here. That's not addressed in this, but we know from elsewhere in Scripture that everything He's called us to do, He empowers us to do it, right Um and he works through circumstances. It's not just that we're out investing a mina. He works through circumstances to bring people into our path, right? To uh Allow connections and all the stuff that we have no power over. Um and so all that's lacking usually is our mindset. Is it all about me or is it all about him Now, he told a version of this parable in another context, uh, which is pretty much the same lesson, but it wasn't one mina each, it was some Was it five, two and one or ten, five and one, I forget the numbers, but um and it wasn't minus, it was talents. But the same lesson. And here he is again uh in the context of the salvation of Zacchaeus, right before he goes to Jerusalem, he wants to drive that lesson home. Okay. So he's interacting with this guy, then uh verse twenty three, then why did you not put my money in the bank? And having come I would have collected it with interest. So um Putting it in the bank is a probably a low risk investment, but at least it's non-zero investment in return, right? That's what he's saying. Then he said to the bystanders, Take the Mina. Um the bystanders here are not Jesus' bystanders, but the the the king, the m the master's bystanders This is still part of the parable. Then he said to the bystanders, take the mina from him and give it to the one who has the ten minas. And they said to him, Master, he already has ten minas. I tell you that everyone To everyone who has, more shall be given, but from the one who does not have, even what he does have, shall be taken away. But these enemies of mine, these other people who say, We don't want you to reign over us, who did not want me to reign over them Bring them here and slay them in my presence. So Jesus is emphasizing both his sovereignty as a king and our role as his servant, slaves, to advance his interest and um That combined with what he said earlier about the greatest of you shall be the servant of all, and that you shouldn't be uh lording it over those and using your authority. Um in an ungodly way. He's giving a picture of what the the kingdom of God will be like. Yes, there will be great authority, great responsibility, but all of us are slaves of the Master. Um even slaves have great authority. You remember um Abraham's chief servant, who he gave the authority to go out and find a wife? For Isaac. Lots of responsibility there, uh but very well trusted and very well cared for. Yeah. Uh it I I can't be dogmatic about this, it doesn't really say anything. But he's he seems to have equal standing with the other two slaves, which suggests that maybe they are all um part of the kingdom and they're not rejecting his kingly authority. They're just not good stewards, at least one of them. And so if that's all it is, then it may be more like In First Corinthians three, where it talks about the need to build on the foundation of Christ, speaking mostly to leaders in the church, but to build on the foundation which is Christ And it's going to be tested by fire. And if it's if you're building on that with wood, hand straw, guess what? It's going to get burned up. And if you build with um gold, silver and precious stones, they're going to withstand the fire and go on for eternity. They're building right on the foundation, that's all good. Um it says those whose house gets what they built gets burned up, they will be saved, yet so is through fire. That's what it says in First Corinthians three. It's possible that could be the same situation for this guy. I don't know. But anyway, the lesson here is, you know, what about us? is stewardship in the sense of advancing the king's interest as opposed to our interest. Okay. So Um after he said these things he was going on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. Now Jerusalem, if you go back to your map. Nine eight. Jerusalem is almost well it's kind of southwest. When we say going up to Jerusalem, we're kind of thinking north, but that's not the case But in what case was Jerusalem up? Altitude. So Jericho is below sea level The like the Dead Sea that's nearby. Jericho is eight hundred and forty six feet below sea level. And that's not even down to the Dead Sea yet. Um Jerusalem is It's almost twenty five hundred feet above sea level. So if you're going from Jericho to Jerusalem, you've got to go some thirty three hundred feet in el elevation in a pretty short distance. What's that translate to? Switchbacks, um um steep and yet um everybody did it. Everybody was in shape. Um I I did a little checking. It turns out that difference in altitude is about the same as the maximum difference in altitude within the state of Maryland. Now that might not communicate much to you. Something that might. I know when I was a kid, we used to come over to DC with friends coming down, friend and family coming down from New York State. And we we uh ultimately they all want to go to DC. And so I did a lot of DC growing up. And when I was growing up, we could take the stairs up the Washington Monument. I don't think you can do that anymore. Um and we used to run up those stairs. We're just kids. We didn't know any better. Um Do you know how what the height of the Washington Monument is? Five hundred and fifty-five feet. But that's to the point. We never raced up to the point But it would take six Washington monuments to do that height. Does that give you an idea of the altitude difference? Six Washington monument height. So you get to the top and you figure you've done a day's work. Right? Okay. Well anyway, they went up to Jerusalem. Um section one hundred forty two. This is now from John. Now the Passover of the Jews was it was near, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country From all around the country, in other words, before the Passover to purify themselves. So they were seeking for Jesus and were saying to one another uh as they stood in the temple, What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all? Um Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he was to report it so that they might seize him. Jesus therefore, six days before the Passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom he had raised from the dead. Okay, so what you've got here is he's come literally full circle. He healed Lazar or raised Lazarus. He went pretty immediately uh into Samaria, kind of off limits, and he was he was not uh gonna be pursued there by the religious leaders who wanted to uh I get him. And so then he does a variety of things that we've discussed. He comes down with the caravan of people, down through the Jordan Valley, down to Jericho and back up to uh Bethany, which is very close to Jerusalem. From Bethany um Jerusalem is just over the hump of the Mount of Olives down to the Kadrome Valley and then there's Jerusalem on the order of a couple of miles. And so the Passover is imminent, the population is growing, people are a buzz about this Jesus who raised Lazarus and they're hearing more recent stories of the healing of Bartimaeus and so on. But he stays in in Bethany. Um where he has some friends, right? Um okay. Then it's while he's there in section one hundred thirty-four, I'm on page one ninety-four, and again this is only in John So they made a supper there, made him a supper there. And Martha was serving. Did that ring any bells? The last time he ate there, well the last time that's recorded, it was Martha serving and Mary worshiping. We get more of the same here. Martha was serving, but Lazarus was one of those reclining at the table with him. Can you just imagine the conversation? Mary then took a pound of very costly perfume, of pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus. and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, who was intending to betray him, said, Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii? Now A denarii is a day's wage. So that's about a year's wages and sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor people Now he's now there's great commentary here from John. Now he said this not because he was concerned about the poor, but because he was a thief a and as he had the money box he used to pilfer what was put into it. It's not clear to me whether this became clear after these events or if the disciples knew this all along, I'm guessing it became clear Only later. But therefore Jesus said to uh Judas, let her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of my burial. For you always had the poor with you, but you do not always have me What do you think he meant keep it for the day of my burial? If he was talking about the perfume, it'd be better for her to have not done it and keep it and use it as a perfume to anoint his body. Any thoughts there? Yeah, they they probably did not. And so this would have gone over their heads. But his meaning of it Um I think he's using the term keep it um because she's obviously used it. She would keep this memorial by doing this uh in anticipation of his burial. At the very least, she might not have really understood His his crucifixion, burial and and and so on. But she did understand who he was and that her role was to worship him with all she had. That's a lot. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Exactly. For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have me. So both of these uh encounters where we have Mary and Martha. Um Martha's serving, which is commendable, but Mary's worshiping big time, which is even more commendable. Now, the uh third bullet down there notes that this was a different event than the one in Luke. seven, way back in section fifty-nine, where the place was a Pharisees' home. The person who did it was a sinner. Presumably everybody understood this was a moral lady or woman. Jesus' response was to forgive her, whereas in this case Jesus commended Mary. And the objection back then came from the Pharisee, because who can forgive but God alone And here the objection came from Judas. Clearly two different events, but um both women presumably motivated by the same desire to worship their Savior. Yeah. Okay. Any other thoughts, questions? Well good luck with that. You're probably gonna stand in line. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for uh what little as it turns out you give us in the Gospels about the life of Christ. uh and those around him. Help us to be like Bartimaeus and Mary. That we would be so thankful for your salvation and so worshipful that um that you would be pleased. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen