Well, we are on um lesson four. Now we're starting to get into the uh public ministry of Christ. And of course that begins with the Ministry of John the Baptist, which we have in Section 15. We're on page 30 of the notes. Hope you all have a copy of the notes. Before we get into it, I wanted to explain a few uh formatting things here Uh up until now we've pretty much just dealt with one gospel or another, but starting with today, most of our Most of our sections are going to have multiple um gospels, not necessarily all four. But uh so I've got them in columns here. Um and then I have a blended account that takes the actual words from The several Gospels and puts them into a combined narrative. Now, the philosophy there Is that all of those Gospels are inspired? All provide details, not necessarily always the same details, but complementary details. And so blending them together would give us a fuller picture, even as God intended, by giving us multiple gospel accounts. And so uh when I've blended them, for the most part the grammar isn't too bad. Um I tend to choose one of the Gospels where the grammar in a particular sentence seems like it's more natural. Um but the details of facts and places and the things that were said and whatever um uh come from all of the gospels. And In a very few places, I don't think so today, where there have been so many details that were uh uh added from multiple places. Sometimes I had to insert a word like and. But I think I italicized that so you can Know that my ands are not inspired, even though the rest of the things are. And as you can tell, um I've got the four Gospels in four different fonts, or two fonts and one bold and one not. So you can tell where they came from. And now in the listing of the actual gospel texts up above, I've highlighted the sections and the words that are unique to that gospel. And everything else, one way or another, is represented in more than one of the Gospels. One other thing I wanted to mention at this point that doesn't have anything to do with uh these gospels, but does have something to do with the New American Standard, which I'm using here. And you see this in Matthew 3 here on the left Matthew 3 verse 1. Now in those days John the Baptist came. And you see that little asterisk in front of Cain? That's a note in that's inserted in the New American Standard translation to indicate a verb tense that We don't normally use in English. It's basically a present tense verb being used in a past tense context. And we sometimes talk this way. Sometimes when you're telling a story, it could have gone like this. Now in those days, John the Baptist comes preaching in the wilderness. Right? We know from the context that it took place in the past, but we say it as if it were happening now, telling a story. And so NASB translates it as a past tense, which it's intended to be, but since the verb itself The verb tense in Greek is not past tense. It's the special tense that really is sort of present. Something we don't have in English. It just has a little note like that. You may have seen that in your your copies of the New American Standard. And uh another notation here, all the like in verse uh 3 of Matthew 3, would have The voice of one crying in the wilderness, make ready the way of the Lord, in all caps. That's another notation in New American Standard that it's a direct quote from the Old Testament. And you'll find in your marginal notes in your Bible where it's quoting from. And in some cases I make a note of that in these notes as well. Okay, so that's a little bit of orientation. So we get to John the Baptist. preaching a message of repentance to prepare for Christ. And what I want to do as we go along here is not read the separate accounts from the Gospels, but rather read the blended account for our discussion. Okay? And just to kind of help you all get used to it, I'll go ahead and read the blended account and then we can discuss it from there. Okay. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, when Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea And Herod was Tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip was Tetrarch of the region of Itaria and Trichronidas and Lessanius was Tetrarch of Abelene. In the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of Zacharias, in the wilderness And he came into all the district around the Jordan in the wilderness of Judea, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. saying, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, Behold, I send my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare your way. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, make ready the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Every ravine will be filled, and every mountain and hill will be brought low. The crooked will become straight, and the rough roads smooth. And all flesh will see the salvation of God. And all the country of Judea was going out to him, and all the people of Jerusalem And they all were being baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins. John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist, and his diet was locusts and wild honey. So when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism He began saying to the crowds who were going out to be baptized by him, You brood of vipers, who warned you to free from the wrath to come? Therefore, bear fruits in keeping with repentance, and do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father. For I say to you, that from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham. Indeed, the axe is already laid at the root of the trees, so every tree that does not bear good fruit He's cut down and thrown into the fire. And the crowds were questioning him, saying, Then what shall we do? And he would answer and say to them, The man who has two tunics is to share with him who has none. And he who has food is to do likewise. And some tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said to him, Teacher, what shall we do? And he said to them, Collect no more than what you have been ordered to. Some soldiers were questioning him, saying, And what about us? What shall we do? And he said to them, Do not take money from anyone by force, or accuse anyone falsely, and be content with your wages Now, while the people were in a state of expectation and all were wondering in their hearts about John as to whether he was the Christ. John answered and said to them all, As for me, I baptize you with water, but one is coming who is mightier than I, and I am not fit to untie the thong of the sandals. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand. So thoroughly clear his threshing floor, or too thoroughly clear his threshing floor, And to gather the wheat into his farm, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. So with many other exhortations, he preached the gospel to the people. So um obviously the three synoptic gospels Introduce the ministry of Christ by starting with the forerunner, John the Baptist. And John mentions the four the uh John the Baptist, remember we already covered that in his prologue, not so much as an event, we'll we'll get to that in a little bit, but more so just laying the groundwork for Christ's ministry. Um I have a note here about the timing of this. 15th year Uh Luke is pretty careful about chronology and so on. So the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius, the only uh question mark here is um Tiberius's reign began as a co-regent with his father-in-law, Emperor Augustus. and then continued on after Augustus died a few years later. And it turns out that was a common practice. You see that a lot in the Old Testament as well. that various kings would appoint a son, for example, as co-regent, and there would be smooth transition from one reign to the other. And so it's not immediately clear from what Luke has written whether he's dating it from when they were co-regents to when he became the sole uh emperor, but it appears it's the former, not the latter, uh, which would place This at about twenty-six AD, the beginning of Christ's ministry. Now um Yesterday, I received an email from Kirk with a number of questions that I thought you all might be interested in. In this context here, first he says, is Judea considered the center of gravity both of John's and Jesus' ministry? Or should Israel be looked at as a unit, not placing more importance on Judea? Well, as we'll see, and maybe you can see from our table of contents Jesus spends a very large amount of time in Galilee. Most of his miracles are done there. Uh and we'll spend a lot of time in Galilee, even though he does um um spend, particularly in in the the later part of his ministry, a significant amount of time in Judea, which is down south. So I would say that both Jesus and John viewed their ministry as being to all of Israel. Jesus even said he came to seek the lost sheep of the nation of Israel. John, well, let's see. His second question here is, I'm wondering how John selected the location of his ministry. uh to clear the way for Jesus, if he did not perhaps know the exact geographic target of Jesus' subsequent ministry. And again, I I um John's uh ministry would have been to anyone who would come, and obviously it included even some soldiers who came But mostly I think he was his um ministry was to baptize a a baptism of repentance from sin, preparing for preparing people for the coming of the Messiah. And so he needed water. And so Um a lot of his ministry is associated with the River Jordan and uh a couple of places I think actually So it didn't have a lot to do with um the subsequent ministry of Christ geographically, because both of them were really f uh targeting um The nation of Israel. He also makes a note here that some of the maps include a distant sky, the scale But others do not. You know, the maps that I included at the end of your notes. I would have included a scale on all of them if I had made the maps, but fortunately I didn't make the maps. However, I think there are enough maps there that you can get a rough idea if you look at one versus another uh what the scale is, what distances are from place to place. Um we don't always know the exact location where some of the events took place and so getting an idea of how far he was traveling from one place to another or how long it took is not going to be terribly exact in a lot of cases Um and um so I I would recommend I I didn't double check whether one of the maps I gave you is of enough of the region of Israel with a scale that you can use as sort of your um your guide to help estimate distances. But if if there's not one included in the set that I gave you, you should be able to get a map of Israel. that has a scale and hopefully that would be helpful. But it's a good thing to do to get an idea of distances and not just distances but also geography. Are they going uphill or downhill? Um is it um uh a rough terrain or is it highly populated and so on? And then his fourth question was: Did the Pharisees, who were among the business class and the educationally elite live evenly throughout Israel or were they more concentrated in Judea? They seemed to follow or appear in John's and Jesus' teaching context wherever they went Now this is an interesting point that's probably going to be helpful as we continue. The Pharisees You know, we're we're known for their religious zeal and their keeping of the law and keeping of their own traditions and so on. Um they were for the most part um spread throughout Israel and their their main um what uh contact with the people, their their main uh control center was in the synagogue. And synagogues were all over the place. And They're in stark contrast with the Sadducees, another religious uh um what um tradition who um We're sort of the polar opposite of the Pharisees when it comes to Orthodox Judaism. However, they had a monopoly on the temple in Jerusalem. And um the Pharisees were the the leaders of the synagogues throughout Israel. And you can just imagine the tension that those two parties uh brought to everyday life in in Israel. Um So we'll often see Pharisees come up in conversation with Jesus and so on. And uh they could be just the local Pharisees from wherever they're at, or maybe they've they've been following and trying to uh corner Jesus with something he says and so on. They could be coming from elsewhere. But the Sadducees, my understanding is the Sadducees were not as dispersed throughout Israel, but more so centered in Jerusalem. Now, which means that if they met up with Jesus somewhere else, they would have possibly traveled to see him. Okay. And on the verse we just the passage we just read, the last question here is: when John the Baptist echoes Isaiah. Prophesying that every mountain will be leveled and every valley filled, does this have an immediate spiritual fulfillment or literal fulfillment when the Lord will um uncreate and then recreate the earth in the future? Or maybe is it both? Well, I think most commentators understand this to be a A description of preparing the way for the king. Right? So when monarchs would travel uh in those days over who knows what kind of terrain, they would send out a delegation in you know, the the the Corps of Engineers, if you will, in front of them just to make sure that uh the the coast was c clear, the roads were passable, if there was any um uh down trees across the main highway, you know, they would be removed and um Any washouts, those were fixed so that the king wouldn't have to be surprised by these things and wait and wait and wait while repairs were done. And so people would have understood that these royal um dignitaries had this kind of privilege that they had people going before them to prepare the way. And when Isaiah speaks this under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he's making use of that common Practice where even if there doesn't need to be a physical preparing of the way although it often was with earthly monarchs, there needs to be a a preparation on the part of the people for the coming of the monarch And how much more so when this monarch is the king of kings, the messiah? And so uh most Interpreters understand this to be a way of saying that people need to prepare themselves properly for the coming of the Messiah. And that's what John was calling them to do. So in that sense, it would be more of a spiritual preparation. not a a physical um leveling of mountains and and so on Well Pastor Allen, I I appreciate you taking some time to answer my questions. I didn't I feel kind of embarrassed that you actually took class time to to do that, but um but I do appreciate it I I see a couple of other details that it mentions Herod and then Philip. And so the first Herod that tried to Or that ended up killing all of the the babies or or children under the age of two Um that was H Herod in this context, that was their father, and then uh Philip was another son of of Herod. So it's you can kind of see the nepotism within the the Roman government as far as people appointing their their children to carry on the next uh reign. Yeah, and um um it does get complicated and there are more Herods later to come in the book of Acts. So Like Pharaoh and like Caesar, Herod was a bit of a title, not so much a family name, but it becomes sort of synonymous with um their their name as well. Herod the Great being the first of them, and then these others taking that name, but also their given name That's funny. I have one quick question, maybe two. Um so the Pharisees and scribes did not teach repentance from sins. So when John the Baptist came in and introduced that and did that, was that a new teaching? that the people never heard of before? Uh I guess preparation was about um repentance from sin. So with that preparation, were they not being taught they had to repent from their sins? Um yeah, I don't know that it would be called a new teaching, but certainly um By new teaching I mean the Pharisees weren't teaching it. God taught it in the Old Testament, but they weren't being taught that by, you know, their teachers. Yes, I think that's pretty safe to say that that would not have been a regular common teaching because when we think of Pharisee, what do we think of? It's all external doing of things, right? Not doing it from the heart. And it's from the heart that that repentance has to take place, right? So it was certainly not it the need for repentance and a heart commitment to do what is right was not in the forefront of the Pharisees thinking, that's for sure. So even as believers today, you and I, us. She'll be should we be on guard against that we still sin, that we need to repent of sin, that um We need not just get caught up in the knowledge or whatever the teachings that we can't get caught up in that's realize we still battle sin ourselves. Yes, so uh obviously there are two um contexts where this repentance is important. One is when we first come to Christ, right? We repent from sin, we we forsake our our grip on sin and instead um rely completely on Christ and humble ourselves before him and that that uh repentance unto justification is what starts it all. But as you're suggesting, there's also the repentance that each of us needs to practice Whenever God convicts us of sin, right? And to stay right with Him. And that's also, of course, taught in in Scripture. And so um I would think it's possible here that there are some people coming to John to be baptized by him. who were actually very godly, repentant people to begin with. I mean there were people like that. We already coun came into contact with Anna and Simeon, right? Um Mary and Joseph. Uh they were very godly people, um simple, but uh wanting to to please God in in all respects. And so a lot of these people coming to John may have been like that, may have been already uh repentant and just seeking to um make a public profession of that by going to John and the preparing themselves for God's deliverance, uh, the Messiah, hopefully. Um others may have been coming um for an initial repentance. And it was quite a change for them, perhaps. Hard to say. But judging from the the kinds of people who are asking him questions and what should we do, there's probably some of each. Yeah. Yes ma'am. Um so uh my question is where did the idea of water baptism come from? Because it's not very clear in the Old Testament. There is ceremonial washing. And was that something that someone who wanted to be a uh a a Jew or a Hebrew or was it f from the inside? I mean who needed to wash? Priests who need to wash Well, uh yes and no, uh baptism as a as a um A sign, as it's used here, is somewhat new with John the Baptist. But I think in many Commentators do believe that it has its roots in the ceremonial washing that was very prevalent throughout Israel Every place you go, there's a mikveh. A mikveh is a small pool of water where people would go and ceremonially uh wasp themselves, um, dunk themselves And we see references to this in the Gospels, and we'll point this out from time to time. And uh it was understood to be um um ceremonial in the sense that it it it wasn't like washing with soap and water kind of cleansing. It was cleansing um from sin and and being more presentable to God. And it wasn't just the priests Uh it was and and in fact you remember um Jesus was criticized. Why why don't your disciples wash, you know, ceremonially cleanse themselves and so on It wasn't just the priests. Now, a lot of that I think came up through tradition. Some of it's based on Old Testament uh commands, but uh the tradition and uh the making of the mikvas and uh the procedures and all this kind of thing kind of developed over time so it was very widespread at the time of Christ And um so I I think that may have been partly a um a predecessor to this. Um but we don't know for sure all the details and the link issues and so on. Thank you. Pastor Fumley, um I I'm struck by um you know the s the specific things that John the Baptist um told people to do when they're bearing fruit in keeping with repentance. How prescriptive do you think those are? Do you think those were things that he knew about the people that he was encountering? Or do you think those are things that all of All people whose lives have been touched by God does a good question. So it Luke especially here um indicates who's asking the question and what his reply was to them. And I think to some extent They're all in common, just saying he's calling people to live righteously, and that if your repentance is genuine, it will show up in your actions. Right um bear fruit according to that genuine repentance. Um and so The soldiers, for example, who came to him. And um he says, collect no more than what you've been or the tax collectors, collect no more than what you've been ordered to. You know, that's very specific to their job. And the um the soldiers collect I'm sorry, and what about us? What should we do? And he said to them, Do not take money from anyone by force. He's speaking to soldiers there, and that's probably their practice. or temptation, and don't accuse anyone falsely, which is probably also something soldiers would do from time to time, particularly if they're told to. And be content with your wages. Well, I suppose a lot of people would relate to that, but they may have been particularly um had a reputation for trying to supplement their wages, which is probably dirt cheap, by some of these other things, taking money by force and and so on. So uh I think there's a very real extent to which he's he's speaking to them in their context and their their patterns of life. But he's applying the same principle that do what is right. And um that will be uh and evidence that your repentance is genuine, particularly if what is doing right comes hard. Okay. Well, let's go then to the next page, section 16, where Jesus is baptized by John. And I'll go ahead and read the blended account here. Now, when all the people were baptized. Jesus arrived from Nazareth in Galilee at the Jordan, coming to John to be baptized by him. But John tried to prevent him, saying, I have need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me? But Jesus, answering, said to him, Permit it at this time, for in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he permitted him, and was also baptized by John in the Jordan. And after being baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water, and behold, while he was praying, he saw heaven was opened. And the Holy Spirit of God descended upon him in bodily form like a dove. And behold, a voice came out of heaven, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. So, several interesting things about this, of course, you have the interaction of all three persons of the Trinity here. Several times this happens in the ministry of Christ. This one is particularly noteworthy. And The big question here is the one I note down below. Why was Jesus baptized if John's baptism was a baptism of repentance from sin? And I'll let you read at least my answer to that But the the the main takeaway is just as our water baptism is symbolic of what Christ has done for us, his baptism was symbolic of what he did for us. by uh taking on our sin. Not that he did that in his baptism any more than he took on our sin during our baptism But there is a symbolic nature of it there. And so he was testifying right from the outset that he was coming to take on the sin of the world. And um so a key moment there of course. Pastor. Well then. I'm sorry. Sorry, can I ask a question about that? Yeah, I agree. The part about um it being necessary to fulfill all righteousness, can you comment on what that means? Yeah, um the um when Christ Took our sins upon himself. Our sins were transferred to him, but his righteousness was transferred to us. So it's a two-way exchange. And he's he's referring, it seems like he's referring to that two-way exchange here, that he's taking on our sin but uh his righteousness would be transferred to us. And so we're we're symbolizing both of those in in our water baptism, you know, we're we're dying to sin, he's paid for, we come up and we're we have new life in him, which is his righteousness. Um So there may be more involved to it than that, but I think that's that's part of what's going on here. Is that referred to then as the uh um he identifying with us and we identify back with him? Um Yeah, you can think of it that way. Um, but yeah um you know the the baptism, our baptism and his baptism were were symbolic of various things and this exchange of sin and and uh righteousness. Um um in which case we identify with him. But that exchange is is more than identification. It's it's an actual exchange. Our sins have been placed on him and his righteousness has been imputed to us So Hi, Pastor Plumley. This is Renee. I have a question. I wonder why it was necessary for him to be baptized before he um was tempted in the wilderness as opposed to afterwards. Well, I I I've always understood it to mean this is now his starting point for ministry His public ministry. And it kind of sets the tone for what he came to do It was all about um sin and righteousness. And he has this public Uh I I think to a large extent public um manifestation of the Trinity, God the Father and the Holy Spirit as well at this time. And so that sort of set the tone for why he was entering into ministry, what it was all about, that had to do with sin and righteousness. And Apart from that, you know, could that have happened at another time? Maybe, I don't know. But he seems Well, as we'll read here in a minute, the Holy Spirit led him into the wilderness to be tempted. And again, a very foundational thing happening here at the outset of his public ministry. There's one other thing that's mentioned in the study notes of the b my Bible. It it says that it also confirms the ministry of John, John the Baptist. So I think that's an important point as just him being identified as the forerunner and this this is to confirm his ministry. Now d does that also highlight I thought it was gonna be in here that John would know Christ because he would see the spirit descend upon him like a dove. But in this blended account It is he knows who Jesus is before the Holy Spirit descends upon him like a dove and before the Father gives his approval approval which didn't happen for anybody else. Like of all the people that John baptized, this is the only one where the the EUC uh the Godhead involved. So I'm a little confused by that. John wouldn't know him Josh said he would know him by the Holy Spirit descending, but this it seems like he knows him before that happens. Yeah, well, um John, of course, must have known Jesus as his cousin. uh in in one sense, but to what extent did he understand that he was the Messiah? And at what point did he understand that? It's possible he could have been told that at a very young age From his mother, from uh Mary, um who knows. But even if not, uh he was a prophet And he was already telling the people that uh one is coming who is uh greater than I. And um So he knew that the Messiah was coming, if by no other means God communicating that to him prophetically And um so it it shouldn't be surprising that John knew from maybe all of those or any of those means that Jesus was the Messiah and he was now coming publicly into ministry at that point. Um so it was also fitting that John would be humbled and um So yeah the the the uh m the manifestation of you know God the Father speaking, the Holy Spirit coming down. Uh from John's perspective, that was, I'm sure, just icing on the cake, um affirmation of what he had already understood to be true. Um And um yeah. So uh Gloria, yes. Um I think John as a human went back and forth like sometimes we do, he needed proof because down the road when he's being held in prison and he's going to be decapitated, he's like Go ask him, are the you the one or should we be expecting somebody else? So that threw him off. Yes. Yes. What happened to him? Yeah. Um and we'll we'll talk about that at the time. Um it it's It's one thing to understand that Jesus is the Messiah. It's another thing to understand what his role as Messiah would be here and now, right And the distinction between his first coming and the second coming was something that was not at all clear, and probably wasn't clear to John either. Um and John, as we'll see, was very um um bold in in uh speaking the truth and letting the chips fall where they may, which landed him in prison. Um but It's not clear that he understood that he would end up being a martyr. I don't know. Um and so he may have, as most of us, like you say, as a human being Have second thoughts. Did I really get this right? Even a prophet doesn't have continual um revelation from God. And so it might have been natural for him to doubt when he saw how things were were turning out And so Jesus responded saying, Well, um the dead have been raised to life, right? The lame are walking. Uh yes indeed. Um I am the Messiah. So John is an interesting character. Jesus said that no one's ever been born who was greater than John. Um himself excluded obviously. But um yeah Well anyway, let's go ahead and look at the temptation here. I'm on section 17 Then Jesus, look, I'm gonna go to page 33. Immediately Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led around by the Spirit in the wilderness for forty days to be tempted by Satan, the devil. He was with the wild beasts, and he ate nothing during those days. And when they had ended, he became hungry. And the tempter The devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread. And Jesus answered him, It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone but on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. And he led him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory in a moment of time. And the devil said to him, I will give you all this domain and its glory, for it has been handed over to me. And I give it to whomever I wish. Therefore, if you worship before me, it shall all be yours Jesus answered him, Go, Satan, for it is written, you shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. And he led him into the wilderness, or led him to Jerusalem, the holy city, and had him stand on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down from here, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you to guard you, and on their hands they will bear you up, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone And Jesus answered and said to him, On the other hand it is written, you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. When the devil had finished every temptation, he left him until an opportune time. Then angels came and began to minister to him. So again, the synoptic gospels, all three have a record of this. I find something here that's very interesting, where Satan here says, um Showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory in the moment of time. The devil said to him, I will give you all this domain and its glory, for it has been handed over to me. Satan speaking. Well, indeed it has, or it was temporarily, has. But that ought to beg the question, who handed it over to him? God, and here he is trying to tempt God to switch roles, essentially. Um I find that fascinating. And obviously a key takeaway here is that it's not sinful to be tempted, it's sinful to give in to that temptation, right? And How is it that we are to respond to the temptations of the devil? Uh P Pastor Allen, back to Satan's statement of ownership. Is that trustworthy coming from Satan? Well, not in and of itself, but we know from the rest of Scripture that even Jesus said that the the world is the domain of of Satan um temporarily. Um but even even Even if you didn't know that, it seems like you'd want to ask him, so who gave it to you? Right? And that would have been an interesting conversation. But of course, Jesus knew all that. And Didn't have to ask him. I'm sorry, Pastor Alan, can I ask you a question about that? The thing about the kingdoms, isn't it mentioned in the Psalms? specifically um you know god the father talking to jesus basically that i will give you all the kingdoms of the world So wouldn't have Satan have known this anyway, so why tempt him with something like that? John might come too. Yeah, we just had a sermon on that last week. You know, there are several places here in the Gospels where I would ask a very similar question. What was Satan thinking? Um you know he he end it says that he entered Judas to betray Jesus. Um and that worked and um You know, I got I gotta think that he thought that when he got Christ crucified, that Satan had won But in fact, that was his defeat. And so what was he thinking? Um I don't know. I I'd rather think about other things than try to figure out what Satan's thinking. Pastor, this is the uh Um there's three sequences that are identical here, and this is the first one was in Genesis 3, where Satan tempted Eve, and she succumbed to that temptation. This is exactly the same three areas in which he tempted Jesus. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. And then, and of course, Jesus shows us how to overcome that by he just quoted scripture to him. But we are warned in 1 John 2 that we are going to be tempted by the same three things. And we've had a view of how to succumb to it, not pay attention and go ahead and do it, and then by Jesus it's how to Refute it. So these are three three areas here. Exactly the same. Right. Yeah, and and I I'll I'll mention there also that um Um you know, the scripture is very clear that we are to respond to the schemes of the devil, you know, think of Ephesians 6, we're to respond to the schemes of the devil by standing firm, right? And as Jesus explained, Jesus demonstrated here, using the sword of the Spirit to combat his schemes. The the temptation might be to flee from Satan. But we're not told to flee from Satan. We're told to stand firm. What we're told to flee from is immorality. Particularly sexual immorality. Run for your life. Avoid it. Flee. And unfortunately, people think they can stand firm against that, and they're foolish. The other um battle we do is with the the world You know, we've got the world, the flesh, and the devil. And how do we respond to the world? By the renewing of our mind. Romans 12. By Scripture, of course. Pastor? Yes, ma'am. Can you comment on the devil's use of the word of God in his temptation to pray? Well, like like um Bill was saying it's very similar to what he was doing with Eve, twisting the Word of God, misapplying it, taking it out of context. And um we can expect him to try to do that same thing to us That's the point. So what does that suggest? We need to understand the word so that we can detect those deceptions. Right? I don't know how many of you or I would respond to any specific temptation by quoting Deuteronomy. But that's all Jesus did here. He quoted Deuteronomy. But yeah, we need to know the word both because we can identify deception more clearly that way, and we can stand firm as we quote that scripture in those times of temptation Something else you mentioned, Pastor Plumley, um, that stood out to me was how he was trying to reverse roles here. Um And thought about what you just said about the scriptures. They also instruct us on God's design and order of things, which Satan seems to always want to pervert and twist. Um, even when he came to Eve, getting her to usurp Adam's leadership to act independently of him Adam acting independently of God instead of understanding God's and falling under God's design and order of things and be being kept in a place of safety as a result of that. So It seems like he's always attacking God's design and order of things. Yeah, and in this case, God's design and order was for the the eternal Son of God to take on human flesh live out a perfect life on earth and uh become a sacrifice for our sin and that was the great um humbling and um I think it's fair to say challenging role for the Son of God to take on. And this would have upset that right at the outset. Yep. Affirms the son, this is my beloved son, and Satan hits them at that point. If you since you are or if you are the Son of God, the uh the approval of the Father is does not negate the the enemy from tempting us in the very thing that we are blessed to have so he could use our very blessings against us to word it To give us a desire for more than what God has already provided. So God provides freedoms. Well you can get it in this way Good point. Well, you know, God provides this for you can get in this way and if you do it in this way, I guess for us it will be the flesh, you can get all the things you desired. So it it is something how The enemy or the flesh can tempt us in ways we probably can't even comprehend in all the ways we can be tempted to sin or to uh you try to usurp God's authority over us. Yep. We have another problem in this also is that uh we can stand firm and defeat Satan Satan's attempts at one point, but you know when the scripture says that the devil left Jesus at the point when Jesus overcame the three temptations, he said he left him until a more opportune time. And that's when we let our guard down. We we crow because we have won the battle but we the counterattack comes and we not expect it. Yep Yep. Don't let our guard down. That's the good lesson. And yeah, Kirk. Kirk. Sorry to interrupt. No, go ahead. Quick comment and I'm not sure it deserves an answer, but um I I really appreciate I didn't understand that you were the one who put together the the blended accounts. that you wrote wrote these. So um thank you. And because you've done that, it it actually kind of m um makes me think of um bibliology, how how we got our scripture. And knowing that these writers of the gospel didn't write at the same time, there were some years that transpired before each letter. So whenever one author has information that's unique to him It it kind of makes it it raises the question, well, did that author who wrote obviously later in time, did he actually read the like for example, did uh Luke read Matthew and Mark and then perhaps alter what he included because of that information was already out there. And I I'm not sure that there's enough consistency to say that the later writers uh did that in in that manner. But it um it's not a question that I think any of us can answer, but it It's kind of tempting to think about that. Like if you were writing a book on JFK, you would read previous authors who wrote on JFK and your book would actually be different because of having the privilege of reading a a prior author. But it's just a copy. Yeah, um good good question. Um my two cents, I I would expect that Luke being a very meticulous historian um was quite aware of Matthew and Mark and John coming along a lot later with a completely different perspective. I'm thinking um Also was aware probably of all three of the earlier ones, but uh I don't know that we know for sure. Anyway, let's close in prayer. Father, we do thank you that