All right, well last week we didn't quite finish. Or Lesson. Yes. The time w went too quickly. So we are currently on page two oh four And I'm hoping to wrap up this lesson quickly because we have a lot on our plate in the next lesson, today's lesson. So I'm going to continue reading in the the um blended account On page 204, uh I think we're at verse 25 there, and that's uh of Matthew's account. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, which is sort of Jesus continuing exposure of uh the religious leaders. For you clean the outside of the cup of and the of the dish, but inside they're full of robbery and self-indulgence. And what's he referring to? Them, right? The outside, the external behavior versus the internal heart behind the behavior. You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and of the dish, so that the outside of it may become clean also. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs, which on the outside appear beautiful, but inside they are full of dead men's bones and uncleanness. So you too outwardly appear righteous to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. So he wasn't pulling any punches here, right? Verse 29. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous. And say if we had been living in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partners with them in the shedding of the blood of the prophets So you testify against yourselves, Jesus said, that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up then the measure of the guilt of your fathers You serpents, you brood of vipers, how will you escape the sentence of hell? Therefore, behold, I am sending you prophets and wise men and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, some of them you will scourge in your synagogues, and persecute from city to city, so that upon you may fill the guilt of all the righteous blood shed on earth From the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. That's A to Z, right? Abel to Zechariah Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her. How often I would gather your children together the way a hen gathers her chicks upon her wings, and you are unwilling. Behold, your house is being left to you desolate For I say to you, from now on, that you will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. So Jesus obviously continued being very explicit about the hypocrisy of the Jewish leaders. Uh hypocrisy is something that God is um extremely um Opposed to and reacts to, particularly in the lives of those who uh are in positions of leadership. Right, as these were, because they can lead so many astray. Um but they built a whole system on the external and just completely missed Um Several things here I made a bit of a note of here. Jesus ends this section by quoting from Psalm 118. which is a section of scripture, a messianic section of scripture that the crowd referred to during their um Praise and welcoming of Jesus at the triumphal entry into Jerusalem just a few days earlier. And that reference, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, is something that wasn't fulfilled at least completely at the triumphal entry, but is yet to be fulfilled, Jesus is saying. In fact, uh all indications are that most of the people who were caught up in the celebration of his triumphal entry were themselves very shallow in their both their understanding and their commitment to him as the Messiah Or even if they thought he was the Messiah, they had the completely wrong conception of what and who the Messiah would be. W wouldn't you say it just has a double filament? Um yes. If if you concede that there was any partial fulfillment at all on Palm Sunday, um because I think the note I I said here is that they applied it to the right person but for the wrong reason at the wrong time. So I'm not sure if that counts as a partial fulfillment, but um But yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That wasn't defined with the final Yeah, it's been called the triumphal entry. But um Yeah, lots of things going on there. Uh Jesus here is being right in the midst of the the The center of power that was gathering up steam against him, he doesn't pull any punches. And um Just says it like it is. And let the chips fall where they may. And he knew where those chips were going to fall. So Okay. Yes. Beginning of this passage, Linda said Jesus spoke this to the crowds and his disciples. So whether it was they Or the scribes and Pharisees, when he says in the last verse, for I say to you, I don't know who that is, the crowd, the disciples, the scribes, you will not see me again until you say that. Surely they saw him hanging on the cross. Yeah. Yeah, I um I take that to mean um They will not see his um Messianic glory and and so on. But he's also speaking very directly, not just about, but to the religious leaders. Right, but I think some of them also probably saw him on the cross if he religions. Yeah, no I I don't think it's it's this very narrow I'm gonna be gone um Uh from this day, uh he's only got a few f few more days left here, but he's he's speaking more about um and actually I think he's sort of making a segue into what's on his heart here in the next couple chapters and all of the discourse that we're about to get to. Because he even says, your house is being left to you desolate. And that's a good segue into the next section. How not one stone is going to be left on top of the other, right? So I I've just always wondered and I measures you know thirty Devin he says, you know, how often I wanted to gather the children together the way, uh, and gathered your chicks and her weeks, but you were unwilling And I mean brings back to the big picture again and I know you're even though I stumbled up your sovereignty. I mean and I and I accept it. I'm not still stumbling, but I'm just wondering like if you think about all of the Jews, they made a decision to reject them and they're going to be grafted in as we learn in Rome and there will be a remnant and so forth. But nevertheless, how do we think about that rightly or do we just in in terms of God's sovereignty, like he could have called them if he wanted them. I mean, but God knew obviously before the foundation of the world Israel was gonna reject it. So that's just how it is and that's how we think about it and we can't really probably is there any way to think about that word Correctly. No, I I I think there is that tension between the sovereignty of God and the uh responses and choices of men. Um Uh I don't go to that book here, but um I agree to idea unfortunate says for my name's sake. I do the thing. He you know, in in spite of their rebellion, in spite of their complete lack of regard for him, he rescues them Right. He goes in and and because of his own name and for kids for his own sake, he doesn't And for reasons we don't always understand. Another example that I think is the prime example of this is Peter's sermon on Pentecost. when he's pointing the finger at the the Jewish leaders, um saying, you know, this righteous man whom you uh delivered over to crucifixion. Um and then he says it was all done by God's foreknowledge and it was accomplished, you know, from the foundation of the earth and And how do you uh how do you get your mind around all that? Well, God has created us with the ability to choose. It's not free will in the sense that we can do whatever we want. God is still sovereign But he's given us a measure of choice because we're made in his image, and we're accountable for those choices. Um he does sometimes and often actually work through circumstances to to um change our courses and and our decisions and and so on, some of which we would never have done without his intervention, like salvation. But Understanding all of that? Yeah, we're not going to. I mean we see dividing in raising kings, raising kings, you know, allowing evil to take it for so we see all that. But and everybody's accountable for the choices they make. Even though God sometimes intervenes to um provide the right thing, I just I had always stumbled over that. I just thought I don't see if there's any and I see that that is the way we need to think about it. Yeah, I y I like many things of God that are outside of our experience and outside of our ability to understand, it doesn't mean we should just throw up and throw up our hands and give up. But keep studying and keep understanding what scripture says about these various things and we probably won't satisfy our finite minds in any way because we're dealing with the things of God. But there's still usually more to learn and typically it's about God's character. And um Okay, well let's go to one fifty eight, section on page two hundred five. And he sat down opposite the treasury and he looked up and began to observe how the people were putting money and gifts into the treasury, and many rich people were putting in large sums. And he saw a poor widow who came and put in two small copper coin coins, which amount to a cent. And calling his disciples to him, he said to them, Truly I say to you, this poor widow put in more than all the contributors to the Treasury, for they all put in out of their surplus. But she, out of her poverty, put in all that she owned, all that she had to live on. So that's actually Very much in the same vein as his criticism of the religious leaders, who were all external And it wasn't really coming from the heart. There was probably a lot of that going on in terms of the the the gifts to the treasury here where people were, as Jesus said in uh the Sermon on the Mount, uh, giving so as to be seen by men. pr uh just the external thing rather than a heart conviction to the Lord and and uh trusting In his provision, and therefore being very generous to contribute to his cause. So seems like a very similar sort of thing, it's internal versus external. John McCarthy has really he's saying he wasn't of um she doesn't say condoning her, she's not saying you don't like one if he's not condoning her. She's just an example of of what therapy were doing because you just curved them all out. She's an example of someone who was caught in the system. that was robbing her because no one could say give me last dying because she had nothing to live on instead of helping her take Interesting. Yeah. Okay. Well, I want to progress to today's lesson. I do. In fact, I want to finish it because we have a lot ahead of us. So The Olivet Discourse is named that why? Mount of olives olives. Well, Mount of Olives. Yep. Olivet would be the adjective. The Mount of Olives is right opposite to the east of uh Temple Mount and and so on. And it's it's uh It it's uh it's a ridge, not just uh a peak, but it's it's a ridge that's actually higher than uh uh Jerusalem proper and you can get a commanding view of uh in that day the temple and And uh the whole area. And so it's uh they made their way across the what's between uh the Temple Mount and the Mount of Olives is the um Kadrone Valley and they had to work their way through that and then back up to the um Um I guess somewhere on the side or the top of uh the Mount of Olives. They could have couldn't they have walked along the rim of the town There are lots of paths. Most of them don't go directly up. They kind of go back and forth. And once you're near the top, or probably today, I don't know how it was then But there are lots of places to be where you still get a real good view of the temple area. It wouldn't have to be on the top. And depending on whether you want to be more north or more south, it's just a ridge. Okay, so I'm on page 211. I'm going to start with the blended account. And this takes us, you know, when you think of the, well, at least when I think of the Olivet Discourse, I'm thinking Matthew 24 and Matthew 25, but Mark 13 and Luke 21. um include uh include that as well. Actually they they overlap with Matthew twenty four. Matthew twenty-five is completely um from Matthew. Okay. Well, so for m for Matthew 24, it's a blended account, and that starts on page two hundred and eleven. And as Jesus was going out of the temple, and this has been a long day, this is still Tuesday of Passion Week. As Jesus was going out of the temple, while some were talking about the temple, that it was adorned with beautiful stones and votive gifts, one of his disciples came up To the point, came up to point out the temple buildings to him, saying, Teacher, behold what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings. And they were. If there was a a Uh classification, this probably would have been one of the greatest wonders of the world at that time. the whole temple area, the Temple Mount. Uh we'll talk about this in a few weeks. Um but uh it was expanded by uh Harry the Great and his is um um whole engineering machinery. Um and the temple was um uh refurbished and greatly uh exalted and lots of the whole eastern facade I think of the of the temple was uh overlain with gold. Uh it was facing east, so in the morning the thing just shined shone. Uh was quite a sight. And uh The stones, they mention here of the stones, there were huge stones. There wasn't like a concrete foundation. It was lots of huge stones that were quarried out of uh rock and brought into place somehow or other. And um that's the whaling one though, right? Um The the whaling wall is what is often called the uh the western wall of the Temple Mount, the foundation for the temple area. But that would have been true not just on the Western Wall, but even on the southern wall. There's a lot of uh even more wall there. Um but yeah. It was just a m it was massive, it was impressive. Um uh Herod began that like in I think 20 BC, that that excavation and and construction project and so on. And it still wasn't completely complete when it was completely destroyed in 7080 It was still under um construction and working out some of the details even in Jesus' time. It was sort of like the Washington Cathedral. I wonder how it was actually true to what Moses had. I mean he had no business in doing this. Herod you mean? Yeah, yeah. Well no, it it uh it followed the the um uh prescription. It wasn't just Herod's doing. I mean the temple was rebuilt um after the exile and it was there, it was kind of plain by by these standards. But it was greatly refurbished and um um made You know, all the finishings and everything on it were were new and and so on. So uh the the temple layout was per God's design as of the the s uh the uh tabernacle and uh so the the position of the various things were all there there was a holy of holies it was all her gods Uh the that wasn't Herod's doing. That his doing was the refurbishing and the and the making the the Temple Mount much bigger and all the associated things. It was just a a grand place, much more grand than it had been. Um yeah. So anyway. Um Jesus responded and said to him, Do you see these great buildings? Because it wasn't just the temple itself, the whole area. As for these things which you are looking at, truly I say to you, the days will come in which there will not be one stone here left upon another, which will not be torn down. And uh there's a good chance that he's in the same frame of thought which on Page 204, when he's lamenting over Jerusalem, he says, Behold, your house is being left to you desolate. He's probably thinking of that then, even when he's making that point explicitly here, just a few minutes later. And so they they were having this discussion when they were kind of leaving the temple area, going down into the Catrone uh valley, and then back up. Toward the Mount of Olives, where they would be staying overnight. And as he was sitting, verse 3 in Mark, as he was sitting on the Mount of Olives, opposite the temple, And there's a picture on page 214 that's sort of like where that might have been taken from. That's the eastern wall of Temple Mount taken from uh the Mount of Olives. Is this the eastern gate where Crunch will go through when he returns? Yeah, that's the eastern gate. It's blocked now, nobody goes through it. Okay. Um So as he's sitting on the Mount of Olives, opposite the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew question him privately, saying Tell us, teacher, when therefore will these things happen, and what will be the sign of your coming, and of the end of the age when all these things are going to be fulfilled. So he just told them, this thing is a beautiful, but it's going to be rubble. And this and that just floored them, right? So when is it going to happen? And what's the sign of your coming? Now, sign of your coming, um They were associating the two, the destruction of Jerusalem and and his his coming at the end of the age when all these things are going to be fulfilled. And so they asked me basically two questions. When and what sign? Now they were thinking of a single sign. And Jesus is going to explain to them lots of signs. And he's going to refer to those in the opposite order. He's going to start by talking about the signs and then make some notes about when. And we have more insight with the full body of Scripture and the completion of the New Testament than these guys would have had. But anyway, he re he reversed the order of the questions and he starts with the signs. And so they continued, and what will be the sign when these things are about to take place? And Jesus answered and began to say to them, See to it that no one misleads you, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ. And the time is near, and will mislead many. Do not go after them. When you hear of wars and rumors of wars and disturbances, do not be terrified, for these things must take place first. But that is not yet the end. The end does not follow immediately. Okay? So then he gets into a lot of specifics about the signs. And verse 10 of Luke. Then he continued by saying to them, For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. Well, that's pretty much always been the case, right? And there will be great earthquakes and in various places plagues and famines. There will be terrors and great signs from heaven. But all these things are merely the beginning of birth pangs. This is this is just warming up, right? But be on your guard For before all these things, they will lay their hands on you and will persecute you, delivering you to the courts to be flogged in the synagogues and prisons. uh bringing you to stand before kings and governors for my name's sake, and it will lead to an opportunity for your testimony to them. Then, and we saw some of that even in Acts, right? It already was was true then Then they will deliver you to tribulation, and will kill you, and will be hated by all nations because of my name. At that time, many will fall away and will betray one another and hate one another. Many false prophets will arise and will mislead many. Because and and of course that's been happening all the way through history as well. We're told that it will increase as the days Draw near. But he says, because lawlessness is increased, most people's love will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. Does that mean that salvation is based on one's endurance? No, it means that the endurance is based on salvation. Yeah. Yeah. We see that very clearly um in the rest of Scripture. Could that also be a physical salvation? Um probably hard to distinguish. Yeah, if you escape the the bad stuff that's coming, you're gonna be safe from the bad stuff that's coming too. Yeah. Yeah, but um there are a lot of people he's referring to here who will not escape the bad things that are coming. And we're gonna see that here in a minute. Anyway, um Verse 14 of Matthew. This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all the nations. And then the end will come. So, make up your minds. When they arrest you and hand you over, do not worry to be prepared beforehand about what you were to say to defend yourselves For I will give you utterance and wisdom, which none of your opponents will be able to resist or refute. But say whatever is given to you in that hour, for it is not you who speak, but it is the Holy Spirit But you will be betrayed even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death. And children will rise up against parents and have them put to death. And you will be hated by all because of my name. Jesus is the issue here. Yet not a hair of your heads will perish. That is eternal uh perish. Some will be put to death, but they're not gonna perish. They go immediately to eternal life. Yeah. When when Jesus says they can't refute, it makes you think like, oh, you just live somebody Uh it's not saying it won't be happy. It's saying it's useful. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Yep. Yeah, don't butt don't reason they want to case we is because they can't confuse you. And don't confuse me with facts, right? Yeah. You know, how something it seems like For centuries we've seen the earthquakes and plagues and famines and wars, but what we haven't seen I don't think are the great signs from heaven Right. Uh uh we're gonna get there. We're gonna get there. Okay, verse 19 of Luke. By your endurance, you will gain your lives But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then recognize that her desolation is near. When you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing where it should not be in the holy place, let the reader understand. Then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains, and those who are in the midst of the city must leave, and those who are in the country must not enter the city because These are the days of vengeance, so that all the things which are written will be fulfilled. Now, this abomination of desolation is a perfect example of something that has progressive fulfillment. Most people and the Jews particularly understood the desolation that took place at the hands of Um, Ep Aristocus. Antiochus Epiphanes, you know, like a couple hundred years before Christ. Uh which was Quite a desecration of the temple, intentionally. But Jesus is referring to here as something still yet future. Right. And that future we see, and he's referring to the prophet Daniel in in Daniel nine, where um Daniel, well, the the angel Gabriel reveals to Daniel that um In the 70 weeks that are decreed for the nation of Israel. Let me go ahead and read from the beginning. Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people, Daniel. And your holy city, Jerusalem, to finish the transgression and to make the end of sin, to make atonement for iniquity, and to bring in Everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy place. So you are to know and discern that from the issuing of a decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem Now that's what Daniel was praying about at in the beginning of Daniel 9, that he was in exile in in uh Babylon. And praying for the restoration of Jerusalem and the temple and so on. And so Gabriel tells him: you are to know and discern that from the issuing of a decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem Until Messiah the Prince, there will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks for a total of sixty-nine weeks, four hundred and eighty-three years, because those weeks Um it just it's it's seventy-sevens, that's all the word really means. It doesn't really mean it has to mean week. And we know from hindsight that it's years in it Uh though sixty nine four hundred uh weeks, four hundred and eighty three years uh puts it right at the time of uh um right here where we are in the um the all of that discourse where the coming of the messiah and it when it talks about um Uh rebuild Jerusalem until the Messiah, there will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks that will be built again and so on. And verse 26 of Daniel 9, then after the 62 weeks, the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing. What's that referring to? Crucifix. Crucifixion, right? And uh the people of the prince who is to come This is now the earthly ruler. We'll destroy the city and the sanctuary And its end will come with the flood, even to the end there will be war. Desolations are determined, and he will make a firm covenant with the many for one week, that seventieth week But in the middle of that week, three and a half years into it, it says, he will put a stop to sacrifice and grain offering, and on the wing of abominations will come one who makes desolate, even a complete destruction. One that is decreed is poured out on the one who makes desolate. So that Jesus is referring to is still in the future. There is a desecration of the temple coming um midway through a a period of of truce essentially between Israel and The uh uh Daniel says the prince who is to come, the uh Antichrist. Um Today we're looking at it and we're saying, yes, it has to be rebuilt. The disciples were looking at it and saying, oh, it's going to get destroyed. Um and so, in fact, that's what Daniel's Daniel's being told it's going to be rebuilt and it's going to get destroyed. And both of those happened before the time of Christ. So now it has to be rebuilt again and then destroyed again, or at least desecrated. Um so um That's what Jesus is referring to here. And these are all signs toward his return, right? And verse twenty-one of now let's go verse seventeen of Matthew Whoever is on the housetop must not go down to get things that are out. Things out that are in his house. Whoever is in the field must not turn back to get his cloak. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days, but pray that your flight will not be in winter or on Sabbath. For then there will be a great tribulation. So this abomination of desolation takes place in the middle of that 70th week, which is the seven-year tribulation period, and Jesus is calling the second half of that after the ruler reneges on his truce with Israel, allowing them to sacrifice and everything else. in the in the temple, the second half of that seven year period, Jesus calls the Great Tribulation because all bets are off now. Great tribulation upon the land and wrath to who? This people. Such as has not occurred since the beginning of the creation of the world, which God created until now, nor ever will. And they will fall by the edge of the sword, and they will be led captive into all the nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled on the foot by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. Again, God's sovereign over all this There will be signs in uh in sun and moon and stars and on the earth dismay among the nations, in perplexity at the roaring of the sea and the waves, men fainting from fear and the expectation of the things which are coming upon the world For the powers of heavens will be shaken. So that hasn't happened yet. Those are signs we read about much of that in Revelation. And to some extent in some of the Old Testament prophecies. So these things are connected with this second half of the tribulation, seven-year tribulation period. And then verse 20 of Mark, unless the Lord had shortened those days, no life would have been saved. Again, God is sovereign over the whole timetable, the actions, the timetable. But for the sake of the elect whom he chose, he shortened the days. So who are the elect here? Yeah. Yeah, because where's the church? Yeah. Already raptured, already with the Lord. Um the seven year tribulation period is for um as And Gabriel told Daniel, seventy years are decreed for your people, who are his people. The Jews. And that 70th week, the seven-year tribulation period, is no exception. It's primarily judgment upon Israel to bring at least the remnant to salvation. And and and you know when he says wrath to this people, that's the Jews, such as never been seen on the earth, and we think gosh, we've seen the Holocaust, we've seen all these terribly terrible things happening to the Jews. Right. And that's nothing compared to that. Yeah, and he he makes the point quite a few times that you know you're gonna see some of these things, but that's not the end. That's just the beginning of birth tanks. That's that's that's we're not we're just warming up. Yeah, for sure. So, unless the Lord had shortened those days, no life would have been saved, but for the sake of the elect whom he chose, he shortened the days. So, you know, as you read through Revelation, you see that there will be a lot of people Place their faith in Christ as Messiah during that tribulation period. And some of them are going to be martyred because of their testimony of salvation in Christ alone. Verse 23: Then if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ, or there he is, do not believe him, and he's referring to that earlier, too, for false Christs and false prophets will arise. And will show you great signs and wonders so as to mislead, if possible, even the elect. And you see some of that happening in Revelation. But take heed, behold, I have told you everything in advance. So if they say to you, Behold, he is in the wilderness, do not go out. Or behold, he is in the inner room, he here being the Messiah, his return. Um don't believe them For just as the lightning comes from the east and flashes even to the west, so will the coming of the Son of Man be. What does he mean there? Everyone's gonna see it. It's gonna be obvious. That's what he's saying. Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. What's that point? Or dead anything, they're they're circling around, right? It could be an animal, but you know where the the corpse is because that's where the vultures are circling. Everybody sees it, right? Just another illustration that it's going to be obvious. But immediately after the tribulation of those days The sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of heavens will be shaken. And then The sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of the sky. With power and with great glory. And he will send forth his angels with a great trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds. And again, this is referring to those who were saved during the tribulation period. Right? There are a lot of people coming to Christ. But from one end of the sky to the other. But when these things begin to take place, straighten up and lift up your heads, because your redemption is drawing near So um for the most part, all of that was to answer the question what sign would there be? They're thinking one sign, and Jesus thinking no, there's going to be a whole series of signs that just increase in intensity leading up to his return. So are the hundred and forty-four thousand twelve You know, tribes. Are those the uh tribulation stage? Or those those those are the ones? Some of 'em anyway. Okay. And then how would I know that our church teaches and this is what I believe and certainly based on this about that we will be raptured um before the tribulation. We're not mid-trip people, we're not post-trip people, but um when we're engaging in conversations with people who believe in that, I mean how would they take this particular part of scripture because it seems so clear here. Um and yet they hold to the fact that we'll have to suffer. And um for a variety of reasons it doesn't make sense that we would suffer this trace albony. Um we're not under his wrap any anymore. So this is the wrap of God, it's not the wrap to the end necessarily So just wonder how he talks about that. Well, um it might depend on um What they're hanging up is, um what they've been taught before, if they're basing their view only on scripture or on the traditional teaching they've received, you may have to kind of tailor it to Well, actually, ironically, this one, among others. Yeah. We'll we'll get we'll get there in a minute. We'll get there. And that's one of the reasons why It's pretty well and not underwhelmed by bats kind of are pretty bad. Um but people do um use various scripture passages to to come to a different conclusion, but the key of course is looking at all those in context and the full breadth of scripture. Right. Um well anyway, he's about to turn to his the the other question they asked, and that is when? Yeah. To to write on that, this is not a good place to look for the truth. I mean the frapture is not very easy or clear or at all. Well, as we're going to see though, there are some who who read that into it. Yeah. Yeah. So in I'm on page two hundred twelve now. Um then he told them a parable. Verse twenty-nine from Luke. Now learn the parable from the frig tree and all the trees when it's branch has already become tender and as soon as they put forth leaves you see you see it and you know for yourselves that summer is now near. So also When you see all these things happening, recognize that He, the kingdom of God, is near, right at the door. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Which generation? The generation where these things are heating up. The generation of the of the um tribulation. Yeah. But you should use that generation. It's this one, the one I'm talking about. Um Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. But of that day and hour, no one knows. So they're asking him when is this going to take place? Not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father alone. Karen's supposed to ask that question. I'm not a people like it also asking it. Well if your father doesn't tell you something, what are you gonna do? Bring it up You know, but you're God is the Father. God is the Son. That is God. And they asked him something similar right at the point of his ascending into heaven. When are when is this all gonna happen? And um he gave a similar answer, I think, right? Yeah. That's another mystery then. One of those mysteries. Well he it's clear that God the Son is submitted to God the Father. Figure that one out. Right? So there's hierarchy within and yet one God three persons. But he knows all these facts, right? He's laying them out for them. Verse 37, for the coming of the Son of Man will be just like the days of Noah. They didn't know when it was going to happen, but it should have been obvious to them that, hey, something's happening here Right? For as in those days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying, giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark. And they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away. Catch that. The flood came and took them all away. In that case, they were just washed away by the flood waters, right? So will be the coming of the Son of Man. Then there will be two men in the field and one will be taken. One will be left. Two women will be grinding at the mill. One will be taken and one will be left. So in the context here, what does one will be taken mean? The bad guys are the ones who are taken, just like in the days of Noah. Right. Right. This is not a reference to the rapture. It's the bad guys who are taken. Therefore take heed, be on guard, and that being taken is being taken into justice. It's all over Therefore take heed, be on guard, so that your hearts will not be weighed down with dissipation and drunkenness and the worries of life, and that day will not come upon you suddenly like a trap. For it will come upon all who dwell upon the face of the earth. For you do not know which day your Lord is coming, whether in the evening, at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning. In case he should come suddenly and find you asleep. Now, this coming here, what's that referring to? The second coming of Christ. Which is coming as conqueror, coming to to uh take up the kingly throne of David in Jerusalem. Uh we're going to see here a little bit later. He's going to judge those who are currently on the earth at that point. So that's his coming, not His um the rapture the rapture is not his coming because he doesn't come down to earth for the rapture. We go up to him. Right? So It is like a man away on a journey, who, upon his leaving the house and putting his slaves in charge, assigning to each one a task, also commanded the doorkeeper to stay on the alert. Be sure of this, that if the head of the house had known what time of night the thief was coming, he would have been alert and would not have allowed his house to be broken into For this reason you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour when you do not think he will. Who, then, is the faithful and sensible slave, whom his master put in charge of his household To give him their food at the proper time. Blessed is that slave whom his master finds so doing when he comes Truly I say to you, he will put him in charge of all his possessions. But if that evil slave says in his heart, My master is not coming for a long time, and begins to beat his fellow slaves and eat and drink with drunkards The master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect him, and an hour in which he does not know, and will cut him into pieces and assign him a place with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. But away what I say to you all, keep on the alert at all times, praying that you will uh have strength to escape all these things that are about to take place and to stand before the Son of Man. So about to take place doesn't mean in the next few months or a year, they're still uh these signs that he's talked about clearly have not yet happened. So um the reference display is that this is going straight. Well he's he's it's an illustration to apply uh mostly to um the Jews who do get saved during the tribulation period that they need to be ready. And um Particularly in the first part of that seven year period where it's going to be more comfortable. Um there won't yet be the Great Tribulation. uh marrying and giving in marriage and all that sort of stuff, like in the days of Noah before the flood, would have been or will be um more normal, but in the second half, the Great Tribulation period, um probably less so. Well, you know what? We covered a lesson today, but it was half of one and half of another. We're going to have to pick up on Matthew 25 next week. Hopefully we'll be able to do that. Let's pray