Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for uh the day that we can um uh that you reveal who you are to us, uh reveal your compassion to us. Um and test us, test our faith, push our faith. Um uh and what a glorious uh What a glorious thing that is to really um uh refine our faith and strengthen our belief and bring us closer into an intimate relationship with you. We pray that this will be edifying, beneficial, and revealing. Thank you for your word. It's truth, it's power. And it's uh forever last. Uh it's it's it's foreverness. Um your word will continue on, uh and we are assured of that uh give you great thanks and look forward to worshiping with you and of you today. Okay, so today, yes, we are in lesson twenty but as a bonus We're going to go backwards a little bit to page 170 in the previous lesson to um to section 123. So there as I mentioned there's a lot to go through Well let's do this section first. Let's run through it and then if there's any questions we'll we'll we'll dialogue and if not we'll move into the next section Um would anyone like to read again page 170? It's section 123, Jesus Heals a Man on the Sabbath, teaches about the Sabbath, humility, humility, favoritism, and the kingdom of God. Any read as far as you like and anyone can jump in and pick up at the speed? And when he went into the house, one of the leaders of the Pharisees on the Sabbath, he read, and we're watching closely And there in front of him was a man suffering from prophecy. And Jesus answered and spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal in the Sabbath or not? But they kept silent. They took hold of him and healed him and sent him away. And he said to them, Which one of you will have A sun or an ox fallen into a well and will not immediately pull them out on a Sabbath day. They could not make it. They could not They will make no reply to this. And he began speaking parable to the invited guests when he noticed how they had been picking out places of honor at the table, saying to them If when you are invited by someone to a wedding feast do not take the place of honor, for someone more distinguished than you may have been invited by him. And he who invited you will come in and say to you, Give your place to this man, and then in disgrace you proceed to occupy the last place But when you are invited, go and try at the last place so that when the one who has invited you to come, or one who has invited you comes He may say to you, friend, move up higher, then you will have honor in the sight of all who are at the table with you. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. And he also went on to say to the one who had invited him, when you give a luncheon or a dinner, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors. Otherwise They may also invite you in return and that you will and that you will will be your repayment. But when you give a reception, invite the poor the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed, since they do not have the means to repay you, or you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous. And one of those who was reclining One of those who were reciting at the table with him heard this. He said to him, Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. But he said to him A man was giving a big dinner, and he invited many, and at the dinner hour he sent his slave to say to those who had been invited, Come, for everything is ready now. But they all alike began to make excuses The first one said to him, I bought a piece of land and I need to go out and look at it. Please consider being s Another one said, I have five yoke of oxen and I am going to try them out. Please consider me excused. Another one said, I married a wife, and for that reason I cannot come And the slave came back and reported this to his master. Then the head of the household became angry and said to the slave, Go out at once into the street and in the lanes of the city, and bring in here the poor and the crippled and the blind in the lanes. And the slave said, Master, what you have commanded has been done, and still there is room. And the master said to the slave, Go out to the highway and along the hedges and compel them to come in So that my house may be filled. For I tell you none of those men who were invited shall taste of my dinner. From this point on and into the next section, there are a lot of parables driving home these truths. And what kind of a theme that runs through is People are being pushed out of their comfort zone. And you're gonna have to make a choice. And secondly, you're gonna be pushed out of your comfort zone to see where you really stand. So we're gonna start seeing this. And one of the results is you're gonna see the true believers distinguish from the non believers. And the ones who really hate and are against the kingdom of God. One thing kind of a a a funny thing that I um always comes to mind, uh this uh section that talks about um Giving honor to others, taking the seat seat of Taking a seat and then finding out that you've been asked to move out of that seat. Has anyone ever seen the Rodney Dangerfield uh commercial where he like sits in like uh a seat he doesn't have to ticket to and The attendants come up and grab and pick them up and go, Oh, I must be in the r front row. Sitting in a seat it's always better to be in a see uh in in the background and be brought to the front. Um And that's what we're going to see in this uh the parables that we see. It's the ones who are humble, the ones who are who uh uh prefer to be last rather than first And we're gonna see that those are the ones that guy's gonna honor. And you're gonna see the opposite. Those who demand to be in the front are gonna be the ones Any questions on this section before we m rapidly move into the next? Now we get to go into the long section, which is our next lesson, 28. It's actually going to start on page. 172. Again, a lot of parables, mainly, mostly, mostly parables, and they are really start Christ is starting to separate out believers from unbelievers. And we're gonna see uh people's true colors of where they stand. It's very easy to believe in God, it's very easy to be your best friend Until difficult times come, or pressure comes, or you're gonna have to make a choice. Um and we'll see quickly who really is a true believer and who's not. And I think we see this in our own lives Uh those who you thought were your best friends were probably more your best friends when it was convenient to be honest. And so we're going to see a lot of these kind of examples as we go through. Um so page one hundred seventy two, again there are a lot of sections here. Um Uh but worth spending some time. Uh we'll try to go through it rapidly, but please feel free to ask questions. I know there's gonna be a lot of material but Um very rich and I sound like a broken record. Uh it's unfortunate that there's so much verses here we're just gonna not do the due diligence of really digging in. But we'll try. Um I can always give Dr. Pumley the last three sections of this. Would someone like to read on page 172? We'll start with that. Um Section 124 and again, uh the cost of following him. Someone likes to read that section. And I think most of these sessions are going to be loot from the I think they're all Luke. Except for uh the last two, which are John. So we're gonna be reading primary that's why you don't see the blended sections. This is primarily Luke. So would someone like to read? Huh? Now large crowds were going along with him, and he turned and said to them, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, Yes, he and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me, it cannot be my disciple For which of you, for which one of you, when he wants to build a tower, I'd first sit down and calculate the cost and see if he has enough to complete it Otherwise when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who observe it begin to ridicule him, saying, this man began to build and is not able to finish Well what king, when he sets out to meet another king in battle, will I first sit down and consider whether he is strong enough with 10,000 men to encounter the one coming against him with twenty Or else, while the other is still far away, he sends a delegation to ask for terms of peace. So now none of you can be my disciple who does not give up all his own possessions. Therefore, salt is good, but even salt has become but if even salt has become tasteless, with what will it be seasoned? It is useless either for the soil or for the manure pot. It is thrown out. Either is used here instead of here So do we have to give up all our possessions, hate our parents, um and uh hate even our own lives out of this terrible starting book? It's put in preference. This first this section always really bothered me when I became a first when I first became a believer. Um You want me to be you want me to give all my money away so become I become poor and dependent on the church. Hey my parents, well how could I ever share the gospel? Well hey then we'll yeah you're right. It's it's just it's that preference. It's yes. You can contrast that statement of leading uh your parents with the versus the commandment to honor your parents And the the idea is there's a contrast sort of a I'm not sure if it's hyperbolic. uh but it's but it's this uh contrast the the love you have for me has to look has to look in contrast to the to the affection you have for your parents your sister with your family Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The difference is so extreme, I love Christ so much that it appears as as if I hate my Christmas. That's yeah, that's we really have to be devoted uh and is that where our lovers and and that's that's what we're gonna see following. We're gonna see those who claim to really love him Uh I'll just read some of these quotes here. Jesus wasn't telling peop people what they wanted here, often a larger crowd, the higher the demands he would place on them. Hating close family and even one's own life is compared with the intensity of lo with the intensity of love and devotion for Christ. Um and the salt thing. The the verse with the salt always kinda threw me off also was like it doesn't seem like that's It almost seems like it's an afterthought, but it really isn't. Um the salt, and we had seen this previously about the salt. Um the salt they used typically wasn't pure. We talked a little bit about that also. So that the salt content became diluted or depleted, it would lose both its taste and preserving quality. Jesus uses this analogy the same way he referred to the rocky and thorny sour soils in another parable. Any questions on any of those before we go to the next section? So that's all for the highlight. How did they live? Probably had more than just iodine in there. That's why they were they did live so so well. Um let's let's look at the next section which is uh one twenty five. So we'd like to read that section? And all the tax collectors and the sinners were coming near him, clothing him. Both the Pharisees and the scribes began to grumble and say This man receives the sinners and eats remote. So he told them this parable, saying, What man among you, if he has a hundred sheep and has lost one of them? Do not leave the ninety-nine in the open pasture and go after the one which is lost to the fight. But he's got it and he lays it on his shoulder to rejoice. And when he comes home, he gets together his friend and his neighbor's sake and rejoice it, but I have found my sheep which was lost I tell you that in the same way there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who need no repentance. in their own eyes. Yeah, I think that's pretty critical. Yeah. Or a woman, if she has ten silver points and loses one point, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and search carefully until she When she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the point which I lost. In the same way I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents And he said, The man had two sons. The younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the share of this safe also. So he divided his wealth between them. And not many days later the younger son gathered everything together and went out on a journey into a distant country. And there he squandered to the state with a loose living. Now when he had spent everything, a severe famine occurred in the country. And he began to be impoverished. So he went and hired himself out for the citizens of that country and he sent him into his fields to be instructed. And he would have gladly filled his stomach with the thought that the swine we're eating, and Don was giving him anything to him. But when he came to his sister, she said, How many of my fat fathers hired me after have more than enough bread when I am dying with fear with hunger? I will get up and go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Think me as one of your hired men. So he got up and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion for him. And ran in a embraced it against him. And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his slaves, Quickly bring out the best robe and put it put it on And put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet, and bring the fatted calf, kill it, and let us eat and celebrate. For this son of mine was dead and has come to life He was lost and went back. And he began to celebrate. Now his older son was in the field. That means when he came in at first house, he heard music and dancing. And he summoned one of his servants and began inquiring what these things could be. And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has filled a fat account because he has received you that safe and sin. But he became angry and was not willing to go in. And his father came out and began pleading with them. But he answered and said to his father, Look, for so many years I have been serving you and I have never neglected the command of yours. And yet you have never given me a young goat so that I might be celebrated with my friends. But when this son of yours came, it was debarred your wealth, prostitute, you killed the fatted cat for him And he said to him, Son, you have always been with me. All that is mine is yours. But we had to celebrate and rejoice, for this brothers of yours, brothers of yours was dead, and has begun to live, and was lost, and then Yeah, one of the things that strikes me really strikes me is this idea of the father Well the son saying, Hey Dad, I want my part of the estate. Could you imagine it happening today and be like, well son, that means I'd have to like sell our house. Uh I would have to deplete my 401k and pay bazillions of taxes, but you're not going to do it anyways. And then hearing that your own son goes out, squanders it all and then comes back And you just run out to embrace him after all that he's done. to pain that other people have caused and then then when that person is reduced or if that person does find God there's still kind of like that bitterness that they go, Well, you know, they maybe they see that this person is doing really well and they're in their own circumstances or not. And their response to this person being reviewed is usually less than, you know, buttons. So with the picture of the of the brother kind of devoted that, like now The siblings were lost and now they're found. But there's kind of like this bitterness and separation of I'm not going to welcome this person back. They don't deserve my own. So uh in this picture, this is more uh sounds like the the s the good song. It seems more jealous than any than anything else. What you're describing is like if someone has offended me, that might be more of a um uh have they actually really repented? Have they um come to you and uh Reconcile. Is jealousy not another form of bitterness? Jealousy and bitterness. So jealousy would be you have something that I want. Bitterness might just be I guess maybe a broader term of just anger And probably a lot of it's for me can become can make you bitter. I've always seen jealousy as you have something that I want But usually it's a negative connotation because you can be like, oh you have that really nice green shirt. I want it first it was that green shirt and like blue on the shirt. If I had to differentiate, that's kind of how I would do it. But um I don't think uh so someone who has offended you and has sinned against you is different than this. The s the good son hasn't been actually sinned against. He's just jealous like he do what do you do at your You're you're giving everything to this son who is negligent, careless, reckless, and yet you still embrace it. Why are you doing that? It's more of a uh It's definitely not the younger from here at least, I can't it doesn't show that the younger brother sinned against the sins sins against the other brother. It's more of a um against the father. But um yeah, your point would be maybe the reconciliation depends. Um maybe even you know Um uh and if someone does that, um we We desire forgiveness or we do forgive, but we also doesn't mean, oh okay, come back inside my house and take advantage of me much more. So we look to free Um it it seems to me that uh the good son, so to speak, the older brother I called that. Um His forgetting that that the um he didn't go any day without food, he didn't suffer the consequences of his bad choices. And and he uh always, so to speak, every day kinda got the bad attack. You know, he he was you know, it was normal. And so you know, it seems to me that sometimes we've we may put ourselves in a situation like that where you know we're we're we're trying to be obedient so far and then we see maybe someone um who goes off the rails for a while and comes back and might be sort of jealous of sort of the response that you might have or other people might have. Um for the older brother he actually almost accuses, well not almost, but he actually accuses his father He says, Well, I've been here, I've kept the rules, I've been to this other, but you haven't given me a calf to celebrate. So it's all those of this I I see him as very angry Not only is he angry at his brother, but I also see him very angry at his father as well. Yep. Yes. And kind of I'll even go one step further. There are some who would think that this is a picture of the Pharisees. But the problem with that is that at the end of that section, verse thirty-one, he says, Son, you have always been with me and all that is mine is yours. So I I can't go that far Uh but you're right, we still see um you're absolutely right in your observation. Um there's kind of pff yeah, uh he's he's angry with his own father. It it reminds me of the workers and the ones that started at at the start of the ship. And then he hired a couple more of the boss guns at the sport. I mean right before they leave and yet they give them the same pay. Sort of like, Well I've been here all morning, all afternoon, and this guy's been here an hour. I mean it's not quite this this same feeling of unjustice or unfair. Um yeah Isn't God uh good to us? Thankfully he's not fair in the in our sense. Exactly. Exactly. I think that's just probably a a time of Immaturity versus maturity, the idea of sanctification versus unsanctified, yes, we're still early in our sanctified walk. Um It's i i it it's tragic that that's the response. Um but it's also um if I had to apply it to myself, but I I I act like that sons. sometimes. Um but I'm grateful um for the for just being identified as a child of God. I mean that should be sufficient enough, right? Um yeah, very easy, you know. My own brother lives a very, very luxurious lifestyle. And here I struggle. And it's it's it's difficult. Um but he's got to say. So I just I need to you know. Yeah. Be humble and knowing that even the little that I have on earth is for a very short time Um really I need to be looking further down the road, everlasting life in the presence of God, without sin. I wish I had a greater picture of that in my mind because that would just make all other things pale. But even if he was saved, we still would need to be content that he's with me saved. Absolutely. Absolutely. You know what I mean? The uh this thing with parables they a lot of times people like to read lots of meaning and Yep, we'd be careful not to go too. A couple points across. Yep. And one of the big things we haven't done what we've talked about yet is the father in this story obviously represents God And I I like John Carter has his uh Tale of Two Sons where he's talking about this and and he's saying, just imagine the Pharisees' reaction when this father is running toward this son who disgraced the family, you know, they probably would have been you know, like, I can't believe that would happen. And yet it pictures God's love toward us you know that we're so undeserving, clue undeserving, and he just has this desire to be reconciled to us and and just to humiliate himself by running after something that he's Yeah, the desire you see it again also earlier. Um uh Yes, we yeah, we can't leave this section without looking at let's focus on the desire of the father. running to this ungrateful son. And even a little bit earlier, uh Does he not leave the ninety-nine in the open pasture to go after the one who was lost? And he does it until he finds it. Um so this is a God who is intimately aware of who we are and that we're lost. And he's running at he's looking for us. He says, Okay, you ninety nine are safe. I'm going out after the one Um so yeah, we need to also bring up the point of hootling the desire of the father who's coming out after us. Good point. Section uh 126. Luke 16, 1 to 13. Would someone like to read that section? I think we are good on time, so I can read that Now he was also saying to the disciples, there was a rich man who had a manager, and this manager was reported to him as wandering his possession. And he calls to him and said to him, What is this I hear about that you giving an accounting for your man use an accounting for your management so you can no longer be managed The manager said to himself, What shall I do? If my master is taking management away from me, I am not strong enough to be, and I am shame okay. I know what I shall do. So then so that when I am removed from the management from the management of the management community will come will welcome me into their home. And he summoned each of his master's letters and began to say to the first, How much do you owe my master? And he said, a hundred letters of wood And he said they had him put your bill, sit down quickly, and write fifty. Then he said to another, How much do you owe? And he said, A hundred measures of ease And he said to him, Take your bill to write each. And his master praised the unrighteous manager because he acted truly, for the sons of this age are more true in relation to their own time than the sons of others. And I say you make friends for yourselves by means uh I say you, make friends for yourselves by means of wealth of unrighteousness, so that when it fails, they will receive you into the eternal blood. He who is faithful in very little is faithful also of mine. And he who is unrighteous in very little, in a very little thing, is unrighteous also in much. Therefore, if you have not the faithful piece of unrighteous thoughts, we will entrust you with true righteousness And if you have not been faithful in the use of what of that which is others, who will give to you that which is your own? No servant can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and above the other, or if you will be devoted to one and defy the other. Cannot serve God and wealth. Wow, there's a lot going on in that one. Any thoughts on this section? And this is not the one Dr. Fleming warned me about. So there's still time. I thought it was. Well I I'm struck by this by verse eight and his master phrase the unrighteous man. Because the exact truth he sounds like I'm not quite sure how to deal with that. Right. I kinda feel like I understand what is being said, but I I'm not sure. if I can split it into how how would one phrase the unrighteous so to speak. Now again this is a parable and it's actually a rich man So it may not necessarily be a um may not necessarily mean this is God, just a rich man. That was such a terrible receipt. Don't carry her having notes in about how that the master who has outwitted a plot of the man's His admiration for the evil sewer's criminal genius shows that he too was a wicked man. It is the natural tendency of Owen Hearts to admire his own craftiness. Note that all characters in the parable are unjust, unsuitability, or corrupt And most believers are wa are wiser in the ways of the world than some believers. Yep, yeah. So this parable in a sense has no right to sense whatsoever. It is just corruption from the top down. So we're just we're just watching what what what do what what how how do How are people using or being good stewards or bad stewards for their money in a corrupt environment? Even though even the bad managers manage their wealth, manage their money well, right? So us as godly people, how do we manage our money Hopefully we're better than this. I think in verse nine it kind of gives that that answer, you know, it's like we use common things, we use things, you know, in in our Since I I talked about this a couple weeks ago, we use money in a way that glorifies God. We you know invest in things like incending missionaries or um in you know, giving it to churches that help, you know, people, you know, with their financial needs and things of that nature. Um we use it in a way that glorifies God ultimately. And uh I think the the point of the first part is You know, even un unrighteous people are smart with their money and you can use your money toward things of of eternal value. Oh no, I wasn't pretty sure. It says um acquires yourself by means of the wealth of unrighteousness so that when it fails, what is failing? What is health? What is the spell receiver if they come to uh nine miles. Explain for yourself by means of the wealth of the righteous. Oh, please. Um Johnson's The Wealth of Unrighteousness. The unrighteous manager used his master's money to buy earthly We rarely retrieve their master's money in a way that will include friends to eternity by investing in the kingdom and gospel that brings sinners to salvation, so that when they arrive in heaven, eternal life, those sinners will be there to welcome them Christ did not commend the man's dishonesty. He poignantly called him unrighteous. He only used him as an illustration to show that even the most wicked sons of this world are shrewd enough to provide for themselves against the coming evil Believers ought to be more true because they are concerned with eternal matters, not just earth. We need to use our money in a way not for our own perimeters as we benefit later. But But put our retirement in patronally. So that we should invest in people and in things that are How yeah, how so how could we use our money in regards to the unrighteous? You know, hate and love. So it's like the contrast, like money cannot rule you So that if someone helps like if you know that you could help an unbeliever and then that would be them or even your fellow brother or sister, would that not help bring them to that light shine easier in that darkness versus if you become so consumed with financial you know stability or and it becomes a god that you miss out on an opportunity too You know, we don't have to always bless believers with our wealth, we can also bless unbelievers with our wealth. And really show the contrast, right? Kind of like the the salt, you know, the you know be be uh be a light in in in a Wicked world, be solved, um, give preservation, be different than than uh the world. Um someone's having difficulty paying rent Here's here's a thousand dollars. Just keep it. Don't give it back to me. That's a big difference from how The unrighteous would would be, right? The unrighteous would be like, I'll give you a thousand and you can pay me twenty percent interest and pay it back. Yeah. If I had the money to give, why not? Because wow it really impacts the way that an unrighteous person would think. So how do you use your money um not just within the church but also outside the church 13 says no servant can serve two masters. Right? You cannot serve God and wealth So how do we not serve wealth? We'll use it to uh to to shine the light of the kingdom, right? To m uh Share the gospel to impact unbelievers in addition to what goes on within the church. Any other thoughts, questions? Yes. So um a couple of things. First, I mean I think we kind of go back to when it comes to money. You should um I mean especially being having two young kids You need to spend for somebody other than yourself. And you gotta you can't just you know keep indulging in in pleasures or it's not to spend so much of yourself too And then also I think it's well Proverbs where it says but many is materials for his children' children. So in a sense like you're taking God's money and giving it to somebody else as a way to say I will put the money for you Will you provide a door one? You'll be you'll be taken care of for that's way Mm-hmm. Yeah. And it's interesting 'cause um my kids did not have to pay for college and it hurt us financially. But the great thing is when my kids go out and talk to other parents or other friends, they're like, wow, your parents like especially the unb unbelieving world, they're amazed Yeah. My parents when I became seventeen they said, Okay, good luck and threw me out of the house. Um that's a great message is to to say, you know I don't want to be that guy in the cemetery, you know, with you know, richest man in the cemetery on my tombstone. That doesn't help anyone. So um Um with the great impact for my kids to the their unbelieving friends that your parents would be willing to sacrifice. For you. That's a great message. Okay. Coming up. Not a lot of verses left. It's in there. Um should we go on or any other questions? You are on section one twenty seven. Would someone like to read that one? There's a lot of lot of things to dive into. Would you like to read? Okay. You know this in this section. You know Now the Pharisees who were lovers of money were listening to all these things who were scoffing at him. And he said to them You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is detestable in the sight of men Law and the prophets were proclaimed until John. Since that time the gospel of the kingdom of God has been preached, and everyone is forcing his way into it But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one stroke of the letter of the law to pass. Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another and gets it all And he who marries one who is divorced from a husband who is divorced. Now there was a rich man, and he habitually dressed in purple and violent, joyously living in splendor every day. And a poor man named Lazarus was laid at his gate, covering with sores, and longing to be fed with the crumbs which were falling from the rich man's face. Besides, even the dogs were coming and licking his swords. Now the poor man died and was carried away by the angels to Abraham's bosom. And the rich man also died and was buried. In Hades he lifted his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham far away, and Lazarus in the foot And he cried out and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and then Lazarus without me dip the tip of his finger in the water and pulled up myself. For I am in agony in this land. Abraham said, Child, remember that during your life you received your good things. And likewise Lazarus banned But now he is being comforted here, and you are in agony. Besides all this, between us and you there is this great challenge So that those who wish to come over here come over from here to here are and that none may cross over from there to us And he said, I beg you, Father, that you send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers, in order that he may warn them that they will not also come to this place of torment. Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. But he said, No from Abraham. But if someone goes from goes to them from the dead, they will repent. He said to them, They do not listen to Moses and the prophets. They will not be persuaded, even if someone rises from them. Alright, excellent. So section one twenty-eight. There's a whole ton in here. And I'll even give you the clue. It is in this section. Right. You could get is it the marriage thing? No, no. It's not. Okay, that's the obvious. Okay. That's a good question. Would you like you You have a a thought on that one? No, it it having been divorced, that goes at an end too though. Yeah, it's it's an interesting um that's an interesting there's a lot the really uh we could spend weeks on this Section alone. There's a lot in here. Um you want to comment on that one? Anybody want to comment on that one? Uh-huh. Well then in FB can cut all the things like things in the Bible doing this course. Yep, right. Right. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah, it's always good to go to the context of the passage. Um and yes, it was very easy to divorce. Um But God has given very strict requirements as to what entails uh you know a divorce or not a divorce. So it's not just like I wake up one day and just, ah, I'm gonna go marry someone else. Um you know, that one flesh uh is very sacred. Um Oh and we should not take that lightly. Nobody else has any questions on this whole section? This aspect of you have uh this rich man living in luxury and then uh and then you have Lazarus which this is I mean he was sort of uh afflicted in in this life. And and it I I'm I'm presuming that through other scripture that uh um one man rich man is is not elect, he's obviously sent to hell. And then uh the the other the man who was afflicted was elected and But um But it it seems to be this interplay between sort of things the rich men go to hell hell and the poor men go to heaven. And you know, it it's that's not supported in other scriptures. Yeah, so so if you're poor, is that like a one-way instead of first class kick to happen? Right, right, exactly. But I I think it plays into what the culture would say. wealthy and doing well and so forth. Right. You're you're chosen, you're you're somehow either before well you kind of like you. Yep. Right. I think he's making that contrast right away that's not how it is. Yep. But but but the other part of it is it's that wait a minute, you're telling me that if when I'm in if I was sent to hell I could talk to people in heaven That's another an again, this is a parable, right? So yes. So we have to be a little bit careful, right? Yes, yes. So there is no interplay. But you're seeing you should say this is a parable. There are those that believe this is not a parable because we have someone who's actually named, which is Lazarus. And um the Jews believed in a place called Sheol, which is the place of the dead. And Lazarus wasn't in heaven, he was in it says Abraham's bosom, which some people believe is a place, but I think it's just He was there with Abraham and he could actually look over into Hayden or you know which was you know kind of across the way and see what was going on there And um so there's all kinds of things after the resurrection it talks about how Jesus took captivity captive and And those souls that were, as you say, elect were led to heaven. So there's uh I I always find that interesting, you know, that that this person's actually named that perhaps someone in the Pharisees who were hearing this story knew. Oh, I remember that guy. So Yeah. Yeah, yeah. No, it's it's it's good food for thought. Uh because yes, it is a actual uh that is an actual person. Um now whether there's some kind of discussion going back and forth. I don't have anything to say, yes, that is exactly what happens if there's this interplay between two d you know, between you know unbelievers and believers who have died. Um I I just could not find any other scripture. Yes. Of course the part where it talks about this has always been point for me to like I I think I functionally understand but I don't think I I genuinely get it. Where you talked about of the least of the letter of the least from the pen to the wall of the Mount Houseway. early the um three three yeah yeah and and like I know that that that's also an interplay between Matthew five eighteen but when you talk about the law is you talking about the pencil Well it would be everything. Okay. So the entire Old Testament. Yeah, so so the law I mean before the law fails It's he's comparing in in that in that in that verse it uh he says, it's easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for anything of the law. So the law is um Forever. Earth and heaven. It's gonna be the before we just take our Bibles and just get rid of it before the Bible, before the scripture ever changes or fails, which it won't ever, you would see again it's it's a comparison If anything's gonna fail, if anything is going to um pass away, if anything is just is gonna be um irrelevant Scripture will never heaven in heaven is gonna be will will pass away before anything ever happens to the law. The law is forever. Um the law is righteous. Um That surpasses everything. We say the law is what is that? Like like Psalm Psalm 19 So this happens is basically just speaking about merit Like this. Because like when I think of the law I think of like okay here's rules, you know, we'll definition of the law. Um so like whenever I think about obviously you get into like Deuteronomy and you know, Joshua and most of the now that we can talk about that because it's enjoyable things. But it's expensive in the city But it's like whenever I thought of laws, I thought of like those rules and like how some of those rules, especially in today, seem kind of obviously anti antiquated But that's not kind of what it's talking about. It's talking about it's for the more general up to the word of God. I think so. Yeah. More of the world of the word of God Um and the only way I could kind of think of like uh I could bring bring it bring it home for an example would be you notice how um In science, when you're dating things, like, oh, this is the oldest fossil on record. And then like five years later, like, oh no, that's not Forget all that. This is now the new standard. Like and then something else is discovered. Like, oh no, forget all that. And then there's another, and then there's something new. This is showing that the word of God is is what lasts forever, has eternity eternality. Um and in comparison he says, before this ever goes away, the earth will go away. Just again another one of these contrasting comparisons. Um and yeah, like it's Steve that said we don't want to go beyond what it says. Um so yes, there are some Old Testament laws rules um that we don't necessarily follow today. But the whole of the standard of God will never go away. I always say that this may have to deal with like how the temple is not Probably by we're supposed to be running simple account of sacrifices. We're supposed to be working in all the same law says to do these things in order to fund yourself, but obviously that's I'm sorry. Wouldn't that technically ch that would change it, right? Because Christ is the total sacrifice for no other reasons offering the Yep, and but the Old Testament does prophesy about like there will be a day when when those no longer have to be done. But in the meantime, this does have to be done Because Christ has not yet fulfilled going to the cross and be resurrected. Jesus didn't come to abolish the law but rather fulfill it. That's good. That's the other side of that. I think the thing that just amazes me for this passage, you know, we just think This rich man is in torment and hates and he's asking you know, something obvious he would like relief, you know, send last we're sober, just give me some relief He has to put the finger in water and and it's just incredible. You know, in his mind it's like, okay, well, I'm suffering here, but I don't want my brothers to come here. Please send Lazarus. You know, thinking, you know, his brothers knew that Lazarus died, and now he's appearing at the door saying, Revent, you know. And and obviously we would all think, well that would have a compelling message, and yet he's saying Moses and the prophets, they have those things. That's the word of God And if they don't respond to the Word of God, they wouldn't even even if this guy raised from the dead came to their house, it would have less effect or no effect as compared to the to the word of God he's given. That's just amazing, you know, just to think the where God is supreme over any sign that might happen. And they did have plenty of signs. I mean we've been reading about all these signs. And then the the greatest one of all is Christ be resurrecting themselves. So why would you think Lazarus coming back would be any different? Well kind of like doesn't it demonstrate a like a sense of superiority from Richmond how he still kind of views Lazarus as like a servant as 'cause he asks him to like oh have him reach down and do this for me send him to go do this. You know, like kinda like there's still kinda like that same mindset that he had on Earth is still an easy. Either that or he's real recognizing, you know, oh my oh I I made a horrific mistake Um yeah, i i or maybe it's a plea to war else. I would think it would be more of a plea. Um Yeah well that's how this directly contradicts the Christmas journal. The Christmas journal. It just it directly contradicts him because the entire Christmas journal was about like oh these dead guy became like his partner came back from the bed and warned him that hey you're about to suffer horrible like an eternity so like we need to change and then he does I never thought of that picture. No, it was good. It's always good to bring, you know. Don't feel bad, I go to crazy examples and it's so much. Well it show they show it every year, you know. Yeah. I still like to watch it. I I like the s I like the story. I just I like how this first directly says yeah, that wouldn't work. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Sorry to do that question to ask Uh I think it's all to do is not have to do a site. Is it like a holding place? Well, yeah. Yeah. It's it's a it's a fantastic question. And from my understanding, Steve will correct me if I'm wrong, um, it's more of a a purgatory is a is a is a Catholic thing that we would not go to. Uh there is no evidence for that. Young the breath there draws the the the line that this is actually has in that bathroom in a space of respect and honor alongside Abraham. So is that kind of like approach not 'Cause the a we are in the presence of the Lord. Right. So where would Lord be? Yeah. So where would unbelievers be? It seems to be a Uh not a location, but uh uh things. Uh um I haven't got a good do you have a good sense of what what were that Abraham's bosom is? Well what it is. It's a state of being, a consciousness. Ooh, let's look at that. Oh Hades. Ah. Good catch. The last bullet point on that page. Hades, where the souls of the wicked go prior to final resurrection of their body and their judgment at the great white throne. before being cast in the lake of fire is characterized by conscious continual agony and torment. The place where Abraham and this Lazarus uh were is not named, but is characterized by conscious, continual comfort. I know I hate to use the word intermediate state. I try to really avoid that because it it it moves into that Catholic idea of purgatory which is hopefully kind of having a held before as concepts, like where God is in heaven and where God is not in hell. I guess yeah, yeah, away from heaven or with or with you know the void of God. The void of God. somehow in the presence of God. Um it is a resting place. Um it's comfort, it's in the presence of the Lord. And yet we don't have glorified bodies yet. Um Maybe the location doesn't work. Where is it exactly? It's not really like it's not really a yeah. Oh it's it's it's beyond you know, to the next gala galaxy over That's what we're that's what we're trying to we're we're trying to put a location at it. But I I try to think of it as like paradise for me would be like sitting on a beach in the Caribbean, but It's way better than that. It's way better than that. But if I'm like have the stomach flu, it really isn't all that great So it's it's I know. See I go to crazy things too. So it's not really a so it's not really really a loc my idea my thoughts are it's really not like a location per se. It's more of a a state of being. I know it's not it's not an easy concept to um to to grasp. Any thoughts on that, Kevin? It is like like heaven and hell are more than just like a sea 'Cause I feel like other religions or like new agey stuff would say like you just wanna attain a higher level level of consciousness or enlightenment and that is like that's your that's habit or whatever Um so like they they are like things that's great. Well there is a new heaven and a new earth. Yeah. So there there will be a defined location. But that has not yet come yet. Okay. Which verse is it? You have a new error first? No, no, we put uh the first in this passage was uh one that I could pump like. So I'm gonna let you get to it. My my question is verse sixteen as well. Uh the law and the prophets were proclaimed until John since that time the gospel of the kingdom of God not preached. Everyone is forcing their way into it. You get it. Yes, that is the one. What is that forcing his way into it? Is that what you're referring to? What does that mean exactly? Under the next section Um so yeah, this is what Dr. Plum wanted wanted we we'll definitely come back to and maybe even also uh to clarify a little bit more about um Where exactly where is Abraham's bosom and what exactly happens to um you know this whole idea of eschatology? What happens to us when we die Where does an unbeliever go? Where does a believer go? As a lo actual location or is it more of a I do want to hit that a little bit harder. Because I think that's it's it's it's worthy of going. There's a lot of there's a lot of There's a lot of really good, solid biblical teachers who maybe have different um perspectives. Um And they're worth uh bringing and highlighting. And so I would probably like to do that next time because it is worthy of of of going a little deeper Um I we actually have time. Oh I can I can I can drop that on back to the meeting next week. Um uh Uh so I do I do want to touch on that a little bit deeper next time. Um but this forcing his way into it, um one commentary talked about um Let's get this correctly. So uh it's talking about the Pharisees, the fourteenth. A Pharisee who loved money, who listened to all things, were scoffing at him. She said Uh you and and then Christ says, you are those who justify yourself in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is detestable in the sight of God. The law of prophets were claim were so he's talking to the Pharisees who think, I'm in. I'm I'm I'm already in. And we'll see what Dr. Plummy says next week. Um But um since Okay, so he talks about uh the law and the prophets were proclaimed until John. So now from John on, since that time, the gospel of the kingdom of God has been preached. So now we have an entire new page being ripped open. And you see people driving towards this Man, God man, who offers uh salvation, redemption, not because of who you know, their family, how they were born, uh um the any kind of outside righteousness or wealth But on depravity, recognizing one's own depravity and just racing to God. Just just like the way we come to God. Um before We were pretty good people. When you re when you recognize your depravity and how you cannot save yourself, no matter what you do. You race to the only ones who can provide selfish. So you this isn't talking about John writing Revelation. No. Okay, good. Because it doesn't fit the 'cause because people are forced to bow their name more often than they come across. I think this forcing is just You see the Pharisees just kind of like they're tend to just sitting back and they're resting on their own righteousness. Whereas In our case, when we first learned of our depravity, we ran. We ran. We w I'm and again, that word forcing Not like it's not like, hey, I'm getting into this into heaven on my own strength, my own ability, um but it's the e that that idea of eagerness and just Going with all I have to the only one who can save me. That would be my perspective. And we'll see what Dr. Flumy says next week. for lack of a better term, age thing like righteousness because from from reading scripture, especially in the New Testament, obviously well a huge focus and like the honor and prestige of being a fry a a scribe and a fairy key. Like is this kind of kind of like how how Jesus is like, you know, this is for everybody, huh? Not just who you decide. Well he's saying that is not the way to get better. Well it is. If you can be perfect and righteous, absolutely But of course that's an impossibility without that. And those who recognize that race to Christ. So I think that's really the idea of forcing Not necessarily like I'm trying to get in on my own strength, but just I'm pressing up against the only way to salvation. Zeal is a good term? Yes. Pressing. Pressing. Okay, good, good. Yeah. Yeah, and when when you get to like verses like that, um one of the pr an easy way to you know when you see a word like you know what this is forcing sometimes it's a good way to reveal additional um A dish yeah. Going to other versions will sometimes you'll see different words being used for that. Um And so that's kind of an easy, quick way to like uh you know I'm thinking forcing like going on my own strength, but or or attacking or more like eagerly or uh Well I like the I like the word pressing. Yeah. So that kind of like, oh, it gives you a different perspective on what that term is. It's an ur or an urgency or maybe even a f uh a a focus. I I thought we had talked about this before and so I looked in in Matthew eleven twelve from the days of John and the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence and the violence take it by force. And uh so that that's what uh Where was that again? Eleven twelve. Don't ask me what we decided it meant. Well I th I think for this I think and again Dr. Planner will will definitely elaborate on that. And I'd also like us to maybe go a little bit more on the idea of the Hades, Abraham's bosom, and uh the suction. Um of where Lazarus and the rich man are and how that whole conversation works out. been imprisoned and beheaded. But like even though the fairy came up against and killed many of the the followers of Christ like Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yep, mm-hmm, yeah, mm-hmm. We have Oh we're almost close. No we're not we're not. Dr. Palmer gave me one section, I'm about to give one, two, three sections. Four sections. And the other's a big one too. And we are time up for time. Uh could we do at least section 128? And again, we'll revisit this section 127 again And no way can we do one twenty-nine. So um or one thirty, one thirty-five. What we can do why don't we read one twenty-eight and then we'll Can we do 128? Is everyone okay with that? Let's do section 128. I think we can go through this, but if if somebody has questions, please um feel free to bring them up Well, no, I'll go ahead and read it. This is on page 175, section 128. Jesus teaches his disciples about forgiveness, faith, and servanthood. Luke seventeen, one to ten. He said to his disciples, It is inevitable that stumbling blocks come, but woe to him through whom they come. It would be better for him if a mill so were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, than that he would cause one of these little ones to stumble. Be on your guard. If your brother sins, rebuke him And if he repents, forgive him. Look at all the ifs, hands, if, hands. And if he sins against you seven times a day and returns to you seven seven times, say, I repent, forgive him. The apostle said to the Lord, Increase our faith. And the Lord said, If you had the faith like a mustler seed, you would say to this mulberry tree, Be uprooted and be planted in the sea, and it would obey you. Which of you, having a slave, I'm just wondering envisioning people going out to the backyards because I've got lots of mulberry trees? Uproot yourself. Which of you having a slave ploughing or tending sheep will say to him, when he has come in from the field, come immediately and sit down to eat? But he will not say to him, Prepare something for me to eat and properly clothe yourself and serve me while I eat and drink. And afterwards you may eat and drink. He does not thank the slave because he did the things which were commanded, does he? So you too, when you do all the things which are commanded, you say we are unworthy slaves. We have done only that which we have that we ought to have done. Also a lot in this section. I'm going to suggest, we'll see what Dr. Fromey says, maybe 127, 128, 129, 130 can be a little section on its own. Because there's a lot in here. I'm gonna close this in prayer, but um I think we'll probably come back to this whole section here, because there's a lot here Dear Heavenly Father, thank you uh how rich your word is. Uh forgive us for just um If we ever just skim over it, may we take your word uh to heart um to dig into its riches. Um May we honor your word to really know, to really understand, and then to apply what we learn. Lord, your your word is rich. We can just Dwell on these sections alone. Um May our takeaway be that there is so much in Scripture, Lord. The wealth and uh that is in here, uh may we never take it for granted. Um help our Help our understanding, Lord. Um may we be challenged with questions and may they um Invigorate us to dive deeper. Lord, give us the resources of those who are gone before us with greater understanding than we continue to learn more and more about you. May we not be um uh maybe if we come away from these sections with more questions, Lord Thank you so that the hope is that that would push us to di dig in deeper. Uh we know that your word is true. May we never uh shrink back from that Um Lord, it is a blessing um to be able to see And and so Lord, it is our hope and desire that you will continue to enlighten our minds, continue to sanctify us, that we may better uh worship you. We look forward to today. As we sit with the church to raise up praise, sing hymns, and to uh continue to uh be sanctified in your greatness and your goodness. And it's in your name we give thanks. Amen.