And also I wanted to mention here, since this one has the two gospel accounts, in this case Matthew and Mark, that Uh when I blend those together in that blended account, the the conviction behind all that is that God has in uh inspired each of the four gospel accounts. for its own unique uh role in communicating the the life of Christ. And like with all of Scripture, it's the words themselves that are inspired. And so um each has value and Uh what I've got set up here is the words, the phrases that are unique are highlighted uh in each of the original tests and then I try to include those things as well as the common information in the blended account. The blended account, even though it's scripture, the way it's blended is not inspired, but the words themselves are. So That's the attempt. Okay. So I'm going to go ahead and read the blended account there in section 63 That day Jesus went out of the house and was sitting by the sea. And he began to teach again by the sea, and such a very large crowd gathered to him Now why would a very large crowd gather together? He was healing. He was healing. He was preaching with authority. Preaching with authority. All those things that I mean he's raising the dead. Um even if you weren't all that interested in what he said, there were probably a lot of people who were uh drawn to just the spectacle of it all. And you know when crowds gather, more people come. And so it was hard for Christ to not have a crowd around him. At least when the crowd And so here again, and we we've already seen this, right? In multiple times beforehand But such a very large crowd gathered to him that he got into a boat in the sea and sat down. And the whole crowd was glad to see On the land. And he was teaching them many things in parables, and was saying to them in his teaching, and we're interrupting here mid-sentence, because this is sort of introductory to the parables to follow. And uh I inserted a photo here of what some people have dubbed the uh cove code of the sewer See a little cove there on the western edge of the Sea of Galilee, not too far from Capernaum, where uh As you go inward on the land a little bit, you've got this rise and sort of like an amphitheater And you know how someone's voice or sounds generally carry over the water, uh it wouldn't have to be too far out in the water and it would it would actually carry very well. And uh People have tested this at this location and found it remarkable that you could be heard uh pretty high up on the land there. And you can imagine thousands of people could actually be there and hear him. quite well. Whether that's the actual location where he was is not certain, but that seems to be the best location to fit the circumstances. Okay. So let's go then to the the series of parables here Beginning in uh section sixty-four, the parable of the seed. Now, I don't know if you've noticed, but Um not all of his parables, but it seems like most of them this day uh have to do with some sort of agricultural must have sample illustration. And so uh do you think that would have been um do you think his audience would have connected with that? Up yeah it would have been a ready context for them to understand the the point he was trying to make. So uh this first one's taken only from Mark. And he was saying, the kingdom of God is like a man who casts seed upon the soil. And he goes to bed at night and gets up by day, and the seed sprouts up and grows. How he himself does not know But he knows that it will. The soil produces crops by itself, so it appears. First the blade, then the head, the mature grain in the head But when the prompt permits, he immediately puts in the signal because the harvest has come. So um people readily understood that concept from agriculture and um the fact that the people themselves don't actually cause that little seed to sprout up and whatever. But man is involved in the planting the cell Perhaps some watering and cultivation, but it's God who produces the fruit. And Jesus is saying the kingdom of God is like that Where God is doing the work, even though He calls us to be involved. Any thoughts there? Any other questions? Salvation is 100% God, but as part of his plan, he calls each one of his followers. simply present the gospel. Not that we're coercing anyone to accept a free gift of salvation, but God is sovereignty, he's working through each Yes. And uh uh just testing here. Can everybody hear Brian? You can? Good. Okay So the flip side of that is yes, God is the one at work, but he's called us to participate in sowing the seed, if you will, in the gospel. But even the person who responds, God is is sovereignly softening the heart, opening the eyes uh drawing him to himself and yet that person needs to respond to repent right where does the repentance come from from God but he's he's um He needs to exercise the faith and the repentance. So it's all of God, and yet God sovereignly includes us. in that process. Yep, Brian. Alright, so not you don't have to get too much into Calvinism later, but the irresistible grace part, where God is preparing the heart of that person So you're going to receive if God is calling you to Himself, you're going to accept that free gift of salvation when you're called. Right. Right. Right. And so here in the parable, God is the one who causes that seed to produce the crop. Right? And uh and even as it says here, um it sprouts and grows. How he himself does not know. He's just participating as the sower, the cultivator, and so on. But yeah, and in a similar way, God uses our prayers He's the one who answers them, he's the one who has his sovereign will and yet he works it doesn't absolve us from praying for things for people's force you know, interceding for people uh supplications and thanksgivings and such but yeah really every aspect of the Christian life uh is this combination of God's sovereignty and our participation, cooperation. I just want to let me ask you this real quick. How do we know if we are active participants? How do we know that we are actively, right, actively in this work of building the kingdom? So I can come to church and that's all I do. I see. So checking in. Okay, go ahead. You're you're asking how do you know or how could we know if our participation is genuine or just superficial? are genuine, superficial, and right and active. So I wouldn't personally, if I look at this parable, uh I'm looking at a man who's engaged in the work. Right. And God is uh the one who's uh causing all things to grow and produce and uh and uh the guy um But if uh um he doesn't put in the work, what type of fruit or produce product is he going to yield? This man is being used to build God's kingdom. Yeah, so you know you can sort of hypothesize um That if this farmer were negligent and didn't do his job Well, first of all, there wouldn't be any seed that were sown. But even if he sowed the seed and then rested until what he hoped would be a harvest, uh presumably the harvest would not be as but uh bounteous as it would be with his involvement. But God's sovereign over that he God could have made the crop. to go even without the person's participation, but God's designed it so that we would participate, right? Not just for the producing of the crop, but for our own benefit And it's similar with our ministries, that God's designed it so that the work of the church, the the uh ministry of of uh evangelism and edifying uh believers would all be done with our involvement and cooperation both To make that more effective, but also because of the benefit to us, God works in our hearts as we're obedient to him in those areas. Um and if we're not participating or if we're doing it not with a good heart and just doing it for show to be man pleasers. Um that's not gonna surprise God and it's not gonna prevent him from raising up somebody else. But uh we lose out if we're not faithful, for sure. Or if we do it with wrong motives. Pastor Plumley, I happen to see someone has their hand raised. It looks like Chris L. She has her hand raised. Chris Leonards, how are you? I see that hand. You're on mute. Did you have a question, Chris? Okay, maybe not. I have a comment, Pastor Plum Lee. Yes, Victoria. I think our job is to obey You know, we can do a whole lot of things that we were never called to do that don't count. We'll never count for anything, even if we want to do But when when there is no obedience, you're not building the kingdom at all. I think. I think obedience is tied with because um um Thomas is I think your question is about like what's the measure, what's the barometer? And uh to know that we are obeying them in humility is is our job Indeed. Yeah, Brad. You know, because we want to be used by God to present the gospel. And we're presenting the gospel to everyone. We're hoping that God will use us. Each one of their lives. But that doesn't always happen. And but all of a sudden, God blesses us with the joy of hearing someone confess with their mouth That Jesus is Lord. And out of all the people that I've spoken to over the years, I've only had two people. Oh, you lost your signal. Somebody just shared their screen. I've had two people confessed from that, so I got the dueling, and that was confirmation to me that God was actually using me in his work. Is that you, Pasaponly? No. It looks like Lauren Waller's screen. Lauren, you shared your screen with everybody. Go Gwen. All right, we may have to drop her. Oh sh I uh you know she can come back in but we may have to drop her right now. Yeah, let's give me the option, but I didn't Yeah, how's that even possible? I don't know she's not even hosting. Oh, right, go ahead and drop her out and she'll come back in. She'll she'll come back in. She'll come back in I'll let I'll let Gwen know. I'll let her know. This is the kind of first Corinthians thirteen. Lauren is in the building. In this book. There you go. Well, you know, this causes me to um Remember if there's a solution for this. Everyone be here. Everyone be here. Okay. We're moving to section 65. That was a lot of discussion about three seconds. Did he delete did he have to delete um the parable of the tears comes now from Matthew Jesus presented another parable to them, saying, The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field. But while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat. Tares being uh weeds, essentially, I guess and then went away. But when the wheat sprouted and bore green, then the tares became evident also The slaves of the landowner came and said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have tares? And he said to them, An enemy has done this. The slaves said to him Do you want us then to go and gather them up? But he said, no, for while you were gathering up the tares, you may uproot the weeds with them. Allow both to grow together until the harvest And in the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, First, gather up the tares and bind them in bundles, to burn them up, but gather the wheat into my barn So um another he's making this analogy very explicitly to but actually Mark says he referred to it as the kingdom of God. And in the second parable, Matthew says he referred to it as the kingdom of heaven. Those terms are just used interchangeably in the Gospels. And so what is it here that this is uh prefiguring in the kingdom of God? It's that um the true believers, the weeds and the fake believers, the terrorists, grow up together. Right? And Sometimes you can tell the difference when they're growing, maybe not all the time, but God certainly knows, and what's really going to count is when at the time of the harvest Which is when? The end of the age, right, when everything is is uh comes to fulfillment, he's gonna separate the wheat from the tares, much like separating the sheep from the goats, right? And so perhaps one of the takeaways from this for us is uh Um we can't always tell the difference between a wheat and a tear. And so we need to Be sure our own faith is is uh genuine and um Trust that God will make that distinction at the right time. Pastor Flamleish. Yes, ma'am. I have a question. So we have this passage that that shows that maybe you can't tell the difference between a wheat and a tear, but then there are passages Like uh you're not to marry an unbeliever and you're not to go into business with an unbeliever. So For those instances you have to make that decision. You have to figure out how to tell the difference. So my question about this passage, is it that you can't tell the difference or is it you really can't up Yeah, the the basic thing that Christ said is the latter. That strategically you don't want to um make matters worse for the genuine truths for the genuine uh wheat uh in the process of trying to help them by taking out the tares, in fact you could be hurting them because they're they're losing their connections of the soil. Um I once heard someone apply that to the church. Like you can't try and weed out the unbelievers in a church or uh in a local body. Yeah. I don't know if that's We're actually commanded to remove unrepentant like people or who pro proclaim being a Christian and yet they're well is that that you remove them in the sense of membership, but if they want to come in You welcome them hoping that their ears are open to hear the the gospel message. So as humans we are um not omniscient. We don't know people's hearts But for the most part we can discern um certainly over a passage of time uh the likelihood that someone is a genuine believer or not. Are we going to be 100% correct all the time? Probably not. But most of the time we could be pretty close. And if we're making decisions like yours suggesting, Victoria, uh about who to marry or you know, to be uh yoked with someone in some other way, like in business. Um we can do our best, our due diligence, not rush into it, look at the track record of the person and and evidence of where the person's heart is. And probably most of the time we can do a fairly decent job of avoiding problems. But not being omniscient and not seeing people's hearts, it probably won't be a hundred percent. And so here even in the parable, the servants offered to separate them early on. I mean, basically you could tell the difference. But Uh in the attempt to remove them, there would be some damage uh to those A good fruit. That's a good weed. I guess there's always the hope that even though someone is a has the appearance of being a weed or a tear, that they are actually elect and it's a matter of time before they show The fruitfulness of being one of God's weak. Yes. Right. So that's the other thing. We well w we Don't have a hundred percent ability to know someone's heart and and how sincere their their uh faith is. We also don't have full understanding of their future. So also knowing that God's Word came to divine. So if you keep on speaking God's word and you're applying God's word, maybe the ones that are in there will leave. They're not going you're going to see that they're different. They'll just go ahead and leave the body. Or as uh Kirk was saying, maybe they are part of the elect, but you're speaking the gospel to them all the time, they don't get called At some point. Yep. Okay, let's go to uh section sixty-six. Parable of the mustard seed and the leaven. And here we've got both Matthew and Mark. He presented another parable to them, saying, How shall we picture the kingdom of God? Or by what parable shall we present it? The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed which a man took and sowed upon the soil in his field. And this, though it is smaller than all the other seeds that are upon the soil Yet when it is grown, full grown, it becomes larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree and forms large branches so that the birds of the air become and nest in its branches. Under its shade. He spoke another parable to them. The kingdom of heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three packs of flour until it was all leaven. All these things, and with many such parables, Jesus spoke the word to the crowds in parables so far as they were able to hear it And he did not speak to them without a parable, but was explaining everything privately to his own disciples. This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter things hidden since the foundation of the world. So here we've got a little bit different picture of the nature of the the kingdom. And this has more to do with its growth and it's it's spread, right? Now this is one of the few cases where leaven is used as a good thing. Usually leaven is considered a bad thing in figurative language description More like the leaven Pharisees, right, the spreads and so on. The false teaching. But here, it's an illustration of the spread of the gospel, the growth of the kingdom. And likewise, the mustard seed growing into a large plant, it starts small but gets bigger and bigger and bigger. And so that's his main point here, right? That the kingdom is going to start small. It is small But then it's going to grow gradually, pervasively, get larger and larger. And a couple of examples here So any thoughts, questions there? Yeah, I was thinking we'd probably have to go to 67 to get an explanation. This is a hard one for me. Uh what was that comment? Uh I'm sorry, I was uh I went ahead to 67. I said, okay, I'll just wait to sixty-seven. Oh, okay. Can I can I sorry. I don't like you. Henry, how about after first? Go ahead. Yeah, it it seems like the um the term the kingdom of God or the kingdom of heaven is used for different periods of time And s some of it maybe is more characteristic of Jesus' return and reign on earth as judge and king. But then other periods of time it like the what we just read, it it seems like it's more descriptive of periods on earth. Yeah. A period on earth. Maybe this also foretells the future messianic reign of Christ. It almost is a description of the uh the church expanding on earth during this period of time. Definitely. Right. So it's not just speaking of a a future kingdom, but rather and the whole point of these parables is that it's it's a growing thing even now. So it starts small. Gotta get bigger. So Okay. So um the observation that I was gonna make um is this and uh let me know if you if you uh think it's off off the rails. Uh it seems to me that Jesus comes and he preaches pretty much the same thing that John the Baptist was preaching, which is repentance for the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of God is at hand. And he s he seems then to spend quite a bit of time explaining to them what that kingdom of heaven is going to be like So he keeps telling them, okay, you can liken it to this. Perhaps because I'm thinking the understanding of the folks back then who were expecting a Messiah was going to be different than what he's explaining to them now. So he spends all this time telling them in parables and he's he makes it in such a way that not everyone gets a clear understanding of it, but only those who, as he says, if you have ears to hear here, you know, uh uh uh well he who has ears to hear should hear what he was saying. So it's uh I mean that's what it seems like to me that he's now he's told them the kingdom of heaven is at hand. It's it's here. the the king himself is here, but this is what you should understand the kingdom to be like and not what you were thinking previously. Right. Not not a political uh shift where we overthrow the the yoke of Rome and this kind of thing. But it's the kingdom of God. It's um What God is doing even now, but continuing on into the end of time, building his kingdom. Yeah, and Henry, it's a it's a good but strange place, the kingdom of God. It's a place where the last are first You know, when do we see that? But in a lot of his other teachings, you know, he said, Blessed are blessed are you who weep. I mean, I hear that and I'm like, I hate weeping. But Yeah, it's i in many ways it's counterintuitive. Um. Yeah, and you look remember at the the Beatitudes is very much meant to challenge the thinking and often counterintuitive. And uh particularly going to the the um not just the the letter of the law but the spirit of the law which people hadn't very often focused on. I find it interesting too that the enemy is growing his kingdom within the church. At the very least, side by side. Yeah, side by side. There's nothing we can do about God would deal with that directly. Yeah, and this harkens back to that other parable where the tares are going to be growing at the same time. Similar thing. That's to section sixty-seven The parable of the chair is explained. So I'm on page 92 here. Then he left the crowds and went into the house. Notice it says the house, not a house. This was a common place where they went to, uh whether it was um uh one he moved into or whether maybe it was Peter's house. Uh we don't really know. But it was the house. Everybody knew the house, presumably. Capernaum. And his disciples came to him and said, Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field. And he said, The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. And the field is the world. And as for the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom, and the tares are the sons of the evil one. The enemy who sowed them is the devil, and the harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are angels So, just as the tares are gathered up and burned with fire, so shall it be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send forth his angels, and they will gather out of the kingdom all stumbling blocks and those who commit lawlessness. And will throw them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. He who has ears to hear, well, he who has ears to hear Okay. So Thomas, you had s what the Thomas had something on this section? Uh yeah, that was that was it. The um the enemy plants his people within the church. And God allows them to grow and God would deal the experts I guess will deal with that in the end. But I'm trying to think if I mean how ready to deal with this when you see like if you know someone's an enemy or part of your enemy or not functioning anybody how We're really not supposed to deal with it? No. No, I mean we're we're specifically commanded to uh Remove the um ungodly, the unrepentant people from the church. I mean look at first Corinthians five, um Matthew 18 of course. Well let me let me give you context of what I'm thinking. The a tear could be a uh a pastor who's not a believer. A tear can be a music, you know, somebody who's leading worship, not a believer. A tear can be people in leadership, um uh who are uh uh um introducing certain doctrines maybe in a slow and steady manner or looking to manipulate people. You know, it's not stuff that's so obvious, but it's in in our it's in our midst Like I know we have unbelievers in our church, but these people are purposeful functioning as a tear to corrupt the church from within. Can I point out something though? It seems to me the application that we're drawing there is a bit it's a bit of a stretch in my mind. Because I I think if you look at the context of these parables Okay. I don't think it's addressing specifically that issue. There are other passages that address the issue of how to deal with um uh false false teachers or false brethren in the church. So I think the application is a bit strained in my mind when I when I think about it I also would like to um before I before I uh unmute myself, I still thought uh um a section ago we were all talking about um the applic the possible application of the parable of the uh uh what's that parable called again where the the parable of Give me one second, my mind just sort of runs away from me sometimes. Um Yeah, the the parable of the tears oh of the is it the seed saw? Uh just one second. Okay. So crook Jesus now explains the the one who sows the seed Not as believers per se. He says the seed sower is the son of man, which we'll be referring to himself. So a little while ago while we were discussing about how we plant seeds And God gives the increase, it seems to me that we were also mystifying that scripture there. Uh w where we're saying that Well we're assuming that we were the ones who were planting the seed and God is giving the increase. That's not to say that we don't plant seed and God doesn't give increase, but it seems to me that the we automatically apply you know the scripture there without really considering that it's not talking specifically about the church. Uh uh it's just my my thoughts, I guess. That that I think was more relevant to The parable of the seed, the uh first one that we had, section sixty four. But um yeah, you're right, Jesus is specifically saying here that the issue is Um that while he is sewing, he is drawing people to himself and Is actively building his kingdom. Satan is also very active. And some of that activity is actually in uh the field in the church in order to uh try to undermine Okay. Uh you've got two different things. You've got first of all you've got Mark writing to a non-Jewish audience And when that guy saves the sea, the word he uses there means he broadcasts the seed over. It's not a prepared field And when Matthew writes, he's writing to a Jewish audience and is talking about a prepared field. And it's a different that word would be planted, whereas the first one would be planted. Also notice that Mark is the one who refers to the kingdom of God, and Matthew refers to the kingdom of heaven Because the use of the use of God in a Jewish audience, you've got to be very careful when you use the word God because there's so great That in fact they won't even say Yahweh, they would say it uh Adamai because they're saying they're gonna use God's name in pain. So these are two questions we need to consider. Right. Yeah, good So basically he's saying his point is that um Evil is going to grow up with the righteousness, the kingdom, as as God is is uh building it. And um it's all gonna get sorted out at the end. God in his sovereignty is going to be able to uh separate wheat from the terrors, even as some of those terrors were in the church. That's the main point. Okay, section 68. The parable of the hidden treasure. Again, we're back in Matthew. The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and hid again, and from joy over it he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. So I guess the presumption his presumption is that um whoever placed that there um is no longer aware of it or if he is the owner of the field and he would be aware of it and he wouldn't sell it probably But I don't think he intends for us to get bogged down with details here. The point is, and it's very similar to the next one That the kingdom of heaven is such that when people understand its true value, they give up everything. for it. That's his point. And so if we don't understand its true value, then we're going to be more ambivalent about it. And so what is the true value of the kingdom of God? Priceless, incalculable, eternal life Right? And so that ought to motivate us to view that as more important than really anything else. And that's his point. And so, 69, the parable of the costly pearl. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking fine pearls. Upon finding one pearl of great value He went and sold all that he had and bought it. So again, it's all about how much do we value the kingdom of God. Do we recognize its value? And if we recognize its value, it's going to have an impact on our choices Well I hope that how this couldn't be applied to Jesus. He sold all that he had to say to get the barrel, the barrel named the church Jesus gave up his entire way of coming his pre-existent life. Certainly similar. I'm not sure that's His point maybe it is, but it's the same principle, but he didn't he didn't save us though because of our value. No, he saw the value of what he was giving us. Yes. Yes. I think I personally think that applies to Jesus more than I see in the value of thinking. Interesting. I didn't let you know. Who do we know? I'm just giving you a wee thought. We thought. Okay Well, let's go to number 70, the parable of the net. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet cast into the sea. And gathering fish of every kind. And when it is filled, they drew it up on the beach, and they sat down and gathered the good fish into containers, but the bad they drew away. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come forth and take out the wicked from among the righteous and will throw them into a furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. You know, um actually if I'm a fish I would probably prefer to be thrown back into the water than to be eaten, right? But his point is that there are good fish, and there are not so good fish And it's a very natural thing. Here we're shifting from more of the more agrarian kind of examples to another thing that's very common to them is fishing. uh including by way of nets. And uh people would have read readily understood, yes, there are fish that are favorable, good to eat, and there are others that are not not so good And we easily distinguish between them. And uh Christ is saying the kingdom of heaven is like that And it's again similar to the weeks and terrors where at the end God separates, right? Very similar thing. Pastor. Yes. Um I this says the angels gathered them And they, the angels, threw the bad away. And they were judging the good from the bad. And I thought Christ was the judge. Yes. In the earlier, one of the earlier ones, which one was that? For Jesus, maybe it was sixty-seven. Yes. In uh Son of Man will send forth his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all stumbling blocks and those who committed lawlessness. And will throw them into the furnace of fire, and that place will be nashing our teeth. So the angels are doing the bidding of Christ Because um Christ is the only one who judges. He's ultimately the judge, right. So they're only carrying out his orders. And so whether they know what to look for or they have a list, we're not told. But they clearly are just they're not making their own independent judgment. Uh but they are carrying out the judgment of Christ. Okay, thank you. Yeah. One one I was looking um thinking about the just the implications of Heaven versus and inheriting that, inheriting the kingdom of heaven and being a part of that and reaping the benefits of it compared to the finite life that we live, even though we feel like our life may be long, but it's just minuscule compared to the all of the promises and the inheritance and the richness of of heaven and the relationship with God with God. So y you could do like an accounting in your mind of Okay, if I live sacrificially and obediently to God during this life, it's it's just so it's just such a small sacrifice. Um compared to this expansive eternal um this great heavenly Reward that goes on forever. So you could even a three person could calculate, okay, that's worth much, much more. And even with the difficulties and pains and sorrows It's it's so finite that you're willing to okay, I'm gonna live live obediently and sacrificially Yeah, it brings to mind Jim Elliott's insight that he is no fool who who um gives we what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose Mm-hmm. I don't think anybody's at a head of type thing. You have to be a believer. Well, yeah. I mean That's not in my mind that's not so much about a a salvation decision, but it's a commitment to serve the Lord. Yes. Yeah, for sure But without the Holy Spirit, we can't make that commitment. It's not like a calculation, like, okay, I can hold one of this, I can do this, and if I do this, I'm gonna get there It's all by the power of the Holy Spirit. And it's no effort because it's so for free Where we have been redeemed. That's true. Uh-huh. Well that's a good thing. I we still argue We drag our feet a lot. We do, but the main point is It's not a work of our effort. Yes, it it is through the power of the Holy Spirit. But I do understand that we have a responsibility to listen to the Holy Spirit, to be teachable and so forth. We still have a responsibility to obey. Yes, yes, absolutely. And sometimes we are um beset by those those sins and so on that distract us. Yes, we really are but what's really, really neat is that when we are distracted and we do fail, we are so gently corrected. We are so lovingly corrected. And our heart is so wounded by our own failure that it's just that's actually a part of the edification process. Yeah. Okay. Let's look then at seventy-one, page ninety-three, the parable of the householder. Have you understood all these things? They said to him, Yes. I'm not sure if that was a confident yes or not. And Jesus said to them, Therefore, every scribe who has become a disciple of the kingdom of heaven is like a head of a household who brings out of his treasure things new and old When Jesus had finished these parables, he departed from there. So I I I think there's there's at least a partial reference here in what Jesus is saying to Um you know things new would be including new revelation, um uh sort of the fulfillment then of the Old Testament law. Um so he didn't come to do away with the law but but rather to fulfill it and uh build on it and and so on. Um and so I think he's he's trying here to uh Stress their thinking, have them think a bit more out of the box, that uh maybe give back to a little bit of what I think Kirk was saying, that um The kingdom here is not what most of the people had been thinking it would be. And they need to think outside the box a bit more But not completely doing away with the old, but rather fulfilling it. So any other thoughts there? What what's behind the your question of when we heard about his attributes? Well, those questions, I don't know if you've been following everyone in each of these lessons, I've had these questions here that are sort of standard questions each lesson And sometimes the lesson doesn't address one of these questions. Or if it did, I missed it. But often we do see things that contribute to the answers of these questions. So when I went through it, I didn't find anything for questions two, three, and four. I may have missed it. But certainly his ministry strategy and his teaching approach. Those great examples here. Any other thoughts, questions? Yeah, Pastor Plum, if I may ask this. Um I don't know what you think. Um it I think it's one could easily see how um the head of the household bringing treasures new and old could be a reference to Like you said, new revelation, new ways of living, and uh perhaps what the uh the Jews had learned in the Old Testament as well. Um but then Going back to who the people who would represent the head of the household here are, he he talks about every scribe Um at this point when he was making this statement, it's it would seem to me that none of his um uh I guess main disciples the twelve were actually scribes in themselves. So I suppose at some future day there will be some type of scribe If one is trying to be strict in interpreting scribe to mean the the lawyers and the teachers of the synagogue and so forth, so do you think maybe this was a veiled allusion to the fact that they, the apostles, um would at some point become these scribes and that they should not neglect to they should not completely ignore everything that had been taught in you know uh in the Old Testament. but to sort of incorporate them with a better understanding, giving them new revelation they would be getting. Interesting question. No, I I I think what he's saying here is he's talking about an actual sprine. who becomes a disciple, not a disciple who becomes a scribe. Right? So someone who is a scribe who is very um connected to the law, uh very much a part of the the Mosaic Law becomes a disciple Then uh that is a genuine believer, then he's going to see um the value of the the foundation that the law provided and how God was working through that. But he's also now going to see much more things that are new. And he'll have an appreciation For both. We didn't get into the annihilation, uh seeing uh understanding hell as annihilating a person. I know that's that's like a debate that's within the Christian church of whether hell is eternal punishment or temporary punishment. Shouldn't be much debate. I mean the scripture's clear, right? Yeah. Maybe a gnashing of teeth and But our the fact that we're merciful, just as God is merciful, we're we're as human beings, we're looking for a way that Okay, how can it we would want punishment in hell to be temporary because we're merciful What we wanted about mud being is two different things. Oh right. You want a picture of that? Just look at what uh the the what Jesus told about the the Lazarus. The ri the rich man went into the to to Sheol and uh and and who God told him says hey there's a chasm or or Abraham told him there's a chasm between you and me. You there's no way we can We can breach that cause that chasm. It's pretty good pretty good evidence if we know it's firm. Yeah. Plenty of scripture that makes that clear. And here he says weeping and gnashing of teeth. That's that's a an ongoing regret that I don't know what verses they use to try to proof text that hold to a nihilism. Do you Like just all sleep people that when you die you get all the systems. it humans in their from the human perspective try to soften the soften the the the the flow and and in so doing uh depart from the text. Okay. Well, with that, let's uh close in prayer