There's some sections that I think we can go through pretty easily, and some others there's a lot of of um material that we can really dive deep, and so I'll kind of play it by ear, as deep as you want to go. But there is a lot of sections. There is again starting on page 142, we're going to do humility, forgiveness, and the cost of following Christ. Then we're going to look at um Oh that's section ninety-nine under lesson twenty-three. And then there's section one hundred, which is Jesus rebukes the Apostle John's sec sec spirit which is kind of like a little member, like a little group. But it also I also want to add to that and the seriousness of sin. I think we can really jump into that one. Um and then the next section on page one that's gonna go all the way through page one hundred three Then we're going to talk about church discipline and forgiveness, 101. Then we're going to go 102, which is Jesus opposes his unbelieving brothers. Then we're going to talk about Jesus goes towards Jerusalem, and then 104 Explain the demands of following him. A ton of stuff. So um it's great to go through as much as we can to get through the year. It's tragic that we're only kind of scratching this. But hopefully, um we will be encouraged and driven to dive deeper. The material here is well put together. Um again, uh people spend an entire several years on one book And so yeah, we're just we're racing through but we really want to make sure we hit on uh significant parts of his life and ministry. Um but always happy to dive as deep as you desire to go And always happy to take questions and I can always come back and see if I could fill in some of the gaps. So why don't we start again on page 142 We're going to talk about number 99. The twelve argue about which of them will be the greatest in the kingdom. Again, we're talking about the disciples and the take-home message is humility, friends. Uh so if someone would like to read, again we're going to do the blended section. So we're going to go we're uh putting together Matthew, Mark, and Luke And again kind of following the chronology of Luke. The idea is we come with the humility of a child. And back then a child was, I mean if you had a hierarchy of importance, children were down at the bottom there. And so um the idea of contrasting here, who's going to be great, well you have to be the least, focus on the least. And what is the characteristic that he's pointing to on children is humility and humbleness. that trusting that trustingness that we find, um a faith, a hope, the running to Jesus pick you know have you ever been like in a park and like kids will just like run up to you? don't even know who they are, with that kind of trusting, smiling, um, pick me up and swing me under the swings. Um, that's the kind of attitude the um that God wants. That humble humility trustworthiness that's found in the child. And so um they're all looking at like who has the greatest oratory skills or the greatest, uh who could do the greatest miracles or heal the most. That's not what God is looking for. He's looking for a humble Contrite safe. Would someone like to read one hundred? Section one hundred, which actually the blended section starts on page one forty three. And um here we're going to get into um not only John's uh kind of set like spirit, but um this whole idea of the seriousness of sin. So why don't we go through this? Why don't we read up to uh so you can see in the blended section there's the numbers kind of jump around a little bit. It starts at thirty-eight and then like near the end you see ten, eleven, twelve. So again, we're blending Luke there to be uh you know, we're beginning kind of like with some parts of Mark and we're kind of mixing and then we kind of get back into Matthew which is uh verses six to fourteen. So you can see kind of the verses kind of move around a little bit in the blended section. But why don't we go from that first one, which is thirty-eight, and let's go all the way down to Verse 7. Fantastic, that's great. So you can see um this kind of idea of sectarian, like, oh, he's not one of us. But he's out there preaching, he's out doing miracles in the name of Christ. Um and he's trying to shut him John is like trying to shut him down. And we can see Christ is correcting that. Now if someone goes out and they're preaching God and they're doing miracles and all of a sudden they start to go a little uh down the heresy pathway, that's when that's when uh we we we we we say no more. That's when we start to put up a red flag. But in terms of cast you know, doing miracles in Christ's name, preaching the truth And that's what Christ wants, right? Go out sending all of his disciples out. That's what we're we're to do, right? To go out and and share the gospel. So Christ is is gently um pointing to John that uh This is not a little, you know, group of twelve and that's it. Uh this message is going to expand and go out. And if someone is preaching the gospel, doing miracles in his name, um That should be encouraged, right? And he ha ends up with a warning, right? If if someone is doing that and then all of a sudden they're starting to mentioned putting heavy millstones around their necks and creating believers to start to stumble. He leaves it with a warning there, right? Woe to the Uh woe to the world because of stumbling blocks, for it is inevitable that stumbling blocks come. And then verse 43, if your hand causes oh I'm sorry. Yeah, woe to the one who causes the little ones who believe in me to stumble. So those who are all of a sudden it it turns to one of kind of going off what is what is doctrine and what is scriptural, uh woe to them. There's so there is a warning for those who preach a different gospel. This next kind of section, I kinda entitled um The Seriousness of Sin and How We're to Address. Someone would like to read um that section, which starts there in uh Verse forty three and we can just read it all the way to the end. This this section always caused me, especially when I became a a believer at the beginning, where he says, If your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. If your eye causes you to stumble tear out your eye, or it's better to enter heaven crippled rather than being cast into hell. That always bothered me. Um especially at the beginning of a of a b you know and believers life I was like you might as well cut my head off 'cause I have my my thoughts alone send me to hell. So um this actually always bot always always bothered me. And so I got better teaching But would someone like to read this section? So if you stopped at verse forty-eight, you're probably trembling and and you're like I'm I'm I'm doomed I really like that, but if you keep reading, it's always good to read the entire passage. At that end there, where he's talking about the sheep and he and Christ is going to go out and get the one who is strayed, and he rejoices by bringing back into the fold. There's some so there's like kind of like the reality of dealing with sin, the reality of the destruction of sin. But there's also at the end there the comfort that Christ brings He's gonna save us from that sin. There's also which I found very interesting in that in those verses from like forty-nine to fifty, there's like one, two, three, four, five, six There's like six different versions or terms of salt, saltiness, unsalted, which is very complicated. Um, but it's very uh um It's very interesting to dive in. Are there any questions on this section? Does everyone understand the salty salt unsalted verb noun adjectives in there? Because I was confused too. It's it's it's a difficult section and a lot of commentaries talk about how it is it kinda looks like it's just plunked in there and there's not a lot of There's not a lot of meat to get a real concise understanding. The good news is it's not a doctrinal uh it's not gonna throw your doctrine off But let me give you some interesting comments and uh I'll give you kind of my perspective on it and you can haul me out of the room if Well I think there's a yeah, I think there's a couple of points you're you're on and I really like the fact that you brought up the whole cutting off your arm, ripping out your eye. And yeah, yeah, 'cause you mentioned that. And it is kind of a scary thing, but I think the purpose of that is to bring to our mind the seriousness of sin Where it's you know, if we wanted to pull an application out of this, that would be that would be one that we can go right to. Sin is serious. It it it resulted in Christ having to die. So We tend to get I'll just say I I tend to get complacent with my sin. Like, uh, I sin. Oh, I'll just pray and ask for forgiveness. That's not the attitude that we should have have. Should have will we be perfect in rooting it out? No. But that should be our mindset. And without that mindset, it just gets easier and easier to get closer and closer and kind of coddle ourselves. So I think that's the that's the at least the application to bring out of that. And uh yeah, so I think that's a that's a good a good uh point to bring out of this. And then this section is a little bit it's a little bit confusing. Kind of what I did, I did look at some commentaries, but I also put together, one thing I'll do is a passage like this Initially I'll look at like some of the other versions. So I looked at like the ESV, New King James, N N A S B to see how things first line up. And in all three The first couple of words are for everyone. For everyone. But then in the last half of that sentence, there is will be salted with fire, will be seasoned with fire. So it kind of got me to think, what are the definitions of these words. Salt, saltiness, unsalted. And so without um it's interesting when you go to the strongest concordance. I mean these are like different words. They're kind of related, but they also have some different nuances. So this first one, which I which kind of brought to mind, does that word salted, can it mean something else? So the ESV and the NASB say salted with fire. And the other one, New King James calls it season. So what does that salted mean? And it could mean just to salt. It could also mean to season with salt. It could mean to sprinkle with salt. So it's really, it's an action. And what's interesting is in all three it's saying it's doing this either season or salt with fire. So what does the fire mean What is this fire? I think you can take it two ways. Well let me kind of give you a commentaries idea that I kind of blended, I kind of added some things. So let me do yeah, let me let me give you the thoughts on what it means and then we can kinda go backwards and go like and look to how I kinda came to that conclusion. Most of this is from John MacArthur, but I've kind of sprinkled I've salted it with my own ideas. So, and he recognizes that this is kind of a difficult passage, a different difficult verse. A lot of our passages It's either very clear, either a narrative. We can understand if it's a figure of speech. We can look at other passages that might be more clear to bring clarity to this passage. So there's not a lot of that, but there is some. And so um Let me read this little paragraph here. Believers are purified, sanctified, preserved. This is kind of the idea of the concept of salt in ancient times And how does this happen? It happens through suffering, fiery trials, and persecution. If you look at the context of this whole passage, he's talking about stumbling blocks beforehand. He's talking about dealing with sin, that sin is real. Sin comes at us hard. And we understand in our sanctification, we will be tested and tried. Assault and fire in the Old Testament Testament are also linked to sacrifices, both used as preserving methods for preventing contamination and spoilage. So how can we take how can we think about that? Salt as a preserving method, preventing contamination. Having salt in ourselves, what could salt symbolize in the believer? So if if it's if we're talking to everyone, how could seasoning or salting impact a believer? Um so godly character that is produced through the Word, the Holy Spirit, Grace, these things preserve us in an ungodly world today and preserve us to the kingdom of God to come. Um the fire transforms and refines, leaving behind pure salt Which preserves us to the end. Um fire um also is symbolic of burning away impurities, leaving nothing behind and reveals one's destined to hell. So Salt back then, well salt today is NACL. It is pure, it is a hundred percent. If you want something fancy you can get, you know Sea, salt, Mediterranean. But back then, um, they didn't really have purification like we have today. It's they had a lot of gypsum, a lot of rock, a lot of other stuff a lot of impurity. So the idea is, um, how does a believer be salted or seasoned? They're seasoned um through the fire, through trials, and the fire will burn away but it will leave us refined. Whereas in the case of an unbeliever, the salt is impure and fiery trials will reveal their final dust. Um the other thing I wanted to say was in the last part um So I'm gonna go with I'm gonna go with the ESV. Forever will be salty with fire. Salt is good, right? So um but if the the salt has lost its saltiness. Actually what I'll do? I'll look at the I want to say what um Are we NASB in this or NASB? For everyone's wrong to start again. For everyone will be salted with fire So the idea is we're all going to go through fiery trials. And the salted is you're seasoned and you're going to be seasoned either with through the Holy Word, Holy S uh Spirits, um, and it's going to produce godly character If you're not a believer, um you're just gonna fall away. And that that salt was what you you know, perhaps like a uh um a a religious leader of the times who thought that they were working their way to God, they're gonna find that that's that in Fiery Charles that's not going to sustain them. Verse 50, salt is good, but if the salt becomes unsalty With what will you make it salty again? This kind of confused me a little bit, but the salt is good. If the salt, that's a noun, becomes unsalty, what's unsalty? Again, this is a different strong concordance term, and it has the idea of negative salt or opposite of salt or without salt. Um more of impurities than true salt. Can salt become unsalty? Not really. It either is or it isn't. But back then um what they thought would be salt could perhaps just be a whole bunch of impurities and not be preserving. And they would, you know, think they were preserving their their meats or their vegetables, um, but then they would come back and find that It was contaminated. Um it was it didn't have those preserving property. But real salt will contain those properties So um it's not that preserving properties all of a sudden no longer become preserving. It's like you never had real salt to begin with. That's the idea of salt becoming on salt. Um and ask, with what will you make it salty again? You have to have a real salt. And what's the real salt? Holy Spirit, the Word, um, godly character. That's what will withstand those these fiery trials And so he goes on to say, have salt. I think that's a different salt. No, that was a noun salt. Have salt in yourselves, right? Have this in yourselves. Have real salt. Preserve to the end is kind of the idea Um and then at the end there it says, and be at peace with one another. So the idea is um not only are we preserved to the end, but we're also um you know the whole purpose here is to eventually get the have the message spread and go out, right? And so if we have this godly character, if we are in the Word, if we're um the Holy Spirit is in us, we have soul in us and we're to be at peace. another. So not just within the brotherly community, but also out there in an ungodly world. How are people going to know what salt is if they don't have salt peak? So the idea is not only preserving ourselves but also the idea of sharing that gospel. news so being the salt or light to an ungodly world. But that's one worth diving into. And again, it it's it's kind of crazy. There's you know two verses there and there's like six versions or variations of the word salt. So it it's a little confusing, but I think in the context where prior it's talking about the seriousness of sin and fiery trials and you're gonna be stumbling blocks you're gonna be thrown at you. I think that's the fiery test and the fire that refines us and if we are true believers we will be preserved to the end and that sulkiness we need to share with an unbeliever. I think it's I think it's a whole a whole spectrum of things. So the stumbling block is also in the rule. He talks about a stumbling block or causes someone to stumble. Initially When there's someone who's preaching and casting out demons who John doesn't know about, there's a reference to he will be found out if he causes his little ones to stumble. So there's that kind of stomach block. But there's also in the middle there talking about um the sins that we will that will come upon us and how we are to um address them radically. So those would also be considered stumbling blocks or fiery trials from others or just well from within even, right? I mean I I just know my own self I could be in a clo I could be sleeping in my bed by myself in you know, just thoughts in my head. I could be my I'm probably my own worst enemy, really. But the good news is the saltiness that comes from God referring to here will preserve us to the end and it will refine us. Yeah, yeah, there's some reference yet to the yeah in Leviticus two somewhere around there. I think to give perspective of of the idea of you're probably combining a bunch of things there. The fact that salt I don't want to go too far down in in um making speculation, but other than yeah, definitely salt and fire were linked to Old Text Testament uh sacrifices and it was something that the people back then understood as being preserving meth methods. You know, you would not want to bring a sacrifice that was contaminated. You wanted it pure and salt was a way of keep retaining that that Purity. Yeah. Yeah. I love that word, effectiveness. Yeah, bomb all of a sudden would be a good example. If I just kind of go with the crowd at work and I never, you know I and I never make a stance for Christ, I'd I'll just get complacent and I'll never do. And then later on, if I try to say something like, well You're a you're a hypocrite, John. So I've kind of lost that ability to be different. Any other questions there? I think it's I think I didn't go into it too much. I I just kind of looked at it and go like well where the worm does not die. I don't want to be a worm If I was a worm, I would like to die. Here I'm gonna be in this fiery pit. I'm gonna be a worm and I'm not gonna be able to die. I think it's just an an image of like a really bad place to be But I could be I could extract the hand in hand with fire at the won't be quest. Yeah. So it's part of the punishment. And the worms would be Either I'm not sure literal, but sort of figurative of punishment that just won't end. Yeah. That's a great question. And it's it's one of the purposes of the church, so the body, right? accountability, small groups, um women's groups, men's groups, uh that ability to kind of sharpen one another. What you know, we're not to be in isolated Christian on our own. We are to be together. They're the disciples are called brothers, and we're to watch out for one another one another. Points out my sins that I am oblivious to Yeah. Yeah, but um we should be doing more of that. Watching and looking out for one another. Well I think you pointed out the more that we can be together, the better the better we're gonna be, right? Um I mean and and these twelve disciples are with each other all day long, every day, constantly. Uh I could we do this? Probably not practically But we are you know, we should be somewhere in the middle. You know, you don't want to be nothing, um, but realize that yeah, you have to go to work and do stuff. But it is very advisable to get together with other believers. I guess it is yeah it's accountability, but accountability I I always seem like I'm in trouble if it's called accountability. I think friendship and walking alongside and keeping keeping each other And I would say, you know, and like in our last congregational meeting, we talked about some of these things of, you know, what are some of the what are some of the things we want to see for 2025? How can we excel more? And so getting together. always top of the top of the list. How can you know and if you look at like the um the emails that come out, uh the prayer groups uh uh that come out, the um the new the weekly newsletter, you know, what what events are coming up? What how can you be involved? Those are all things uh to really plug plug everyone in It may not necessarily be accountability group, but it is kind of in a way. It's kind of like being accountable but during a fun activity. Opportunities are here, definitely. Yeah, we never want to lose that shepherding. Let's go to Section 102 and go through it quick. But that's good great problems. Someone would like to read section 102, it's on the bottom of page one hundred-four. Someone would like to read that whole section or read it until you're tired and then someone can pick it up from there. For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his slaves. When he had begun to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand towns was brought to him. But since he did not have the means to repay, his Lord commanded him to be sold, along with his wife and children, and all that he had, and repayments to be made So the slave fell to the ground, prostrated himself before him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will repay you everything. And the Lord of that slave felt compassionate and released him and forgave him the debt But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owned him a hundred denere, clearly a lot less. And he seized him and began to choke him, saying Pay back what you owe. So his fellow slave fell to the ground, began to plead with him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will repay you. But he was unwilling And he went and threw him in prison until he should pay back what was owed. So when his fellow slaves saw what had happened, they were deeply grieved, and came and reported to their lord all that had happened. Then summoning him, his Lord said to him, You wicked slave, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. Should you not also have mercy on your fellow slave in the same way that I had mercy on you And his Lord moved with anger, handed him over to the torturers until he would repay all that was owed him. Does not forgive his brother from your heart. So again, there's a lot going on here. Um a couple points I'll I I I did want to share. Um does forgiveness allow sinful behavior to continue Actually, I'm gonna screw what is this church discipline? So the church, uh especially that did anyone ever get confused about that binding and loosing piece? Would you what Okay. So I'll I'll I I I'll I looked into that a little bit and what I found what makes sense what's done on earth essentially is agreed upon in heaven. So Um the church which acts in accordance with God's word has the authority to declare if someone remains in sin or is forgiven, right? I mean we we see that church discipline Um where uh if there's there's the steps that you take first you go to your brother, um and if it's and Yeah, if it's not resolved there and ninety nine point nine nine percent of the time it is, but if it's not the next stage is you'd bring witnesses and you know two or three people and say, you know, Jeff This is kind of serious. We need to really kind of deal with this. And if I would say I don't believe you, I don't know what you're talking about, I totally deny it. I'm never gonna forgive or forget, um then that would be brought up to the church. And this is like a long process. So it's not like, you know, the morning something happens and by the afternoon you're like brought before you know, elders. Um it's a very long process. There is the main purpose is reconciliation. That is really the purpose But there are times where it's just unrepentance. It may even be someone who's an unbeliever who thinks it's unbelievable And the church has the authority to say, this person is a repentant and we're going to treat them as an unbeliever. And so what is done here, bound here on earth is also found in heaven. And what does that mean? It's like the way the church addresses sin and and and identifies sin and deems it sin is by the principles of Scripture, by God's, you know, by God's direction. And God is in agreement with that decision. Same thing can be said with forgiveness. When there is true repent and someone is brought back into the church and restored, that's also done through scripture, biblical foundations for what would um Yeah. If someone is truly forgiven and the person with whom the offense is reconciled and there's uh again true repentance, the church Yeah. When a church acknowledges that a repentant person has been loosed from their sin, God is in agreement with that. Um and there's a similar concept, uh if you want to go a little bit deeper, in Matthew 16, 19 And it also talks about this concept of binding on earth, binding in heaven, loosened on earth, loosened in heaven. And so that's what that you know. You're bound by sin, but you're also loosed with forgiveness and reconciliation. And that's kind of that idea of finding a music. I'm going to go into the section 102. At this point, we have Feast of Booth, heaven echoes a time of joyous celebration, celebrating God's continual provision and protection. My time is not yet here. Has Jesus gone to had gone with them? Well, really the idea is I'm gonna get killed, but I'm not gonna get killed, and so I'm knocked off the censusless. My time to go to the cross is not yet at this time And so that's why he stayed at Galaxy because he was greatly hated and this was not the time for us. Section one oh three. Jesus goes privately toward Jerusalem through Samaria. So now Jesus is out of mission. And what is his submission his mission? He's leaving the area of Galilee, and now he's focused on this destination of Jerusalem, where he will complete his mission upon the cross. Um I'll go ahead and re and and and read this section. When the days were approaching for his ascension, he was determined to go to Jerusalem, and he sent messengers on Hadith And they went and they entered a village of the Samaritans to make arrangements for him. But they did not receive him because he was traveling toward Jerusalem. When his disciples, James and John, saw this, they said Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them? But he turned to them and rebuked them and said, You do not know what kind of spirit you are of. The Son of Man did not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went on to another village. But when his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he himself also went up, not publicly, but as if in secret So the idea here is Jesus has a mission. He knows he's going to the cross. He is focused. He is determined. Um we don't need to bring fire down on this village. The focus is the cross. Focus, any thoughts on this section? Questions? Comments? It's kinda interesting like, you know, I'm going to the cross and all these guys who I've been with for years, they're just talking about like rain and fire down on people Oh how about section one oh four? I think that will about cover. Sorry, we didn't do web well, maybe we'll get Okay. Section 104, counting the cost of following Christ. So I'll read the blended. As they were going along the road, a scribe came and said to him, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. And he said to another of the disciples, Follow me. But he said he said to another of the disciples, Follow me. But he said, Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father. But he said to him, Follow me and allow the dead to bury their own dead. But as for you go and proclaim everywhere the kingdom of God. And another also said, I will follow you, Lord, but first permit me to say goodbye to those at home. But Jesus said to him No one, after putting his hand to the plow and looking back, is fit for the kingdom. Jesus did not conceal the cost of following him, and that's going to include discomfort and even separation from past Good question. Just like when we were looking at should I pluck my eye out and cut my hand off? So there's some things that yeah, not literally. Um that would be my first point. Not everything is literal But but but the message is you're gonna have you know it's gonna cost. There's gonna be some degree of cost. And for some, yeah, they were killed. Um does it mean everyone has to be killed? No. But are you willing to Is your mindset, you know, uh are you can you be brought to the point of compromising Christ? That's the question. The other um The other point is context. So there's a little bit of context in these in these verses that I think bring light to the fact. Um and you had mentioned like, yeah, my dad just died, I'm going to the funeral this afternoon. Oh I can't go. That's not the context. Um Typically, um if someone actually died, it's not just like going to the funeral. It's it's several several days and weeks even. Um, especially um if you were a Jew, um it's not just simply attending a human. And the idea, some of the commentary uh commentaries um point that um The I the idea in here was um I had two ideas here. First off I would say both of these examples highlight various possibilities of separation from the family. Jesus is on a timetable here. He is going and he's going now. Um and for you to ask Jesus, you know what? Wait around three more weeks. I've got funeral, I'll have ceremonial cleansing, I'll be uh there'll be cleansings afterwards, there'll be all kinds of things. Um so Jesus, I need you to stay here for three weeks and then we'll go. It really wasn't and how you you asked how how it would apply today. Um the underlying motive here is I really don't want to go. I I want to stay here, I want to do it on my time frame, not your timeframe Could you imagine if God comes down and says, I need you to come with me now and you're saying, Well, my dad is sick, I got a lot of things to take care of Uh there's also the part of of um commentary said father may not have actually died yet and that this phrase was used to indicate, wait till I collect my inheritance. And then when I do then when I get my inheritance, then I will follow you. So this idea of putting limits in in conditions on whether to follow God Christ or not is Is what he's is what Christ is honing in on. You either follow me or you don't. It doesn't appear to have at least it wasn't recorded that he haven't had any response, good or bad. Jesus was just kind of teaching. But the follow-up two guys did have a response. And what was in common about them is they said Lord me first, which seems like not the way where not the way we're first. If he's really Lord, it wouldn't be us first, it would be him first. And so yeah you're right, we're talking about priorities. Um am I signing up for following Christ based on my terms or on his terms? Mm-hmm. Yep, yeah, yeah, they're both put giving up. The first the their first initiation is Wait, I've got an excuse first. There's a condition I need you to know. And this is sword? Me first. Yeah. Let's get this straight. And that's wrong. Yes. So go to the funeral and don't cut your hand off. says go and tell everyone about it and they come back with them like oh and they come with a message and say I would go but I gotta I gotta see this auxin I just gotta do aux in threads the brain. I forgot the other excuse or to And the messenger comes back and he comes to the guys and they said that they didn't actually have time to come to this great Wednesday and he's all furious and so he goes and Go and tell everyone about a byways and everything like that. But it just reminds me like the people who rejected at the start. It was such a great thing, but they counted it as such a very little thing and it's like similar here, like they're like let me bury my letters dead, bury the dead, response to that and so on. But they're not seeing the incredible character of Christ's incredible ministry and everything and they're forsaking him for very temporary things. Even though they're very good temporary things, but in comparison to Jesus there's nothing greater than Jesus. Yeah, good cuss here. So yeah, I'm gonna wrap this up. Um and then um and then we'll go to worship. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for uh just There's so much here, Lord. Thank you for allowing us to at least get a glimpse into uh your ministry, your life. the disciples. May this uh time be something that pricks our desire to deep to dive deeper into your word, uh to radically Purify us, strengthen our assurance of faith. May we come alongside one another to encourage, to teach And may we um focus our minds upon you, your work, who you are, um, and your great compassion for your sheep. Well that we worship you great reverence today for the days to come. As in your name we give you thanks. Amen