Okay, now we're up. So we are lesson ten, growing in fame. Four major events that we're going to look at. So on page 68, let's read through this and I'm going to throw a little comments in as we go through. Would someone like to read? And again, let's go with the blended account. Oh, he was in one of the cities. When he saw Jesus, he fell on his knees and bowed down his face before him. Lord Him saying, Lord, if you were willing, you can make me free. And with compassion, Jesus stretched out his hands and touched him, saying, I'm willing to be blessed. Hold here for a second. Let's look at this a little closer. Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. And what's his response? I am willing. I am willing Kind of a application in our own lives. Take this phrase and apply to ourselves. Lord, if you are willing Bring peace to me during this time of trial. Lord, if you're willing, strengthen my resolve. To be more disciplined. I actually I wrote this. Be more disciplined with my time. Time be more disciplined in watching the clock for me. Lord, if you were willing, mend my broken relationships. Lord, if you are willing, open my eyes and embrace a deeper sense of worship. And the Lord's answer is I am willing. Oh, please continue. Immediately the left side. Externally warned now. What are you saying? See that you say nothing to show yourself to please make an offering for your plastic. But he went out and began to proclaim it freely. Spread the news went out to such an except that Jesus could no longer get Interesting. There are governments everywhere. The news bathroom is spreading even farther, and large crowds are gathering to hearers. That word it to proclaim it freely I'm going to go on the assumption that that's the healing and not necessarily anything else. And so this news of healing is going all over the place. So why would it why would Jesus' Why would he no longer why why could he no longer publicly enter a city? Why would he stay in the unpopulated area? What's the cause and effect? What do you think happened there? Wouldn't you think you I mean if you want to save as many people as possible, isn't it better to have big giant crowds around you? You would think he'd want that, right? I'm assuming, and it may not be a far-off assumption, that these crowds are coming not to hear a message of repentance. not to hear a a a a message of salvation. But to heal me. I mean could you imagine what it must be like if there's just wrongs of people and everyone's yelling and screaming and you know you know, save my cat, save my heal my my broken leg or what have you. Uh these are crowds coming for the wrong reason And so um that is the reason why he didn't enter cities, but he stayed on the unpopulated areas. Because really he wanted to spread the message of salvation, repentance and forgiveness of sin. Um Yeah, he was being mobbed by people only coming for the healing. And thus all this publicity really hindered the message of forgiveness of sin and repentance. Let's look at the next section, which is Jesus here heals a paralytic lowered through the roof. Yes, question. I I'm struck by the fact that the um the man didn't really listen to Jesus at all. He just kinda went out Yeah, yeah. Um and also just kind of pushing that a little bit, uh there's no indication of whether his sins were forgiven. What's interesting in the next one uh actually this next section So in this section, Jesus' response is, um, I am willing you will be cleansed. In the next section, it's going to be switched. When we talk to the paralytic, the res Jesus' response is, Your sins are forgiven. So it's gonna be a switch Two different situations. One is we see a cleansing, no indication. Now it may have been saved, but no indication in this in the text. And the next one is your sins are forgiven. So it's gonna be a nurse. Another um observation there was the leper. Um although Jesus told them not to go up and claim it widely He did say, go the priest as a testimony, showing that God is healed. Um Th there wasn't quite the concern that telling it to the and telling it to the priest was not just a random thing, it was actually required by the law. And um I'm pretty sure Jesus is thinking if more and more of these priests get the testimony of people who were healed um in a way that was clearly miraculous, you would hope God would be using that in these priests' art to open them up to the gospel. Right, right. But to not proclaim it proclaim it freely, don't don't spread this any more than it already is, naturally Because it's just gonna make logistics that much harder for ministers. And also an interesting point about um going to the priest. Um Most likely they knew that this person was. Most likely they knew he was a leopard and and was not allowed to go into the temple. Now all of a sudden he's up, he's clean. What are the priests, what are the Pharisees thinking What happened, this is a a miraculous sign. And thus probably it intrigued the Pharisees and scribes to start coming out and hearing who this man is And we're going to see in the last section in here um more of a focus on the Pharisees and scribes who are now coming out and actually seeing who this man is. Um Yeah, it would be interesting to to It would be interesting to see hear more of what happened to these um priests and Pharisees when when this man came and showed himself. Be very interesting to see what they thought. Let's look at the next account. And again, this account is the paralytic being lowered through the roof. I've always also wondered if after they came through the roof that Jesus Fix the roof. Let there be a roof. With shingles and uh all kinds of stuff. Um would someone like to read the blended account on the parallel? After that, Jesus went out again to the seashore, and all the people were coming to him And he was teaching them. He knows the text collector named Levi, called Matthew, the son of Albia sitting in the text to collect his food, and he said to him Oh wait, um I think wrong one, sixty nine. That was one and two. I know no one's in the boat. I'm in the wrong one? Getting into the boat? I thought I was on the right one, sorry. No, I was like I that's familiar, but but Getting into a book? Section thirty-nine on page and it the reading the reading actually happens on page sixty-nine. Oh there's forty getting into a boat. Getting into a boat, there it is. Getting into a boat, Jesus crossed over the sea and came to his own city, Pernium, several days after birth. When it was heard that he was at home, many were gathered together so that there were there was no longer room, not even near the door. Speaking the word to them. He was teaching, and there were some Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was present for him before healing. And four men were carrying on a bed a man who had been paralyzed, and they were trying to bring him in as Set him down in front of him. But not finding any way to bring him in because of the crowd, they went up on the roof, removed the roof above him, and when they had dug an opening, And let him down through the tiles with a stretcher in the middle of the crowd in front of Jesus, seeing their faith He said, Take courage, son, friend, your sins are forgiven you. The scribes and the Pharisees were sitting there and reasoning to themselves in their hearts, Why does this man speak this way? saying, Who is this man who speaks? Speaks blasphemies. Who can forgive sins but God alone? But immediately Jesus, aware of their reasonings, answered and said to them, Why are you you thinking, evil reasoning about these things in your heart. What is easier to say to the narrow your sins that appear to you, or to say, get up and pick up your palate and walk, but so that you may know that the sun Man has authority, honor, forgive sins. Then he said to the paralytics, I say to you, get up and pick up your stretcher and go home. Immediately he got up before them and picked up what he had been lying on and went home in spite of everyone, glorifying God There were all they were all struck and astonished in the hand glorifying God who had given such authority to men, and they were filled with fear, saying, We have seen remarkable things today. We have never seen Interesting. And on the uh verse twenty, seeing their faith, he said, Take courage, friend, you are cleansed. No No, now it's a switch. Now it's right to where the message is going. You are for your sins are forgiven. And also interesting about the um points Dr. Plumley uh brought about the the Pharisees and the scribes. In verse 17, it's talking about Pharisees and teachers of law who came from every village of Galilee and Judea. So the word is getting around, and now we're having the Pharisees, scribes, teachers of the law coming to find out who this man is. What I oh there's some other question. Kinda what's kinda interesting here, I was kinda pushing the envelope a little bit of Did this man come for healing or did he come for forgiveness of sins? Like for example, if if take courage son, friend, your sins are forgiven, would they have just like pulled them back and taken them back home? Because we don't really see a response of like, wait a minute, I I'm not I I came here for the healings, you know. I'm not worried about my sin. Yeah, I I I feel like this could have maybe a bit funny to like it it seems like you obviously can't get it. And to have Jesus say something so different from what he was expecting might have been shocking and like come on, you can see he wanted to But the obviously has a much more powerful point. I think it's more powerful this way from the big point of our freedom of sin. I guess he didn't he probably mentioned this not elsewhere, but this seems to be the most powerful one when he says that something we said. I don't know if I don't know if he would separate out his thinking the aspect of being paralyzed and the aspect of being a sinner. I think he probably would consider that sort of a a result of sin in his n not necessarily specifically in his life, but just in general at least. But um I I I'm thinking because Jesus saw their faith, what did they have faith in? They had faith in Jesus was could could make things right. That I I don't know if they if if he was thinking along the lines of uh you know, I just want to be k I just wanna walk I think he w he wants to be right. I want to be healed. I want to be whole, I guess. When he sees not only his physical uh ailment, but I think I think there's a connection that they would a view in that time would probably make and as far as how they would consider sin, you know, just I I'm thinking along the lines of the people that would say, well is it With this man lie, was that because his family's father or his parents had that quarter mentality was prevalent. Yep. So perhaps his condition was a result of his sin. He would see it that way. And he may have seen it that way. Um and just wanted forgiveness and and that may have been the priority. At least that's You never want to put into scripture only take out, but it's it's an interesting consideration that perhaps um I mean Jesus knows our hearts and our minds and is giving him really what he what he wants. I'm also struck by the fact that that's that's their sin, their faith rather Uh like who is the who is the there? Yeah, right. It's it's four men. I'm assuming it encompasses a man who sins were Yeah, it seems like yeah, that that faith is missing their faith. And the what? The people who brought it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So is that why they say prime? No, uh to the the paralytic it's take courage, son, friend, your sins are forgiven. The the ver the the words right before it, verse twenty, seeing their faith, that plural their We're referring most likely to the four men who hacked through the roof and lowered him down. So who got sick? The man who's paralyzed or all all five men? Interesting. Yeah, it doesn't say anything about the other four men, Food. It only talks about the paralytic. Well I think the other oh I'm sorry. Well I I'm just gonna um sort of like what what you're doing is is kinda think it think outside the box here. And um I'm thinking Jesus knew that in this this crowd were um Pharisees, teachers of the law. And he knew why they were there. Yes. He knew they were there not to learn well not to learn for their own benefit, but to to learn maybe a way they can trip them up and seem to be a threat to them and they want to get accurate information from Um and it says he he knows he he perceived what they were thinking Um and he knew they were thinking um uh what they were thinking, not because he had divine power omniscience, but I bet everybody in the room could read the faces of these guys who were so skeptical. Um And the reason Jesus did miracles It was not primarily in the case of healing, it wasn't primarily to heal people, although he was compassionate and he did, but it was primarily to authenticate his Authority. And that's what they're asking. And so the therefore ought to be, well, listen to it. And he he wanted the Pharisees, uh the teachers of the law, to make that connection. That if I can heal somebody, it's It's coming from God, then well sadly. Yeah, there's there's definitely two very important points coming out of this message. And that being the the the second one for sure is it seems like this whole scene is kind of orchestrated to more emphatically point at the Pharisees who are coming out, believe me this is just some guy, happened to get lucky with with uh uh one cleansing. Um And so one to actually come on to see really who this who this person is. Um what I think is really scary is Jesus is turns his attention to the Pharisees at some points and saying, Why are you thinking evil? So clearly And it's kind of a scary thing to to think that God can actually know our thoughts. So he's putting the Pharisees on the spot. Um I mean I would be my first reaction would be how does this man know what I'm thinking? Um and he calls it right now how you know thinking evil. Um And then what follows is just really interesting. What do you think is more difficult? To forgive sins or to say get up and you know get up and and and walk, be healed And it's significant because the Pharisees are just thinking this is a man. So From just kind of a human perspective, what is easier for what is easier for me to go around and just say, oh, your sins are forgiven? I could I can say that. You never I mean you would never know. But what if I actually went up and someone who's paralyzed and just get up and walk? If you can see that and believe that, more importantly, when I say sins are forgiven, you should believe that as well So it's a sign um pointing to the authority of Christ, and really his deity, that he could actually say something like get up and walk And and the the the servant the the crowd there probably knew who this person was, so it wasn't a stage, something staged. Um and clearly he was paralyzed. Um and it wasn't a um go home and in three months your disease will be cured. No, it was immediate organic change That's not something a man, a human can do. So clearly the Pharisees should have walked away like this is something we've never seen before. should not only take his ability at at at being able to heal something, but more significantly that he can actually forgive sins. So if you can believe the one right before your eyes, it's not a hard lead to see that he can also forget sins. So yeah, there's there's it's interesting how Chris really orchestrates this. All these events um So the first one just talking about healing, this one now emphasizing not just healing but the forgiveness of sins, and secondly, uh rebuking the Pharisees. We have two more. Anybody have any questions before we move to the Jesus calls Matthew? Yes. I mean serious when, you know, he asked for his service. And he's got another few pages like this. So I think you know, maybe he was trying to have the doubt to know that he was right. Well and and his accusers as well. Right, right, right. Yep, yep. And hopefully teaching The crowd, um, and we're gonna look at we'll we'll see it more, um the hypocrisy and That's found in trying to hold rules that we obviously cannot. Yes. I I think I wonder if You know, they they they usually tended to attribute sickness or illness to thin right, maybe that person you know had done something and therefore they deserve, you know, what they were going through like the leaven, the um liquor and This person. Uh so I wonder if as Jesus said that, you know, your sins are forgiven Um they actually understood exactly what what he was saying. Because even maybe the person who was also So far Larry would have felt some kind of shame that it was a sin, you know, that had come that had given him that condition Yeah, very very possible. Um you know, he was speeding on the four ninety-five and he committed a tragic accident and it's just you know he's racked with guilt. He's just meeting perhaps he's just seeking seeking that forgiveness as possible. Go ahead, Ms. Uh good morning to everyone. I'm sorry I'm late as usual. Uh please forgive me. Uh I wanted to add something that I think it's amazing how God I mean how Jesus told the uh paralyzed guys to not tell anyone And then I mean he already knew everything. He knew the guy was gonna say something you know, because he can read minds, he know us, you know, he created us. So um but yet people still deny him. And I have one more question. And and uh please understand I'm still learning too. No one has ever, it states in the Bible, no one has ever seen Gone. But yet they fix God up with blue eyes, tail skins, and make his hair look like he'd been to the salon Why do they still do that? I mean I that's that's still on my my I mean, is it because they don't read the Bible or is it because they want it to be what they want it to be? Because it is said that some people read the Bible and they think from what they want it to be, even changing the words in their mind and their heart So I I I just really sure Christ has blonde hair blue eyes. Especially coming from that part of that. Yeah, yeah. But coming from that region, probably had olive skin, probably curly dark hair, probably dark eyes. So Why do people why do people re uh depravity? Why do people take something out of the scripture and twist it for something else? People do. And that's that's just like from the beginning of the fall, right? You know. Does God's word really did God really say that? So scripture twisting is a very common practice, unfortunately. Is there another Jesus knew that he was there for forgiveness Because you can see his heart. Yeah. And the audience there are the people, not the first. So, I mean, throughout the New Testament Jesus referred to the Pharisees and the scribes as being the children of Satan. Not children of his father. Yeah. So I think he's set the stage up for the Pharisees This is who I am. You know, I'm proclaiming from who I am and when I do work Yeah, yeah, it's interesting. At this point it's just um talking about their thoughts as being evil. As we get further down the road you're gonna see this increase more and more, you know, talking about them being hypocrites, vipers, um, wickedness. That will increase as we continue. Continue through the scripture. One thing is kind of interesting in this passage when it talks about Centesis, they will see their faith and then a little bit later he understands the things that they're reading. reasoning in their hearts. Yeah, these are not normal things. You know, I mean what what does faith look like? You look at somebody, oh that person's full of faith, I can see it's coming out of their ears, you know It's it's just kind of little hints into yeah, he was he was not like us, you know, he had the ability to understand what people were thinking. And we we could say he saw their face, he saw oh they couldn't get in the door so they climbed up on the roof and cut a hole in the seat in the in the roof. that demonstrates fate and and maybe we could take encouragement from that. You know, they obviously were concerned for their friend and their fate kind of brought them to the point where it's like they're desperate We want to get him because we believe he can do something for our friend, we're going to get him right in front of him. Yep, yep. Faith is a strong motivator, so is desperation. And I agree on that because you wouldn't take your friends of someone who you didn't believe could help them or think that they're gonna do more evil to them. So I agree with They brought him to Jesus because they had heard and they had faith in hearing and um They brought their friend there knowing that he would be in better hands than what he is now. Mm-hmm. And probably willing to take the consequences, right? I mean cutting through someone's roof Um you better really make sure that your face better be very short. And probably asking, oh can you fix the roof too? Yes. I think there's there's one thing that I think unique about this killing that I just over any other instances of killing is that this guy had friends and a lot of times she Somebody they have new friends. So whether this was a new incident, a new film that I had, if we had like some friends that were dedicated to you to I don't know. Um, but it is interesting that he had friends who believed and loved him so much that they climbed her oh, she came on and spent all that time thinking. That faith that she No, but because there's a lot of their time to it that if you don't speak to many other people that receive before you have a time path. Right, right. Yeah. A good Samaritan, yeah. Another another display of compassion. It's also um showing that we come in um into life or come into vision with one idea. But God always has his plan and he always uses us to accomplish his plan. So he used this man, sickness, to accomplish two plans. To show the Pharisee his power, also bless this man by saving him and heal him. and using that healing not just to benefit the man alone, but for the crowd and for Pharisees. So it's the Lord using us as to fulfill his purpose. Not just for physical healing or salvation. Um just probably to it In fact, in verse 24, we can see that even Christ Himself is putting the emphasis not on the healing. But on the forgiveness of sinners, right? Verse twenty-four. So he's doing this. Go pick you know, get up and pick up your pal and go home. And he says, but so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to f to forgive sins. That's that's the driving message. Yeah, okay. Switching from healing to now really the reason I'm doing the healing is so that you can see that I have authority and that my authority includes being able to forgive sins That's the big take-home message. And to do that in front of the Pharisees. So the Pharisees know exactly where Jesus stands in terms of authority, ability to forgive, deity. Um it seems to me like I I would be much more impressed Well, it seemed like we'd be much more important um that my um body was healed. rather than my sins forget. Just because I'm dim and so forth, we we seem much more impressed by that. That's somehow that's great. That's great for him. Well we would miss the aspect of his sins being forgiven and how absolutely critical that is how much far more critical that is than Jesus puts it in that lady He puts it in the lane of sins being forgiven as being really the primary thing here. This this whole healing of the body, I guess, this is the side I know you think that's important, but this is far more important. Yep, yeah, yeah. Yeah, that ver verse twenty is really a a pivotal, pivotal verse. Um why don't we go to the next section 40, uh which is going to talk about Jesus calls Matthew to follow him. Um, and I just have two comments on this one. Um, would someone like to read? Again the the blended account. After that pieces went out again by the prestigious all the people were coming from And he was equal to that. He knows that psychology is Lee Mark called Matthew, the son of Al Alfar of Thetis City managed the tax co collector move and he said to him, Follow me. And he said, um And he left and he left everything behind and got up and began to follow him. And Levi gave a big reception from him. in this house. And there was a great crowd of sex collectors and singers who would be flying at the table with Jesus and disciples and they will they will follow me. When the Pharisee and the tribe saw that he was eating with the singers and sex collectors, and they began to squumbling at disciples, saying, Why do you and your teachers Eat and drink with a tax collector and singer. But when Jesus heard this, he entered a resident It is not it is not who not it's not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick. But go and learn what is me. I desire compassion and not sacrifice, for I have not come to call the righteous the sinner to attend The name is interesting. Um Matthew actually means gift of the Lord. So it seems like His initial name, which is a great Jewish name, Levine. Fantastic. Um kind of this former name that was associated with tax collecting and most likely very sinful past. was renamed Matthew, meaning gift of the Lord. Um so kind of a symbolic meaning trans transition of a former life to now a present life Um and interesting how he just got up and and we see this. Um it's kind of interesting to think about like get up and leave everything. And he does. That's kind of an interesting response, isn't it, Proust? I'm thinking probably Matthew, revise, probably been struggling with this. You know, he was not only just As a tax collector, the Jews would hate tax collectors. So um you're taking money from your brothers and sisters. Um Not sure how his life at the temple would be, how his life at home would be. Um but he was not a very lucky guy. I've always been fascinated with this as a tax collector myself. I thought you were a researcher. I'm a researcher. Um the big problem that Jews had with their tax collections, their two problems actually. One was It wasn't just the the Jewish tax that they were collecting, the temple tax. It was the Roman tax. Um And the oppressors were the ones benefiting from this. And here's a Jew, they enlisted the Jews to uh be tax collections for that. And so they were perceived as sellouts to be aggressive. But the other reason was They would skim off the top or charge more than was due and they used basically the power of Rome to enrich them at the expense of the Jews And so there's a double uh cause for people to say. And And almost always in gospels when you see tax collectors, you have the word sinners in the same text collectors. So it was natural for the Jews to dislike us. Sort of like it was natural for the Jews to dislike this Americans for different reasons, but it was just a natural thing. It was a cultural thing. Yeah. And yet we see Matthew, we see um Zacchaeus, and apparently others who um Ultimately trust in Christ. It's a saying anywhere in Scripture. You can't be disciple, but he's not giving the textbook I I would assume so. Why would you go back to a former way of life? Um it's just like us. I mean, Yeah. We're should the share across that by the other clear jobs and we'll share Yeah, we still have Sid for sure. Um but our lives are different from you know, the motivation of what my past life was compared to today, very different. Um Well the passage actually says and he left everything behind and got up and began to follow it. Yeah it sounds pretty permanent. There's no yeah. Yeah, no reason from the text to believe he ever went back. Before we press something we're just thinking about this, it says uh at the very end He didn't Jesus didn't come for the righteous, he didn't came for the sinner. There is a righteous. The unit people there probably that thought they were righteous were the Pharisees. Yeah. Yeah. You must have looked at you must have looked at my there is no righteous anymore other than Christ. You must have looked at my notes because I was going to ask why not call the righteous? Because there are none. Yeah. Good point. Yes. Do we know where this I desire is attached to the side if I completely earlier screen? Yes, it is. That's why you must have looked in my notes too. Um Yes. Uh cited from Hosea six six. Um someone want to read it? It it it it's a great uh why don't we read that scripture? Yeah, Hosea six six. And just if you want to write down some some other additional verses, you can write down 1 Samuel 15, 22, and also Micah 6, 6 to 8. Actually if someone would like to read Micah six six to eight and someone Hosea six six oh first Samuel fifteen verse twenty two Hosea Someone wanna read Micah six, verses six to eight With what shall I come before the Lord and bow myself before God on high? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings? With calves a year old, would the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body, for the sin of my So he has told you, a man, what is good, what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice and to love kindness and to become God. So sacrifice without compassion um is not what he's seeking. tax collectors and so I remember I think when Israel went to they went running the same and said they were Wanted to have a key like all the other patients in the same set. No, I don't think we do. Because one of the things that is gonna happen I mean I Steam says something about he's gonna want to start collecting taxes along with another list of things that you're not gonna want. And I remember the people saying, We don't care. We just want to came like everybody else. So here, what fifteen hundred years later, they hate tax problems. So it just made me think back to that conversation. That whole that whole you know, First Kings, Second Kings where it's just like get a king and then Oppression. Oh, we want a king again. Okay, holding, everything's great, and then oppression. And just like this cycle. We have a very patient God. Very patient God. Um The one thing I did want to mention about this um I desire compassion, not sacrifice. I do want to mention that um How this section emphasizes that the priority of of of the law's moral standards over ceremonial requirements. Oh sorry. Yeah, there's there's a juxtaposition here of moral standards, ceremon ceremonial requirements. The Pharisees tending to focus on the outward ritual aspects of the law while neglecting what's more important to God, the inward and moral changes. Just kinda wanted something I was I was thinking about looking at this difference of compassion versus sacrifice for just sacrifice purposes. Without the compassion uh it falls on deaf ears Um the other famous tax collectors I when he came to pay he payback those like property. Above above and beyond. Four times. Four times, yeah. And so it it seems to me that m maybe he stayed a tax collector, maybe that's a believer and maybe did so honestly. I I just put that up as sort of like a question. It's like is there a job that I suppose there are jobs that we that in our society that we wouldn't subscribe to wouldn't you know if we were in that job and we became a believer it'd be like I gotta quit. It doesn't fit with my face. I don't know if that's one of those jobs I mean I guess certain jobs that could probably happen. Um uh try to think of I'm saying I I I was talking about like a bouncer at a script club or something like that. Yeah, that's a good example. I mean how are you I'm with becoming a believer. Yeah, unless you're trying to justify, you know, well hey, someone's gonna preach someone's gonna preach to these people. Um preaching and the bounce the preaching the bouncer preacher. Yeah. I I also feel death and please correct me if I need some info. Um when God said he came to save us It it means those that was was doing wrong but they weren't heeding to I mean heeding to it in other words, stopping what they were doing. They couldn't do it without him coming to let them know that, hey, this has to stop. And I'm gonna go give you the Holy Spirit to help you stay from these things that you used to do. So um God didn't come to be a king over anyone, but he came to let them know there's hope in him. So I'm thinking that Uh if we are Christians believing that Jesus Christ did walk this earth at one time or another Or we believe in the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit in our heart, mind, and soul. And our heart has soaked it up as it's preached to us by our pastor. Um we still we are still sinners, but we don't go back to what we used to do. We try to We got something to fight help us fight through it, which is the Holy Spirit. Well I w I would say for i uh to stay in the text when when that use of sick They knew what a physician was. You would send a physician to send someone who is physically sick, right? In the same way, I'm coming here to s to fix the sinner. So that's the reason why he's using that that that picture of a physician. Physician deals with people who are sick, disease I'm coming here to fix your sin issue. So that's that's yeah. They gave gave gave them the picture of the physician and the sick person and now This is in that same light. I'm here as a physician for your sin. Um we have about ten minutes. for the last one, which is talk about feasting and fasting. Someone like to read that blighted section? That's on page seventy one. Oh, oh we're gonna do the we're gonna do the blended oh no we're gonna do the blended piece which is right underneath that. It's it starts with verse 18. It's in bold Yeah, it it kind of takes all three of those gospels and puts them into one so it's a little so you get The Pharisees were fasting. And they came to him asking, why did he do? And John disciple often fast often. Prayers and the disciples Pharisees also do the same. But your disciples eat and drink and do not fast. And Jesus said to them You cannot make the attendance of the bridegroom ask while the bridegroom is with them, can you? So long as they have the bride with them, they cannot fast. But the day will come And when the bridegroom is taken away from them, then they will fast, in those days. And he was also telling them Herrible. No one tears. No one tears a piece of Um what is that? Untruck. Untruck. And puts it on an old garment Otherwise the passion pulls away from the garment and a worse tear he thought. He will both tear the new and the pieces from the old from the new will make match the old. No one puts new wine into old uh wine pin, otherwise the new wine will burst the skin and it will be spilled out and the skin will be wrong. But the new wine must be put into the flesh. Wine skins, fresh wine skin, and both are preserved. And no one after drinking did want And no one after drinking old wine wine was new. I mean wish for news. And he said the old is good enough. So ten minutes to go through this passage. There's a th again, rich rich and there's write these several several sermons on this passage. Um and I would just bring to let this Two really important pieces here that come out on the on this passage. One talking about fasting and another one is these two examples of of um patches and wineskins There's two really important messages here. Has anyone ever done fasting? I was gonna ask. The one time The the one time I fastered was with Hong or a a Vietnamese church. Somehow she was pregnant so she got out of fasting, but I c I couldn't do the same thing I was I had to do fasting. Well she was eating food out. Um but it is interesting. I n I never really gave it much thought, but it really in my own experience really and I was it really did land to me being able to focus more on I think we were doing we were praying I forgot exactly what was praying but a full twenty four hours of prayer. Um So there is a place for fasting. Um it's not a requirement. Um But it is a it is something that that as believers we do do at times. Um a couple of things I did want to note about it A little bit earlier in Matthew 6, 16 to 18, we do see some examples of what exactly is fasting about One of them being primarily uh with the morning or deep concentrated times of spiritual activity. So prayer Um you look back, David fasted over his firstborn child. Um um But the Pharisees here went above and beyond what's prescribed for fasting. Um in fact I only found one really There's very few examples. And the one example I did find was Leviticus 16, 29 to 31. Um It talks about feasting or being fasting on the Day of Atonement. Um but that was really about it. Um in fact to kind of counter that I think we have time to go to Isaiah 58, 3 to 6. Um rebuking uh hypocritical fasting. Isaiah 58, 3 to 6. Typically, and in the case of these Pharisees and scribes Christ is actually against this act of public display of so-called spirituality. Like, oh woe is me, look how spiritual I am. That's not what fasting is about. It's really You shouldn't be showing you know it's it's better to fast and to sh show and and and to kind of h Hide it in your heart, I think it's um the point being fasting is not for the purpose of public display. If you want to go to that, I would recommend go to that Isaiah 58, 3 to 6. If you have time for it, but I did want to highlight some examples of New Testament fasting. I'll give you a few of those. So again there's the Matthew nine, fourteen to fifteen, talking about fasting in and uh and times of mourning. Later on in Matthew 17 verses 21, fasting for the purpose of prayer, there's a couple in Acts, Acts 13, verses 2 to 3, and Acts 14. 23, uh fasting in regards to seeking God's will. So there are examples. There's no law that you have to be doing fasting Um and again, um it's not for the purpose of public display showing off how spiritual I am. Whereas that's really what the uh what's going on here in terms of the Pharisees and the scribes. Um We have about five minutes. I really wanted to touch a little bit. You know, I'm gonna leave the I'm just gonna say one In my studies, those two examples about uh the old wineskin, the new wineskin, uh old patch on an old wineskin, new or new wine in an old in an old uh wine um skin um was really um a picture. It's a picture of how this new covenant truth that Jesus is bringing. Cannot be placed on this mosaic ceremonial forms. These fastings that are practiced by the Pharisees. Um These were no longer fit for the truth of what the new new covenant is. Um so rules, regulations, try to work your way to be Holy and blameless before God, that's not going to work anymore. Well, it never really worked. But um this new covenant in Christ is replacing all that. And in fact, the new cannot be contained by the old is kind of the analogy. I wish we had more time really to go into it's it's a powerful lesson. Um I did want to w at least get a few minutes if we can go to the discussion. Which is unfortunate. I don't think we have time. But um I really wanted to When we go home, I was really struck by the um application about five and number six. If you're looking for something to do later, um What do we learn about Jesus' the strategy that he employs in his ministry? Um this kind of wanted the Mention these on number five and number six was what do we learn about his teaching? Um again, knowledge is great, but if it doesn't impact our lives. Um I think we really miss out. Um, what is Jesus' ministry strategy? Um he would have preferred to be less publicized so they wouldn't have been swamped with people. Um pray a lot. He prayed a lot, yeah, often such a way into the wilderness to pray. Um Always taught that people, even at even crowds at a time, routinely reached out to sinners and outcasts, calling them to repentance. Um, how do our ministries reflect this kind of mindset? Um 'cause we can really get caught up in the activity and kind of leave the whole idea of repentance and compassion um as kind of the last piece of of our ministries, right? So I would really Take these lessons and try to imply them into your own ministries. And again, also um I really wish we could spend some time about what do we learn about his teaching. Um I wish I had that first bullet point. Perceiving the thoughts and being able to know what people are thinking and feeling and wrestling with uh uh circumstances and text um and being able to orchestrate it all. What a fantastic ministry that would be um I don't know if anybody has any thoughts on ministry and how Jesus ministered. And any kind of last thoughts on the on the lessons? I'm wondering if there's something really deep in well, sure there is. Wondering if there's something we can ascertain from the aspect you brought out this idea of bridegroom and Jesus putting out there that He is the groom and the church is the bride and just sort of the the aspect that he's coming here to sacrifice for his bride. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. In a very real way. And um I just I just see sort of that the beauty of that statement and that brings that out. I'm sure if I therefore exist it until later. And how there will be a time of mourning, right, when when Christ is gone when he's you know he's on the cross, comes back and then uh resurrected and back to heaven, right? Um there is probably some mourning that's going on there. So um So in terms of like uh yeah there will be you know in in that verse where it talked about like there will be a time for mourning. Um But in the end, uh the bride and the bridegroom will be brought back together. Um at that celebration. I don't know if I had to always explain what people do with people. Jesus never told us to pray for Jesus. He always puts the emphasis on his father. He was always here doing his father's will Uh he never really wanted to be crazy. He was here to do a service, you know, like this and everything. It bridges that gap that the fall thing falls between God's man So, you know, it's it's it's amazing how he uses his authority, but he never demands to be respected with that authority. Well, he does want the people to recognize he has that authority with God. So so if if if we're giving praise and honor to God the Father Equally we give give give that same praise and honor to to Christ. Yeah. But yeah, uh a humble servant doing the will of his father for sure. It just strikes me in all of these all the miracles of human and stuff like that. that you know God's omnipotent. He could have with just one word healed everybody in the world for us. But he chooses to do it, you know, almost surgically and and instructively. And it just reminds me means that God doesn't want mindless automatons in in in worship and in following God. He wanted He wants us to make that choice. That's why he created Adam and Eve the way he did and gave them the choice of whether or not to obey them or not just by the choice of the root of one tree. And and uh and all of that is um it just strikes me that it's still a it's still a decision, even though you know with in efficiency that faith is not in a in another themselves is of God. But the thing is it's still a choice for us to decide to um uh to obey God or not to to follow. And I think that still shows, you know, God's love towards us, that's still we're just not mindless in all of this. And yet, you know, the the the decision for eternity we still we don't want any any continued benefits. Yeah, if you wanted mindless robots then just going through them doing the sacrifices would have been fine, right? But no, he wants compassion. So where's compassion coming from? It's it's me wanting and desiring to to worship him. But yeah, God making that change in us so that we have that ability to not perfectly unless it up a lot, but Any final thoughts? God is over as opposed to us um what in what we preserve. And um I I thank him every time I'm on my knees for this book of life, this survival. Uh it it's sort of like a um direction book to me. And uh in um Matthew six, uh I You know, they asked God how do we pray to disciples? And he gave it to 'em in uh chapters uh six I think it was. Um I was afraid our father. Um He he did he always acknowledged his father and him even when he was doing the killing uh in the time that he wants to serve And um but we always end it in Jesus' name. Um God been so good to us God, that's all I can say. He's just been so good to us. Like I said, more than what we deserve. And um one thing about him, he will be with us even in our trials and tribulations Uh just believing him. He's our hope. He's our hope. He's our only hope. And um I had to tell my kids the other day I I love y'all, but I just have the title of being mom. I say if ever you want anything star, now that you're wrong, trust in God. I say, because I'm only here for a short time And uh trust in him. I think because I trust in God before I trust in you. And and that's just me. That's just me. All mothers may not say that and may not tell their kids that But God is our hope and strength. Well said. Well said. Any final thoughts before we pray out? Again, I really implore take a look at those uh applications and discussion pieces, questions, just to Really engage our minds, engage our hearts. Um especially as we go to worship and communion today. I'll I'll I'll pray for us.