Lesson nine here. It's called Growing Fame I think we've already seen how Jesus' miracles, probably more so than his teaching, at this point has attracted all sorts of people and um of course we'll see more of that here even today So we're going to start with section 38 where Jesus heals the leper and again news about him spreads. I'll go ahead and read the blended account here. We're on page 58. Well he was in one of the cities, and again you remember as we Left off last time, he was doing a fair amount of traveling throughout all of Israel, certainly Judea and Galilee, and even points beyond. And while he was in one of the cities, Behold, there was a man covered with leprosy. And when he saw Jesus, he fell on his knees and bowed down on his face before him and implored him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. And moved with compassion, Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing. Be cleansed. And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was cleansed. And he, Jesus, sternly warned him and ordered him to tell no one, See that you say nothing to any one, but go and show yourself to the priest, and make an offering for your cleansing, just as Moses commanded, as a testimony to them. But he went out and began to proclaim it freely and to spread the news around to such an extent that Jesus could no longer publicly enter a city, but stayed out in the unpopulated areas. And they were coming to him from everywhere. And the news about him was spreading even farther, and large crowds were gathering to hear him and to be healed of their sicknesses. But Jesus himself will often slip away to the wilderness and pray. So This seems to be just continuing the pattern that we've already been seeing. And you can imagine Even in our day, right? If if someone were to um be healing people of very debilitating diseases Of course, in our day, the news of it would spread hyper fast, right? And initially there would be some skepticism, perhaps. Um but it wouldn't take long before some of these healings were captured on video and and they're they're already on YouTube and they're just going viral and The more and more that happens, and the more and more testimony of those who have actually been healed gets circulated, people are going to be going to the sky. And that's certainly what was happening here. And um it does say that um they were coming to hear him But uh the draw, I think, mostly was the prospect of of healing. Whether it's they needed healing or they wanted to be um Um what? Excited by actually witnessing one of these miracles. So that was both good news and bad news. The good news is, of course, lots of people were being exposed to what Jesus was doing and more importantly saying. The bad news here is it's very explicit that it was restricting his ability to um move around freely and um You can just imagine how tiring that could be, to be always inundated by crowds of people. I guess he did have the benefit that he wasn't uh regularly on the nightly news and uh uh going viral and on uh the internet but um clearly he was being pressed uh by just the massive amount of uh publi uh well um word of mouth publicity. Um crowds of people very much limiting um what he could do. And yet Even not preferring that context and telling people, don't tell anybody, you know, do what's required under the law Um they still did, and he still healed. He didn't seem to refuse. And so his compassion comes out here. And that's an important example. Also, his commitment to slip away quietly, presumably in the wee hours of the night. to pray when people were sleeping and they weren't crowding around him. Um you would Saying, I mean, if if I were in that situation, those would be choice moments to finally get some sleep and rest. But While he probably got some of that, he also saw it as a priority to stay in communion with the Father, which again is a great lesson, right? Any other observations there? Questions? Um yes, I had uh a couple. He healed a man physically and um He says, see to that, you say nothing to anyone but go show yourself to the priest. If the man was validated by the priest, how would that reflect on Christ? Like the the priest e the cleansed leper, they validate, okay, the man has been cleansed of his leprosy. How would that or would that benefit Christ um in any way? Instead of the man going to the crowd and um uh and the impact on Christ that he could no longer publicly enter a city. So I w what's the difference between going to the priest and Giving that testimony instead of um making it known to everywhere you go. I I think it was Levitical law that required him to go to the priests. Nullifying that, but what's the benefit to Christ? I don't think he was saying that uh for um strategic well, sort of strategic benefit. I mean the benefit to him and I I I think from the context the the reason he would tell him that and he told others the same thing right was to cut down on the um the crowds so that he could actually minister to people. He knew he couldn't meet everybody's need. And um Um he appears to um need um time and and space to minister the way he wanted to minister and not just become a spectacle and to have time to be able to teach, not just heal. And that's really hard when you just inundated with crowds wanting to see a miracle or to have a miracle done on them. But uh we see later in uh John, I think particularly that when Jesus tells somebody who was healed to go show himself to the priests and so on, the and the the Jewish leaders We're asking him, so how did you get healed? It's just a natural question. And that would also spread the testimony of Christ's um power and his his um uh um grace and mercy among those who um were s you know the the religious leaders of the day I see a lot of oh go ahead. It said he was covered in leprosy. I thought lepers weren't supposed to be mixing with like the general population, or is that a misunderstanding? Yeah, no, no, it's not a misunderstanding. Um uh and people wanted to stay away from them because uh uh uh as I understand it it's it's contagious and um um and and the fact that Jesus in healing him touched him would have been a shock to those around him. Um those who were lepers typically were were social distancing from non-lepers And likewise the other way around. So yeah, no, I think that's Yeah, definitely. One of the commentators I read pointed out that that Jesus touched an unclean um leper and the leper became clean in much the same way that God comes into humanity, instead of humanity corrupting him, he brings uh uh well salvation and cleansing to humanity. Yeah. Yeah, it's a good picture of that that same thing. Yep. I see a lot of tenderness that we as Christians can can emulate. Because the the leper he um he used body language to gain the attention of Jesus and then even his um What he did speak, it was in a it's in a passive voice. He doesn't even really feel, I guess, that he deserves to make a request. So it's it's like this very passive um way of trying to get help. And I think each of us encounter those people in our lives where They they don't even feel like they they deserve to ask for help or whatever because they've been struggling for a long time and they're kind of shut away, they're not they're not in close uh circle with other people. And so Jesus uh doesn't Doesn't even need a direct question, but he he sees the opportunity to uh to be a blessing Yeah, and it's an indication that this guy has some measure of faith, right? If if you are willing, you can clean me. You are able. It's just a question of whether you will. And um That's the kind of faith Jesus obviously was always looking for. Yeah, Bill? Oh, was that Bill or Greg? Yeah, I was just kind of pondering Thomas' question and um trying to think what you know what the reason would be for him to to do that. And and you know, it goes along with this teaching that um you know, you don't do your good works to be seen before men. You you do it to to be seen by God, to to be pleasing to to him. So I think that would be a a case um And I He wasn't seeking publicity in other words. Right. And I think another aspect would be We need to come to him by faith, not by sight. And you know, if if you're depending on miracles and you know the the miraculous then you might be depending on on site. And I th I think he you know he he wants people to I mean the the the works definitely show you know they they indicate he is who he says he is they they aut authenticate who he is But I think it's also a matter, you know, it could be a matter of coming by by faith and just not not by works alone, but just believing his word. Yep. Yep. Definitely. I think it also shows that Jesus is keeping the law because he told him to go do what the law said to do. I'm sorry, I I didn't quite catch it. He's keeping the law? Yes, he's he's didn't come to abolish the law. He's telling the leopards to go do what the law says to do. So he's not he's not um uh you know, going against the law. For sure. I was I was kind of wrestling with that because when I've read the Old Testament, you know, I've seen that You're really not to touch anything unclean. So I was wondering if he was following the spirit of the law. Um He did go ahead and touch the unclean man, uh, but then he also told him to show himself to the priest. Yeah, uh uh it's more importantly, uh maybe it was Victoria's point that he was uh urging the healed man to abide by the terms of the law. Because that's in the law too, when you are cleansed. Exactly. Right. Um but Jesus in many cases of course um um challenged the the prevailing uh sentiments about what keeping the law meant. Uh you know, like um those who said it was unlawful to heal on the Sabbath clearly didn't understand the purpose of the Sabbath. Um and there were a number of things like that where they were questioning his apparent um conflict with the law, or more usually, their traditions around the law. And and does the priest have to give the person permission to rejoin rejoin society? Yeah, the um Yeah, because they had to validate and confirm. Yeah, yeah, and and there was all also waiting periods just to confirm and and so on. Depending on the nature of the the problem. But leprosy was singled out as a um As um a a disease needed to be confirmed that it was no longer there. Anyway, let's go to the next section, which again is the healing. And you again see demonstration of faith and compassion here. So I'll go ahead and read beginning on page 59. Getting into a boat, Jesus crossed over the sea, that is, he's heading west, to his own city, Capernaum, several days afterwards When it was heard that he was at home, his new home, right, many were gathered together so that there was no longer room, not even near the door, and he was speaking the word to them. He was teaching, and there were some Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee in Judea, and from Jerusalem, and the power of the Lord was present for him to perform healing. And four men were carrying on a bed a man who was paralyzed, and they were trying to bring him in and to set him down in front of him But not finding a way to bring him in because of the crowd, they went up on the roof, removed the roof above him And when they had dug an opening and let him down through the tiles with his stretcher into the middle of the roof, into the middle of the crowd in front of Jesus Seeing their faith, he said, Take courage, son. Friend, your sins are forgiven you. The scribes and the Pharisees were sitting there and reasoning to themselves in their hearts, why does this man speak that way? Saying, who is this man who speaks and blasphemes? Who can forgive sins but God alone? But immediately Jesus, aware of their reasonings, answered and said to them, Why are you thinking evil, reasoning about these things in your hearts? Which is easier to say to the paralytic, your sins have been forgiven you, or to say, get up and pick up your pallet and walk But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, then he said to the paralytic, I say to you, get up and pick, pick up your stretcher and go home. Immediately he got up before them, picked up and what he had been laying on, and went home in the sight of everyone, glorifying God. They were all struck with astonishment and began glorifying God, who had given such authority to men And they were filled with fear, saying, we have seen remarkable things today. We have never seen anything like this. So a few observations here and comments. Again, you you see Christ I would say always responding quickly and well to faith. Right? And it probably would have been fairly easy to distinguish those who are coming to him for healing For more selfish reasons than coming out of faith. But he was also impressed with the friends who brought the guy Anyway, um he raises this question to the the Pharisees, which is easier to say your sins are forgiven or to say rise up and walk And that's a rhetorical question. Which is easier? Well, it's easier to say your sins are forgiven. But if only God can forgive, and they weren't wrong in that. um in saying that. But if only God can forgive, clearly also God is the only one ultimately who can heal. And so um the um Easier thing is corroborated, I guess is the word, by the harder thing here. And so they should in in in seeing that healing They should be convinced that what he said, your sins are forgiven you, is also true. Because if only God can heal and God can forgive, then they shouldn't have any conflict with that. But of course we know that most of the Pharisees continued to have conflict with that. They tried to uh undermine what he was saying and and doing because of their unbelief. Now um Verse uh two two to twenty-two in Luke, I guess. Says Jesus aware of their reasonings. They were reasoning mostly in their hearts, right? It wasn't really a conversation he was overhearing. But that's, in my mind, this doesn't necessarily mean he was reading their minds or reading their hearts, although he as God he would be capable of doing that. I think everybody in the room could look at the nonverbs of these guys, look at their unbelieving skepticism and look and reaction, and know exactly what they're thinking. And it it may have been merely that that Jesus was doing, or it may have been partly or wholly his divine omniscience. But in either case, um they were exposed. And um This would have been a good lesson for the crowd who were there. Not just the healing, but the connection here of healing with Sin and uh the forgiveness of sin based on faith as well So any other observations there? Questions? Yeah, first of all, I uh I find the record of Matt For Matthew, which you inserted here, um it was stunning and scary a uh at the same time Here are the these Pharisees and scribes reasoning or thinking, you know, that this man's blaspheming. And Matthew records that this was thinking evil. in their mind. I think it goes to uh at least from my from my un understanding and perspective it goes to point out that um A lot of times it's not it's not just what you do and actually verbalize that that is evil and sinful. A lot of times just entertaining and perhaps savoring thoughts that are unbecoming of Christ is in itself evil. And that makes uh that's why I say it's scary because it it means one really has to endeavor to get a a good understanding or a an increasingly uh better understanding of who Christ is, his person, his work, so that we don't think ill Oh, we don't think what constitutes evil about him. Yeah. Yeah, I think um it's pretty clear that Jesus taught that Every time those evil actions, the outward manifestations, always start with evil in the heart. Sometimes the evil in the heart is not exposed, but sometimes it is by their actions. Do you know if this is the first time he said your sins have been forgiven you? I think it may be. Particularly in the context Of a healing. Um I'm not at the moment remembering an earlier one chronologically here. Right, no do I because I I I was just focused on he was focused on the validating his power and authority through the physical healings but now there's a physical healing and a sp spiritual healing in front of the Pharisees and teachers. And the strategy that he uses this opportunity to exert his authority even more in front of these people, um, shows that God God's purposes and plans of unfolding and even everyone that's in that environment is uh therefore purpose, God's purpose ultimately. Mm-hmm. Even if they reject 'em Yeah, and in Luke verse 20 it specifically says, seeing their faith, he said, Take courage, your sins are forgiven So, let me just practically for us living today, how should we look at even negative oppos negative things that happen to us? Um um Well what am I trying to say? Our faith is based on trusting God no matter what. Right. So even if we have uh negative Or we go through something, how does a believer really should respond to God um uh in faith, not basing our faithful circumstances, but basing it on God Himself? Yeah, that was going to be my question too. Um, because I was thinking about how we have these churches that label themselves as word of faith and things like that. And you made the comment that Jesus is responding quickly to faith. What actually is it that Jesus is responding to? How do we define that space? Well, um in the context, Jesus is confronted with as we've been seeing, um lots of people who are coming to him for Multiple reasons. I mean, not necessarily any person with multiple reasons, but different people, different reasons. Many of those reasons are not Anything more than selfish, presumably. Um others um Like apparently both of these two, the the um the leper and now the lame man. Jesus was able to discern that they had more than a head knowledge that yes, you can heal me, but it was more a an active faith that yes um I can place my trust in you and it was more of a spiritual faith rather than just a head knowledge We're not going to be necessarily all that accurate in discerning whether someone's Quote unquote faith is just a um a selfish um head knowledge as opposed to a saving faith. But Jesus certainly could. And um so you know you've got these movements today that are that are Um when it really comes down to it, man centered rather than God centered. And um If we're if we're in um rather mature in our understanding of scripture and the heart of God, the will of God. It's not going to be too hard for us to make that discernment. Are they really man-centered here or God-centered? Um on a case by case basis we might not know for sure what's in someone's heart, but uh Yeah, I I g I guess I was asking more from my own heart because, you know, as Thomas mentioned I mean, for us personally, we come out of backgrounds where if you were going through a negative circumstance And that and God was choosing not to alleviate you of that circumstance. The accusation was you didn't have enough faith. That's right. Um so just wanting to be cheerful of um how we use that word and make sure we're using it ac biblically and accurately. Um in terms of how we respond to our circumstances and what that what it means to have faith. Like you said, a saving faith versus a selfish Well maybe I make uh one Tammy one thing that occurs to me we in Bill and Carol's group we did uh a lesson on word of faith movement. Is it Carol Milligan speaking. Please speak up. Oh yes, I'm sorry, let me turn my uh my sound up, I guess. So we did a word of faith study, Bill and Carroll Bailer's group. And one of the things we noticed is that people in the word of faith, it is man centered. You know, it is in other words, not Lord, if it be your will. You know, here's what we're asking for. You're given it permission to ask. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will, as Jesus prayed. These people often command the Lord. You know, I rebuke you, but there's an evil spirit. I command this, I command that. It's all man-centered. And that's one of the big distinctions that we learned in that group Um this reminds me uh of um something that was an eye opener and I went to Nepal for disaster relief and um I know that there was uh the church organizations were using disasters to get into the country to share the gospel, including like Samaritan purse and stuff like that. And when I went to talk to the village people through their translator, you know, they would share their testimony and they would always tell me about something that was healed. Like I you know, I I I you know, this got better, that got better and no one talked about Christ. No one talked about sins that were covered. No, and and I'm afraid that a lot of these organizations aren't bringing true evangelism to these countries. I don't think they're bringing the true gospel. I mean, I had one guy just try and say, Oh, you have a hole in your heart that only God can fill. I'm like, how do you translate that? I mean I mean they're probably thinking this guy's got, you know, a heart murmur or something. I I don't know, but um that I I guess that's just a pet peeve of mine is is what people are calling evangelism to some of these other countries. Do you have something there? Yeah, Did um I I think it's interesting here that It doesn't show much any an really say anything about the man who is being lowered down to the ceiling in terms of his faith. It talks about his friend's faith And uh, you know, they brought him, they went through the trouble, you know, the place was so crowded, they dug a hole in the ceiling and and let him down and and it says, you know, he sees their faith And another thing I think is is kind of curious we haven't really spoken to is it says that the power to heal was present. Now you know, a lot of times little details like that are missed. It's interesting. I I I'm just curious what that means. You know, obviously Jesus was aware of that. but it it it talks about seeing their faith and I think the other thing is pre people probably thought it was ridiculous that here he is being lowered down And he says, Your sins are forgiven. So he saw his greater need. You know, yeah, you know, it would be nice if you could walk again, but you need to have your sins forgiven. And uh, you know, just that probably almost seemed comical to some people. It's like, yeah, and what about healing him? That was it. Yeah, and I think um I y you try to put yourself in Jesus' position, which is kind of a dangerous thing to do, but here he's been healing for for many, many months. Lots of people. Crowds are coming because of all the healing. And I think he's intentionally shifting the attention toward the spiritual aspect of this And seeing faith and and actually I I think the there there may be all five of them, the four men and the and the guy on the stretcher, but It's hard to say. Um but here's an opportunity to actually um speak and teach about what's really important And the forgiveness of sins is the issue here, not, you know, that's that's the eternal question. The the physical malady is a is a short-term thing. And so I think he seizes the moment. And he knew exactly what these religious leaders how they were going to respond. Um it wouldn't have taken a rocket scientist to figure that out. And sure enough, you know, they're they're they're they're looking uh shocked that he would bring the whole idea of sin into it. And Uh the forgiveness of sin. Um so I think So we're say we're saying the forgiveness of sin is more important, and rightly so But yet in all of these other healings, before and after this incident, the forgiveness of sins is not even mentioned. Jesus just heals their physical need And that takes me to what Julie was saying about the people in Nepal or anywhere else. Their physical need is what what seems to have been met only I I I just wonder why. Well, I I think I think um ministry strategy wise Jesus began um meeting needs, healings, um, even uh you know, turning the water into wine, um uh multiplying fish, um doing things that would uh point to his divine nature. Um then he he uh coupled with that was teaching. We don't have a lot yet of uh into the content of what he was teaching. Some of it we do. Um but he obviously was was Seeking to link with what should be their conclusion that he is at least from God Even if they hadn't yet understood that he was God, but that therefore they would hear what he has to say. And um he wasn't rushing into the details of um the various elements of the gospel like we might present them today. But from the very beginning he was preaching repentance, as was John the Baptist. Right? And so it's repentance from what? From sin. But um I think we're going to see more and more the connection of faith and healing. rather than just healing as a as a testimony of his divine nature. But he I think here he's starting to make a deliberate transition to in his teaching that you know his his healing is not just a a side attraction It's trying to make a point. And the point is that he is God and you've got to get right with God. And sin is very much at the center of that. So Pastor Ellen, one one comment that doesn't need a um any answer, but one observation that I see is that in Jesus' teaching narratives The Pharisees are always tethered to his ministry, and there's certain things that we learn uh because of the hypocrisy and the unbelief that that Jesus addressed. And it and we wouldn't be able to learn those things unless Those Pharisees just kept following him and uh bringing their unbelief. Yeah, yeah, that's a good point. Can I make an observation? Uh oh sorry, go ahead. Go ahead, Victoria. I just want to say that his healings during the three years are really they really mirror what goes on today in our lives every day, with the exception of being miracles, like a quick quick thing, immediate thing Because today people are healed all the time. God heals them all the time. You know, mental illness or physical illness. But they're still going to hell. So it's really temporary And I think I think when he came to Earth, hi it was his compassion who moved him then. It's his compassion who has always moved him to heal people So I think uh um in that sense he just did what he's always been doing with humanity because he heals us Uh the second observation, well it's not an observation. Um the the idea of which is harder to do, your sins are forgiven or the heel, um I've heard it explained that they're both equal. One is not harder than the other because for man they're both impossible So what Jesus was saying. What what Jesus said was which is easier to say your sins are forgiven or to say Uh, take up your palate and walk. But they couldn't no man could say that and it be true either way. Yes, but people could say your sins are forgiven and no one would know that it was not the case because it's not something that's visual. So that's in that sense it's easier to say it and fake it, but if you say the other you can't fake it. That's true. That's true. Yeah, I see. Thanks. Good points. Okay, so let's proceed to section 40. And I'll go ahead and read the blended account here. After that, Jesus went out again by the seashore, and all the people were coming to him, and he was teaching them. He noticed a tax collector named Levi, called Matthew, the son of Alpheus, sitting in the tax collector's booth, and he said to him, Follow me. And he left everything behind and got up and began to follow him. And Levi gave a big reception for him at his house And there was a great crowd of tax collectors and sinners who were reclining at the table with Jesus and his disciples, and they were following him When the Pharisees and the scribes saw that he was eating with the sinners and tax collectors, they began grumbling at his disciples, saying, Why do you and your teacher eat and drink with the tax collectors and sinners? But when Jesus heard this, he answered and said to them, It is not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick. But go and learn what this means. I desire compassion and not sacrifice. For I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. So um Often the presumption here is that this is the first time Jesus and Matthew um meat and just out of the blue Jesus says follow me and he does um that isn't necessarily the case Um Jesus' fame was obviously widespread at this point, so Matthew would have had at least some understanding and knowledge of who this guy was But it's it's possible, like we see in the chosen, that Matthew actually had multiple observations and he has some conflict going on in his own heart and uh he gets to the point after some of these key miracles where he's willing to leave everything and follow Christ himself We don't have a lot of that background here, but we do know that he couldn't have been ignorant of who Jesus was and what he was doing. Esther, since you brought up the chosen, I have a question about that series, and I just wonder if it struck anybody else The portrayal of Matthew seems to be to me that Matthew is autistic He he he's just not normal. Um both his Roman Guard and the guard's superiors say that he's odd And he does act odd and I just wondered what basis they have for that. Um uh There's no biblical basis for it. Uh I have I have read some things about that. Um And I think their their um intent there was to use, you know, literary license to uh conjecture something about the character of um in this case Matthew that would account for his um attention to detail in the collecting of tax and this sort of thing. Um and yet his um Um well I don't know, they they they had multiple um things that they wanted to um plausibly demonstrate through Matthew. I also happen to know that the writer had some personal connection with someone with Asperger's I think it's syndrome. Um and thought that that would help to um explain something they saw in Matthew's character. But it's it's all conjecture, it's all plausible, but it's not like it It it needs, like most of the plot, most of the fill in the plot doesn't have to be explicitly in Scripture as long as it's not inconsistent with Scripture and is plausible. So um the answer shit. It it is sort of a device that um causes people's heart to reach out to Matthew in this case. Kind of he's he's personal. He's he's a He's a real human being with some character. And I think most writer uh film writers particularly want to um have characters like that Past the plumney, if I might ask, um uh the book of Matthew, is it attributed to this particular Matthew in question here? Yes, collector? Yes. Yeah, and if so, uh yeah. His description of when he gets called is kinda odd to me though, when you think about it, because um it it doesn't make any it doesn't help us at least doesn't help me see how this is personal because it says here that he saw a man called Matthew sitting in the tax collector's booth, which is I just I just find it a little odd that he that he had this description of it. It's almost as if somebody else was telling the story about Christ calling a person called for the task calling. Yeah, that's true, but what about John, who doesn't refer to himself by name, but rather as the disciple whom Jesus loved Good observation. Thank you. Thank you for pointing that out. I think rather odd, but there's a measure of humility here and there's a sense of um um you know trying to be more objective for a a broader audience. Now Luke, of course, is quite a bit different. He's very personal saying I've researched these things, I've talked to eyewitnesses. Um and yet when you get to Um the book of Acts, um he of course was a follower, uh uh a companion of Paul at times. And yet there's no particular um It doesn't it he he doesn't say and then I joined up with Paul here in in wherever it was and then I left him there We only can tell in in Acts that Luke is with them or not with them when he changes from they to we. And so there's there's a sense of humility, I think, and and not wanting to bring uh undue uh attention to themselves, but rather to Christ. Yeah, this one's even a a stranger observation in the book of John, John 3, 16 and 17 and 18 and beyond. where Jesus refers to himself in third person. And so it's very I I actually never thought about who was actually speaking John 3. 16 And it's it's Jesus himself uh referring to himself in third person. Well he and he often does that. He says, um when s when you do this to the Son of Man, this is what will happen Um he he's often speaking in the third person. Hey, the in the Bliv account, um, I noticed that Jesus is again again by the seashore. And Matthew is in his tax collector booth. So he's very familiar with Jesus, uh Jesus' teaching. And this time, Jesus calls him. I find that amazing. Out of all the teachings, all the things that Matthew probably would saw Jesus do by the seashore seashore He sees this now. I mean, I wonder if he even saw Jesus call Peter, um, John and all those guys with the uh the the miracle when he called them. I I don't know if Matthew saw that. But at this time Jesus calls him and he leaves everything also and um my question is Jesus uh how did he treat people like when we see the Matthew, the sinners and how the Pharisees uh responded to them and how Jesus responded to them What can we say how Christ really treated people? Well, um It depends on where they were at. I mean we see that here. If if they're um repentant or at least humble Uh perhaps demonstrating faith. He um has Great patience and and compassion and so on. But if they're unbelieving, he'll challenge them and expose their unbelief. Well anyway, let's we gotta go quickly to um one more here, section forty-one. Let me go ahead and read the blended account. John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting, and they came to him asking Why do we and John's disciples often fast and offer prayers, and the disciples of the Pharisees also do the same, but your disciples eat and drink and do not fast? And Jesus said to them, You cannot make the attendance of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them, can you? So long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. But the days will come, and when the bridegroom is taken away from them, then they will fast in those days And he was also telling them a parable. No one tears a piece of unshrunk cloth from a new garment and puts it in an old garment. Otherwise the patch pulls away from the garment and the uh worse tear results. He will both tear the new and the piece from the new will not match the old. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins, otherwise the new wine will burst the skins and it will be spilled out and the skins will be ruined. But the new wine must be put into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved. And no one after drinking old wine wishes for new, for he says the old is good enough. So uh a recurring theme here is that the religious establishment Which is mostly portrayed by the Pharisees and Company. Um uh were struggling with Jesus' nonconformity. And that's a natural struggle. Um this guy just doesn't fit in with our expectations of what any of us should do, let alone somebody who's claiming to be w what he's claiming to be. And so Jesus in rather typical fashion here makes a point of it, but by way of parable that may not stop their head scratching. Um and uh Um I think his his main point here is that as he said explicitly, you know he's the bridegroom and while he's here there should be um uh attention to him and even celebration. But um after he's gone there'll be plenty of time for for fasting. Um I think he threw these parables with uh the um patch on the cloth and the wineskins and so on was trying to Get them to think about um heart transformation. It's like telling Nicodemus, you must be born again Um that it's not what Jesus is trying to do is not just put a patch on their traditions. But to start um with the original intent of the law and God's salvation Um not just adding to uh the old. Which I'm sure did not uh sit very well with them and probably uh cause them even more consternation, more opposition because of their unbelief Um but it is what it is. Yeah, doesn't that have to do with um the Old Testament and the New Testament that Um is not just gonna patch up the old covenant, it's gonna be a new covenant. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, he wasn't getting uh doing away with the law Uh but he wasn't just adding to it either. It's a new covenant, but it's fulfilling the old. Right. Yeah. Can you explain verse thirty nine? I don't understand that one in the blended account. No one after drinking old wine wishes for new, for he says the old is good enough. Well, um the old The his point in saying that is that these Pharisees um have no concept of what the new is And they're thinking the old way of doing things, the old traditions. are all that there is and we're gonna we're committed to maintaining that. Um The the physical example here, no one after drinking old wine which is for new, I mean if if the old is in fact in his heart good enough and he doesn't know whether something else is going to be any better. Uh this works for me, why why move on to something else? And I think he's saying that's basically what's in the heart of the Pharisees They were content with the old, even though they misunderstood it, and had no concept of how it would be fulfilled in Christ. It it reminds me of the miracle at Cana changing the water into wine. The people were satisfied with the the old the wine they were drinking. In fact they drank it all up and they ran out of it And they didn't even know, but something that Jesus touched, they said, Wow, this wine is even better than than what we had been drinking. Right. Right