Well, we are on lesson six in our notes That would be page 40. Hopefully you all have those and you can be referring to those as we walk through these We're definitely getting into the meat, if you will, of Christ's public ministry here. And today we're starting off mostly with the Gospel of John, picking up in chapter 2, verse 13. Where Jesus cleanses the temple at the beginning of his public ministry. You'll remember that he uh did it again during Passion Week. But here in John, we see that he did so again also at the beginning of his ministry. So I wonder if someone could read that for us from John 2? Okay. The Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem, and he found in the temple those who were selling oxen and sheep and doves And the money changers seated at their tables. And he made a scourge of cords and drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and the oxen, and he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. And to those who were selling the doves, he said, Take these things away stop making my father's house a place of business. His disciples remembered that it was written, zeal for your house will consume me The Jews then said to him, What sign do you show us as your authority for doing these things? Jesus answered them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The Jews then said, it took 46 years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days? But he was speaking of the temple of his body. So when he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this And they believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken. Amen. Thanks, Bill. So um A couple of um important notes here. Um this is the first reference that we've seen to his participating in the Passover. This is the first Passover of his public ministry. And you can get an idea of the lapse of time in his whole public ministry by counting. the various Passovers. And there's reference to the feast and the Passover, and we'll see those as we go along. So I've numbered this one Passover number one of his ministry The other thing is the context here, where you've got all these money changers and the sellers of doves and uh sheep and all sorts of things. Um what's going on there? Well, the law, the Old Testament law, made provision for people who were coming to the feast To not have to actually bring the animals with them, but they could bring money and purchase um the animals for sacrifice after they got to Jerusalem. So that that God had provided for that possibility Well what's going on here is the rulers, and this appears to be the Sadducees. They're the ones who uh ruled the temple. Um they set up a monopoly. Given that they had people kind of over the barrel. And so in order to purchase I think this is how it went. In order to purchase these things, they had to use the official currency of the temple And so they had to exchange their their uh normal uh coinage and so on for the right kind of currency. And of course uh it's um a common thing that money exchangers extract uh a high percentage fee, right, for the for the privilege of having your money exchanged. But then also they they were forced to purchase these various animals. that had been approved and and set up by this monopoly. And so they really um it it was it was a money-making machine basically. And everybody knew it, but they didn't have any choice. And so um Jesus wasn't responding to the fact that they were um uh focusing on and purchasing the animals and this kind of thing. That was that was a requirement they were coming to do. Um but it was this whole monopolistic system that was taking advantage of people that he was responding to. And um Um that would have been very um popular with most people because they understood what was going on and nobody had stood up to the uh monopoly. It may have also been somewhat popular with the Pharisees because uh their domain was out in the synagogues, not here in the temple, and they were very much Focused on a strict adherence to the law, and this was a perversion of a requirement of the law. And so it's quite possible that This might have pitted even the Pharisees against the Sadducees, as we see sometimes crop up in Jesus' ministry. So um the other thing that's interesting here, if you'll notice They ask, what sign do you show us as your authority for doing these things? They're looking for a sign, right? And on multiple occasions various Jewish leaders would be asking Jesus for a sign uh sort of on demand out of their unbelieving hearts. And here he says, well I'll I'll give you a sign, destroy this temple and I'll rebuild it in three days. He was very oblique with them, right? He wasn't he wasn't uh very direct in what he was meaning, although the disciples eventually figured it out. But what's interesting is as we continue into the next section Um it starts talking about signs he actually was doing and people responding to those signs in faith. And so the contrast here already is pretty stark. People asking for signs who won't believe them if they see them versus people who do see signs and believe because they see God is at work. And um makes for a very interesting um uh set of dynamics and tension between different kinds of people that we're going to be seeing all the way through his public ministry. People responding to him in different ways. So, with that any any thoughts or questions about the cleansing of the temple this time around? Pastor Allen, is Jesus taking exception To the fact that they're conducting their transactions inside the temple? Or or is it the The extortion that was going on. Or maybe both. It it might have been both. It was clearly the the uh the the extortion. Whether it would have been appropriate or more natural to have done the exchanging and the preparation of the animals and so on. uh elsewhere I I'm not sure. I'm not sure about that. Uh and when it says in the temple, it doesn't mean inside the the the holy place. It means on the temple grounds There was so there was a large at this point the Temple Mount was quite large and um Uh e while even in the book of Acts, the the the uh disciples after the resurrection were meeting uh regularly at the temple, it just means on the temple grounds. Uh central meeting place. So yeah, I'm not so sure about whether the location was his primary focus, but he does make mention that you know you're turning this into a uh adena feeds and um it was obviously an abomination I never realized there was a separation of the Sadducees and Pharisees and what they controlled. I thought it was jointly done. You know, the Pharisees and Sadducees at the temple and in the synagogues, I didn't know that one would had Sadducees had the temple and the Pharisees the Yeah, and of course they had different doctrines and um or if if you would call the Sadducees doctrines really doctrine. Um The Pharisees were very much into the law. The Sadducees were more pragmatic, trying to be in positions of power given the the Roman rule and And so they were in pretty tight with um uh pilot and and so on. Now would they have both made up the San Hebrew? Yes. So that makes for an interesting mix I have always heard that the Sadducees were the ones that did not believe in resurrection and people say that's why they're so sad, you see. Indeed. What about the Pharisees? I don't know. Yeah. Flemley, um w should we make should should we read anything into the body of Christ as the temple post resurrection? Or is that primarily a sign that really validates his teaching throughout his ministry. I mean since we live post-resurrection, um, should we think of Christ's you know physical body as the temple? Um y y you mean um Well, I think m mostly the answer is no. Um there's there's clearly reference in in the New Testament that the the body of Christ, the Church, uh being the the uh the residence of the Holy Spirit is a is a temple of of God. Um but his physical body while he was on earth um Um Yeah, he said, you know, destroy this temple, but I don't think he was Uh in fact it it it says the disciples later realized that he wasn't referring to the actual temple, but rather to his body. I I I think he was intentionally trying to be um figurative and not all that clear. Um And so I I I wouldn't I wouldn't draw a real a real um strong association between his physical body and the temple because the temple um was um Um as as the Old Testament refers to God's house, uh where he would reside. Um And he he even quoted saying um um Well, he he fulfilled, right? Zeal for your house will consume me. So it's yeah. Yeah, I think he he's mostly just being figurative there. Well anyway, I I think this is a very useful segue into this encounter at the end of chapter two and then uh primarily in chapter three with Nicodemus And so let's go ahead and read that. Maybe if we can get uh two or three people to read that portion. Let's see, 23 through um Verse four, can someone take that? Pastor Pomley, I have a question. Oh, okay. Victoria. What's the significance of Jesus doing that twice Well, we're gonna talk more about that when he does it the second time. But um uh There there I think there are several implications. One is I think this time it it um pitted the Pharisees against the Sadducees. Um they were already sort of very much in opposition to each other. The second time, they were both against him. And so there was a bit of a difference in their responses Um the other implication though is if he had to do it again, then they really hadn't learned anything from the first one, right? And uh that's actually a good point here, that there are a number of things that Jesus did and said that he repeated. And th this is one thing that he repeated. Um And there are other things that he just said in similar ways or repeated. And um We need to be careful not to think that they're the same occasion. It may be that it's mentioned only One of those events is mentioned only in one of the Gospels, and another of those events is mentioned only in another gospel And the temptation is to think that they're the same event, but if you look at the details and the context and you see that it's really a different occasion, Um it ought not to surprise us that much of his teaching was a course with different audiences and he would repeat many of the same themes anyway, right? M maybe saying basically the same thing but saying the parable in a slightly different way with a different audience is something that would be fairly normal for a teacher to do with different audiences. But even events. You know, he had a feeding of the 5,000 and a feeding of the 4,000. Right? Those were actually two different events. And Jesus himself referred back to them, you know, uh how many loaves and fishes did you collect after the feeding of the 5,000? You know, and they told him. And so how many did you pick up after the feeding of the 4,000? And they told him. And so he was referring back to both of those events. But they were very similar events. And you wonder why he needed to do the second one. Well, it's because they didn't learn from the first one, right? So I think some of that's going on. Pastor Allen when we get to the second one. Yes, Kirk. Pastor Allen, I don't want to hold things up, but one thing that's conspicuously absent is any physical retribution that Jesus had to incur. Um because in other times when he did things that people didn't like, they they might take him to a a cliff to try to push him off or So it's it's funny that there's no record of, okay, we're gonna get you back for this violent behavior of yours. Well, uh that I think is partly because this would have been very popular with the people. And there are a lot of those people there at this time And the Sadducees were not dumb. They realized if they were to respond to Jesus at this point, they would have had an uprising on their hands. Uh they wanted to quell this thing as soon as possible. And Jesus wasn't um taking advantage of this and causing the people to rise up, he just kind of drifted away and that was fine with them. However, um They had long memories. And they were, I'm sure, the Sadducees particularly were were plotting even here. How are we going to uh respond to this rebel raser? And so they were not immediate in their response, but they had a long memory. Okay, so can we get someone to s read say uh verse 23 through chapter three verse four? I will Pastor Allen. Yes Now, when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed in his name, observing the signs which he was doing. But Jesus, on his part, was not entrusting himself to them, for he knew all men, and because he did not need anyone to testify concerning man, for he himself knew what was in man Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him Rabbi, we know that you have come from God as a teacher, for no one can do these things that you do unless God is with them. Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter a second time to his motherhood and be born, can he? Thank you, Mia. Can someone pick up from there verse 5 through say 13? I will. Fine. Jesus answered, truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water And the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit Do not be amazed what I said to you. You must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes and you hear the sound of it but do not know where it comes from and where it is going. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered and said to him, Are you the teacher of Israel and do not understand these things? Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know. and testify of what we have seen and you do not accept our testimony. If I told you earthly things and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things? Um no one has ascended into heaven, but he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And someone pick up the rest of it there, 14 through the end. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. So that whoever believes will in him have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. Eternal life. For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world might be saved through Him. He who believes in Him is not judged. He who does not believe has been judged already because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. This is the judgment that the light has come into the world. And men loved the darkness rather than the light, for their deeds were evil. For everyone who does evil hates the light, and does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. But he who practices the truth comes to the light, so that by his deeds, so that his deeds may be manifested at having been lost in God. Amen. Thank you. So um you remember the Jews were asking for a sign? And verse 23 says, while he was in Jerusalem during the feast, which was a seven-day uh event. Um many believed in his name, observing his signs which he was doing. Now those signs um are nowhere recorded And at least in scripture. And yet there were signs right there in Jerusalem, right there at the very beginning. We know that his first sign was the turning of the water into wine in Cana. In none of the other gospels is there any record of his early signs here in Jerusalem. And you gotta think they were probably very um Uh what? Surprising? Convincing? Uh he hadn't had much reputation at this point of of uh performing signs. Later on, people were flocking to him just to be healed and so on, but uh this would have been very early. And so Nicodemus comes to him Um at night. Why do you suppose he came to him at night? He was embarrassed. Well, he was um Uh thinking he he he he would be embarrassed, right, if people understood that he was Asking some legitimate questions of Jesus. And coming to Jesus as someone who respects him rather than tries to reject him. So that that would have been a embarrassing position for him to have as a Pharisee on the Sanhedrin, on the council So basically he was on the fence at this point. But to his credit, he came directly to Jesus to find out What this is all about. And he says, Rabbi, we know that you have come from God as a teacher. For no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. And that is one of the main purposes of the signs that Jesus and the apostles and prophets generally would do Um if they came to the if the people came to the conclusion that there's no way that could happen apart from God, then I better listen to this person because he must be representing God. And that is the uh the main purpose of the signs. Esther Allen? Uh yes, ma'am. Um, I watched the series The Chosen and they made a big deal out of The reason, one of the main reasons Nicodemus came to Jesus was because of the healing of Mary Magdalene. And yet we haven't come to that episode in the scriptures yet. Yeah, so um the timing of that I don't think is specified in Scripture. And I think that's one reason they elected to put that um early. But I don't think that even then that wouldn't have been among these things that happened in Jerusalem anyway So in your course you're only giving us the episodes that were timed I I I looked briefly through and I didn't see when the Mary Magdalene incident comes up. Well, the incident doesn't in in the Gospels. The reference to it does. It it talks about her having been healed But it doesn't actually uh um include the historical events of the healing So that allows uh people to speculate when that might have happened. And uh it may well have been fairly early on. Um I see. Thank you. The the thing that gets me a little bit about um the way the chosen uh depicted it is they depicted this interaction between Jesus and Nicodemus, which by the way they did very well. They depicted it in Capernaum rather than Jerusalem And they didn't include, and they probably won't include all the events, but they didn't include the first cleansing of the temple, which is why he was in Jerusalem, or it was that same event. But that's nitpicking. I thought they did a great job of that interaction between Jesus and Nicodemus. Anyway, um Obviously Jesus is speaking here um About the heart? What would have been the mindset of Nicodemus as a Pharisee in terms of salvation? He's thinking works Right? Um and it's it's interesting he He says, we know that you're a teacher, for no one can do the signs that you do unless God is with him. And you would think Jesus would say, um in his mind, ah, here's ripe fruit. You know? He's ready to uh receive the truth. And Jesus is actually pretty hard on it And he says, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And he gets right to the crux of the issue It's spiritual birth, not um works. And that would have been at the core of uh Um Nicodemus's whole life is a salvation of works by keeping the law and all the trimmings and so on. He apparently at this point understood enough of uh the Old Testament to um Be very serious in his pursuit of Jesus. You know, could this be the one? Right? Um, but Jesus was tough with him. And there's no record here in the text that there was an actual conversion at this point. Now there may have been But Jesus was very specific about the nature of true spiritual life. And it's a transformation at the heart level, a work of God, rather than an external thing that's a work of man. And So it's no surprise that that whole interaction becomes the subject of a lot of evangelistic um explanations and appeals and even terminology, being born again, right? Pastor Allen, I'm seeing a little bit of humor in this story, this narrative that in which Nicodemus is somewhat of a prop. And Jesus is basically allowing the record He's he's telling the world essentially what the doctrine of justification is and the doctrine of salvation and regeneration. So in in one sense, he's speaking not just to Nicodemus, but This is going to be biblical record to be studied and obeyed. So it Yeah, and and we're fortunate to have that record. Yeah. Yeah. So it's in in some ways it's kind of incidental that um okay it's it's Nicodemus and the narrative Yep. Yeah, but you gotta like Nicodemus. He's um he's he's searching for truth. He's not your typical Pharisee. But Momby, can I just ask yeah, sorry. Can I ask this? Um when you read that account there, the statement that Nicodemus made was not really a question. It was more of a statement. Um, is it possible that also well We know that Jesus got to the heart of the matter by state by telling him that he that a person needed to be born again. But I'm wondering whether That was a question that Nicodemus had Nicodemus had in his mind or whether he was just looking to be um to Christ to be affirmed in the fact that he recognized that Jesus was, you know, must have must be from God because he was doing all these signs. Yeah, um it is interesting that Jesus' response to his greeting essentially, um, beat him to the punch. And Um it seems pretty clear that Nicodemus was starting rather cordially and respectfully, but he had he had some questions on his mind he wanted to figure out. And Jesus didn't even let him ask the questions. He understood what the issue was and he didn't want to get distracted. And he Jesus just went for it. Which of course elicited other questions, very obvious questions, that even you and I would ask if if we were in Nicodemus's place. Um but Jesus took full control of that interaction, for sure. You know, in the chosen Um they portrayed Nicodemus as being unable to cure Mary Magdalene. Right. And then when and Nicodemus of course was made to realize that when he saw that Jesus had done it. That was of course one of the things that uh encouraged him to go talk to Jesus in the first place. Yeah. And he saw everything. At that time Nicodemus tried and he said only God could cure her. Right. And that was when he started thinking, you know, he said to Jesus, we see you doing these things that only God can do. Right. So all of that seems pretty plausible and consistent with what we know about Nicodemus. So let's go to section 25 here, John the Baptist's perspective of Jesus. Someone read that? I can do it. Uh after these things Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judea, and there he was spending time with them and baptizing John also was baptizing in Ainion near Stalim, because there was much water there, and people were coming and were being baptized, for John had not yet been thrown into prison. Therefore, there arose a discussion on the part of John's disciples with a Jew about purification And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who is with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you have testified, behold, he is baptizing and all are coming to him. John answered and said, A man can receive nothing unless it has been given to him from heaven. You yourselves are my witnesses that I said I am not the Christ, but I have been sent ahead of him. He who has the bri has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. So this joy of mine has been made full. He must increase, but I must decrease. He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth is from the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. What he has seen and heard of that he testifies, and no one receives his testimony He who has received this testimony has set his seal to this, that God is true. For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. Right, thank you. So uh we see here uh some some more very commendable uh things about John the Baptist. He understood his role and this whole idea of he must increase but I must decrease is just an amazing example of his faithfulness in the role that God has given him. Um and um He also understood enough of the gospel that it was not by works, but was rather by faith. in the sun that um that's the key. We don't know exactly um when it happened, but sometime between this and our next section was when John the Baptist was uh arrested, put in prison. And so we pick up with that in the next section. But uh any quick question or thought on this one? Yes. Uh I I was thinking about yeah, I think it's very beautiful about the increase and the decrease and hi and And him understanding his role and I think it's applicable for every everything in our life, you know, like it's very wise to understand when you have to increase and decrease And I've thought a lot about that. Like in your job or you know, things like that 'cause that's very difficult to do. Take humility. Courage humility. Yep. Yep. Alright, well let's go to lesson or section 26 here. I'll go ahead and read the blended account Therefore, after Jesus heard that John had been taken into custody, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John Although Jesus himself was not baptizing, but his disciples were, he left Judea and went away again into Galilee. So Like uh several key events, we're not actually given the the event of John the Baptist being arrested, but we have a reference here to what having happened. And likewise later we're going to have an account of his death after it happened. looking back at it. But um interesting here that Jesus uh perceives uh an increase in danger to him and knowing that this was not his time he still had um public ministry to conduct and to pour into the lives of his disciples before his ultimate sacrifice. slipped away into Galilee and spent much of his time in his public ministry in Galilee, not in Judea. So um then in ch uh section twenty-seven we have the whole account with the woman at the well Which begins by saying he had to pass through Samaria, right? He's going from Judea to Galilee. Samaria is that large place in between And what do we know about the Samaritans? They were um uh half Jew, half pagan, and they had their own corrupted religious practices and and so on. Um uh sort of the the descendants, if you will, of the corrupt uh tribes of Israel that went off into the the um A Syrian exile. But Jesus didn't have to go through Samaria. That was the most direct route, but that was not at all on the minds of any Jews to have to go through Samaria to get to um Galilee, they would instead go around down to Jericho, go up the Jordan River, and then across into Galilee, so that they wouldn't have to defile themselves by going through this corrupted area of Samaria. But in a real sense, Jesus did have to go through Samaria, which is why he did. He was compelled to, for reasons that will unfold here in this passage. And so um maybe I'll take a stab at reading this in the interest of time. So he had to pass through Samaria, and he came to a city of Samaria called Sikar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. And Jacob's well was there. So Jesus, being wearied from his journey, was sitting thus by the well. And it was about the sixth hour And there came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Therefore, the Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask me for a drink, since I am a Samaritan woman For Jews had no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, give me a drink, You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. She said to him, Sir, you have nothing with which to draw from the well, and the well is deep Where can you get living water? You are not greater than our father Jacob, are you, who gave us the well and drank of it himself and his sons and his cattle. Jesus answered and said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I give him shall never thirst. But the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life. And the woman said, Sir, give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty, nor uh Come all the way here to draw. And he said to her, Go, call your husband and come here. And the woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have said correctly, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband. This you have said truly The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and you people say that in Jerusalem is the place for men ought to worship Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But an hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For such people, the Father seeks to be his worshipers. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When that one comes, he will just declare all things to us. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. At this point, his disciples came, and they were amazed that he was speaking with a woman, let alone a Samaritan Yet no one said, Who do you s uh what do you seek, or wh why do you speak with her? So the woman left her water pot, and went into the city, and said to the men, Come, see a man who told me all the things that I have done. This is not the Christ, is it? So they went out of the city and were coming to him. Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples were saying to one another, No one brought him anything to eat, did he? And Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me to accomplish his work. Do you not say there are yet four months and then comes the harvest? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes, and look on the fields that they are white for harvest. Already he who reaps is receiving wages, and is gathering fruit for eternal life so that he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. For in this case, the saying is true, one sows and another reaps I sent you to reap for that which you have not labored, others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. And from that city many of the Samaritans believed in him, because of the word of the woman who testified He told me all the things that I have done. So when the Samaritans came to Jesus, they were asking him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. Many more believed because of his word, and they were saying to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe For we have heard for ourselves and know that this one is indeed the Savior of the world. Wow. Right? So Jesus was doing a number of things here. Um obviously he was he was uh reaching out in evangelism to a a woman and then through her to um many people in that town Um but there is a lot of um teaching of the disciples here as well uh by example, if not even from his teaching. Um He was blowing their minds, I think, at this point, right? That that here he is. Um and These despicable Samaritans are trusting in him as the Messiah. There weren't many Jews who were trusting in him as the Messiah yet. Um and that I'm sure started to get the disciples thinking um kind of turned right side up as opposed to upside down. And was quite a challenge, I'm sure, to them. And so he was accomplishing things at the personal level, he was accomplishing things strategically here in ministry. Um and it was not just in Jerusalem among um people who received him well and responded to his his signs, but even the people who would have been the dregs of society. Again, you know, look at the here write this early in the Gospel of John, the contrast between the the position of Nicodemus and the position of the Samaritan woman Jesus reached out to both of them. And really with both of them, there's some similarities here. He he um didn't beat around the bush. Right? He was directly confronting the core issue that would expose where they were at. And um Pastor Allen, yeah, Kirk. This um this story um seems to be one of the few times that Jesus seems to go out of order. Um meaning that he's not focusing on the the Jews per se And there are other times when people that are outside the Jewish faith actually recognized his his power and his ability and um whether or not they recognized that he was the Messiah or even waiting for the Messiah. But he he responded graciously and possibly with salvation to those who were outside the Jewish faith just just simply on an incidental basis as they came to him. But this is this seems like an exception in that he changes his focus and deliberately kind of goes out of order and goes through Samaria to to reach this woman and then in turn the the um kind of the half Jewish people of that region. So yeah, I I I think part of that is his his um Strategy of exposing his disciples to expanding their view of what God is doing. He Jesus clearly mentioned on numerous occasions that he came Um his focus was to the lost house of the tribe of Israel. But um it was also clear And as as it always has been, even from the Old Testament, that God's plan of salvation was for everyone. Um so there are other occasions when uh Gentiles um were the recipients of Christ's intervention and came to him in faith. You think of um The centurion who came asking for his servant to be healed, and the Syrophoenician women woman who was willing to accept just the crumbs off the table, right? Um and in both cases Jesus w marveled at their faith. And uh it was a good a good lesson. Um Esther Allen, I have a question. It's regarding the transition from number 26 to 27. And 26 ends in all three Gospels that they went away again into Galilee. And specifically John 3 says he left and went again into Galilee. The very next verse, John 4, and he had to pass through Samaria. To me that's saying how he went into Galilee And the main event in this uh number 27 occurred on one day, and then it says he stayed two days with them So my question is, why do you say number 26 was in the summer and number 27 was in the fall Well that's a very good question. The immediate answer is that those notes are not inspired Um and we don't know exactly when I think I I probably put fall and I think probably I shouldn't have, because he says here um he's referencing the harvest, right? He says, but they're basically four months away from the harvest probably. And so it probably would not have been fall. So that's good catch. Yeah, I probably should have left that as probably summer Yeah. Pastor Plumley? Yes, ma'am. I have an observation. Um it seems like this uh This encounter with the woman is very much like Nicodemus in the sense that we pull doctrine from it, you know, you must be born again. That's so pivotal And then here we worship God in spirit and truth. And I know for me that has been that has been the regulator for what goes on in in my life uh when it comes to church or what's essential and what's not and I just find it amazing that these chance encounters with people are generating so much doctrine that ne we need to live by It's not like a sermon on the mouth. Mm-hmm. Good point. And you see Jesus ready to explain things to his disciples. um in particularly in the case of um the woman at the well and um use this as an opportunity to to expand their understanding of what God is doing here. But yeah, I'm sure that's partly why John included both of those encounters. There's a lot of important lessons and even doctrine, as you say. Uh in those things. There's a takeaway that that um that I see going back to John the Baptist where his mission was to point people to Christ. So e each of us is our just asking ourselves, is our mission I'm sure it was a good point. But we need to wrap up now anyway. I would encourage you to uh think through the the notes at the end of the lesson. Perhaps you're being able to add to those observations and so on. It would be helpful. But let's go ahead and close in prayer.