All right. Well, we are on lesson nineteen, page one twenty, and um you see that our first Our first uh section here is uh the feeding of the five thousand. And maybe you can see the note at the top there. This is the only event prior to the Passion Week, that's recorded in all four of the Gospels. Obviously this had major impact. And it's a the the retelling of it is intended to have uh major impact. So I'm going to go ahead and read the blended account starting on page 121 and I might interrupt it a bit as I go along to have some discussion So when all the apostles returned, returned from where? You remember? He sent them out by twos. Right? And uh they were uh telling people to um uh repent for the kingdom of God is at hand and and god Jesus actually gave them authority to heal and And uh pretty amazing. So when hi the apostles returned, they gathered together with Jesus and gave an account to him of all that they had done and taught. After these things, Jesus heard about John. That's John the Baptist. And Jesus said to them, Come away by yourselves to a secluded place and rest awhile. So they've been out very busy. They've returned to Jesus. It's a good time to have a re uh a retreat, right? And it says parenthetically, for there were many people coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat, they being the apostles And so they went away in the boat by themselves to a secluded place on the other side of the Sea of Galilee or Taverius, to a city called Besseda. So they're setting out from Capernaum, they're kind of their headquarters, and they're heading across to the east to the um uh town of the best Seta. And there's a map in your book. Um I guess nine five is the best one to look at, just to kind of get our setting here. So Capernaum is at the far northern the western edge of the far northern bank of the Sea of Galilee And where they're headed is due pretty much due east. Um Beth Seda, the the uh location of Beth Seda is still not completely um known, but it must have been not too far away. And so the there there is there are some ruins there that people are investigating and trying to figure out if this is really Beseda or something else. But anyway, the the Where they ended up going was probably just across from Capernaum, still on the very northern end of the Sea of Galilee, but on the eastern shore. Make sense Yeah, that that's one reason I wanted to mention this here. So it's not like they were traveling, you know, hundreds of miles or something like that. It wasn't too far away, but they got in the boat, why? To be alone Right? They should have stayed on the boat. Well anyway, let's let's go ahead and read. So they went away in the boat by themselves to a secluded place on the other side of the Sea of Galilee, or sometimes it's called the Sea of Tiberias. Tiberius being the the Caesar at the time. Uh to a city called Beth Seda. But the people were aware of this and saw them going, and they could probably tell by the direction they were headed where they were going Um and many recognized him and followed him because they saw the signs which he was performing on those who were sick. So why were they following him? It's more for the spectacle than the teaching, right? Um And yet there are crowds most of the time. And if that's what were to happen today it would be the same thing. Crowds would follow, right? And it'd be hard for them, Jesus and his disciples, to apostles to um have time together where he could build into their understanding and and so on. And so we see repeatedly, and this is one example, where Jesus tried to get away with them to have that time Together. Well, um so they ran there together on foot through all the cities and they got there ahead of them. So they could probably see them in the boat the whole time they're running. And they're the boat may have been going against the wind, I don't know, but the people were faster than the boat. When Jesus went ashore, he saw a large crowd, and he felt compassion for them because they were like sheep without a shepherd. So I'm thinking, what would my reaction be to this? Okay, I'm trying to get alone with my disciples to to to train them, to encourage them, to revisit what happened from their going out and let's get to a secluded place and where we go it's not secluded anymore. My reaction would probably be, let's get back in the boat and go somewhere else But he felt compassion on them, even though there was a crowd, they were pressing in, and I'm sure he knew that a lot of their motives for being there wasn't what he was looking for, faith, right Um so I know I would have been discouraged, um, but he saw it as an opportunity to be a blessing. And felt compassion on them because they were like sheep without a shepherd And welcoming them, he began speaking to them about the kingdom of God and curing those who had need of healing. So he's got this combination of teaching and healing. What's the connection? teaching and healing. So the healings were obviously miracles and if this guy's doing these miracles that can be only ex can be explained only by God working through him at the very least, I better listen to what he's saying Right? That's the the purpose of the miracles. Um but what were people mostly paying attention to? The physical stuff, the miracles, so on, not so much the teaching. Some, but for the most part um it was the miracles. Okay. Um When it was evening, the disciples came to him. Now evening here may have been, you know, late afternoon. We're approaching evening, approaching sunset, and it's obvious Um people are going to be hungry, right? Then Jesus went up on the mountain and there sat down with his disciples. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near. Therefore Jesus lifting up his eyes And seeing the large crowd coming to him, said to Philip, So, Philip, where are we going to buy bread so that these may eat? Now, why was Jesus asking that question? To test the faith. We w we have the advantage of knowing the outcome, right? His disciples though didn't. And he's genuinely asking Philip, so uh what do you recommend we do in this situation? Right? And he was saying this to test him, for he himself knew what he was going to do. His disciples came to him and said, so apparently Um uh who is this Philip? He asked Philip the question and then the Philip went up to the other disciples apparently and together they're scratching their head and um Then kind of jointly they come to Jesus. Um and his disciples came to him and said, This place is desolate And it's already quite late, send them away so that they may go into a s the surrounding countryside and the villages and buy themselves something to eat. But Jesus said to them, They do not need to go away. You give them something to eat Now how would you have responded then? Say, yeah, right, Lord. Um But these guys have just come off that missionary trip where they've been evangelizing, they were even healing, right? But apparently they're not connecting the dots And I'm not sure I would have either. But they certainly were not connecting the dots as to who Jesus was and so on. Um so they say uh he said They don't need to go away. You give them something to eat. Philip answered him, Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them for even to receive a little. Now denarii Um a denarius, I guess, was around the day's wage. So this is actually a lot of money he's talking about here, he's estimating And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go look. And they found out, and when they found out, one of those disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, Wouldn't you love to be Andrew? Always called Andrew Simon Peter's brother. Said to him, There is a lad here who has five barley oaves and two fish. So far so good. Next word. But But what are these for so many people? And Jesus said, Bring them here to me. So he wasn't he wasn't saying no that's that's not what I have in mind. He wanted to be using what resources they had, which was meager, in order to accomplish what he wanted to do. Um here uh bring them here to me. Jesus said Uh have the people sit down to eat in groups of about fifty each. They did so in groups of hundreds and fifties. And there was so much green grass in the place, so they sat down. Uh so the men sat down, uh, in number about five thousand. So they could count up to fifty or so pretty easily and they could count how many fifties there are and there are at least five thousand and it's specifically saying the men sat down about five thousand numbers. So there's probably a lot more people here than just the men. Huge. Jesus then took the loaves and looking upward toward heaven, he blessed the food. And breaking the loaves, he kept giving them to the disciples. Why? Why would he want to give them to the disciples? They weren't the one asking for food, but they sort of were. To connect the dots. To connect the dots. So they're actually personally involved. in this miracle. Right? They're seeing it before their very eyes. And um the disciples distributed them to the crowds, to those who were seated, like also Uh likewise also he divided up the two fish among them all. I'm not sure how you divide small fish, but they were apparently very used to it. um distributed them uh all as much as they wanted. And they all and they all ate and were satisfied. And when they were filled He said to his disciples, Gather up the leftover fragments so that nothing will be lost. Why do that? More document. More dots to connect. I mean one option would have been people could just um you know how when you're at a restaurant, you can't eat it all, you put it in a box, you take it home. They could have done that and maybe that would have been a um a nice token for all these people. But the disciples gathered up all those fragments and it says, um, so they gathered them up and filled how many baskets? Twelve. Why twelve? One each. One each. Right? So t twelve baskets with leftover fragments from the barter loaves and also of the fish. Which were left over by those who had eaten. And there were about five thousand men who ate, besides the women and children. So Jesus Genuinely wanted to spend some time alone with his disciples to build up their faith, to help them connect the dots. Um but here's a case where he's seeking to accomplish that even though the context is now different. They're not secluded, they're not alone, but he's involving them in this miracle um not just for the miracle's sake, but for his disciples and the people to see that this is not just a prophet, but this is God himself. Yeah, interesting, later in this very chapter of of John anyway Uh there's going to be reference to uh reference back to this miracle and uh God providing the manna and and this kind of thing Um but of course that dialogue was mostly with unbelievers. Yeah. You know this this reminds me a lot of um the nation of Israel in the wandering and and whatever. They see all these miracles and it's so easy for us to say, you nitwits, you don't get it I think we would have been in the exact same situation. Yeah, in this case, Jesus had a a plan for building up training his disciples. Uh but he was also uh very um what f well flexible, uh compassionate for people like sheep without a shepherd. Um and this particular case he seems to be killing two birds with one stone. He's meeting the needs of the people, he's teaching them, but also primarily I think he his his interest here is teaching his disciples and uh conditioning them to the reality of his deity and his mission So in many ways he's um multitasking. Not so much multitasking as multi-purpose. Yeah. And I think we'll see this quite a lot as we go through. Okay. Um one other thought here before we move on is We're gonna come back to another episode where there's on the order of four thousand people who were fed. Um And the reaction of the disciples was pretty much the same. They hadn't yet connected the dots. And um It might be tempting to think, well, they're really the same event. But as you look at the gospel accounts, you see I think it one or more I figure one or more have both of the miracles, not just one or the other. Here all four of the gospel accounts have this one, and the feeding of the four thousand which comes later I forget now if it's one or two. But Jesus makes a point in the after the second one. He says, So um you remember when we fed the five thousand, how many how much was left over? Yeah, there are twelve baskets full. And when we said the four thousand, how many were left over? Yeah, there were seven left over. He tried to make that point to kind of connect those dots, to drill it down, right? So they wouldn't forget. Um and yet they still forgot. And again, I I'm pretty sure we would too. Yeah, I think this is in the category of um I'm not sure it's kinda hard to tell what's going on in Jesus' mind given his uh he's a hundred percent God and a hundred percent man, fully God, fully man. But there's this this um uniqueness about that, you know, in in him where Sometimes he relies on his omniscience and other times he just doesn't. He's relying just on wisdom like like we should. Um and it's hard to know what's really going on in his mind at this point. And uh whether he knew there was gonna be a crowd, they really wouldn't be secluded It see it's written like that was really his intent, to be off to a secluded place. Um but when we face um unexpected needs or changes and the need to be flexible. Um I I think of those times as um times of unfulfilled expectations So I've got expectations, this is how I'm going to use my time, this is what's going to happen, here's how and where it's going to happen, and that's what I expect, and I move forward, and then something else happens and and changes the context. And um personally I think unfulfilled expectations is one of the hardest things for any of us to deal with. And Uh whether that's really what's happening in Jesus here, I don't know. But if it were me, it certainly would be an unfulfilled expectations time. And uh Uh yeah, like you said, we need to learn to be flexible, see what God might have in store for this. He's in charge of all the the context and circumstances and whatever, and he's called us to be faithful uh faithful to him more than faithful to our expectations. And as he would often have it, fulfilling our expectations either wasn't all that important or These things are actually going to be part of fulfilling those expectations. Much like in Jesus' case, uh it was uh another opportunity to train his disciples in real time rather than just talking to them Uh they can see physical evidence and be reminded of that. So good point. Yeah. Um if it's not drifting too far away, but it reminds me of the value of commemorating what God has done in the past. You know, God actually commanded the nation of Israel to commemorate things like uh the Passover uh God saving them out of Egypt. And um sorry? The stone in the river, yeah, the monuments to the key events. Not um Just as uh flippant kind of thing, but what was the purpose behind these commemorations? Do you remember what God has done for us? To remember, remember You know, read I think it's Psalm 73. It's always so much about remember. Here's what God did. Uh teach your children what God did. Remember this. Don't forget What do we normally do with um celebrations and commemorations and And so on. We usually forget about the reason for them and pay more attention to the trappings. Or, well, we've always done this, so let's just do it again, kind of a thing. But God wants us to remember. And not just remember that it happened, but why it happened. And something about God's provision, his character, his faithfulness, right? Well today in the worship service we're gonna celebrate monthly the Lord's Supper. And it's so easy for us to just take that for granted, right? But God has called us to commemorate, to remember And specifically he said, do this in remembrance of me, right? We have a need to, but we need to always overcome that natural tendency to just do it out of habit. Right. Um anyway, I'm preaching to me too. So God's looking after you even though you don't realize it. Yes. Yes. It's just one of those opportunities to realize that or to remember it, even though we take it for granted. Okay. Well, let's move on to uh sort of the in section eighty here, the follow-on of this miracle. The people want to make him king. And so I'll read from the blended account on page one twenty two. Therefore, when the people saw the sign which he had formed They said, This truly is the prophet who has come into the world. Who are they referring to? I'm not sure they were thinking of him as the Messiah, but more so they said prophet. Yeah, Moses at the end of Deuteronomy said God's going to raise up a prophet like me from among you. Um and they're probably thinking this is the promised prophet. Whether they linked that to the Messiah, which they should have, I'm not sure, but uh multiple places in in the gospel accounts you see people referring to him potentially as that particular prophet who's coming Anyway, this is truly the prophet who has come into the world. So Jesus, perceiving that they were intending to come and take him by force to make him king, this is not on his agenda at all, right? Immediately made his disciples get into the boat and go ahead of him to the other side to best say that. So um they were originally headed toward roughly the area of the seda. Um uh They ended up not there, but he's saying, um, go now to Betheda, while he himself was sending the crowds away. I think if I were doing this, I would have enlisted my disciples to tell the people to get out of here while I went away. But Yeah Yeah, I'm taking the boat. See you later. After bidding them farewell, he had sent the crowd, and he had sent the crowd away, Jesus withdrew again up to the mountain by himself alone to pray. Now, when evening had come, he was alone and his disciples went down to the sea. So it's been a rather eventful day, to say the least Um Jesus went into this wanting some downtime with his disciples, and what he ends up with is is some downtime by himself in prayer. You know, in his humanity, um Jesus got tired just like we do, right? Um he needed food, he needed sleep just like we do And always being sort of on the spot and the center of attention and actually healing people, interacting, teaching, um, I'm sure he was gotten very tired because it was unending Right? Um but it doesn't say he went up to the mountain by himself alone to sleep. I'm sure that's what I would have done, or at least tried to do. But he went up to pray, and for this purpose he really needed to be separate from his disciples Uh you see this several times in the gospels, uh, where he would spend the night in prayer. Um personally I don't think he did that because he was God, because of his divine nature, I think he needed it more because of his human side. Um You know, how often when we're exhausted do we need to spend the night in prayer? Not very often. We don't seem to think so. Um anyway, turns out he appears to have been praying up a storm. So he puts these these um disciples has them get into the boat and go out onto the sea. And they're probably wondering, so how's he gonna get back? Um but he is praying um and literally a storm comes up You think that was random? I don't know. He may have actually been praying that as a a a lab experiment for his disciples. Yeah. I think in home He can certainly stir one up. And for all I know he may have. It doesn't say that here, but um clearly he was have much to pray about and stay in constant communion with the Father. Um okay now what's interesting here is our next section is what Pastor Gabe's preaching on today So um we have a kind of a head start on on this whole lesson. So I'll start reading on the bottom of page 122. in the blended account. When it was evening, we've seen several references so far to evening. It was clear that it was gradually getting darker and darker, and now it's probably quite dark. And after getting into a boat, they started to cross the sea to Capernaum. It had already become dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. But The boat was already a long distance from land, in the middle of the sea, battered by the waves, for the strong wind was contrary against them. He was alone on the land, and in the fourth watch of the night so uh pause there. Uh you know that the Hebrew day started at 6 a. m. and ended at 6 PM to sort of the day daylight time. The night was divided into four watches. Now I'm not sure if that was just Hebrew or it was more generally even Roman or stuff in that time But those watches took the remaining twelve hours from six PM to six AM and divided them into four equal sections of three hours each. So the fourth watch would have been when? Three A. M. 3 to 6 A. M. And so it was they had spent a a harrowing night, I'm sure, on that sea um because they went out there basically in the first watch. And here it is now the fourth watch and they're still battling And in the fourth watch of the night, seeing them straining at the oars, he came to them walking on the sea. And he intended to pass by them. That would have been neat, wouldn't it? When they had rowed about three or four miles and probably got nowhere, the disciples saw him walking on the water walking on the sea And drawing near to the boat. And they were all terrified and said, It's a ghost. Now, they hadn't had much sleep. I think their tummies were full, but they hadn't had much sleep. And They had obviously never seen something like this before. We probably would have um had similar reactions, right? Very familiar with the water, but not with ghosts. Yeah. Um and they cried out in fear But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Take courage, it is I, do not be afraid. And Peter said to him, Yeah, Lord, if it is you Command me to come to you on the water. Now I don't know if Peter thought that through very well. But He might have volunteered Andrew at his heart, that's the first, right? And so Jesus called this bluff, if that's what it was. Come. And Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came forward to Jesus. Now, we point our finger at Peter a lot. Right? He opens his mouth and exchanges feet, right? Um and Yet there are times like this where he comes either says something that's profound, like, where else shall we go, Lord? You're the one with eternal li the words of eternal life. You got it. You got it. And here He's willing to walk out on the water for Jesus. Um they're they're still wondering what's going on here, I'm sure. They're not asking out in that water though. Yeah. Anyway, you can just imagine the the chaos that's happening here. Um and so Jesus says, Come, and Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came toward Jesus, but has that word but again? Seeing the wind. Now, have you ever seen wind? What's it mean here? But you don't actually see the wind. No, you don't. You see the effects of it. Exactly. Right? That's what it's referring to here And the effects out there on the water was what? Huge waves, foam and and you know, the whole the whole deal. But seeing the waves, Peter looking he's out here and he looks around instead of looking at Jesus, right? He became frightened and beginning to think, um I'm wondering if that was slow or if it was he was beginning to sink. Um it doesn't really say, but it says beginning to sink. Uh if if it were regular sinking, it wouldn't take long at all, right? Um so God was enabling him to walk on the water with Jesus. He may have been somewhat patient with letting him deal with what's the problem. And so he may have been slowly sinking. I don't know. But anyway he cried out, Lord, save me And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and took hold of him and said to him, You of little faith, why Did you doubt? Now he has said this and will continue to say this multiple times, right? Um so they were willing to receive him into the boat Because Peter went out and I guess brought it back. Um when they got into the boat, the wind stopped and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going. How did they get there? Probably the wind Yeah. And they were utterly astonished for they had not gained any insight from the incident of the loaves. They hadn't connected the dots, right? But the heart was hardened, and those who were in the boat worshipped him, saying, You are certainly the Son of God, God's Son. So on the one hand, their hearts are hardened, they're not connecting the dots, and yet They're getting the message here, this is certainly God's Son. Both from the miracle of of the feeding of the five thousand and now the walking on the water. Uh these are not natural events and so they're beginning to connect the dots, but still they're mere mortals. It's a struggle for them, I'm sure. Um when we usually use the term the hearts hearts are hardened, we're thinking of just spiritually um closed to any anything of God, right? Someone's hardened in that sense. Um and there are plenty of examples of that in scripture. I'm understanding this, particularly given the context and what else is said here, that it's a hardening of understanding. It's they're not connecting the dots. And they should be able to, but they're not. So they're they're slow to learn. Slow to learn, I think, is probably the way to I think that's the way to understand it. Um because they're they're worshiping him, saying you are God's son. I mean their hearts are not closed in that spiritual sense, but they're not getting the lessons that they should be getting from what they saw even just that day. Um and we'll see later, particularly after the feeding of the four thousand, that they didn't quite remember the lesson that they should have gotten from the feeding of the five thousand. Um so it's a slowness of it's a learning disabilities. Yeah, so it's it's that's exactly right. And it's not just, oh God delivered me, but To connect the dots we really need to think about what is the lesson here for me. Right? And if if I if I don't take that that next step to uh answer the question, what what lesson does God have for me here? What do you think are the odds of remembering? Yeah, it's out of mind. Yeah. Yeah. At the very least we're not putting things in perspective And the perspective ought to be, God is sovereign, everything he does is good, everything's under his control, even the things that are inconvenient and hard and painful Have a good purpose behind them, I just need to understand that, but we normally don't think that way. Yes. So It's not our definition of good, which is usually selfish, but rather it's God's definition of good. Good point. Yeah, there there are a lot of lessons, life lessons like that. that um A we can learn those lessons from Scripture and B we can learn those lessons from our own experience. As we see what God is doing and we ask ourselves now what um what would God have me learn from this And like like I think I was saying, uh writing it down so you can review it later is helpful because we're so f prone to forget I I often said I learned the most from my brothers my older brothers' mistakes. I'm not gonna do that. I saw what the consequences were. Yeah, yeah. Anyway. Um we have a few minutes here. I wanted to to walk through some of the discussion questions on page 123. I don't know if you've been doing this, but each week there's an opportunity to think through how particularly the disciples and other people Jesus interacted with, uh, what they did that was uh evidence of faith, what they did that was evidence of No faith and draw some lessons there. Um and so as is frequently the case, the disciples here have some good and some bad going on, right? So they certainly rejoiced at the miracles and they worshiped Christ as the Son of God, but they were thinking naturally, not supernaturally. Now it's easy for us to point our fingers at them, but how would we respond to I think we've sort of touched on it. When when God answers our prayer, he he solves our problem or he intervenes in some way that's helpful. Is our lesson though God is good and He's helped me and now I just go on? Or um is there A a more fundamental lesson that he's trying to teach me here about his character and about my need for him. we often don't connect the dot. And so we need another lesson later in the day or tomorrow or the next week, uh that's really, when it comes down to it, the same lesson that we should have learned already. And Peter, of course Um asked Jesus to command him to to go out to him on the water and he initially had faith, but his eyes couldn't avoid seeing the context and said, What have I done here? Right. Uh when he took his eyes off of Christ he began to sink. And so his natural response was, Oh boy, I get to swim? No, his natural response was Lord save me. Um Peter was probably a pretty good swimmer, being a fisherman, but the conditions weren't all that conducive to swimming, right? Um And he understood it was a spiritual problem. If I'm able to walk on the water because he commands me to, this is not a natural thing anymore. This is a spiritual thing going on. And so it's it's very natural for him and appropriate for him to re call out to God to Jesus to save him. Now the disciples' circumstances were obviously unique. They were eye to eye with Jesus, spending time with him, but a lot of their experiences are things similar to what we go through, and it's helpful to say, now what what would I do if I were in his situation Or more importantly, what should I have done? What should this person have done? What lesson can I draw from that so that I don't repeat that mistake? Um and so as we go through here with these various people who are interact with Jesus, um I think there are lessons like that. that we can learn. We can also learn about Christ's uh character. What is the main character quality of Christ that really comes out in this today's lesson? Probably compassion for the people. Even when it wasn't convenient. We want things our compassion to be convenient, right? Jesus was even when it was not convenient. Um and we're constantly seeing evidence of not only his humanity but also his deity. And we saw both of that here today. What do we see about his humanity? He had to go along to pray, he was obviously tired, um, he's probably just as hungry as the people who are seeking food. What about his deity? Examples or evidence of his deity Multiplying the food and walking on water? The lesson should be no mere mortal, no mere man could do that. Only God could do that. And so we need to not only listen to him, but obey him. Yeah. It's like Peter walking on the water. Yeah. And even all the the apostles handing out the food. It it's not clear how it was being multiplied. It may have been multiplied in their hands As they were just giving it out. I break this one, oh, it's already restored. You know they were probably tangibly seeing the miracle happen. And we're involved in it. Yeah. Yeah. And it's often helpful to um think about Jesus' strategy, his ministry strategy. He knew He had a short time. He knew that he would eventually um and he he warned his disciples multiple times that he was going to be handed over to the Jewish authorities and they were going to eventually kill him. Um but their their mind was blocked here. I'm not I'm not sure it was a learning disability in those cases, but it was um uh for whatever reason they were to remember it after it happened and it was ah now I remember what he said I'd done me. Um but he he knew that his time was limited and that if he were to regularly go to Jerusalem where the Jewish leaders were, um it'd be very likely that they would arrest him uh prematurely. He knew it had to be went during the Passover. And this particular time this miracle was at a previous Passover and he was here rather than in Jerusalem. Um and we'll see as we get closer to Passion Week how he adjusted his itinerary so that he didn't um provoke the inevitable and what God had ordained Too early. Okay. Any other thoughts? Questions? Now we get to go to the worship service, hear the sermon about you know how it really happened and uh I didn't compare notes, I don't know what he's gonna say. But he's going to be only in the God. Well the um uh walking on the water was in Matthew, Mark, and John, right? What starts next week, uh well In section 83, it's going to be only from the Gospel of John. And so we'll be kind of keeping pace with his preaching schedule to some extent. Okay, let's pray. Thank you, God, for being patient with us, even as you were patient with the disciples And um you give us so many lessons for our lives from uh the life of Christ, how he ministered, what his heart was in ministry uh how he conducted himself, how he sought to build the faith of his disciples. Lord help us to learn those lessons uh from your word, but also to learn the lessons you're teaching us even from our own experiences. so that we would not be unbelieving, but rather believing. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen