Well we're on uh section twenty-four, speaking of uh Nicodemus. So Nicodemus says, Rabbi, we know that you have come from God as a teacher, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. He got the connection between the miracles and his message. But Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he's old? He cannot enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born, can he? Jesus answered truly truly I say to you this truly truly is listen up right Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not be amazed that I said to you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear the sound of it, but do not know where it comes from or where it is going. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. And this is Not just a a useful analogy. You can see the effects of the wind, but you don't actually see the wind itself, right? And he says, so it is with everyone who is born of the spirit. That's something of a play on words too, because the word for wind and the word for the spirit, same word, in both the Hebrew and the Greek. So the effects of the Spirit working on somebody is something that you don't see. You don't see the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, but you see the impact. And Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered and said to him, Are you a teacher of Israel and do not understand these things? Truly, truly I say to you, we speak of what we know and testify of what we have seen, and you do not accept our testimony. If I told you earthly things and you do not believe, how do you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven, but he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, so that whoever believes will in him have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world might be saved through him. He who believes in him is not judged, and he who does not believe has been judged already. Because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. This is the judgment that the light has come into the world, and men love the darkness rather than the light. For their deeds were evil. For everyone who does evil hates the light and does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. But he who practices the truth comes to the light so that his deeds may be manifested as having been wrought in God. You know, if you if you try to model your evangelism according to the examples of Christ, um You'd probably scratch your head in his encounter with Nicodemus. You know, if if Nicodemus were to come to me with that sort of mindset, uh I would tell him, Nicodemus, you're close I am your Messiah. Jesus didn't do that directly, right? He he needed he saw the need to challenge Nicodemus. Nicodemus being a Pharisee would have been thinking Um it it it seems like even at this point Nicodemus has has an open heart. He sees the connection between the miracles and the message But he doesn't understand the message. Um and Jesus wanted Tim to s get to the core of the issue that it's not about works. It's about um faith in the Messiah. And it's a work of the spirit, not a work of the flesh. You know, the Pharisees in general were against Jesus and so we had to kind of slide in at night to not draw attention to Yeah, I think that's the logical conclusion. It doesn't actually say that, but it seems like that makes sense. And what's interesting is we don't hear anything more about Nicodemus until the crucifixion. At which point, um He's taking more of a a public and um stand in respect of and presumably belief in Jesus. I think the account there in in the and um Yeah, the crucifixion does make it pretty clear that he was one of the he certainly didn't approve of what the Sanhedrin did. He was a a a nay vote, I guess. Um and uh he presumably believed by that point. But there's nothing about him Between here and there, which is interesting. He's scratching his head, he's trying to deal with it. He's probably um uh either directly listening to or hearing reports about the ministry of Jesus and his teaching and so on. And he's trying to put that into the context of his great understanding of the law and and God's requirements. And God just has to do a work in his heart. Just like us. Anyway, any other thoughts or questions there? My question is uh is a low one. Does that mean uh like a library? Uh all this we have not actually not overheaven, uh what is the reference there Yeah, let me read where is it here? What verse? Uh I think it's like twelve or thirteen. Thirteen. Yeah, no one has ascended into heaven. I think what he means there is no um the the most direct application of what he means, I think, is you can't talk to anybody who has gone to heaven and come back. Right? How are we going to know what the truth is unless someone from heaven comes? So yeah, correct. The Greek word ascended means by one's own power. By one's own power, okay. So either way, Jesus is saying you don't have anybody like that here, right? But you do have somebody who has come from heaven who can uh Fill you in I guess. Right. Yeah. Question I have is uh he talks about no one Yeah, so um he makes this contrast in several ways. He says unless one is born of water and the spirit. And then he says, that which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. So there clearly he's making the distinction between the physical birth, which is what Nicodemus was thinking, and spiritual birth. Water and spirit, flesh and spirit, it's it's physical versus spiritual. So only those that are human born naturally and then born spirit would be same. Right. In fact, um I I've heard the little phrase here that Jesus might have used if he had thought of it. If if you're Uh if you're born once you die twice. But if you're born twice you die once. Now that would get Nicodemus thinking. Yeah. Okay, let's go to twenty-five. John the Baptist perspective of Jesus. It's helpful that Pastor Gay preached on this recently, so I don't have to preach on it again. After these things, Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judea Where were they beforehand? In the previous verses. Jerusalem. Where is Jerusalem? It's in the province of Judea, right? So they were in Judea, but Jerusalem was sort of the national capital, it's a central place, and it what it what they mean here by Judea is a surrounding area. Right? After these things, Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judea, and there he was spending time with them and baptizing. John also was baptizing in Aneon near Salim because there was much water there. And the people were coming. and were being baptized, for John had not yet been thrown into prison. Therefore, there arose a discussion on the part of John's disciples with a Jew about purification. And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who is with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you have testified, behold, he is baptizing and all are coming to him. And John answered and said, A man can receive nothing unless it has been given him from heaven. You yourselves are my witnesses that I said, I am not the Christ. But I have been sent ahead of him. He who has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears and rejoices greatly, uh because of the bridegroom's voice. So this joy of mine has been made full. He, Jesus, must increase, but I must decrease He who comes from above is above all. And he who is of the earth is from the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. What he has seen and heard, of that he testifies, and no one receives his testimony. He who has received his testimony He uh has set his seal to this, that God is true. For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God For he gives the Spirit without measure. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into His hand. He who believes in the Son has eternal life. But he who does not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. Probably the best um sermon that John the Baptist ever preached. Um It seems natural that there would be some questions. Um who's baptizing, who has the right to baptize, what does it all mean And John fortunately set him straight. And of course his central takeaway, he must increase, but I must decrease. And um So John very much understood his role and that it was temporary. So the two were very much in conjunction Uh-huh. Any questions there? Yeah, so is is that what you come to know as his crises is saying For he says the main is in a very healthy position and he probably has gaslight in the office. Un undoubtedly. Yeah, I think that's right. John didn't fear anybody, really. Um and he was in prison because he didn't fear man and he feared God. Um But that doesn't mean he wasn't vulnerable and human like we are. Um He he said, Jesus must increase, but I must decrease. That doesn't necessarily mean I must be martyred While he increases only other possibility regarding John the Baptist is that he knew the answer to the question he sent them up with, but he wanted them to ask Jesus to get the answer from him It's a good possibility. And uh Jesus gave them the right answer at that point. Yeah, good observation here. Um Yes. He who believes in the Son has eternal life. But whoever does not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. So that's very consistent with, for example, first John five Um 11 through 13, I believe. This is the confidence we have before him. Or the testimony is this that God has given us eternal life. And his life, this life is in his son. He who has the son has the life. And he who does not have the son does not have the life. Um eternal life um is something we have, not something we will have. And we have eternal life because we have the Son. He is the life. And um I believe Pastor Gabe When he preached on this, um spoke of the Jesus' prayer in John 17, and this is eternal life that they would Know you, Jesus said to the Father. Um so life is knowing God, having a relationship with God. Death is being separated from God. Right? Um And it's eternal in that it never ends. It's not just that it happens uh when we go to be with the Lord, it's happening now. If you know God, if you know Christ, if you're in Him, you have that life. And it won't end. I guess it might depend on the person you you're evangelizing and sharing the gospel with as to whether they're gonna comprehend that. They can probably more easily comprehend what happens when I die and what's what's going to dictate where I go when I die They might not be thinking about the impact of that very same solution on your life right now. And and yet that's a central part of the gospel. that eternal life is our um relationship with God. Um does that help? Okay. Uh well tell you what, let's do section twenty six But we're probably going to keep 27 until next week. We're almost out of time. On page 52, section 26, Jesus leaves Judea to go to Galilee. And here I'll read the blended account. Therefore, after Jesus heard that Jesus had been that John had been taken into custody, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees uh had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John, although Jesus himself was not baptizing but his disciples were, he left Judea and went away again into Galilee. So in all three of these gospel accounts Uh it it's kind of uh seems like a minor explanation about a transition But I think it speaks volumes about Christ's ministry, his uh ministry philosophy, his understanding of his Um, timing. So we see in the text A couple of things that that um indicates sort of the the the context that would have caused him to move from Judea to Galilee. What were those couple of things Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John. And what else? At this point, John had already been taken into custody. And so um what's Jesus perceive about um near future events if he were basically to take the place of John the Baptist in their in the officials thinking. His days would be number two, right? And it wasn't that Jesus was afraid of that, but he knew this wasn't the right time. And so he had much ministry yet to do, and so it made more sense for him to do that in Galilee, where he wouldn't be under the closer um watchful eye of the people who might um uh oppose him Uh and it it just it was uh a shrewd move and probably a pretty natural move at that point. He had already been in Galilee a bit, he was from and grew up in Galilee, and there was much ministry yet to happen in Galilee, and so um So he went. Well, next week I hope, God willing, we will pick up with the woman at the well. complete this lesson and then who knows maybe we'll even finish the next one. So let's pray.