Okay, so we are on lesson thirty-two. Uh but before we look at that I would have you look in the back at back at map 9. 8 next to the last one. We looked at that last week. Remember Jesus came up from Jericho up to Bethany, up meaning from below sea level to quite a bit above sea level. And he came back to to the home of of Lazarus and Mary and Martha in Bethany and had a good um uh reunion with them there. We're gonna pick up from there today. But to if you flip the page to the next map, you get more detail on Jerusalem itself. And so it would be helpful in going through today's lesson to have a a mental image of uh the surroundings of of Jerusalem. So this is oriented where up is north. And so at the very right edge of your map is the Mount of Olives. The Mount of Olives is not a single mountain peak. It's a ridge. And so That ridge follows pretty much the entire right edge of your map. And so he's coming from Bethany Which is off your map. You see the little arrow there at uh about the middle. Bethany and Bethagi are both to the right, just off the map Where the the edge of your map is is roughly, depending on where you're at, roughly the top of the ridge of that ridge. And so Coming from Bethany, he's going up a little bit, but then he's about to go down into the Cadron Valley. You see that? Um there's not normally a a um A flow of water there during the raisin rainy season I'm sure there is, but it's it's a valley. And just beyond the Cadron Valley, it rises up again, uh and that's the the heart of Jerusalem And on this map, which is around the time of Christ, uh you had Temple Mount, that big rectangle there, where the temple was and uh all the things around it, just south of that Still on this sort of ridge is the eastern hill, which at the time of David was called the City of David. And um If you keep going west, you run into a another little valley. It's not very deep. There's no water there, but the central valley And then a lot of uh what a lot of the miscellaneous parts of Jerusalem during that time and even today uh are there within that wall of the upper city. And so from time to time we'll see where he's moving within Jerusalem and particularly today, just kind of getting there. Um I hope that that's useful context. Okay, so we're gonna go back to lesson thirty-two. Question. Jerusalem is very much on a hill. The Cadron Valley between them. Yes. Actually the Mount of Olives is a little bit higher than uh Temple Mount. Yes, you have to go over the Mount of Olive and then down into the Cadrone Valley and back up. Between Uh Amount of Olives and Temple Mount. No, you could throw a rock. Oh. If you had a pretty good order. Yeah, it's not far at all. Uh so it's steep and so there is there are some sort of switchbacks a little bit. Um Jerusalem has expanded over the years and at different times, different places. Different portions of it were called different things. Like I mentioned in David's time, he built a stronghold on the southern end of that little uh that yes, where Uh the Cadrone Valley and the Hinome Valley at the bottom kind of merge and the the peak or the ridge just above that um David called the city of David and that was fortified. And then Temple Mount came later up to the north. Yeah, that one the the Central Valley's pretty subtle, whereas the Cadron Valley and the Canon Valley are very noticeable. Yeah. It's pretty pretty uh mixed terrain. Well, that's what the city of David was. It was very defensible around those valleys. Its big vulnerability was on the north end, which Wasn't a valet at all. Any other? Okay. You got the general layout? So um remember he spent the night in Bethany, had that nice dinner And on page 197, I'll be reading the blended account. The triumphal entry here is what we call the triumphal entry. It is covered in all four of the Gospels And so let's see what we've got here. The large crowd of the Jews then learned that he, Jesus, was in Bethany. And they came not for Jesus' sake only, but also that they might see Lazarus, whom He raised from the dead. So you can imagine what Lazarus was going through. All the notoriety and uh so on. But the chief priests planned to put Lazarus to death also Because on account of him, many of the Jews were going away and were believing in Jesus. So he's kind of a lightning rod, right? Um you gotta wonder how people think. If we only get rid of this guy really? Everybody's gonna know that you got rid of him and why you got rid of him. That's just gonna make your matters worse, right? But that's the way sin is. Um on the next day, when he had approached Jerusalem, in other words, was nearing Jerusalem, and had come to Bethagi, near the Mount of Olives, so Bethagi is still on that that same main road, very near Bethany, just two little villages. Bethagi is the one that's closest to the ridge of the Mount of Olives. That's where they're headed and they have to go down. Come to Bethfogi near the Mount of Olives that is called Olivet. So sometimes you hear, and we'll make reference later to the Olivet discourse That's because it was on the Mount of Olives. It's just an adjective term. Then Jesus sent two of his disciples saying to them, Go into the village opposite you. What village is that? Bethagi. And immediately as you enter it, you will find a donkey tied there and a colt with her, on which No one yet ever sat. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone asks you, why are you untying it, you shall say, the Lord has need of them, and immediately he will send them back here. This took place to fulfil what was spoken through the prophet. Say to the daughter of Zion, Fear not, behold, your king is coming to you, gentle, and mounted on a donkey. Even a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. Turns out that's that's pulling together segments of two prophecies from the Old Testament, Isaiah 62. 11 and Zechariah 9. 9. Uh Zechariah is the one that focuses on the donkey. And so the disciples went and did just as Jesus had instructed them, and they found the colt tied at the door outside in the street just as he had told them As they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of it, just as Jesus had told them. And they gave them permission. Now, you might wonder, um I'm guessing probably not, but it's possible. Um prior arrangements. Prior arrangements were made, but um it may have been his omniscience and just his deity that was in play here. Um that may not have been the case with regard to the upper room, we'll see later, but Uh it it may well have been here. Um anyway, they brought the donkey and the colt to Jesus and they threw their coats on them and put Jesus on the colt. Not sure what the mom was doing It's a donkey. But um it put Jesus on the coal. Um and the point is that no one had ever ridden this colt before. And uh He sat on the coat uh on the coats that were on the colt. As he was going, most of the large crowd who had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, went out to meet him and spread their coats in the road And others were cutting branches from the palm trees of the fields and spreading them in the road. As soon as he was approaching, near the descent of the Mount of Olives, So they were sort of at the top of the Mount of Olives and nearing the descent down in the Cadron Valley. The whole crowd of the disciples began to praise God joyfully with a loud voice. for all the miracles which they had seen. The crowds were going ahead of him, and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the kingdom of Israel. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David, peace in heaven, and glory. Hosanna. in the highest. I want to pause here. That is quoting Psalm 118. And I think it would be helpful for us to get our Bibles out and turn to Psalm 118. And starting in verse twenty two And you'll probably notice some very familiar passages here in Psalm 118, of which this is a part. But verse twenty-two says, The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. That ring a bell? Yeah. That's quoted several times in the New Testament. In fact, Jesus is going to quote it in a few days' time. In verse twenty-three. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. In verse twenty-four. This is the day which the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Let me come back to that. Verse twenty-five. O Lord, do save, we beseech you. O Lord, we beseech you, do send prosperity. Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord. Um So that in verse 25, O Lord, do save. That's basically the meaning of Hosanna. Save, we pray, or uh we beseech you. And so these people were very familiar with that psalm and they understood it to be messianic at least sizable portions of the end of the song. And so it seems pretty clear that because of Jesus' notoriety, his all the miracles he had done uh people a lot of people were convinced that he was the Messiah and uh there's a lot of r of of uh uh murmuring in advance is he coming? Is he coming to the the the Passover feasts and so on. And when he finally does, um, I guess emotions just take over and they And the fact that he's riding on that donkey and people were recognizing that as a fulfillment of Scripture as well, um, they're thinking their perceptions of um what the Messiah would do is about to get fulfilled. And their perception of what the Messiah was going to do is to retake the throne of his father David and uh That's gonna mean overthrowing the Romans. So they're thinking politically. They're also thinking religiously, but it's hard for them to distinguish the politic the politics and the the religion here Uh but they were thinking this is the fulfillment of all those prophecies and just like even the disciples were thinking that the kingdom was about to start and you know Peter and or James and John wanted to be on his right and his left and in the kingdom. Um, the prevailing view was that that was what's going to happen. And they're they're going to be out from under the bondage of of Rome And um they were excited. Yeah. Right. I mean their their mindset was basically picking up where David left off. Right? So it would be um yeah, a theocracy. Um they weren't all that used to what a theocracy would look like other than from history, uh, but they would know that it meant being rid of Rome Yeah. Um and so that's in their minds. Um y you gotta think that they for the most part were um sincere Even though, like the disciples, they misunderstood the timetable and the distinction between the Messiah's first coming and the second coming, which are both In prophecy, but hard to disentangle before it actually happened. And so it's not surprising that they were confused about the timetable and what the purpose of his coming this first time was, um, and even literally within the upcoming week what would happen. But for now, this fit right in with their perceptions. And um so from their perspective it was all good. Um picking up at verse 16, these things his disciples did not understand at first, but when Jesus was glorified, they remembered that these things were written of him and that they had done these things to him. So The people who were with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to testify about him. What would they be saying? This guy's got to be the Messiah, right? He raises the dead. And for this reason also, the people went and met him because they heard that he had performed this sign. So the Pharisees said to one another You see that you are not doing any good. Look, the world has gone after him. Talk about hardness of heart, right? Um They're telling each other, these these Pharisees, that their worst nightmare is coming true, basically. And they're blaming each other, I guess, for that But this whole event I think helps to explain why Jesus, after raising Lazarus, went north. It was too early for this to happen and it going into Samaria, remember when he he went from from uh Bethany, he went north into Samaria and then ultimately um picked up with some people going down to the feast from Galilee and took that whole trip with them. Um because if he had remained in Bethany, he would he would himself have been a lightning rod before the right time. And um but now was the right time. And so he came back up to Bethany and that was the staging ground for the triumphal entry. Well, what you said is absolutely true, but I think a lot of people understood that the Pharisees were hypocritical. It's only Jesus was man enough to say it. I think it was pretty well understood. In fact the disciples were reluctant to go back with Jesus to raise Lazarus from the dead. They didn't realize he was dead, um or that he would be raised. But I think it was Thomas who said, Well, okay, well let's go with him so we can die there too. Because Just prior to that, the last time Jesus was in Jerusalem, the Pharisees tried to stone him. And it was pretty well known that um he was a threat to them and uh it wasn't a secret. Yeah, it's all about power position. Um and we'll see as the week goes ahead here that there are multiple uh confrontations between the religious leaders and Jesus. And it's going to be plain to everybody around that there is this tension and something's got to give. Anyway, before we leave Psalm 118, I wanted to go back to verse 24, since it's part of this messianic passage, where it says, This is the day which the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. What day do you think he's talking about here? The day these things get fulfilled, right? Um and so um the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone that time of final rejection and be and um becoming the chief cornerstone. And um Hosanna Lord, save us, the people calling out to God to save them. You could argue that the fulfillment of that was this day here, but I'm not sure it was. That may have been a what temporary fulfillment because two days later, Jesus is going to refer back to this Prophecy. And uh I forget where it's at. Um Matthew twenty three thirty nine Yeah. Um yeah, I think it's on page two oh five. No, that's not the one I want. Uh Anyway, Matthew just look it up. Matthew twenty-three, thirty-nine. Matthew kind of rum uh meanders around chronologically here, but In Matthew 23, um we have Jesus' lament over Jerusalem, right, where he says, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent who are sent to her. How often I have wanted to gather your children together in the way a hen la gathers her chicks under her wings and you were unwilling. Behold, your house is being left to you desolate. And this is now a couple of days after the triumphal entry For I say to you, from now on, you will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And When is that? It's still future. Kind of the the f the full recognition of uh Jesus as King. Um and so I think the ultimate fulfillment of this is the day the Lord has made is that The little taste of it, perhaps, was here in the triumphal entry, but that wasn't really it because we see that just a few days later The crowds opposed her. Things weren't going the way they expected. The ultimate fulfillment is still future. But you often hear people say, um, often in their prayers, This is the day the Lord has made, let us rejoice and be glad in it, as if it means every day He creates is a day we should be glad And and and that's true. But that prophecy wasn't about every single day. It was about a specific day. And that day is yet to come. Anyway. So uh any other thoughts here on the triumphal entry. Yeah. The cult. That to me sounds very likely that um it would have been a strange thing for that to just be pulled off n in a normal fashion. The other question though that I have in that context is it's very clear that this cult's mother was along with them. And did that provide any kind of calming effect? I don't know. So maybe the combination of those things. God was in charge of it anyway. The significance of the cult that no one had ever ridden on. Yeah. Um Jeff mentioned well clearly there's a a fulfillment of prophecy going on here and people recognized it. Um, why a donkey? We would think of it as humility, but in that culture it was royalty. Um you get examples of uh David riding a donkey. Uh it wasn't a horse, it was a donkey. Very much so. Very much so. Um of course the other one that comes to mind is um um Balaam. Yeah. That wasn't because of royalty so much. Talking dumb. Yeah. Um but there's another example of God's sovereignty, God's miraculous use of a donkey, right? Balaam's donkey. Anyway. Um yeah. Page 198. So as I mentioned, um this this rivalry, this this tension between Jesus and the religious leaders was no secret. And they weren't keeping it any secret. And picking up here in Luke nineteen, some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. Rebuke them about what? All this commotion they're making, and blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord and and Hosanna and and as if it was fulfilling prophecy. And teacher, rebuke your disciples. But Jesus answered, I tell you, if these become silent, the stones will cry out. Cry out what? Those phrases, right? How do you think the Pharisees responded to that in their hearts? This guy is digging himself in pretty deep. He's he's basically equating himself with God, and uh if these people are silent, God's gonna cause those stones to cry out in praise of him. The gall. They don't even consider that. And the reason, as we suggested, is because that would imply that they've got it all wrong and their position is at risk at best. Um but I think they generally thought they were doing God's business and they were helping God by showing how this this imposter in their view, was misleading the people. Yeah. Um power itself doesn't do that, but it does it to sinful people. God has ultimate power. He's He has all power. And and um it it's all good. He exercises it in in a right way, in a good way. Um but a sinful person having unlimited power, or really any concentration of power, you've got to be careful, right? Okay. By the way, the Pharisees had power, but it wasn't what you would call civil power in the civil domain. It was all religious power. They had power over the synagogue. They could they could um remove people from out of the synagogue and that in other words the assembly, the the the uh the people, uh and they had control over the interpretation of Scripture, which is and we saw that at the time of Re the Reformation Anybody who has power over the people concerning what they are to believe and what the scriptures say, they they're the focal point, they're the the pivot point of of orthodoxy and people are afraid to well, they wouldn't know any better if um that's one of the reasons why the reformers We're so adamant that the Word of God has to be translated into the common language so that everybody has access to the Word of God and they're not just taking the word of people who have vested interest in controlling people Um but that same kind of thing was true in Jesus' day, except that the scriptures actually were in the people's language at that point. Anyway Yeah, power. So um I tell you if these st if these become silent, the stones will cry out. And when he approached Jerusalem, now remember he was going down the the uh the slopes of the um Mount of Olives across the Cadrone Valley and then kind of making his way up to Jerusalem. When he approached Jerusalem itself, he saw the city and wept over it. And here I'm thinking he's still on the Mount of Olives, because when you're on the Mount of Olives, you're up a little higher. And you can look over and just see more of the expanse of Jerusalem. And when he saw the city he wept over it, saying, If you had known in this day, even you, the things which will make for peace But now they have been hidden from your eyes, for the days will come upon you when your enemies will throw up a barricade against you and surround you and hem you in on every side, and they will level you level you to the ground uh and your children within you and they will not leave in you one stone upon another. Why? Because you did not recognize the time of your salvation. So Whether he's still a little bit on the Mount of Olives before crossing over the Cadron Valley and and he's looking over Jerusalem, he's certainly um weeping on behalf of Jerusalem. He's not necessarily here um It just says when he approached Jerusalem he saw the city and wept over it, saying, He's not necessarily talking to people here, although those close around him probably heard it, but there's a lot of noise going around too. How much they remembered at this point is not clear. But what is clear is that he knew going into this, as it was happening, that this wasn't the ultimate fulfillment of Psalm one eighteen. And that these people's um praises and exaltation and wanting to crown him king, you know, we we We've seen that before. Um it was all due to their misunderstanding of why he was actually coming. And he wept because of their uh not just misunderstanding, but to some extent their their um misplaced trust, misplaced um aspirations. It was more selfish. You know, we're more interested in in getting out from under the thumb of Rome than we are dealing with our own sin. And he's focused on the sin problem. And and I think it's very similar, I I don't know if you remember uh just a little while ago when we looked at the raising of Lazarus And that shortest verse in the Bible, Jesus wept, um, I think it was not so much because everybody else was weeping and doing all the the things you do to mourn the loss of somebody. But he saw their hearts and that they had no hope. Um, and that by raising Lazarus they would have tangible evidence that there is hope of um genuine life even after death. Yeah. I think so. Yeah, he's talking about the destruction, no stone left on another. Yeah. And again, he wasn't exactly announcing this to people. He was just his heart was just sh burdened with that reality. He knows what's going to happen, there's prophecy there. Any other thoughts so far? Okay. Um section one hundred forty-six. When he had entered Jerusalem, all the city was stirred, saying, Who is this? What they're saying is there's a big commotion and if they hadn't heard it was because people were caught up in the excitement about Jesus coming in. Um they're basically asking, what's all the commotion about? Right? The crowds were saying, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth in Galilee. Um now, we need to pause here You see in the in the account, um actually I was reading for Matthew's account. Um Mark 11 Verse eleven, the first part of it, um, seems to correspond to that. Jesus entered Jerusalem and when he came into the temple all the city was stirred, crying, Who is this? And all the crowds were saying this is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee. Matthew inserts two more verses at that point, verses twelve and thirteen, which are all about the what we call the cleansing of the temple. The problem is that As we've seen, Matthew isn't all that focused on chronology. Mark leaves us some hints that he has the sequence of time in mind. So in Mark 11, 11, Jesus entered Jerusalem and came into the temple. That's part A of verse 11. If you flip to the next page, Part B of verse 11 in Mark, and after looking around at everything, he left for Bethany with the twelve, since it was already late. Um Mark has him entering Jerusalem, going to the temple area, looking around, but then leaving to Bethany. Matthew, in the midst of that, says while he was at the temple, he Drove out the money changers and all that sort of stuff. Um how do we know where the cleansing of the temple happened? Was it as Matthew put it or as Mark put it? Well I've sided with Mark because as I said Matthew tends I mean we've seen it all throughout that um his focus is not on chronology but on themes. And so he mentioned um Uh yeah, the as Mark said, you know, he went into the temple and Matthew was actually there. He probably remembered Jesus going into the temple, but Jesus was always going into the temple. Um even this This very pivotal week. But look at Mark's language here compared to Matthew's language. Mark says he entered Jerusalem, came into the temple. And after looking around at everything, he left for Bethany with the twelve, since it was already late. Now, if Matthew were the only one referencing the cleansing of the temple, Matthew's chronology would probably make sense. Except that Mark then says on the next day uh and you'll see this next week on page two hundred um the next day they left Bethany uh he became hungry and his whole uh illustration here of the fig tree that Jesus caused to wither. And then after that, it says in Mark, then they came to Jerusalem. And he entered entered the temple and began to drive out. So Mark gives us some some specific timing milestones. Whereas look at Matthew Uh back on page one ninety-eight, where we're at, supposedly, uh Jesus heals in the temple and then is opposed. So in verse fourteen, it says According to Matthew, he doesn't say then, it says and verse 14. And the blind and lame came to him. And then you go to verse seventeen in Matthew it says, and he left and went to Bethany. If you go to um Page 200, section 149, about the cleansing of the temple, and Jesus entered the temple and drove them out. Those and are saying this is happening during this time period. But it's th they're not specific milestones in and in in specific order. Uh unfortunately, Luke, which is Expressly chronological doesn't have any of these intermediate things, as Mark does. And so Mark seems to be the one to follow here. Does that make sense? Okay. Um so section 146 and The blind and the lame came to him in the temple and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he had done, and the children who were shouting in the temple, Hosannah to the son of David They became indignant. Notice they were indignant about this. They weren't indignant about the cleansing of the temple. Anyway, they became indignant and said to him, Do you hear what these children are saying? And Jesus said to them Yes. Have you never read, out of the mouths of infants and nursing babes, you have prepared praise for yourself. He's quoting Psalm 8, too. And what's significant there is that Psalm 8 is all addressed to God. And so if he's applying that to himself, what is he saying? He's God. And that certainly didn't rest well with his Pharisee friends. Okay. Um And then section one hundred forty seven, I'll look at the blended account here. And after looking around at everything, he left them and went out of the city to Bethany with the twelve since it was already late. So this was all happening on the same day of uh the triumphal entry. And how do we know that was on a Sunday? Didn't actually say. You have to work backwards because there are other timing like here, you know, the next day and the next morning, those kind of things. references to the timing of the feast and so on. You can work backwards and co account for the days that are mentioned and realize that this must have been on the first day of the week. Okay Um so Bethany would have been at most, I guess, a couple of miles from Jerusalem. Of course you have to traverse the Cadrone Valley and uh Mount of Olives, but um it's it's with a lot of people. I mean um You think the inn was full when Jesus was born. Just think of how the inns were in Jerusalem during the the Passover. You know, you couldn't get a room. Um and so staying with friends in Bethany made a lot of sense, right Um okay. So that brings us to the end of what we call Palm Sunday. Now timing is almost right, but that's next week. We're almost we're almost uh on point there. Okay. Any other thoughts? Questions? What application can we make of uh the triumphal entry, uh Jesus' compassion for those who were who needed healing, and we need to be careful when we interpret scripture not to replace God's agenda with our agenda or our God's meaning with our interpretation. An interpretation that kind of suits our preferences, suits our um Desires. Or what? Desires. Desires. Yeah. Um Jesus of course was confronted with that all the way through his ministry. His disciples were of that same mindset and it took a while for them In fact, even the crucifixion, that sort of was the crisis that said what's going on here in their minds. Um but up until the resurrection And even initially with the resurrection, they just couldn't get it, right? And they thought they were in line with Scripture The Messiah this is the Messiah and all the focus in the prophecies of about the Messiah, uh the ones they chose to focus on were not the suffering servant prophecies, right? But the triumphal king prophecies. Um and we need to be careful that we're not selective in our um application of scripture. And that could be from mis simple misunderstanding, but it could also be from some sin. What sin might contribute to that on our part? Pride. Anybody know somebody with a problem with pride? Yeah, right, right. So we need to be careful that we don't go to scripture with a prideful heart, I've got this figured out, and just blind to what it's telling us, right? We're not immune from that. Um it takes humility to Let God speak through his word in a way that's unencumbered by our assumptions. Really shows Christ knew who he was, he knew he was God, he claimed to be God, he claimed to be in this all these references Yeah, yeah, there's clearly um a lot and we'll see um the the gospel accounts referencing back to those prophecies uh just continually here. It just comes to a head. All right. Well with that, um we've got him in Bethany for the night. We can pause here. And uh let's pray. Father, thank you that you have given us your word in that. Um To the extent that you've opened our eyes that we can be susceptible to the same kind of misinterpretations that uh are exhibited in Scripture, um, that we need to be careful too, that we don't uh uh presume something and end up uh treating it as if it's true when in fact it's only a an assumption And help us to keep our assumptions checked by your word and um let your word speak to us, Lord um as you would have us to to learn. And may we um not be blind, blinded by our pride, but um We pray that you would open our eyes in humility, that we could rightly apply your truth, understand your truth, and give praise to you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen