Alrighty. So we're beginning a new quarter. We're on lesson twenty-seven in the notes. If you don't have a copy of the notes, just turn to the Gospel of Luke, chapter twelve. So um a few weeks ago we had an extended portion from the Gospel of John. Today we have an extended portion from the Gospel of Luke And there's a lot there, uh, some of which overlaps in content and theme with things we've already seen Christ do and convey. But um so I'm on section 117, page 16. From the Gospel of Luke, chapter twelve. Under these circumstances, and of course if you read back the previous verse from last week, uh the where it left off was that the Jewish leaders were find seeking ways to trap him and to um uh catch him doing something or saying something that uh they could use as a basis for official action. So under these circumstances, after so many thousands of people had gathered together, and again here they're in um presumably in uh Galilee, uh not Jerusalem. So many people gathered together that they were stepping upon one another He began saying to his disciples, first of all, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. Now I think he used that term earlier, and they thought he was talking about bread. Maybe this time they're actually getting it. But he actually explains what he means this time. Beware the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy, but there is nothing covered up that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known. Accordingly, whatever you have said in the dark will be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in the inner rooms will be proclaimed upon the housetops. I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I will warn you whom to fear. Fear the one who, after he has killed you has the authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two cents? Yet not one of them is forgotten before God. Indeed the very hairs of your head are all numbered Do not fear if you are more valuable than many sparrows. And so here he's he's addressing uh things like hypocrisy. Um uh worry, um some of the the fears that people have and trying to put this in perspective, you know, don't fear man but fear God in a healthy sort of way Um picking up in verse eight. And I say to you, everyone who confesses me before men, the Son of Man, will confess him also before the angels of God But he who does denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him. But he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit It will not be forgiven him. Remember we we saw that he raised this um a little bit earlier as well. Um so he's reinforcing the same teaching um several times. Verse 11. And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities, do not worry about what you are uh how or what you are to speak in your defense or what you are to say For the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say. Someone in the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the family inheritance with me. But Jesus said to him Man, who appointed me a judge or arbiter over you? Then he said to them all, Beware and be on your guard against every form of Greed. For not even when one has an abundance does this life consist of his possessions. Do you think the guy who asked the question was starting to get some conviction there? Um so Jesus turned that around to uh provide a a uh a very strong principle that we shouldn't um be so focused on material possessions and wealth and whatever uh that we we uh neglect the more important things. Uh okay so verse uh sixteen And he told him a parable, saying, The land of a rich man was very productive. And um he began reasoning to himself, saying What shall I do since I have no place to store my crops? Then he said, This is what I will do. I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods. And I will say to my soul, soul, you have many good things laid up for many years to come. Take your ease ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said to him, You fool, this very night your soul is required of you. And now who will own what you have prepared? So is the man who said stores up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. He said to his disciples, For this reason I say to you, do not worry about your life as to what you will eat or You for your body what you will put on. For life is more than food and the body uh more than clothing. Consider the ravens For they neither sow nor reap. They have no storeroom nor barn. And yet God feeds them. How much more valuable are you than the birds? And which of you, by worrying, can add a single hour to his life span? If then you cannot do even the very little thing, why do you worry about other matters? Consider the lilies of the field, uh lilies, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, but I tell you, not even Solomon in all his glory clothe himself like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, how much more will he clothe you You men of little faith. And do not seek what you will eat and what you will drink, and do not keep worrying for all these things the nations of the world eager eagerly seek But your father knows that you need these things, but seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you. Do not be afraid, little flock, for your father has chosen gladly to give you the kingdom. Sell your possessions and give to charity. Make yourself money belts which do not wear out. An unfailing treasure in heaven Where no thief comes nor moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Sound familiar He covered much the same info um in um the middle of the Sermon on the Mount, right, in Matthew. Which happened earlier, but he keeps repeating many of these principles because they're so key and as we saw with the disciples on many occasions, they don't get it the first time. Sort of like us. Right? It takes us multiple times to for it to really sink in. And so for example, here toward the bottom he says, Make yourselves money belts which do not wear out. What kind of a money belt is that? An eternal one And so he's saying, he actually explained it, right? An unfailing treasure in heaven where no thief comes into No moth destroys and so on. So lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. What are treasures in heaven that we can lay up? How do you lay up treasure in heaven? So it all begins with having a right relationship with God, being saved. not by our works, but by his work, right? Um but in the context here, he's making it very practical on a daily basis, he says, don't be worrying about um your food and clothing, things that are actually basic necessities. Um It doesn't mean that we're to just sit back and twiddle our thumbs and wait for him to give us food and and clothing. We need to be uh productive. But what's he getting at? The hard attitude Is there worry here? What are you worried about? God's in charge. Are you really submitted to Him and obeying Him? Then you've got nothing to worry about. Sounds easy, but when it comes to day-to-day uh activities, it can be hard. We're so focused on the here and now that we're not focused on the eternal. So what things do last for eternity that don't fade and Go away. People's souls are eternal one way or the other. Okay, what else? Character, um you'll work like you Like you miss your work? Uh yeah. Doesn't it say like in First Corinthians about how some like your work gets burnt up or something like that? That's that's why I'm hesitating. Um It's it's possible, you know, like like even in the Sermon on the Mount, right after Jesus said this, he gave the example of people who said, Well Lord, Lord, didn't I do this, didn't I do that in your name? I think something like that, like a gold like burst through fire. That's what I'm getting at. Yes, yeah. So in First Corinthians three gives the example of uh building on a foundation The foundation is Christ and the warning is to be careful how we build on it because if we build with wood, hay and straw, it gets burned up Nothing to show for it except the foundation. But if we build with gold, silver, and precious stones, 1 Corinthians 3 says, those things will be lasting through the fire. They have eternal value So what is gold, silver, and precious stones spiritually? What's he talking about? Are possibly are good works that he has prepared in advance for us to do. Okay, so it's not that works are a bad thing But they can be works of selfishness, checking off the box only external, or they can be works of obedience that God has created in advance for us in Christ, Ephesians 2. 10 There's a passage in Luke sixteen that might says, I say you make friends for yourselves by means of the wealth of unrighteousness, so that when it fails they will use So it's kind of the idea that we're using you know things that God has given us, you know, describes them as the that he is the But the idea is it's something that we have is tangible, but you're using it for an eternal purpose. Yeah. Yeah. So Um the first part uh the the the the foundation of that is recognizing what is eternal. And so one thing that's eternal is people's souls and the other main thing that's eternal that we have to work with is the word of God shall not pass away. Right? And so if we invest even our or material wealth in the into the the um investing it in people's lives investing it in people's souls, their eternal well-being, and we're investing it in the the use, the spread, the um uh uh advance of the word of God, right? Um Those are things that we know for sure are going to last forever. And we can use even our temporary wealth while while we have it to pursue both of those things, be storing up treasures in heaven Actually we're we're reflecting back on Matthew 6, but we're in uh Luke 12, and we're just uh finished up verse 34. That's what kind of led to this conversation. Um And so Jesus is kind of reviewing a lot of the material he's already covered in earlier context, and this is a very practical one that Every day we're making decisions about material things and the use of material things and the use of our time, right? Um and he's calling us to have an eternal perspective on that If we make our decisions based on um our current material and physical context alone, then that's all going to get burned up and we'll have nothing to show for it. But if we uh make a priority of investing in things that are going to have eternal uh impact, people's lives, the use and spread of God's word. Um those are things that have eternal value. And uh we're not always going to have time. We have limited time And so um the same thing with our resource, our physical resources, limited uh which is a good thing because When our time and our resources are limited, it forces us to do what? Prioritize. If we had unlimited time and unlimited resources, we'd be less likely to prioritize. We can just do everything and be more efficient, yeah, more productive. So w we need to set priorities. Jesus is talking all about priorities here, isn't he? Um it's it's not that food and clothing are unimportant They are important, they're basic necessities, but where are your priorities, Jesus is asking? Think eternally. Think eternally. Make decisions based on an eternal perspective. Um good uh good to remember. Okay, so I'm on page I'm on uh verse thirty five in Luke twelve. Be dressed in readiness and keep your lamps lit. Be like men who are waiting for their master when he returns from the wedding feast, so that they may immediately open the door to him when he comes and knocks. Blessed are those slaves whom the master will find on the alert. When he comes, truly I say to you, that he will gird himself to serve, and have them re and have them recline at the table, and will come up and wait on them Whether he comes in the second watch or even the third, second, third watch, those are uh uh markers during the nighttime. How much into the night So if he comes um in the second watch or even in the third and finds them so, blessed are those slaves. But be sure of this, that if the head of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming He would not have allowed his house to be broken into. That's just like a general uh truism about being alert Being ready, being prepared. He says, You too be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour that you do not expect. And Peter said Lord, are you addressing this parable to us or to everyone else as well? And the Lord said, I love it, how he often just doesn't answer a direct question. The Lord said, Who then is the faithful and sensible steward? He's trying to make the point, whom his master will put in charge of his servants to give them their rations at the proper time. Blessed is that slave whom his master finds so doing when he comes. True I say to you that he will put him in charge of all his possessions. But if that slave says in his heart, My master will be a long time in coming And so he begins to beat the slaves, both men and women, and to eat and drink and get drunk, and the master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect him And at an hour he does not know, and he will cut him in pieces and assign a place with uh assign him a place with the unbelievers And that slave who knew his master's will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will will receive many lashes. But the one who did not know it and committed deeds worthy of flogging will receive but a few. From everyone who who has been given much, much will be required, and to whom they entrusted much, of him they will ask all the more. So he's speaking of readiness, readiness for his return, readiness ultimately for judgment. And so the exhortation here from Jesus is again about priorities. Are you using your time well? Are you putting things off that ought to be done now? Are you recognizing that you are the your place here in your role is that of a servant? And who calls the shots? The servant or the master? The master. Right? And if the servant is not doing what the master expects, even though the master is not present, not watching What kind of servant is that? It's unfaithful. And he'll be found out at some point and there will be repercussions. Do you think that has application to us? Really it us, right? It's so easy to kind of coast through life um and think only about the short term, not the long term. and end up doing things or not doing things because we have our priorities wrong and ultimately we'll give an account. Yeah, yeah, his I think the the thing he's mostly targeting here is the the um common behavior of people who are under authority, under some responsibility, which ultimately is all of us under God But the tendency to be slackers, to get our priorities wrong. Um and Really the only way to identify the right priorities for making decisions is to have a long term view to understand the ultimate context. What are the important things? Uh why am I here? Right? And yes, be busy doing what I need to be doing now But defining well what I should be doing rather than just what I want to do. Um so many of the examples Christ gives, including here and elsewhere, uh are about servants, slaves um uh the relationship with their master, their owner. And that those human examples probably resonated with people more quickly who he's talking to because that was sort of common a common situation. Uh but they apply to us as well. That um Each of us is um a servant, a slave of God, of Christ. Um He's the Master, He's the Lord, we're the Slaves. Now, fortunately, our master never does anything wrong. He's the ultimate good and he certainly has our welfare. Um in his heart. But we have a responsibility. We're not in charge. We don't call him in as our our fix it up guy when we mess it up. Uh we're to do his will. We're to serve him. uh our our role in life is to advance his interests, not ours. Um and man, he uh a lot of the things he says both here and and And otherwise, uh, elsewhere with these these uh illustrations of faithfulness of servant, um, relates to every one of them Yes. And um those those kind of observations help us to understand the reality, the big picture, the big context in which we are living. Um but so often we ignore that context and we make decisions, we do things, we say things that we later regret. Um and so Jesus is challenging uh them and us to don't lose sight of the big picture. Um God is sovereign, God is good, you have responsibility to him. Life is not about us, it's about him Um let's get our priorities straight and and then with a good conscience accept whatever comes our way. That's we're doing the right thing. Because God is in control and He's good. Yep. Okay. Uh where am I at? Verse forty nine. I have come to cast fire upon the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled. But I have a baptism to undergo, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished. Do you suppose that I came to grant peace on earth? I tell you no, but rather division. For from now on, five members in one household will be divided, three against two and two against three. They will be divided father against son, son against father, mother against daughter, and daughter against mother Mother in law against. Daughter in law, daughter in law against. Mother in law and second husband's um twice removed and whatever, who knows. Um again Jesus covered this material earlier, uh, but now he's bringing it in again to emphasize priorities. And um usually We we um are loyal to family above all else. But Jesus is saying the time will come when you need to show that you're loyal to him, Christ, if you have to choose. Not easy. Verse fifty-four. And he was also saying to the crowds, When you see a cloud rising in the west, immediately say, a shower's coming. And so it turns out. And when you th that may or may not be true here, but it was certainly true in Israel. You know, the west is the Mediterranean Sea, that's where the moisture's coming from Uh and when you see a south wind blowing you say it will be a hot day. And it turns out that way. Of course south winds are coming from the desert to the south of of Israel and um it becomes very dry. But then he says, You hypocrites, you know how to analyze the appearance of the earth and the sky, but why do you not analyze the present time? And why do you not even on your own initiative judge what is right? For while you are going with your opponent to appear before the magistrate, on your on your way there, uh make an effort to settle with him So that you may not dr so that he may not drag you before the judge. And the judge turn you over to the officer and the officer throw you into prison. I say to you, you will not get out of there until you have paid the very last scent. Um so his context here is is immediate context is um understanding the signs, understand the context, what's happening. And um uh often we get caught up in little details and forget the context and therefore make bad decisions Um ultimately the context he wants them to see is that he, the Messiah, um, is challenging them to live godly lives that would please God, um, make decisions that would advance his kingdom and um kind of shaking people out of the the normal um If normal is the right word. The the the day today that becomes so uh overpowering that people lose Well I've always done this. I do this every day. I do this every year, whatever, um, without thinking through priorities and context. Um okay so again a lot of these things were were topics he covered one way or another earlier, but that's pretty common. He's he's picking up these themes in and multiple different s scenarios, uh sometimes just with the disciples, sometimes with a crowd. Okay, let's go to one eighteen. Jesus urges people to bear fruit from genuine Repentance. Luke 13. Now on the same occasion, there was some present who reported to him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. That's a no-no Right? And Jesus said to them, Do you suppose that these Galileans were greater sinners than all the Galileans because they suffered this fate? Why did Jesus ask that question? Because it was a common belief. If some disaster happened to you, you must have done something wrong. I tell you no. But unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Or do you suppose that those eighteen on whom the Tower of Siloam fell and killed them were worse culprits than all the men who live in Jerusalem? I tell you no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. And he began telling them this parable. A man had a fig tree which had been planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit on it, and did not find any And he said to the vine keeper, vineyard keeper, Behold, for three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree, without finding any. Cut it down. Why does it even use up the ground? And he, the vineyard keeper, answered him and said, Let it alone, sir. for this year too, until I dig around it and put in fertilizer, and if it bears fruit next year, fine. But if not, cut it down. Um interesting juxtaposition of those two Elements. Um Jesus teaching that uh the the things that happen to people that seem like disasters and so on are are not necessarily, not usually um a consequence of their personal sin. Um they may well be um the result that of sin being in the world and being pervasive, um but um Sometimes, you know, we we w insurance companies call some of these events acts of God, which is interesting. Kind of a acknowledgement that God is sovereign. Um but that we have no control over it. That's the point. And um yes, God is just, but what is his challenge to people here? Be ready. Right? Um uh repent. Um unless you repent you will all likewise perish. And so he's calling people to um be right with God because you never know what's gonna happen. Right? Good lesson for all of us. Yeah, what was true the the question is um about the the the tree with no fruit. Um well first of all a young tree may not have fruit because it's still developing Right. And I think that was the expectation of the v vineyard dresser here. That maybe in the next year it would be ready to to bear fruit. But Jesus' point is that the purpose of that tree is to bear fruit. And if it doesn't bear fruit, it's not it's not um It's not doing what it's supposed to be doing. So he used that illustration on other occasions to illustrate um the fruitlessness of the religious leaders of his day. Um and they were not bearing fruit because they weren't genuine believers. Well that same thing can be true of us today. People who are not bearing fruit, they're not showing that they're um um doing what God put them here to do. Yeah, that that can uh apply to any of us. And I'm sure that's why he He uh gave that illustration. Is it possible that there would be a genuine believer who doesn't bear fruit? The answer to that question, I believe biblically, is no. Who produces the fruit? It's not the person producing the fruit. The person is the vehicle, but ultimately it's God producing the fruit. And if it's a genuine believer, um God doesn't allow that genuine believer to wallow in the mud, so to speak, and be unfruitful. Um now there can be seasons of time when people are resisting God's work in their life and they may not be as fruitful then as they are supposed to be, but God turns up the heat on them. The Holy Spirit is in charge and he will produce fruit because our sanctification is more his responsibility than ours. Our responsibility is to cooperate and he produces the fruit Yeah, it's it's it's possible, like with a young tree, um, it would typically take years for that young tree to bear fruit. And that's just normal. That doesn't mean that it's going to take years for a young believer to show fruit, because if God's at work in his life, um, there'll be some kind of fruit. Yeah. Um so I Jesus is basically here warning people about themselves and about people they're following. if there's no fruit there, there's no genuine fruit, take this as a warning, right? So um if a genuine believer doesn't see any fruit in his life, he needs to evaluate his uh relationship with God, his submission to God, and uh kind of heed the warning if you will. Does that make sense? Yeah, he he doesn't address that here But it it's definitely true that one of the vehicles by God's design for our sanctification is, as you say, the accountability we have amongst one another. So we can spur one another on to love and good deeds. Right? Yeah, he's called us to be like Christ, not like somebody else. And it's the Holy Spirit's work in us to to conform us to Christ. The the primary example of that, I think, is in Matthew 7, in the Sermon on the Mount, where um prior to him saying this, uh he says um Um enter by the narrow gate, um, for the path is narrow and the gate is narrow that leads to life, but the um and few find it, he says. But the path is wide and the gate is huge that leads to destruction and many find it. And then he says, um, you'll know them by their fruit, which of those two kind of people they are. And then he says, Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, didn't I do this, that, and the other in your name? And he says, I didn't know you Which is kind of shocking, I think, to his hearers at that point. But then he gives the illustration of a house built on the stone versus a house built on the sand The two houses could look identical, but one is washed away and the other isn't, because it has the wrong foundation. And so if our works the house we build on the on the ground, um, are based on the wrong foundation, our own abilities, our own logic, our own efforts, that can be washed away. But so when he said, Depart from me, I never knew you, you who practice lawlessness, the lawlessness was trying to do works in their own flesh on a foundation of sand rather than a humble heart before Christ. Um so he's definitely looking at the heart, not the externals alone. Okay. Um Page one sixty-eight, one nineteen. Again we're in Luke, now thirteen, chapter thirteen, verse ten. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, and there was a woman who for eighteen years had had a sickness caused by a spirit, and she was bent double and could not straighten up at all. When Jesus saw her, he called her over to Called her over and said to her, Woman, you are freed from your sickness. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made erect again and began glorifying God. Makes sense. But the synagogue official, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, began saying to the crowd, not just to Jesus, but to the crowd in response, There are six days in which work should be done, so come during them and get healed, but not on the Sabbath day. But the Lord answered him and said, You hypocrites, does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his docky or ox uh from the stall and lead them away to water them? And this woman, a daughter of Abraham as she is, whom Satan has bound for eighteen long years, should she not have been released from this bond on the Sabbath day? As he said this, all his opponents were being humiliated, I guess so. And the entire crowd was rejoicing over all the glorious things being done by them So you see this this uh building conflict between the religious leaders and their man-made laws, um which maybe originally were well intended but now become an end some in and of themselves, versus the people who many of whom are seeing Christ for who he is. And even if they're not believers, they're enjoying the hypocrites getting getting um a a tongue lashing, I guess at the least. Um verse 18. So he was saying, What is the kingdom of God like, and to what shall I compare it? It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and threw into his garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the air nested in its branches. And again he said, To what shall I compare the kingdom of God? It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three pecks of flour until it is all leaven. And so his his points there are that the kingdom of God is going to be growing, somewhat gradual, like leaven fills um dough as a uh mustard seed starts small but it grows into a large plant Um the kingdom will be like that. Okay, section one twenty. Now we're switching to John. Now back in John ten, where we left off in the middle of John ten, he was at a feast in Jerusalem But that was uh the Feast of Tabernacles. This is now the Feast of Dedication, which nowadays we call Hanukkah. At that time the Feast of Dedication took place at Jerusalem It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the portico of Solomon. The Jews then gathered around him and were saying to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly And Jesus answered them, I told you. And you do not believe the works that I do In my Father's name, these testify of me, but you do not believe because you are not of my sheep. My sheep, hear my voice And I know them and they follow me. And I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all. And no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hands. I and the Father are one. The Jews picked up stones again to stone him And Jesus answered and said, I showed you many good works from the Father, for which of them are you stoning me? And the Jews answered him, For a good work we do not stone you. But for blasphemy. Because you being a man, make yourself out to be God. So they didn't have any confusion at all about what he was saying. They just didn't believe that what he was doing was because of God. Jesus answered them, Has it not been written in your law, I said you are God If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken, do you say of him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, you are blasphemy because I said I am the Son of God? If I do not do the works of my Father, do not believe me. But if I do them, though you do not believe me, believe me, believe my works, so that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I in the Father. Therefore they were seeking again to seize him, and he eluded their grasp Um very important um assurances given us here that uh Christ knows his sheep and he knows who are not his sheep. And um My sheep hear my voice, I know them, they follow me, and I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand, and my father who has given to me is greater than all, no one will snatch. No one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. So it's like we're in the hand of Christ and in the hand of the Father, and it's not a matter of us hanging on for dear life. It's a matter of him hanging on to us, both father and son. And we know that we have eternal life when we know we are his sheep Um and it's something that we are given, not something that we earn. It reminds me in uh first epistle of John chapter five, uh starting verse eleven John writes, um, and the testimony is this um that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his son He who has the Son has the life, and he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life. Two kinds of people. Then he says, These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may know that you have eternal life. He doesn't say in order that you may hope or think or um wish, if you are in Christ you have eternal life. If you're not in Christ, you don't have eternal life. And when does that eternal life end? It doesn't. It's eternal. Yeah, that's just your question. Um more importantly perhaps, when does that eternal life begin? When you're saved. Yeah. We're given eternal life. He who has the Son has the life. not will have, has the life. And he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life. That eternal life is a relationship with God, which doesn't end. And it's a gift because we're chosen Him, but we didn't exist before So he's outside of time, we're in time. Yeah, it's it's a technicality. But in our experience, our eternal life began at the moment of salvation. Yeah. Okay. Um 121 on page 169. And he went away again beyond the Jordan to a place where John was first baptizing, and he was staying there Many came to him and were saying, Well John performed no sign, yet everything John said about this man was true, and many believed in him there. So the point of Christ's works was to authenticate that um the things he was saying were also from God. Christ's works, his miracles, and so on were um explainable well, either you believe that Satan, like the many of the Pharisees did, well Satan was at work in him and Jesus said, that doesn't make any sense, right? We just covered that recently Or you realize that can't be true, so this must be a work of God, and if this is a work of God through this guy, I need to listen to what he's saying That's the same purpose for the various miracles throughout the Bible, that God was attesting to the authenticity of the message. Um and you see that in in um uh the book of Acts Uh the the miracles that the the apostles did authenticated the message they were giving. Same was true here with Jesus. Uh section one hundred twenty-two uh back to Luke thirteen. And as he was passing through from one city village to another, teaching and proclaiming on his way to Jerusalem And someone said to him, Lord, there are just um are there just a few who are being saved? And he said to them, Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many I will tell you we'll seek to enter and will not be able. Once the head of the house gets up and shuts the door And you begin to stand outside and knock on the door, saying, Lord, open up to us, then he will answer and say, I do not know where you're from. Then he will begin to say We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets. And he will say, I tell you, I do not know where you're from. Depart from me, all you evildoers. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. When you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you yourselves being thrown out And they will come from east and west and from north and south, and will recline at table in the kingdom of God. And behold Some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last. Just at that time, some of the Pharisees approached him, saying to him, Go away, leave here, for Herod wants to kill you I'm not sure if that's because they were concerned about him or or what. But anyway he said to them Go and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures, and tomorrow on the third day I reach my goal Nevertheless, I must journey on today and tomorrow and the next day, for it cannot be that a prophet would perish outside of Jerusalem. So Herod didn't have jurisdiction in Jerusalem, and so he wasn't scared of Herod. Um and then he says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, city that kills the prophets and stones those who sent her, how often I wanted to gather your children together. Since a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you would not have it. Behold, your house is left to you desolate. I say to you, you will not see me again until the time comes when you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, which is a quote from Psalm 118 And was at least partially fulfilled on when? Palm Sunday, which is not too far from here. Um I don't think we're gonna have time to do 123. But next week, uh Jeff is teaching and so he'll have to pick up section one twenty-three. Anyway, um good discussion, long lesson, um, but lots of important stuff here. Let's pray. Lord, um we're so humbled by the the record of your um interaction with your disciples, the the crowds, the religious leaders, and how uh how much you just zeroed in on the things that were important You demonstrated compassion, you demonstrat wisdom, and so much of it was beyond the grasp of so many people But we thank you that you have chosen us, that you have brought us out of darkness into light, and pray that you would help us to be obedient, to be uh faithful Um to be about your work until you come. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.