So welcome. That's supposed to be less formal. Oh, well that'll work. Yeah. So welcome everybody if uh you don't already have access to the notes that we're using. The scriptures will help if you have those, but you can also download the PDFs of the notes we're using that Bring together all of the four Gospels into one narrative. And um Diane, um are you able to um I didn't mean to do that? addresses if they're coming for the first time let me send them the link. Okay. So if you want to get the link to that, send an email to Diane at I tell you what, I'm going to give you my cell number. We can put it on the board. Absolutely. Yeah. Alright, so we are continuing. Actually, heads up, we have got to go quickly today because we're behind. We're behind. I think we've been talking too much. Well, uh we were behind the previous week. And we didn't catch up last week. Um anyway, we are on page two hundred and twelve. Finishing up the Olivet Discourse. The context here is Jesus is in Jerusalem during Passion Week. He's been teaching, he's been interacting with the religious leaders. And uh when possible he's been um teaching and and informing his disciples. And so that's actually what he's doing here in Matthew twenty-five. Now, Matthew twenty-five is a continuation of the discourse, the teaching that Jesus was giving to his disciples on what I think was late Tuesday of Passion Week. And Where we've been in the first part of the of the discourse was taken from both with all three, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Now we're just in Matthew. He's continuing, but it's only recorded this portion of it in Matthew. And so uh beginning I'll start reading Matthew twenty-five, um, starting in verse one. And uh just a little bit of background. Um you remember last week the we saw that in this discourse he he was being asked about um So what we would call the end times, right? And and the fulfillment of Jesus responded to their observ their delight, I guess, and how beautiful the temple and the surrounding buildings were. And he told them, you know, this is all going to be leveled. Not one stone's going to be on another And it reminded them of his every now and then talking about um the future. And so they asked him uh point blank, what what's the sign of your coming? And and when is it going to be? And he answered those questions in reverse order. And the when was not even he knows, so only the father knows But there are lots of signs, not just a sign, lots of signs. And so he's in the middle here of talking about these n times. And he's referred to uh uh Daniel nine where it's talked about the um uh uh The key thing is the abomination of desolation. But he talked about several aspects of the last week of Daniel's seventy weeks. Um but this abomination would be in the middle of that last seven year period when the world ruler will uh renege on his treaty with Israel who up until that point were able to are going to be able to um continue their sacrifices and so on in the temple. And then he's just going to desecrate the temple. And um that won't have been the first time the temple was desecrated, but this is a very key time and Jesus said that's going to usher in then the second half of those seven year period, which Jesus called the Great Tribulation. And so um that's sort of where we're at here in his discourse. And beginning in chapter 25, he says, Then the kingdom of heaven will be compared to ten virgins, virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were foolish and five were prudent. For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them But the prudent took oil in flasks along with their lamps. Now, while the bridegroom was delaying, as I guess they do, they all got drowsy and began to sleep. But at midnight there was a shout, Behold, the bridegroom! Come out to meet him! Then all those virgins, virgins, rose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said to the prudent, Get us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the prudent answered, No, there won't be enough for us and for you too. Go instead to the dealers and buy some for yourselves. I wonder what dealers of oil were going to be around at midnight, right? Anyway, while they were going away to make the purchase, the bridegroom came. And those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast, and the door was shut. Later the other virgins also came, saying, Lord, open for us also. But he answered, Truly I say to you, I do not know you. Be on the alert then, for you did not know the day or the hour. Okay. He's going to provide another illustration here in a moment, but let's first think about this one. This is very related to a lot of the points he was making in the earlier part of this discourse, where his lesson to his hearers was Be ready, be prepared. Right? He's making that same that same um appeal here. Um And so who is he who is he saying should be ready? Believers. Believers? Which believers? Those who are waiting on the return of the of the bridegroom. Yes, yes. And so in this case the return of the bridegroom would be what? The return of Christ. And um uh what are the events leading up to the return of Christ? This would be at the end of the tribulation, yeah. So uh uh when Christ actually comes back to earth is at the very end of the tribulation period before he ushers in the millennium. And so there are people um who make it through that tribulation period Which is primarily for um uh the Jews, but also Gentiles And many will come to Christ during that tribulation period and they'll realize, wow, um scripture was correct. Um uh we see what's happening all around us and um uh Christ will be returning. Now one of the One of the advantages, if you want to think of it that way, of that period is that Scripture does put some timetable around that. Once that period starts You know it's seven years long, you know there right in the middle of it, three and a half years into it, there's gonna be the switch, and it's gonna become even greater tribulation. And uh the signs that the the uh disciples were asking about here, and Jesus gave a little bit of of uh uh flavor of what some of those signs were going to be uh would be more evident. And so people ought to be able to see that the time is coming. And the return of Christ is imminent and yet apparently even during that time some people won't be prepared. So um in contrast the The um the rapture, Christ doesn't actually come down to earth. We go up to meet him in the air, right? And there's nothing yet I mean there's nothing at this point in addition to what's already happened that needs to happen before that happens, if that makes sense. In other words, it could happen today. It could happen anytime. And um this is still a lesson maybe that We need to heed, even though we're not specifically the ones who he's referring to here, um, we need to be ready to Yeah. That was kind of a long answer to that uh that uh point. But anyway, let's go to verse fourteen. He gives another illustration. For it is just like a man about to go on a journey, who called his own slaves and entrusted his possessions to them. To one, he gave five talents. Now a talent here is a unit of money. He's counting how much money he's going to entrust to each one. So five he gave to one, to another two and to another one, according each according to his own ability And he went on his journey, and uh immediately the one who had received five talents went and traded with them and gave and gained five more talents. So he was investing, right? He was working to uh multiply those assets In the same manner, the one who had received two talents gained two more, which is actually the same rate as the other one, right? Doubled it. But he who received the one talent went away, dug a hole in the ground, and hid his master's money Now, after a long time the master of those slaves came and settled the counts with them. The one who had received the five talents came up and brought five more talents, saying, Master. You entrusted five talents to me. See, I have gained five more talents. And his master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. Also the one who had received the two talents came up and said, Master. You entrusted two talents to me. See, I have gained two more talents. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. And verse 24. And the one also who had received the one talent came up and said, Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed. What's he referring to here? Why would this master be characterized as Reaping where he doesn't sow and gathering where he does not scatter. He's hired other people to do it. He's got slaves to do that. Right? He's not the one actually doing it. They're doing it presumably on his behalf because he owns the resources. He's put entrusted them with those resources. And um Sorry? Because he's not giving the owner uh the right to own and do whatever I see. Yeah, well these guys are slaves for sure. They're not they're not owners. They're slaves. They're not even employees. That is true. But look at the perspective of of the slave who didn't catch that. Right? Yeah. But many of the masters were very kind I what why does that alone make him a hard man? He says, I need him to be a hard man. Because the guilty person It's his perspective. And his perspective obviously was what do I get out of this Right. Anyway, um reaping where you did not sow, gathering where you scattered no seed, and I was afraid And I went away and hid your talent in the ground. See, you have what is yours. He acknowledged that it belonged to the master, right? And he gave it back to him. What's the problem? He gave back what belonged to the master, but nothing else. Nothing else. was lacking, right? What's what's the role of a slave? To advance the interests of the master, right? Not his own interests And he clearly failed that test. you know, one out very well, but it's I always feel a little sorry for him because I feel like he did it out of fear. But the other two weren't afraid of him. I know, but he was for some reason. I don't know why they perceived Where are his eyes The other interesting thing about that is that if he was afraid His master may have perceived that and only entrusted him with a little bit to take care of. It wasn't the huge amount. It says specifically he s he gave them talents according to their abilities. So this was not a dumb master. But his master answered and said to him, You wicked, lazy slave. You knew that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I scattered no seed, but you ought to put my my money in the bank, and on my arrival I would have received my money back with interest Therefore, take away the talent from him and give it to the one who has the ten talents, the five plus five. For to everyone who has, more shall be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be taken away. Throw out the worthless slave into the outer darkness, in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So he describes this wickedness more to laziness than to fear, it appears. Um It's it's yeah. He he was he was focused on himself that expressed itself in laziness Uh fear uh greed probably is not mentioned here, but uh what's in it for me kind of a thing. Yeah. What does the talent represent? Here. It's more than money, right? What is the Lord entrusting to these people that He's calling them to account Yeah, so so the story itself it's about money. It's a unit of money. But the the meaning of the application of it Well, that is a great segue to the discussion I wanted to have here. What does it mean for us? So who in this parable does the the the master represent? Jesus, the Lord. Lord, God, Jesus. Okay. Who does the slaves represent? All this is about the kingdom of heaven, right? The Lord is describing pictures of the kingdom of heaven. So um I I guess it's believers, but it might be because they don't want to hell. Yeah. It's it's everybody. Uh-huh. One way or another, it applies to everybody. And what are we being judged on? I would receive their stewardship. Stewardship. Yes. And and uh how is it that we um what if we can tell doesn't really No he didn't believe the message. He's not a believer. Well you know I think I think seeing that they went to hell, they may be stretching Because in the first place, the whole thing is he says it's comparable to I don't think specifically this is referring to help we're saying I think the the being cast into the outer darkness is an expression for the reward of their stewardship. I would say that's the thing. It's never used any other way but hell. And the we see and gnashing of teeth. Yeah, it's it's very very strong here, obviously. And and the contrast between, you know, enter into the joy of your master versus enter into torment um is unmistakable, right? So um um the general lesson for us now uh he's um I I think he's he's making some general um analogy about the kingdom of God as it applies to really everybody, not just to those who are uh at this point in his narrative um in the tribulation period. Um but there's clearly application to this uh for this for uh for everybody. And um I think the key is uh A, do we understand that we're uh made by God and therefore his Possessions, his slaves. I mean, even unbelievers should understand that. Um, and what do we do with that understanding? Are we going through life Seeking to pursue our interests, or are we serving the interests of the one who has entrusted resources to us So that they advance his interest. I think we can all apply that, no matter where in time we are. And if we're afraid of that Creator, Master, Lord, and we're um uh not willing to advance his interests. Um he's gonna hold people accountable. But but those who who understand that and who are are um obedient and and wise but importantly seeking to advance the interests, God's interests rather than their own, uh, realizing that when they do that, he cares for them as well. Um they're Richly rewarded. So that is not a salvation of works, that is faithful stewardship among those who get it. Right but the Floundy uh under what circumstances then can someone who does not who has not come to faith under what circumstances can their schoolship ever be worth None. None. So that wasn't the point he was trying to teach here. But that is true. If if someone is not saved, if God doesn't save them, they're not going to get it. And so they're going to face the white great white throne judgment, and they're going to be judged on the basis of their works. And it in no case will those works justify them. Pastor, can we get some insight from looking at verse 29 where he says, For to everyone who has, more shall be given, and he will have an abundance, but from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be given taken away. So even unbelievers have a general revelation as we learn in Romans 1. You have a you know you might not be called but you've got a general revelation. What do you do with a little bit of information you do have. So and the ones that have had a calling, you know, that's a whole different story. But it seems to me that it speaks to what you were just saying. What what do you do with the information you have? Yeah, yeah, so you know the general principle and you see this in uh Proverbs and certainly in in the Gospels that um um God sovereignly entrusts more to those who are faithful to be good stewards of his resources. Not so that he would bless them, but so that he can accomplish more through them. Okay. I mean I think you see it playing out every day in our own. Well there's there are also people who are greedy and selfish and they take risks that are unnecessary and they lose what they have. But um um and this is not to say that everybody who's got lots of resources is a faithful steward unto the Lord, God's going to drown them in that. And you can't take it with them. In fact, Jesus himself said how hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of heaven, right? So that's not the point. The point is, are we faithful stewards to God who owns us? We are his slaves. Yeah, to advance his interests, not our own. And the irony of course is that as we advance his interests, what happens to us? We're blessed. That's not why we're doing it, but it's it's an outcome of being faithful to the Lord. Not not the broader application, that's right. And it's it's not it's not monetarily necessarily. Right. It's it's Yes. Lots of resources aren't measured in terms of dollars. Opportunities good health, our bodies. Lots of things we need to be stewards of that we are to be stewards not to advance our interests directly. But to advance his interests. That's the point. We see this principle carried out in business and in the church. Why do twenty percent of the church members do one hundred percent of the work. They say, because I know that they will get the job done. And that that works. And you can look at probably in this church also. Work migrates to where it gets done. Yeah. This works that way, you know, when you obey is always long to fight records and don't obey always take some way. What do we don't take Yeah. Yeah. So it has lots of practical practical applications and implications. But um Um I I mean particularly for us today, and uh throughout history this has been the issue. Are we surrendered to our maker, our owner, the Lord God, creator of the universe? Or are we going through life uh trying to see if if um we uh are happy and uh gather the most toys by the time we end, right? Um if it's about God, our life is going to be directed in ways that are not natural. Thank you, sir. I just want to say the bad guy wasn't all that bad because in the end he recognized He said I have your Your money. I gave it back to you. He was truly dead. When he got that talent, he would have spent it on himself and everything Like the prodigal son. That's why you can't give proverbs down every we can parable you means parable I mean a parable yeah yeah the general point here is about stewardship right and that applies even today to all of us right okay Uh verse 31. So when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and what's he referring to here? His actual second coming to the earth and the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. That's fulfilling the uh covenant with uh David and uh to be here on planet Earth in Jerusalem. And so that will then usher in the millennium period. Out of the little um bracketed notes there are mine, they're not inspired. Verse 32 All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them from one another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And so who is he separating here? The people who made it through the tr the tribulation periods. That's who's being separated. And he's come down, he's defeated all these armies, and he's now setting up his rule. And he's got both sheep and goats among those who made it through the tribulation period. And He will separate the sheep on his right and the goats on the left, and the king will say to those on his right, Come you who are blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger and you invited me, naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me Then the righteous will answer him, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you something to drink And when did we see you a stranger and invite you in, or naked and clothe you? When did we see you sick or in prison and come to you? The king will answer and say to them, Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it to one of these brothers of mine Even to the least of them you did it to me. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels For I was hungry and you gave me nothing to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me nothing to drink. I was a stranger and you did not invite me in, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison, and you did not visit me Then they say to themselves, then they themselves also will answer, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked or sick, and in prison, and not take care of you? Then he will answer them, Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did not do it to the least of these, you did not do it to me. These will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life. Notice that the goats addressed him as Lord. Every knee shall bow, every tongue will confess, right? Um so who are the sheep and the goats here? They're people who um on earth made it through the tribulation period. Christ comes down and he separates the sheep from the goats. He's going to begin this millennial period. only with sheep. And the goats are cast off. Right? And so um That's not entirely true. It's only with sheep. And all the believers, the bride of Christ, who come down with him. to the earth at that point. So the m the millennium is made up of both those uh with glorified bodies and those with just normal bodies like you and me. Uh interesting time. Um and so Jesus will separate them at that period and um uh his It must have been getting late because he didn't uh continue. Uh he left that to the Apostle John in in Revelation uh twenty, twenty-one. Yeah. It's almost going to be like Or die. Or die. And then those who were there were sitting at least Yeah. Yeah that's that's gonna be interesting. But that was only one who was glorified and the others were just regular. Yeah, right. Right. Right. Okay. Well, there are a zillion questions about this. We're not going to answer any of them. Alright, we're going to go to today's lesson finally. Thank you, Kirk. On page two sixteen, and that's taken from Mark eleven nineteen, Luke twenty-one, thirty-seven And I'll read the blended account there. This is kind of transitional parenthetical uh account here Now during the day he was teaching in the temple. Remember this is during Passion Week. Um it's between uh the triumphal entry and the crucifixion. So uh it's referring to the general uh procedure that Jesus followed here. During the day he was teaching in the temple, but at evening he and his disciples would go out of the city and spend the night on the mount that is called Olivet. Of course, that's where they were when he was just talking with them, giving them the all of it. Discourse. Um it was getting late and they turned in, apparently, at that point. And all the people would get up early in the morning to come to him in the temple to listen to him. And that's what's been going on there. So we know um from a couple other sections that that didn't what we just read didn't happen every day. Sometimes he would go to Bethany. We're going to pick one up uh here in a minute. Um I think the first night he went back to Bethany and um on at least one other I think Wednesday night he went to Bethany Uh and and yet at least I think these two days, Monday and Tuesday, he stayed on the Mount of Olives. Of course this would have been the time preparing for the Passover. Lots of people were entering Jerusalem, all everybody getting ready for the Passover feast and the uh feast of unleavened bread. Uh the place was clearly packed and uh uh probably a zoo, the way things are when crowds get together. Um but he and his disciples um stayed at least some of the time on the Mount of Olives. And there's some caves in the Mount of Olives. There's a picture of one there on page two sixteen. uh which probably dates back I mean to that time. It's a natural cave and could well have been either the place or the type of place where they could have sought shelter for the night. Perhaps along with lots of other people. We don't know. Um and as is typically the case, anything with that kind of significance gets turned into a chapel or a church or something like that. So okay. Moving now to Matthew twenty-six and John thirteen. In section 161, I'll read the blended account here. When Jesus had finished all these words, he said to his disciples, You know that after two days the Passover is coming. And the Son of Man is going to be handed over for crucifixion. Now had he mentioned this to them before? Oh yes. Lots of times. Right? But now it's imminent. Now, before the feast of the Passover, Jesus, knowing that his hour had come and that he would depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own, who were in the world, he loved them. to the end. So he's um giving them this this advance warning partly because he loves them and he he wants them to be um informed and not too disillusioned, it's not like that really worked, right, until after the resurrection. But um he was faithful to to um give them this heads up about His upcoming crucifixion. Okay. Section 162. Now we're in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, continuing in in uh in each of those. Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover. Now I pause there. There's uh there's a note here on page 217. The Passover meal was on a specific day. The feast of unloven bread followed the Passover. Now that feast was um I think a seven day period of time, right, as many of their feasts were. And um And so the two were sort of used interchangeably, the Passover, the Feast of Unleavened Bread, because you need to use unleavened bread in the Passover as well, and it it's all it's all connected. And by the way, well I think we'll probably get into this um next quarter. Um The timing of that Passover meal was different if you were in Jerusalem versus in the outlying areas like Galilee. There was a kind of discrepancy as to when they would actually celebrate it. I don't understand all the reasons for it, but it accounts for some of the events we see in in um The subsequent chapters here of the Gospels. Okay. Outside of Jerusalem. And I I think it had to do with the tradition of the Sadducees versus the tradition of the Pharisees, but uh don't quote me on that. But Jesus and the disciples probably would have been on a different calendar than those who were actually from Jerusalem. Yeah, just by one day. Okay, so the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover, was approaching, two days away, which puts this as what? Tuesday evening. Thursday. Two two days beforehand. The chief priests and the scribes were seeking how they might put him to death. For they were afraid of the people. Now there's been several references to this already in the Gospels, right? They were. . Why were they afraid of the people? Rioting. Rioting, it's some reference to that here. They would lose control of the people. Yeah. And um uh you know, if they don't have the respect of the people then they can't carry on the way they're carrying on. And so they were afraid that that would be a problem. They were also afraid that Just practically, if there was an uprising, Rome would be even more um restrictive and so on. So they weren't exactly strong leaders at this point, or at any point, I guess. Verse 3, then the chief priests and the elders of the people were gathered together. in the court of the high priest named Caiaphas, and they plotted together seeking how to seize Jesus by stealth. Why by stealth? Because they're afraid of the people. They want it to be on the sly, right? Not to cause a huge stir, but to kill him But they were saying not during the festival, otherwise a riot might occur among the people. So you see this dynamic going on. They're they're seeing this as they they've already seen the last straw. They they they're just hardened in their commitment at this point, but they're just trying to figure out the best way to navigate. um the events. Okay. Section 163, page 217. Uh as again continuing in Matthew and Mark. And I'll read the the um blended account. Now, while Jesus was in Bethany at the home of Simon the leper, and so this probably puts it at Wednesday evening, not the Monday and Tuesday, they were spending the night at Mount of Olives Um while Jesus was in Bethany, which is not far away, it's just east of the Mount of Olives. At the home of Simon the Leper. Who's Simon the Leper? We don't know. This is the only reference to Simon the Leper. And because he's they're all meeting in the house of Simon the Leper, what do you suppose is true of Simon the Leper? He's probably been healed of his leprosy. And That's right. That's right. That's right. So Bethany uh was a key place for not just uh one set of people, one family. And this was a key day, right? This was a key day. It's during the Passover week and and everything. So he's reclining at the table with them, and there came a woman with an alabaster vial, a very costly perfume of pure nard. And she broke the vial and poured it over his head. She didn't break the vial on his head, she broke you get the picture, right? But when they saw this, some of the disciples were indignantly remarking to one another, Why was this perfume wasted? For this perfume might have been sold for a high price, over 300 denariat, and the money given to the poor. And they were scolding her But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Let her alone. Why do you bother the woman? For she has done good a good deed to me. For you will always have the poor with you, and whenever you wish you can do good to them, but you do not always have me She has done what she could, for she poured this perfume on my body. For uh when she poured this perfume on my body, she anointed it beforehand. to prepare it for to prepare me for the burial. Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be spoken of her in memory. And our reading of this just fulfills that uh that prediction. Um Now, what's interesting about this is it's extremely similar to another account that happened a little bit earlier. Also in Bethany. Do you remember? In uh section uh do I do I have that here? Um 142 That was Mary, the sister of Martha and Lazarus in Bethany, also at Emil. But as I note here Um there are some interesting differences between the two. Um I'd always thought they were the same as Well, you're not the only one. There are a lot of people who think they are the same. You look at some commentaries and they just assume they're the same and so on. And you know, technically maybe they were, but there's some reasons to s think that maybe they weren't. And let's look at those. So John, whose chronology is quite good, specifically places Mary's dinner six days before the Passover. And this doesn't seem like it was six days before the Passover because it's following Luke's chronology, which is also explicitly chronological. And And so there's there's um uh a question about the time there. Uh both Actually, no, this wasn't Luke. Matthew and Mark. Indicated just prior to this event, presumably the previous day, the Passover was then just two days away. So again it places it at um uh Tuesday, Wednesday time period. The the the event beforehand was two days before. This is probably the day after that, so probably just one day before, probably Wednesday evening. The second main curiosity here is that this woman anointed Jesus' head while Mary specifically anointed his feet. Wiped it with her hair. Yeah. So um are they the same event? Could both could have happened and the different accounts could have recorded only one of those two things? But um neither account gives any suggestion that that was true. And if the timetable is not necessarily the same, we gotta wonder. But while it is true that at both anointing anointings, Jesus is asked why this perfume wasn't sold for 300 deneri and the money given to the poor. And in both cases, Jesus says, you always have the poor with you, but you don't always have me. John, nonetheless, explicitly says it was Judas. Who said that at the first event? Well, Matthew and Mark both indicate that several unnamed people asked Jesus this question at the second event. However, both Matthew and Mark indicate in the next section that this event was the tipping point that prompted Judas to make a deal with the Jewish leaders. to hand Jesus over to him. So even though Judas wasn't specifically mentioned in the Matthew and Mark account we just read, uh it seems to have been the thing that the straw that broke the camel's back in his thinking in terms of making a deal with the religious leaders So anyway, it it seems reasonable to conclude that the second waste was what precipitated Judas's betrayal, even though he's not specifically mentioned. In Matthew and Mark. So it's still a question mark. Is it possible they could have been the same event? Maybe, but I don't think it's all that strong. And What's our problem with the possibility that there were two separate events? I don't see any problem at all with that. Yeah, or more. Yeah. And also it's possible this this other lady. Notice how Christ did not speak against the first instance and thought this was a good way to show uh um Right. Yep. Yep. Okay. It's the same city, Bethany. Same but this is Simon the Lepre or something. Yeah the house of Simon the Leper versus um obviously the the house of Mary and Martha and Lazarus. So Yeah, I didn't put that here. I need to put that here. They're neighbors, but there's a different another difference between the two. Okay. Uh section one sixty-four on page two hundred nineteen. We're gonna make it. We're gonna make it. Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Uh then Satan entered into Judas, who was called the Scariot, belonging to the number of the twelve. And he went away and discussed with the chief priests and officers how he might betray him to them, and said, What are you willing to give me to betray him to you? Now why would he be looking for money? He spent all their Yeah. Yeah apparently he kept the purse. He was he was looking to see what's in it for me. Right. They were glad when they heard this and agreed to give him money. And you know they were they were um beside themselves trying to figure out how they're gonna pull this off, and all of a sudden Judas pops up and is the answer to their prayers, right? uh in a manner of speaking. And they weighed out for him thirty pieces of silver to him. Interesting point there. The weighing out of thirty pieces of silver, of course, fulfilled prophecy from the Old Testament. I'm told, I haven't really done much research on this, but I'm told that when that prophecy was given, silver wasn't a unit of currency. Where was it given? Is that from Joseph? Um very pieces would be I think it's uh one of those. No, I don't think it was those of those. Did they? Well, like how do you remember? Yeah. Anyway, don't worry about that. Don't worry about that. So he consented, he, um, Judas consented, and from then on began seeking a good opportunity to depre to uh betray him. uh to them apart from the crowd. He got the point. It needed to be apart from the crowd, which is on the fly, not out in the public, and he understood their their conundrum and so he agreed to find some way to um Uh do the deed. Um now um You might be wondering, why would they need any help to arrest Jesus on the sly? Schedule and location. Yeah. So where they encountered him, he it was all public. Right? The crowds and the temple area and whatever. And um they wouldn't necessarily know w where to find him at any any other times and particularly at a time and a place where they wouldn't draw a lot of attention. Well it ended up being at night for that reason, but I don't know that they were necessarily stipulating that in this agreement with Judas at this point. Right. So it made sense from their perspective and Judas's perspective that it would be at night and who better to lead them to him at night than one of them. Right? Okay. I think that's all I have. Wow. Any thoughts, questions at this point? You said that possible that Judas didn't actually get the thirty pieces of silver at this point? Um I think we're gonna see later that uh he went back to he he got the money later after the fact and then he threw it down and um it it doesn't specifically say it says they weighed out the thirty pieces of silver It doesn't specifically say that he got all or he probably got some of it, at least. He may have gotten all of it, I don't know. Um and I'm forgetting off the top of my head the references that we're going to see after the fact. But um yeah so excuse us I know he was a disciple but he was never saved. Yes. Correct? Right. Right. And um Jesus would have known that. Yeah. And yet he knew the purpose of it and and so on. Divinely covered and Pastor Allen back to maybe thirty minutes ago. I was looking at the the noun slave and then the modifiers, the adjectives good and faith or wicked and lazy. When you say wicked lazy slave, you kind of um group slave as something derogatory And I would I was just kind of picturing like Jeff Bezos is a slave, just like the garbage man that collects my garbage, they're both slaves and they're easy. They're they're either modified by being a good servant and a good steward or being wicked or lazy, what have you. And so it's God that looks at the heart and uh makes that judgment. But they're both they're both slaves and that they There's nothing wrong with that that position, even though it has um derogatory connotations in in our culture. Sure. Right. Yeah, so um They're slaves equally in two respects. One, the respect we've been talking about here, that uh we're all created by God. He's our maker, we're accountable to him. And that's sort of the sense I think in which the stewardship thing comes up. But we also know that everyone is a slave one way or another, to sin or to God. And so um Yeah, there's no respecter of persons there. Yep. Yes, and so words like faithful and um wise and and good characterize slaves just as much as lazy and and so on. So uh it's not the fact that they're slaves that's the issue, it's how they handle it that's the issue. Yeah. Well let's uh let's close in prayer.