In a few minutes ago uh um Kirk said something that I that that struck me. He said we don't know how much longer and when he was we're talking about the prayer the prayer that he would like for us to join him. And and I find it interesting because the In the last page of today's class in the application section, it says Jesus tried to prepare his disciples for his departure, yet they didn't see seem to get it. He also tried to prepare us for his return. Do you get it? Um I don't know if he had read this section before, so I I think I As we're going through the passages that we're going to read and discuss uh the things that we should observe, that we should bear that in mind, that at the end of the We don't want to make the same mistakes that the disciples made in not being attentive or paying attention or This is not what request. And we will begin this section uh by reading the blended account and I'll read it. It's on page Page one twenty four. So six eight days after these savings uh what savings. Uh if you recall, um towards the end of last week I believe, uh Jesus had in telling his disciples about the cost of discipleship and about his um impending death and resurrection. I think He had begun to to to talk to talk to them about that. So after both sayings, it's what it's talking about here, he took Peter and James and John his brother, and went up on a high mountain by themselves to pray. While he was praying, he was transfigured before them And the appearance of his face shone like the sun, and his clothing became radiant and exceedingly white, and gleaming as white as light Has no longer on earth can wipen them. And behold, two men were talking with him, and they were Moses and Elijah, who appearing in glory for speaking of his departure which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. Now Peter and his companions have been all over Come with sleep. But when they were fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men standing with him. And as these were leaving him, Peter said to Jesus The master, Randai. It is good for us to be here. If you wish, let us make three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses. And one for Elijah, not realizing what he was saying, for they had become terrified. While he was saying this, a bright cloud formed and began to overshadow them And they were afraid as they entered the cloud. Then, behold, a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved son, my chosen one. With whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. When the disciples heard this, they fell down to the ground and were terrified. And Jesus came to them and Touched them and said, Get up and do not be afraid. And all at once, when the voice had spoken, lifting up their eyes, they looked around And they saw no one except Jesus himself. It is difficult to explain exactly exactly what happened of the transfiguration. Was it a vision? Did they see I mean what was it like? Uh I think it's it's It's difficult to explain. But one thing is clear though. You know, they saw Jesus in this dazzling white array. His countenance was something that You can only describe as heavenly. For a short period of time there, you know, his his person, his his visible self was Very different than anything else that we have seen. But alongside him were two other individuals of what they saw were well one of the accounts is it was Elijah and Moses. Um exactly what form they were in I don't know But the question is, why? Why were they there? What was their purpose? The Jews associated Elijah with the end time, the time when the Messiah would come, that he would uh it was recorded that he would he would come back before for the Messiah came before the the uh appearance of of the Messiah. Um I also read that at some later stage that they also associated Associated with the also associated the um appearance of Moses with this, but this was a much later figure. It's obvious that Jesus taking the three the inner three uh disciples and taking them to the mountain and uh putting the time of prayer. Obviously this was a is a uh This was an attempt to begin to disclose himself in a way that he hadn't done before. And it's also likely that this event Happened not too long before his eventual crucifixion and exactly where this event takes It says on a high mountain, so it must have been close to Ciceria Philippi, which as we talked about last week, he was like So it was obviously close to there. Henry are are we still nine months out though from Pentecost? Um because it's the summer before The next pinnacle. I'm not sure. I'm not sure perhaps uh I don't know if that's the funny if you if you if you Do you know the timeline of this? We don't know for sure, but I the note that I have there is summer. Um it would have been something like nine months. But it's a week after Jesus predicted that They would see the Son of Man coming into his glory. It's it's according to well Luke says it was about eight days and Matthew and Mark say about six days. So one would imagine it's about that. But I think if you also read the account, Matthew and Mark both detail this account right after After Christ makes the prediction that they will see that one of them would see the uh would see the Son of Man in glory before they die. So um which is why I guess the the blender account is say here you know um some six to eight days thereabouts The one thing that I should point out is um it would appear that Moses and Elijah being um had the transfiguration had some significance. Exactly what I am not certain, but those two characters were a very significant character. in the Old Testament, Moses representing the law and the lads representing the prophets. Perhaps they are there as there was an indication to the um disciples that you know Christ was a fulfillment of both the you know the law and the prophets. Um there are those that feel that that might be a significant what it signifies but I don't know for certain that we can be dogmatic about it Henry, I have a comment about that. Um I don't think it's exactly a question because I uh n no one would know the answer But if that were the reason, the second note below the blended account says Moses represented the law while Elijah represented the prophets both of which foretold the death of Christ. But also in the Old Testament, the writings, notably the Psalms foretold the death of Christ. Just think of Psalm 22. So if that was the case, why aren't they represented by David, say It's just a rhetorical question, but it's something to think about. Yeah. Well, uh I guess that's why I said that I can't be dogmatic about the fact that that's what exactly what it's saying. I just pointed out that you know that there were significant um figures in the Old Testament. I I don't I don't know that that passage itself tells us specifically you know what their presence there signifies. I would say though that if you're thinking about the term in terms of the fact that these two were not pieces for God And uh the disciples are told when they when they're overshadowed by this cloud that listen, this is my beloved son in command. Well please listen to me him you know it's it's easy to to say that you know whatever it is you think my parents whatever you think you've learned or know the Old Testament, okay. This is the one that you really want to listen to while I think that passages. Well it it definitely had a big impact on the disciples and Um, I mean Peter refers to it in his writings, you know, uh just talking about the trust trustworthiness of of the scripture, uh, even more so than than eyewitness account, you know, we have the sure word of God. So, you know, it just really reinforced the the authority and the power of of the word. But it it also I mean it even says here in the text that um they were they were speaking speaking of his departure So, you know, I think part of it is just to strengthen and encourage him in what he's about to go through. You know, he he he was fully man, and even in the garden, God sent angels to to strengthen him You know, and I think it's probably just as he's praying, it's as he was praying, you know, and thinking about you know, that what he's about to endure for us and the separation that he would suffer on our behalf Um, you know, I think it was just partly to to encourage him and strengthen him um for the road he's about to go down. It's possible. It's possible. Um but I will I will also point out that Yeah this event seems to be uh designed for the the apostles themselves. You know, there was something that we were supposed to get from this appearance of Christ in his glorious state and so uh it's entirely possible. And it's the second time they've heard the voice, you know, this is my beloved son You know, at his baptism and and now. So I think it's just again reinforcing you know the disciples. That they need to listen to it. It's aut authentication also, um, just to have the presence of the Moses and the Elijah there. And because Jesus' words would become uh what what is the word? A th he would um speak with authority. Um He said, uh but I say unto you, and so he's giving new instruction that uh or or elaborating on the law of Moses, and he speaks with authority. And then the the miracles are similar to Elijah. It's um it's an aspect Yeah, I I should mention before we go into the next section that you know in many cases you know it it's it's it's very tempting to allegorize a lot of you know what happened here, the cloud, the fact that Moses had, you know, uh had gone up to the mountain and all that. It's but but it's often not a you know the the best thing to Do they just you know look for make algorithms and stuff? So uh we'll move on to the next section in uh ninety-five. I'd like to have somebody please be I can read that. As they were coming down from the mountain, he gave them orders not to relate to anyone the vision they had seen Until the Son of Man rose from the dead. And they kept silent and reported to no one in those days any of the things which they had seen They seized upon that statement, discussing with one another what rising from the dead meant. They asked him, saying, Why is it That the scribes say that Elijah must come first. And he answered and said to them, Elijah is coming first and will restore all things And yet, how is it written of the Son of Man that he will suffer many things and be treated with contempt? But I say to you that Elijah has indeed already come And they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they wished, just as it is written of him, so also the Son of Man is going to suffer at their hand Then the disciples understood that he had spoken to them about John the Baptist. Before this um instance, every time Christ had instructed his disciples not to speak of this inside shit. You know, he simply just tells them not to do it. But this is one time when uh he tells them do not announce or do not public Or tell anyone what you've just seen until the until the resurrection has occurred Now, I think in our prior classes when we've talked about Christ forbidding, you know, the news about him and the things he was doing publish was because he wanted to be able to go around and you know spread the gospel the message that he had throughout the entire uh Jewish area. But this time he tells them, don't do it just yet. Wait until I'm resurrected. Why was that? Why did he tell him to wait? I mean obviously as we would eventually um C, the resurrection was going to be the strongest evidence of the fact that Christ was Messiah. I mean what other evidence would would be stronger than that It's also possible that if they had announced it sooner than that, there would be those who for whatever political reasons reasons would decide this is our Messiah. You know, Peter James And John have told us what they saw. So let's go ahead and do whatever it takes to make you our king. Or there might even be those who would you know embrace that message and eventually Eventually when Christ gets crucified, they'll become disillusioned. You know? So so obviously there was a good reason why he told them not to publish that um message just yet. But you would also notice that apparently the the three were not they didn't quite feel free to ask Jesus what he meant by uh I think it says waste on the third day. Yeah, the basic circumflies is until the Son of Man rose from the Now, why was this confusing? These were Jews who were familiar with the general idea of religion Resurrection of the dead. What made this special resurrection that Jesus was talking about so incomprehensible to them? And then you'll notice that they also ask, you know The scribes say that Elijah will come first before the reveal of the Messiah. Why do they say that? And If Elijah comes first, and one of the things that Elijah will do will be to you know rep bring bring people to a place of repentance, repair his people for the revealing of the Messiah. If Elijah comes first and does that, why will the people be so still in such a state where they will be reject their Messiah and get to the point where they might even kill him, as Jesus is suggesting. So you see the confusion in in their questioning, you know, why do the scribes say that Elijah will come first. And Christ responds back to them and says, they are right when they say that you know that Elijah will come first. But also note that the scripture talks about the suffering of the Messiah as well. So while the scribes are right, the scripture also talks about about the suffering of the Messiah. And not only that, actually Elijah already came. And by the time he goes through explaining to them, now they've they're now Oh, he is talking about John the Baptist. Henry, I I do have a question about this one Jesus said, Elijah is coming first and will restore all things. We're seeming to ignore that will restore all things. I'm wondering what's the all things that John the Baptist restored? Well maybe he's referring to the Elijah at the end times. Yeah, second coming. Yeah, I I um one of the the It's not it's not John the Baptist No It would see Elijah at the end times. I think this would be referring to two um Instances where on the one hand um John the Baptist typified the return of Elijah Because like I said, one of the things that Elijah will do would be to lead um would would be to prepare the people for the coming of the Messiah, and one of those things would be there that they will repent of their sins and come come to come uh you know to accept the Messiah. But um while physically John the Baptist was not Elijah, and obviously he hadn't restored everything, but I think that restoration there means more than just the fact that Everyone will be prepared and ready to receive the Messiah. I think it it involves more than that. It's a double um double fulfillment of a prophecy in near term. And then a a far far term there would be more of a complete fulfillment. That's a more good. Yeah, verse 12 I think is the Elijah of the Old Testament and verse 13 is the Elijah of the spirit of Elijah is speaking of John the Baptist. I was just gonna say the the actual uh prophecy about Elijah is the last couple of verses in the Old Testament, Malachi four. Where it says, Behold, I'm going to send to you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord. He will restore the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to their fathers, so that I will not come and smite the land with a curse Did John the Baptist do that though? How how did John the Baptist restore the hearts of fathers and sons I I just find this very confusing when the very end of this says that they realize they understood he had spoken to them about John the Baptist. Well, in a sense, in his role as the forerunner, um he ushered in the um the culmination of God's plan of salvation. So um He he was key. It wasn't going to happen until the Forerunner came. And so in that sense, he himself wasn't the one doing all that. Obviously God's doing that But God used John the Baptist to get the ball rolling, if you will, and to announce the Messiah who is um uh um going to be even more key in that restoration than John the Baptist was. And people were positionally sanctified And the new covenant was solidified. So it it was a radical change, even though it had a Anyway, the effects of people repenting before God also has a lack of And we so fathers and children that were not and restored to one another would have been after they had repented. And none of this applies to any Anybody except to the people who have been restored by Christ, even the Antipes. So John the Baptist did the work of Elijah there, and as long as those that are repented will be in the blessing of the next kingdom. So he fulfilled that. Maybe not to our way of thinking, but evidently to God's way of thinking. Yeah, I would have to agree with you, uh Moran, about that. Um I I think I can see, you know, Anne's um difficulty with the question, but I can also see what you said. Ultimately um the scripture does tell us that the disciples understood what Christ was saying to me that you know This period of John the Baptist at a minimum had had come. Why would we not be able to completely explain it in a way that satisfies some of our uh two gossip people Okay. Henry, one other thought about why they were, Jesus said to keep silent about what you saw would be the spirit of um competition among the disciples to be great. So that would be those three that actually saw that, they could distinguish themselves from the other disciples and just be that much have the spirit of competition and I'm I'm better than you. I actually saw something you didn't see. Division. Division. possible. Okay. Um we are gonna move on to to section section uh ninety six. Jesus heals a demon This is the one that's a took repeat. So I'm going to ask uh people. Somebody read from first 37 all the way to the the end of 22 so somebody else will pick up from point three and we to the end Yeah, first person will go up to twenty-two, and then the second person will go for twenty-three Okay. On the next day, when they came down from the mountain and back to the disciples, they saw a large crowd around them And some tribes arguing with them. Immediately, when the entire crowd saw him, they were amazed and began running up to greet him. And he asked them, What are you discussing with them? And a man of the crowd came up to Jesus. Falling on his knees before him and answered him, Lord, teacher, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic and is very ill. I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only boy. I brought I brought you my son possessed with the spirit which makes him mute. And whenever it seizes him, he suddenly screams and it throws him into a convulsion. And it slams him to the ground and he phones at the mouth and grinds his teeth and stiffens out. I brought him to your disciples and begged them to cast it out and they could not cure And he answered them and said, O unbelieving generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring your son here to me They brought the boy to him. When he saw him, immediately the spirit threw him into a convulsion and slam him to the ground. He began rowing around and foaming at the mouth. And he asks his father, How long has this been happening? To him, and he said from childhood. It has thrown often thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him, and only with difficulty does it leave him, mauling him as it As it leaves. But if you can do anything, take pity on us and help us. And Jesus said to him, if you can Immediately the boy's father cried out and said, I do believe. Help my unbeliefs. When Jesus saw that a crowd was rapidly gathering, he rebuked the unclean spirit Saying to it, You deaf and mute spirit, I command you, come out of him and do not enter him again. After crying out and throwing him into terrible convulsions, it came out and the boy came became so much like a corpse that most of them said he is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and raised him And the boy was cured at once, and he got up, and Jesus gave him back to his father, and they were all amazed at the greatness of God But while everyone was marveling at all that he was doing, he said to his disciples, Let these words sink into your ears, for the Son of Man is going to be delivered into them. hands of men. But they did not understand the statement, and it was concealed from them so that they would not perceive it. And they were afraid to ask him about the statement. When he came into the house, his disciples began questioning him privately. Why could we not drive it out? And he said to them, Because of the littleness of your faith For truly I say to you, if you have faith, the size of a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible to you. This kind cannot come out by anything but prayer and fasting. I must mention that I I I enjoyed reading this blended account. somehow you manage to weave all the different elements of the of the accounts of the three gospels uh nicely. I guess the the one the one thing that I probably would have also added is the fact That Matthew points out that the unbelief of the gener of each people was not unrelated to their perverted nature When when you juxtapose you know their perverseness and their uh you know unbel unbeliefs, it will seem almost as though he he was saying that, you know their their unbelief stemmed either from their neglect or distortion of the evidence. Now they the um the disciples were confused that only weeks prior, you know, when they had gone on their short visions uh throughout the Galilee, that they were able to cast out demons, they were healing the sick, they were you know doing all kinds of miraculous things, and suddenly you know they are confronted with this case and they can't do it. They were obviously quite confused. And uh they asked Jesus you know later on Why couldn't we do this? And he points out to them that it's because of the littleness of their faith. Interestingly also within this you know uh narrative here, he also talks about the fact that um Uh all you need to move a mountain, figuratively speaking, I think it was, uh, was just a monster size Faith which would seem to be if it makes you scratch your head, on the one hand, Christ is you know, um irritated at this generation that you know just unbelieving in spite of everything that Um the statement The kind cannot come out by anything but prayer and fasting reminds me of Joshua, who who did have faith and strength and God gave him the ability to conquer, but he let his guard down with the Gibeonites. He didn't go to God and ask for wisdom about these people who ended up deceiving them with their um you know, fake clothing and old bread and old shoes, etc. So it's like the these disciples had faith. They had been given power to heal in the past and They let their guard down. They didn't continue in the prayer and fasting to be ready for the next encounter, it seems like, just like the Joshua experience. Yeah, I think that's true actually. you know, I I think if you look at the passage, you can probably tell that you know something had happened you know between when they saw all this miraculous deeds that God did through them and and this time. Okay? Um it it it's it's also it's possible that they have maybe gotten to the point where they felt yeah we've been given this power we can put ahead and do these miracles and their faith was no longer not really in the one who actually did the miracles is supposed to work in something else. I think this this narrative here has a few other things that I liked that I thought I'd like for us to just sort of blow on a little bit. You know. One of the those things that I'd like for us to take a look at is on the one hand Christ says that faith is little. On the other hand, he says that takes a mustard size uh faith to move mountains and you touched on that a little bit. The other thing was you also remember in this narrative that the father of the of this child, you know, says to Christ, you know, help me with my unbelief. I also wanted to point out, point for us to look at the fact that it's not that Christ said the disciples didn't have faith Obviously there was something deficient about their faith. I don't know whether it is entirely the fact that it was little or whether it was the fact that their faith was was placed in something else other than God. So, you know, what was going on here Well the father admitted he had faith, but he admitted it wasn't a perfect faith. It's like uh he didn't want to be a hindrance to his son's Healing says I have faith. I've come to you. That's why I have I do have faith. I've come to you. But wherever I'm weak, increase increase my uh strength. Give me strength where I'm weak. He he knew that it wasn't a perfect faith, maybe, I don't know. Henry, could it be that they were encountering the devil himself and I don't know. If this kid is demon possessed and so the power of one So would that would that mean that there was some way that they could have prepared for it? Either I didn't have to go into it. Okay. I just asked I'm actually looking for for for thoughts and insights as well. So there has to be some difference between the devil and moving this language Moving the mountain of our facing God and the devil, but to heal this young man. Okay, so all of us are believers And we believe that Jesus died on the cross for us. We confess with our mouth that Jesus is the Lord of our life. But is there anything in our walk with Jesus As we're growing to know him better. Is there anything in our life that we're challenged with that we have a lack of faith? That we have trouble believing in. Like knowing that God is all-powerful, sovereign over everything, controls everything But we still have trouble believing that God can accomplish this, whatever it is in our life. That's probably what it is I know I do. And I know all I'm pretty sure all of us have as little as there may be there's something in our life that we don't believe that God can do Lack of faith. Lack of faith in the one that created us continues to sanctify us, continues to make us more useful for him. lack of fee. If you think about it, there are things that will challenge. Yeah, but lack of fee, you don't have to pay a passage change your lack of faith. You get more faith if you read the Bible. You see, it comes by hearing and hearing for the Word of God. So that was not the answer for lack of faith. This was the answer that must have been something else is different. I think that when you look at this this um passage, um the fact that Christ did not say that the disciples didn't have faith at all. That's not what that's not what he said. They obviously had faith. Okay? But that their faith was deficient, which is why they could not It would imply that because their faith was deficient, that's why they couldn't do this. And the fact that he then goes on to point out that this kind comes does not come out but by faith Sorry, yeah. By the way. I I should mention that if you if you look at your you know your Bible and that square bracket around the end fasting part, there's some question about whether that was Always there. So so I guess we'll stick with the fact that he says, you know, this kind does not come out except by prayer Okay. And what happens when you break? Actually, Henry, if we just look at the Matthew portion right above the blended account It's not just the fasting that's in brackets. It's all of verse 21. So the whole thing, but this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting. Is what's in question. Yeah, but if you look at the in that same account in look does include this kind this kind doesn't come out to buy Oh, okay. I see that, Nick. Thank you. I wonder if you could apply this um story in a general way to us today as Christians that if we admit it we may live up to only ten percent of our spiritual potential. Yes, I think it's a good thing. It's not that we don't pray, it's not that we don't have faith, but it's not faith combin combined With um and believing that God can fulfill His moral will through through us And through our church. So we do we come together for corporate prayer on Sunday mornings and then for quarterly corporate prayer. Then we've seen God Act very definitively based on those prayers. Kirk, we when you used a percentage, I think you hit the nail on the head because it's nothing to do with the kind of faith or the quality, but the size, because if you look at Jesus said because of the littleness of your faith, that's size related He's saying their their faith was too small in some way. And yet it's interesting that he told them if they had faith the size of a mustard seed, which is tiny, tiny So when he said their faith was little, it was smaller than a mustard seed because they didn't even have that much faith. And I think it's all size related. Well I also think that when you're talking about size it it would be it would be practically impossible for us to determine exactly how long, wide and you know and and deep the the fate will be So the good things. Now while I I would say I would agree that you know the size of their state might be quite few, but I think as I look at this that Jesus was pointing out one thing thing which is that you know that our faith needed to continue to grow and also uh it uh who was that faith placed in So hey Henry, this is uh Sean Lange. Um in what everybody was talking about, I kind of always viewed that passage as it's not only not only just uh kind of an illustration of maybe how small or how deficient or maybe how lacking or fake may be, but I think it's a It was an object lesson or a teaching on actually who is doing the healing and who is doing the casting out of the demons. I think I think the illustration was we come up to a limit to where there's the perception of what we do is no longer there and it's a reminder of who we're depending on for our walk in general with God. It's it's not us. And I think that sort of thing was a reminder to the disciples that they were not doing the healing. They were not doing the casting out of demons It was God who was doing that through them. And I think part of that was a lesson to them and a reminder to who actually was the power and not they themselves. Yeah, and I think a good illustration of that, we saw just a few weeks ago, was with Peter walking on the water. Initially he was walking on the water, um, but then he started to sink when he took his eyes off Christ essentially and uh put himself in the the actual context and Is faith wavered? Um so I I would I would agree with Sean that um he says it doesn't take much faith if your faith is in the right object, meaning. But in their case, their faith was, at least on this occasion, wasn't so much on God doing the healing Uh so faith the is the substance of things falling forward. So the substance is Christ. The object of the faith. Okay. We will hold on. Um Ready with an account here. From there they went out and began to go through Galilee, and he did not want anyone to To know about it. But he was teaching his disciples and telling them, the Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men and they will kill him. And when he has them killed He will be raised on a third day. But they were deeply grieved and did not understand the statement, and they were afraid to ask him. In your notes, uh it points out here that this is the fourth time that Jesus plainly told the disciples of his death and resurrection, not counting his two comparisons with Jonah in section 89 and 415, which is yet to come, and his first cleansing of the temple Okay. I know for us for us looking back at the at the events that are recorded in the scriptures, it's easy for us to see that, oh, okay, he foretold his Um coming, death, and resurrection. That should have should be easy. But why was it so hard for them to understand, you know, that he was going to be killed or that he was going to you know, rise again on the critic. Why? They still had in their head the concept that the Messiah was going to come and re-establish the kingdom. Israel Israel immediately. Even after his resurrection, the day of Pentecost, they asked him, Lord, will you at this time rest So they still don't get it, even though they these are the twelve who have had Jesus independent, private, close quarters teaching for the whole time They still don't get it, they're still wrapped up with this idea that I'm that he's going to restore the kingdom immediately, and they don't understand what they can't fathom what's going on here Yeah. I I have to ask this. At the beginning of uh the class did I mention the fact that you know I think on a the one of prayer prayers that were said was that God would help us to be prepared. Imagine how many how much trouble Christ might get to explain to them and how difficult. I don't think it was that they did not want to understand. Not that, you know, like like like well point another few minutes ago you know it it it just didn't add up. Messiah was gonna come and you know restore you know uh uh the greatness or yeah restore Israel and yet we know that you are the Messiah because at least for Peter, James and John, we saw your Transfiguration up on the mountain. Okay, we've seen all the things that we're convinced you're the Messiah. And yet you're telling us you're going to be killed and that you're re resurrected. So obviously, I don't think it's that they did not want to understand. It just did not compute in their minds. In a sense, I think that they were like us, you know, when we look at things today, we try to make sure we understand how the two and the two add up to four. Most of the time what it just takes is take God of his word. He said it, I can't explain it Well because he said it that's it. And it's going to be the way you keep atmosphere. Well I think the problem was, I mean, they they saw what the Old Testament said about the Messiah And they just misunderstood it. They didn't they couldn't reconcile you know, see the two comings of of the Messiah. And so it just didn't just didn't add up. is this be where we are today, no, where we stand in history. And what we know scripture hard is top about okay are we any more prepared for the return of the word for his coming back as we should be given all that we know right now and And comparing how we how we're understanding and living to the way that they understood and lived back then. How different are we from that? How do you prepare for his coming back? Okay. Okay. Yeah. Exactly. If you think that Jesus is coming back again, it's just 1 John 5, I think. He says it will be fine your body. So that's how you do you live it. A life Henry, one example from the Old Testament is Abraham's faith, at least at the time that he was he was commanded to sacrifice his only son. But Abraham was took just a an opposite type of faith response and he got up early in a in obedience and he uh the New Testament sheds light on what was going through Abraham's mind that He thought, well, God is gonna raise Isaac again so from from the dead. So it was still the the whole idea of resurrection, whether in Abraham Abraham's day or in Jesus' day. Whereas Abraham responded in faith that, okay, God's gonna make this work, I don't know how And so the disciples were crippled by their unbelief, but Abraham was he was commended for his his faith, even though it didn't make sense Okay, the scripture I was referring to in John 2, 28, and he says, Now little children abide in him, so that when he appears years we may have confidence and not shrink away from him in shame at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone else who practices righteousness is bottom. Thank you. I remember the last time you mentioned that if I didn't respond to something Yes, I didn't see that. What did you say? I remember it. I remember what you said Yeah I I I was saying thank you for uh force I remember my thank you. Okay. All right. Um let's move on to the last section today. Uh Jesus miraculously pays the temple tax. Will somebody please read that last section from Verse twenty four of Matthew twelve. They came to Capernaum Those who collected the two drachma tax came to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the two drachma tax? That's cool. He said yes. When he said yes, did he say did he mean yes he does or yes he doesn't? Oh What do you think? Yes he does. Yes he does. He does. Okay. Go on. And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, what do you What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of earth collect customs or poltacks? From their sons or from the strangers? Well, Peter said, from strangers Jesus said to him, Then the sons are exempt. However, so that we do not offend them, go to the sea and throw in a hook, take the first fish that comes up And when you open his mouth, you will find a shell. Take that and give it to them for you and me. Looking at your notes uh the the half shekel uh the half shekel tax was deposed by God in Exodus 3011 to see steam for the service of the tabernacle and as well as a memorial and to make atonement. The passage it does point out that of the I'd love to point out that Jesus obviously did not need atonement. It's also interesting though that As you all agreed that Peter's response to the tax collector here was that yes, his master does pay taxes. But Christ when they you know step into private takes him aside and you know begins to actually quiz him about his response. Okay. He says to him, okay, who who d who do the um who Who do the kings of the UF collect taxes from? He points out that, you know, it's from strangers, not from um hip his sons or their sons. So technically because the tax the the two drachmark tax was imposed by God and Christ was the Son of God, he would technically not be legally required to, if you would. Okay Um but and he will be required partly because he's the son of God and also because as the point out here, you know, Christ did not need atonement. Okay? But so that he will not offend so that they will not offend the you know the uh uh the the rulers He will go ahead and he will pay the tax. And while he's doing that, he will drive along Peter and give him an object lesson about Trusting God and you know got faith in the process of paying that tax. So Um one of the things that jumped out at me here is not only the fact that Jesus pulls Peter aside and explains why you know he's gonna pay the tax, but also because he um he makes an object lesson here of how to deal with authorities in some cases. There are times when we're obligated, I suppose, um to do stuff that maybe we're not legally required to, but we don't necessar we don't want to you know necessarily offend no we don't we don't we don't want to to antagonize in in jesus' case he needed He needed time to prepare his disciples as much as possible for what was coming next. And so uh needlessly antagonizing and causing offense would not make any sense at this point. I think the same that you can learn the same lesson or we can see the same lesson being applicable to us That's actually I was kinda pondering that question in my mind that Jesus didn't want to offend, but at other times he clearly did. I mean, you know, white wars tombs And he's just clearly offended. And how do it how do we know when it's appropriate to offend and when it when to not offend? Is it a God rule or a man rule? Like was it You know, the Pharisees w went overboard in their rules about washings and stuff. I don't think God said you must wash your hands this way and drip down your elbow. I don't think I can give you a categorical answer for when it is okay to offend and when not to offend. I will say one thing though. But I think the motivation usually, you know, will help do you know whether this is because you're trying you you want to honor God or not? When you when when you choose Well Jesus was always seeking to honor God and And even in the times where he offended. And so, you know, how do we Obviously, I mean, Christ always honored God and always obeyed God. So we know that for fight But we can't say the same thing about ourselves. Yeah, true. Yeah, um so I think like Julie was saying that Um when Jesus was confronting the hypocrisy of the Pharisees and scribes and so on, he was very strong, very pointed, very um offending. Um but this was not about this was not about sin, this was about keeping the law. And uh he didn't want to give opportunity for uh um those hypocritical Jewish leaders at his trial to say, here's something we've got of them. He didn't pay the two temple the two drug attacks Um no, he kept the law completely. So we're just about at the end of um our class today. Uh In the back of the notes where it's we're uh we're supposed to have discussion, discussion question, there was this one, uh question number four that was I didn't have any answers today. I'd like to ask real quick. What would you say you observed about the character of Christ that jumped out at you every when you read those passages. For me, the one thing that that jumped out was his patience with his disciples were, you know, after telling them not once, not twice, not three times four times. You know, he was he was so patient with them. And so that was the one thing that that I observed about this character that I thought Henry, one curious thing was in the I guess the first passage that we read and where the person the father says uh but if you can do anything and then jesus uh replies back If you can. It would be interesting to know the tone of voice that Jesus used, whether it was almost like holy sarcasm, if you can. So I I don't know if it if that's actually like humor or what what the tone of voice was But that's that's a curious aspect of Jesus' character um kind of repeating the question back to this man. Okay. Um okay that that would be the end bear.