And I found it uh amazing that a demon-possessed man was comfortable w with being innocent of God until Christ shows up So he was very strategic in how he did ministry. Oh, he was up in Galilee. And standing over her, he rebuked the fever and it left her. So I think in that time span it's entirely possible that, you know, uh they have gone back again. uh co laborers with him in building up his kingdom and uh it's not a part time business. But I will do as you say and let down the nets. When they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed them. uh Peter and his brother Andrew and James and John. uh the the source of that testimony. the testimony because of the source of it. Um can we draw an implication there? Yeah, I I think I have. if we're truly uh believers seeking his faith, seeking his word, um, to live our lives based on something false about him. 'Cause I I've gone I've done that myself and I've had to walk through that this is not true of God and um even today I can uh uh affirm that sometimes I struggle with wanting to in the beginning. there was he was demonstrating the power behind that authority with which he preached in healing not only this lady but obviously some later on we were rid of that And I do it in this more private setting. uh and it's quoted here um as being fulfilled and also somewhere in peter uh it was was uh a literal that christ that that passage in isaiah was referring to uh a literal uh healing that that um will be available to believers um today uh and and part of the reason why that is so is because when they look at how The height of this could be just because Christ uh was coming on a scene and now is on the scene that you see so much um demon possession um from people. They searched for him, they found him. For I must preach the kingdom of God to the uh to the other cities, for I was sent for this purpose. He did not allow the crowds, which were probably full of a lot of fans at this point, because again it doesn't say there were a lot of believers or converts. When he talked to Pilate, for this purpose, I have come to proclaim the truth. The Father said, I have both I will glorify and I and I have both glorified and I will glorify it again. Again, it repeats that. To the north of Israel. around the uh the Sea of Galilee and so his frame is spreading, so people are traveling and they're bringing people back to him and he's healing all these people as he's preaching, proclaiming the gospel. Everywhere he went, he affirmed his ministry. Most of these people were probably fans at this time. It seems to me that the um he called it the well first of all there's Peter and Andrew coming to Christ and then Because of the time span and the fact that it's not like Jesus had a ministry office where they operated from, aid from, and you know, launched everything they were doing every day that there must have been some you know intermittent um periods of activity where they will go back and do you know what they were doing for a living and then they will be involved with Christ again. Being fishermen, that was a very lucrative business at the Sea of Galilee. And at this point when they see Christ who he is, um, they s Peter sees his sin for what it is, like in uh it's mentioned in those Isaiah saw his sin for what it was So there are uh with that there are four other accounts. and their father with the hired servants and went away to follow him. And they were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them his message with authority and not as the scribes Them all, and they began talking with one another and debating among themselves, saying, What is this new message He would not allow them to speak because they knew him to be the Christ. And when the demon had thrown him down in the midst of the people, he came out of him without doing him any harm. And the whole city had gathered at the door, and laying his hands on each one of them, he was healing them. and went to a secluded place and was praying there. And he healed them. he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret, and he saw two boats lying at the edge of the lake, but the fishermen had got out of them and were washing their nets When he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the deep water and let down your nest for a catch. So they signaled to their partners in the other boat for them to come and help them. The news about him spread throughout all Syria, and they came to him who were who were ill, those suffering with various diseases and pains, demoniacs, epileptics, paralytics. But when Simon Peter saw that, he fell down at Jesus' feet, saying, Go away from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man, O Lord for amazement had seized him and all his companions, because of the catch of fish which they had taken. Jesus taught with authority, then proved it by his divine authority by performing a m the miracle. A scribe would just relate what another scribe or rabbi has spoken. Have you come to destroy us? Have you come to destroy us? And they are afraid of Christ. So this amazement that gripped the people from what they heard and saw caused a debate um to happen among themselves about the new message um and the power being displayed. Sorry, not necessarily because I mean I I'm just trying to say is there an implication uh that we can use his example as a basis for determining what source of testimony we accept From what I understand it was the same situation with that girl who was following Paul around. But I think the implication is that they're not you know, they're not worshippers of God and they're drawing attention to themselves You may, you know, this is surely of God, or this is surely of God. Yeah, I think so. Say something that is of God when I don't know. Yeah, you can't do that. Now Sinon's mother-in-law was suffering from a high fever, and they asked him to help her. Yeah, you know, you talk about how in his teaching he he was not like the school the the rabbis, uh, but he's demonstrated real authority. throughout um that area. how you go about your uh daily life at work. All right, thank you. Who had any who were sick with various diseases brought them to him, and those who were demon possessed And the whole city had gathered at the door of Simon Peter's house. Demons also were coming out of many, shouting, You are the Son of God. Um because it seems like there's a lot of people who are experiencing this um coming to him for healing. that I've gotten. were infirmed uh when christ uh um uh encountered them uh as we see here and so uh in the same way we can take that prophecy and apply it The only thing I could say to that is uh we are engaged in spiritual warfare actively. and the crowds came to him and tried to keep him from going away from them. Um, because he wanted the Father, uh he's he wanted to be delivered from the hour before this purpose I have come. His prayer life was a a reflection that he understood his purpose. to me to be right in the middle. And wouldn't verse 44 do better at the very end of this blended account? I think what I draw from this, he went around to each synagogue, all the synagogues in the surrounding regions, preaching the gospel and teaching. um in healing every kind of disease. And large crowds followed him from Galilee and uh Thecopolis and Jerusalem, Judea, and from beyond the Jordan Uh 1006, okay. in midst of all of this. Now it happened that while the crowd was pressing around him and listening to the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gennesareth. And he saw two boats lying at the edge of the lake, but the fishermen had gotten out of them and were washing their nets. So that they began to sink. from the boat. But I will do as you say and let down the nets. So the notes uh say that this is the l latest in a series of times when these fishermen began to follow Christ. Back to when Pastor Plumbey was talking about the time frame when all of this must have happened. They still had to, you know, they were still I would say perhaps part-time still working is the way it seems to me because uh other than that you would have to conclude that you know something is wrong with the narrative So when we read here again, another call to a full time, well, it's either that they deserted him, left him completely, or um I I trying to spring it all together, I it's it's not easy at least for me. And then after he teaches, he tells them to go out to the deep to lay their nets down for a catch, and Simon initially responds with the uh the previous failure, but then he obeys God's word. They understood in this moment that they were dealing with um God. Um but for context, we need to read the last part of last week's um blended account on page 49 So page 49, the blended account. He saw two brothers, Simon, who was called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen And um in preparing for this study I noticed that I really enjoy reading through the entire blended accounts. And he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. Just then in the synagogue there was a man possessed by the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice, Let us alone. Have you come to destroy us? While the sun was setting after the sun, all those who had any who were sick with various diseases brought them to him, and those who were demon-possessed He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. For I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also, for I was sent for this purpose. And immediately entered the home of Simon, Peter, and Andrew with James and John. And he went into their synagogue throughout all Galilee, teaching and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people and casting out demons He and he got into one of the boats, which was Simon's, and asked him to put out a little way from the land. And walk through it together. And they were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them his message with authority, not as the scribes Um so to teach with authority and they recognize that his teaching was with authority, not as the scribes. And it's interesting that in the midst of his teaching, a demon-possessed man responded. And when the demon had thrown him down in the midst of the people, he came out of him without doing him any harm. And amazement came upon them all, and they began talking with one another and debated among themselves, saying, What is this new message? And Christ preaches the word of God and then he screams out. Yeah, the authority to tell him to be quiet and come out of him. Uh just as Pastor Gabe preached last week as far as Jesus' true identity, they they had that knowledge and Whereas Israel was only coming to that knowledge. Because if if they affirmed who he was, they could that could be used against for demonics to affirm that Christ, you are the only one of God, you are um pastors today preach with authority. um used to accept the fact that he was the Christ. that could nullify um his ministry. um science and all sorts of other things that are not directly um um talked about in scripture but I'm talking about you know our understanding of God, His Word and His works, you know. And the risk, I guess, is that others will start to follow them as the source of truth. Um, committed something that was uh attached to Christ that wasn't true. So uh that's just personal application, but for the deaners he would not um allow them to testify of who he was. There's different roles that different titles of people that um function within the synagogue The main the way that my mind uh works is visually and like this is for a future day, but affirm that Jesus is the Son of God. Right, but they did submit to his command, correct? um their specific role within a within a synagogue. The priests were more in the temple to lead worship because it was totally different in those days. Yeah, that's helpful. He raised her up, taking her by the hand, and she immediately got up and waited on them. It's immediate. Could it have been a demonically induced fever if he rebuked it, or is that just a general term that meant immediately this physical whatever caused whatever caused the fever, um uh it was so intense that it caused her to be in on bed rest. So it's it's something in the Word of God that is what is He uses to carry out his will This is an additional proof that the authority with which he was preaching was not uh I mean was was uh something that was real Um because that was a uh bustling place for business. miracle among the family and disciples and it just shows his his compassion, you know, and and how he's building and strengthening strengthening them, uh revealing himself to them This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. to be the Christ. he would uh heal you of anything you're dealing with immediately. But this is to fulfill prophecy. to you know healing today. For I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also, for th for I was sent for this purpose. Prayer is vital to our lives as prayer was vital to Christ's life. Um ultimately I believe that in the Bible shows that our first ministry is to the Father. Where do we draw power from? As we minister to God, God ministers to us. I believe that Christ's life overall showed that his first ministry was to the Father. It seems to me that that verse 44 in the blended account is out of order, out of sync, because it seems like It 'cause it could mean he was doing everything in Galilee first and then he went down to Judea. as the last verse of this blended account. So the blended account you see um see versus forty-two is first and thirty-seven, then we have forty-three, then forty-four, then thirty-nine. So the uh uh his famous spreading and he's healing and proclaiming the gospel in all these synagogues that people were getting saved, but they were being blessed by his ministry. uh it clearly encompassed all those areas and people were coming to him from even even beyond those areas to come see him Thomas, it seems like there's an application in what you just read for us today. trust the Lord they're synonymous and they they may not be. So that relationship with with our Lord is like the first first ministry priority. to their partners in the other boat for them to come and help them. with Simon. going back to their uh business and livelihood and then we read about him in Mar Mark and and and Matthew and I think in Luke as well where he calls them and they immediately follow him again you know, back to what they were doing. Um and they had to fish at night. Um uh I don't think that was the the focus of what Christ was doing in their lives. Um, but the they uh uh did not respond to him for who he really was until this point where he took them from fishing And made them fishers of men. um and then to go out at night and fish and have no catch. anyway. Peter gets out and says, Go away from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. when he first called him. He uses something they're familiar with to engage with them, to prove himself to them, and it's through that that he calls them to force our ministry. We are not the apostles, but ministry is full-time work. I'll read it. But he chose, but he said to them, let us go somewhere else to the towns nearby, so that may that I may preach there also. Thank you. And so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. either our uh understanding of God, His Word, and His works on. And because uh in our day and age, and being Christians, we're used to some of the roles and functions within a church, but not necessarily within a synagogue. to just actually graphically show the role of a scribe versus a priest versus a high priest Or who any had any who were sick with various diseases brought them to him, and those who were demon possessed. Um, I'll stop there. And it left her. And so when he rebuked it, how did he raise her up? Yeah, remember when they were in the boat and they had the storm come up and he was sleeping in the back and they woke him up? And they were calm. The the the the casting out the demons in the synagogue, that was a public miracle and and here we have more of a a private didn't take that next step to trusting him in faith. shows shows his compassion, his his care for them, his love. They bring them all to Jesus and he heals everybody. a bit of a challenge for me. to to um correct some of the erroneous um ideas that I had um uh casting out the demons, it became more and more obvious that um well, e a lot of the people um there's a medical answer and not necessarily a um a prayer a prayer or spiritual spiritual attention answer. declare the truth. Galilee, Decopolis, and Jerusalem and Judea all together in that one short. Right. to the Lord uh and the verse that um supports that is just when they ask Jesus the uh greatest commandment and I don't think I don't I don't think that's what that that's the case. other people giving them support. And God does because we w we gotta get ready to go. So uh last week uh we had um Henry James as our guest teacher, and today we have Thomas Rhodes Going on a little farther from there, he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and immediately he called them. Continuing on from last week. And you're talking about on page 54? Right. What message must have Jesus been teaching that caused even a demon inside of a synagogue to scream out, um, let us alone? Hey, um Thomas, can I just uh uh uh make a quick comment here about the fact that Jesus rebuked the the demons from um testifying about um who he was? Demon like you said, demons to affirm who he was. Thomas, something else that kind of stands out to me in this passage is it's not enough to simply It's immediate and complete, okay. So it reads, then he got up and left the synagogue and immediately entered the home of Simon, Peter, and Andrew with James and John to make it leave. Um, I forgot to mention something from my notes that Capernaum uh that Jesus ministry in Capernaum was very strategic about and travel. statement here that that Christ healing healing diseases here was a fulfillment has a very challenging interpretation for me in that sense Um, I do not know about demon possession. uh wasn't so much a function of the state of medical um care and and so on, but was more the the spiritual things that were going on. recognized that their loved ones were demon possessed and they couldn't explain their behavior any other way. Some of the unique needs of their day was uh to be rid of different um disabilities and sicknesses and we we have the same disabilities and sicknesses today but generally it's there's But um yeah, I don't think it's connected with medical care as much as just um It reads, when day came in the early morning, while it was still dark, Jesus left the house and went to a scheduled place. Um, God is so busy in ministry that the Son of God took time early in the morning the next day to pray. Um, so you mean the fact that he was going around so much that the order should have been different as far as I believe so. all of that. But I was a little confused about it. uh had quite a circuitous route around all those areas and we don't know what that was. and for pain and trial to be removed. And he got into one of the boats, which was Simon's, and asked him to put out a little way from the land. If they've been with him since he called him at the beginning of the lesson, how is it that in the midst of all this ministry they have time to mend their nests to go out No, hold on. By screaming out in a loud voice, let us alone. So what does this tell us about demons? uh God's word and his power and authority is unique to himself and the apostles. Obviously one of the reasons why Jesus did not want them to to testify or why he why he didn't want their testimony was um versus um a rabbi. And standing over her, he rebuked the fever and then left her. You live your life seeking to build up the kingdom of God. Well, it just is continuing to reaffirm and build their their faith um that he is who he says he is, and just as so many in the public setting saw it, but they Um, and even those who were demon possessed. I was gonna say Tom, this this um Matthew's um interpretation of this prophecy has been a and learned a lot of uh charismatic teaching. I don't know that that's a question. um to be rid of demons, that that was um somewhat unique to the culture of the day, whereas our culture that has hospitals and ready access to doctors just man manifests and takes advantage of the culture that we live in order in order to be effective are so busy in ministry we don't have time for God. But as to the position of verse 44 from Luke, I kept it with 43 because of the word so. uh any of the three writers. And so it um there there is a distinction and even though we may think that they're synonymous to um to get relief and to Well these are two accounts from when he first called him in this full commitment now. An advantage over those uh the people in the synagogue, in that they had recognition of Jesus' identity And he took about a hand and she got up and she served. Forces and and things that are not persons, but he commands them. You can be very strategic and how you s you know people you eat lunch with or uh how you pray. Right, right. Alright, um see it's now fifty-two. The previous day, he was doing so much ministry and serving so many people. It says the next day early in the morning, he went to a secluded place to pray. The crowds came to him and tried to keep him from going away. And this is a different response than what he did in uh Samaria. to the different regions to preach the gospel. Well I have a question. Where he stopped reading for I was sent to this purpose. The uh the things that they gave up was a lot. For with authority and power he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him and come out. Um and it's a s uh it's an appointed time. And I'm not referring to anything outside of the Word of God or s or something of a spiritual nature because obviously their their testimonies about And um it became more obvious perhaps because of Jesus' um presence and his There was something unique about it in that time, and maybe even in today and in some locations similar things were happening. Um you know, I'm I was guessing it was somewhere around fall, winter, probably several months worth of activity going around and preaching and healing and We um we want certain things fixed or changed in our lives, and we want those blessings Um and go fishing at night. So let's get ready, pray. You said that? Repentance and the coming kingdom of God. And um and Jesus showed his authority again from the notes. Matthew relates that incidence here. Thomas, would you say that the the problems of that culture in terms of need for healing and need for And he went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee. 'Cause that was that was his territory, I'm thinking, maybe. This this section covers a significant amount of time, but we're not told how much time. I think we read last week that he had called them and they left immediately and the notes indicated that this was uh when when they were now called into full-time you know um ministry with Christ. And um his call to us is a command to come follow him. I I I I have to say personally, um I would say I've probably done that. And so after this event his uh his fame was being spread locally um in the surrounding district of Galilee. Uh he could have in the space of probably something like three, four months here Okay. They are participating in the uh teacher training track. Can I ask a question about the authority? He had the authority to preach the word of God and he had the authority to cast out demons. the culture that we live in. I'm sorry, secluded place and was praying there. So it it's not it's not um all that important to nail down a particular itinerary here because I don't think that was the intent of I guess I was looking at the map at the very end of this lesson, which never shows Judea. For amazement has seized him and all his competitors. Can somebody read the last account in uh Luke 5? an opportunity for them to get some experience. They had this authority. So they're still with him. And that that it's a different it's a different culture and even that demons operate differently in our day because of our um When he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the deep water, and let down your nets for a catch. And it's uh also good that they had the confidence that he could help. But did that result in people coming to him for salvation? 39 says, and he went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, teaching and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people and casting out demons. And they don't know when that is. Chronology we're not really told, uh, but we are given a good sense of the geographic scope. And then God uh uh causes this huge catch to come where Because he he did not want that to be the basis for which the nation would accept him. It almost personified the fever. Prayer is a ministry. And Jesus said to Simon, Do not fear, from now on you will be c you will be catching men. We we we have lies, you know, we believe lies and we spread them just as easily, I think Actually, Kirk actually the synagogues were places of teaching. Oh. Then it says verse 24 in the blended account. And they brought him all who were ill, those suffering with various diseases and pains, demoniacs, epileptics, paralytics, and he healed them Um verse forty. For amazement has seized him and all his companions because of the catch of fish which they had taken. They went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and began to teach Thank you. Correct. I don't know, it just strikes me as a little disjointed. I'm still reading. Um Right, and you've been corrected by the word of God, correct? Thomas, can I make one other comment? And uh one of the things that I I hope I'm representing this correctly, one of the things that I had learned in the charismatic movement was that this particular prophecy that is in Isaiah It says, for I was sent for this purpose. Thomas Thomas, one thing he says is apart from me you can do nothing anyway. It's a it was a physical ailment she was experiencing and not only did he show that he had authority over the spiritual realm but also physical ailments Okay, so it's the the Roman region. That was to focus on the strategic location of Capernaum, right? Large crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan. What's the page number? What do we get how are our minds renewed? It says all Syria. So he left the synagogue after that event and immediately he went to the home of Simon, Peter, Andrew, James, and John. Yeah, and I I would um I would uh suggest that um the prevalence of demon possession during that time But something happens in Luke five and uh we have about nine minutes. Must have been Jesus and his disciples because I think it as you took us back to the previous week's um last section there, it talked about Jesus calling um Is there an implication for us today uh in terms of um the source of the testimony that we uh base He was doing all this in Galilee, what we've been talking about so far. He was in Galilee before, then he went to Judea. What business do we have to do with you? Is what I'm just just getting oh sorry. So um he commands he commands physical um So when news about him spread through all the loc localities it was because many travelers would come in and through Campernium. So it says not just sick people came to him, but people who the family members or friends of sick people with various diseases brought them to Jesus. I was just making a comment, I suppose. Can somebody read the next account on the next page? So when he called them to follow him, they did, and they went into Capernaum. Yeah. I I think I think that also Tom Thomas uh back to your question is um of what does it say about Jesus' uh healing power. S uh so, um I'm gonna read the notes here from Pastor Plummy. You're muted, honey. Can you honestly say, or I say, that we understand our main purpose in this life and that we live for that purpose? But when Simon Peter saw that, he fell down at Jesus' feet, saying, Go away from me, Lord, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. But it's also reasonable to be to think that it you know it's not like Christ had a building where his ministry was operating from so that they they all resided there They may this they they may not have clearly seen him for he was, but now that they clearly c see him for he is, and he uses their business to do that. I know who you are, the Holy One of God. He didn't allow them to affirm who he was, uh, which is interesting. She she just needs to mute. So Thomas? They were afraid of the gospel being preached. Prayer is a ministry to God, the Father. He took them from that business, that lucrative business they were in, and he put and he made them had them follow him full time Are you talking about Christ or when he first call called Simon, Peter, James, John and Andrew? Correct. I know who you are, the Holy One of God. So also his ministry was a fulfillment of prophecy. So, um I let me add this before we get to the last section. I'm going to honor the time. So Greg, let me ask you this. Um I when I first got saved, I was in the charismatic movement for quite a while So it's almost as if demons and and the demon world So he didn't it seemed like he didn't tell them where he was going. What do they know about their inn? But just because of of a uh experience that I want to have, I'm trying to make it work, but it's not it doesn't work Um it it it it's been a um it ha this I mean Matthew's I guess um He was very popular. When they had done this, they enclosed a great quantity of fish and their nets began to break And so Sana's mother in law was suffering from high fever and they asked him to help her Um so I think the they they they were well funded from within but uh The word of God is the fr is the authority and preachers do um are called to preach the word of God. I mean clearly the demons know who he is, but there's no submission to his Lordship. Now I don't know, Pastor Bombie maybe Gail, was that a common thing for dem people to be demon possessed back then before Christ's ministry? This is true. And maybe some of those are interchangeable or even a lawyer or Pharisee. Uh I'm at um forty four now. Um but verse tw verse twenty-five, the last verse in that section, links all those places together He relates the prophecy to the literal and physical healing of those who Simon and his companions searched for him. So I imagine that the they here is referring to Jesus and his disciples. Um, people you connect with, people you engage with. Is that a Roman province, uh, Pastor Pommelie? It's page fifty-two. Right. Uh this is the best medical plan I guess anyone could ever hope for that God will be your primary care physician and that And he was sent for this purpose. So whatever teaching they were getting before was not uh threatening enough that even a demon-possessed man would want to leave that environment. I never dealt with that personally, but scripture says we deal with spiritual warfare. Uh yes, go ahead. Very broad range here, yeah. When they had done this, they enclosed a great quantity of fish, and their nets began to break. I I think I think even though um Peter and his brother may have uh become a lot more involved in ministry with Christ I mean Peter and those guys they had their own fishing business. It says, now Jesus was walking by the Sea of Galilee. What was the last thing you said to him? He did not want that to be the basis for people recognizing who he was. God is doing this or that. And Christ is praying early in the morning after so much ministry. But I'm wondering though, um since he would not accept Um but when you say testimony, are you meaning something outside of the word of God? He took her by the hand. So while the sun was setting, and after the sun had set, all those Let's go to the next section, um page fifty-four. When day came in the early morning, while it was still dark, Jesus left the house. I can do that. It's interesting there that he rebuked the fever Laura c oh she did. Is that something really unique to Jesus because he backed up his preaching or is that something that I'm being muted. I I also wanted to say that I um I agree with you that our first uh ministry is uh How are you done so early? So he shows his authority over physical ailments. It was uh by the Sea of Galilee and many travelers from around the regions will go Um so back down to one other one other thing can I add? And I I think oh sorry. But they know is coming. Oh yeah, go ahead, Kirk. But it doesn't r I don't need an answer, but I um it just makes me curious to try to map that out so that when I read a a passage I know Okay, thank you. But we may not necessarily want Jesus and to trust him and follow him And yet he healed them all by his sovereign choice. Thank you, Pastor Plumley. Right. Right. I think this just builds them up and strengthens them. Um, from what I was studying, uh for these guys to m have to mend us and clean us and So Thomas is going to lead us in lesson eight. We know who you are, the Holy One of God. Oh, I wasn't trying to connect. The fact that he proclaimed the gospel under that uh reflects that he understood his purpose, his main purpose. Now we need people to read the four other accounts as we read through it. He raised her up, taking her by the hand, and she immediately got up and waited on them Jesus was actually speaking the direct word from God. He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. I mean there is a a definite appointed time coming for their judgment. So no saving faith, but you will still bow down to his authority. So it it took me a lot of unlearning How are we encouraged to go on? The news about him spread throughout all Syria The preaching, the miracles. He does intervene in our life We are ministers of God in his world. The kingdom of God. Can we draw an application there? That uh uh was very encouraging to me that we can be strategic in how we do ministry. And laying his hands on each one of them, he was healing them When they asked him to stay, he stayed two days. Yeah, immediate and like Victoria said, complete. Simon and his companions searched for him and they found him and said to him, Everyone is looking for you. But how does he respond? And he mentioned it again in John 12 when he was praying to the Father for this purpose I have come. Yes. So he kept on preaching in the synagogues of Judea, well, also in other synagogues as well, elsewhere. And then for Christ and then they get out their boats to mend their nests and then Christ calms. Do you think this is helping Simon, Peter, Andrew, James, and John? Yeah, so um Thomas, if I could um respond a little bit to to Ann. That is uh something we may all have to face or reality we may be confronted with with the busyness of serving um I uh Now he's back in Galilee. Now it happened that while the crowd was pressing around him and listening to the word of God, And they came and sewed both of the boats so that they began to sink. She stood up immediately and served. But rebuking them, he would not allow them to speak because they knew him I know a lot of people have what you referred to before as a false testimony that because Christ did something that we can all do that today. Prayer is a time for fellowship with the Father to be refreshed, renewed. Correct? I'll go ahead. He raised her up, taking her by the hand, and she immediately got up and waited on them. There is no real ministry for the believer if they do not pray, if they do not rely on God, if they if we um And they came and filled both boat both other boats Thank you. Not only was he preaching with authority, but he had the authority to rebuke a demon, possessed man. For amazement has seized him and all his companions And Jesus said to Simon, Do not fear, from now on you will be catching men. They were afraid of the pending judgment. Right. She was uh what was she a fortune teller? You were making testimony about Christ that wasn't really true. Based on a feeling, based on an experience Okay. Only the apostles, I believe yeah, only the apostles had that authority. She muted. I think there is a bit of time there Anything else, Pastor Funman, before we pray? It it he personified the fever Um they were with him, they heard the gospel, um, they saw his miracles Demons also were coming out of many, shouting, You are the Son of God, but rebuking them Thank you, thank you. We do not fight against flesh and blood. Now, Judea and Galilee are, you know, two separate parts So that that's all I was gonna say. They found him and said to him, Everyone is looking for you and the crowds came to him and tried to keep him from going away from them. And most of them didn't have a true knowledge, but it's also something that he would not allow them to affirm who he was. Y you agree with that? Um and I'll make it quick. The very next verse says, so he kept on preaching in the synagogues of Judea I'm sorry, um thirty nine is under forty four. So the demon possessed man was hearing the gospel and I found it The scripture does not reveal that anyone came to him to be saved, even though they were amazed or impressed by what he said and what he did. Father, please glorify yourself. So all these people come from all these different regions. Now Simon's mother-in-law was suffering from a high fever and they asked him to help her Um the divine authority that he was teaching with was not in their tradition where Um in that uh um And standing over her, he rebuked the fever, and it left her Immediately they left their nets and followed him. And if he got up and left the synagogue Absolutely. But in those days, synagogues were distinct from the temple Uh you just finished. Good morning, everyone. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him. Thank you. So I just I just think it it's it's strengthening them. He made time for the Father. Can somebody read the first blended account on page 52? How was, can you relate to this, you being so busy in ministry? And when I saw that he understood his purpose. And that requires faith You can be very um strategic in how um Then he went down to Judea in verse 40, and then he came back to Galilee There is a time coming. But he said to them, Let us go somewhere else to the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also. Um but it it's also it's also um reasonable to me. What business do we have to do with each other? Um and so uh How can we suffer through something and still give praise and glory to God It was, after all, at the very end of the account in Luke. Right. Peter, James, John, and Andrew are still with him Right. Thank you. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him They may not have known that And I would say a application that um we can take from this is have you ever So he kept on preaching in the synagogues of Judea So the next section. I apologize for not communicating that clearly. Um so then it says, Everyone is looking for you. He mentions his purpose was to preach the gospel, the kingdom of God, to other places. Uh concerning the blended account And and of course all of the scriptures are applicable for us, but in that So they went into Capernaum. And it says, immediately on the Sabbath, he entered the synagogue and began to teach. While the sun was setting, and after the sun had set, all those who had any So let's go back to the beginning of lesson eight. Um I I I I don't know, just is there is can can we imply from the way Jesus handled that situation by not accepting At sunset, the reason why they came at this time, at sunset when the Sabbath ended, people were freer to move And and also the third from beyond the Jordan. Where where did they get their food and money for uh to support their ministry? And that's a blessing. Um Just a comment question. Um but it uh being a fisherman and mending nets took a long time Maybe it's more about geographic scope than it is actually an itinerary. Yeah, it was uh Um he affirmed his authority, and people were blessed, even though Um where was I? This was to fulfill what was spoken to Isaiah the prophet I've probably done that and to my shame obviously, but Um without this ministry I was gonna say Thomas, I think if you uh Someone the next account, please. Um Um I would definitely say yes, but Pastor Woman anybody can back this up. Right. Apparently very much so, yes. I must go somewhere else, to a town nearby. An amazement came upon them He took us out of darkness, he brought us into a smallest light that made us breath uh to be uh And immediately the report about him was spreading into every locality in the surrounding district of Galilee. He I mean he did not want the testimony of the demons to be what the nation, you know Is And he beared a lot of fruit. Immediately they left the boat And it was it's talking about And he sat down and began teaching the people from the boat I think the demons were drawing attention for themselves But So he understood his purpose, his main purpose, preach the kingdom of God And he sat down and began teaching the people Um and so Looking forward to what the Holy Spirit is going to teach through us, through me, and through the rest of us. And so does God allow us to ha bear false testimony about himself And he was fulfilling um scripture Simon answered and said, Master, we worked hard all night and caught nothing That's why they had a rabbi, a teacher You could be strategic in I would have put that verse forty four. When they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him Ministry is full time work even um You know, even how he sovereignly used their failure to make a point. Um it means that uh in the scribal tradition, as the note says, uh And so their response was one of fear. The same thing with the act of creation, let there be light. Um that's what we are taught. And then after that we're gonna go through uh lesson eight. And they recognized this as being different than the things they were taught before. It says that he rebuked the wind and the waves. Yeah, yeah, the collectively the disciples w were they being funded outside of themselves or did they have He made time to be ministered to by the Father. This time they followed him full time. I mean Um section 35. What did Jesus come to teach? So she was completely well immediately. And everything else is less important. I it just seems out of think And this is um And so it says Simon and his companions are still with him. He did not want to build off his name off of their testimony. It's all up Galilee. Yes, please. So I would like to do that today. And um Yeah. Simon answered and said, Master, we were working we worked hard all night, and caught nothing. I wasn't trying to put those two together, but um just the Again, his ministry was strategic. And um And um all that Jesus was doing and this was my focus So just saying, I know who you are isn't synonymous with saving faith. But for this one he was going around Verse nine Who was the they that went into Capernaum? Um And he mentions this a few other times in um scripture that he understood his purpose. And so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who are partners. Um there are lots of things, but uh we better wrap it up here for today. So he was he was very popular Um And Paul had to shut her down So you realize these are the same four men that he told them to follow him Um is prayer a great ministry? God does intervene in our life So Good. So I'll read it quickly because I really want to engage with this to see what you all think So the But we are engaged in spiritual warfare every day So that's it links them all together in one one shot So they would take the news about him and spread it all around. How so? Jesus of Nazareth. So here He gets into their boat. What business do we have with each other? So it is mixed in, but the um Um but you have the word of God, the living word of God preaching It helps them And so um And yet it still does not reflect Um I'll stop there. I was trying to figure out at what point did they separate from Christ to go fishing. Um Um let's move down. Jesus heals Peter's mother-in-law and many others He made time to minister to the Father. I must preach there also. What does this say about Jesus' healing power So they singled He makes Simon Peter get back into his boat So um Uh Again where? Was it through I I think It's also Okay Jesus of Nazareth. So I am wondering