Good morning everyone. Good morning. If uh if any of you don't know, I'm Steve. And uh um just wanted to start off today by asking I know some of you have been here, this is a this is a multi-term class, um just uh wondered if I could ask if there were any particular parts of this class that had been uh particularly helpful or maybe you learn something new that you'd want to share with everyone. One of the uh first Bible study helps that I purchased when I was a young believer was uh the Harmony of the Gospels. I think it's Robert Thomas that had done that and it basically is what what Dr. Pomley has done with his blended account where he kinda takes all the different accounts that, you know, kind of chronologically they relate. And um I uh had bought that and really enjoyed that and um uh somewhere along the way, uh Dr. McCarthy came out with Perfect Life, which does the same thing. I wrote that out yesterday and it's uh it's amazing, you know, just uh all the insights you can get, you know, just kind of comparing side by side. And anyway, a couple weeks ago I pulled Dr. Flumway aside and I was asking him about He's talking about some book about um gospel in I forget oh it's stereo. And and I said, shouldn't it have been quadruphonic? And he goes, It's funny you would say that and he and his uh Bible study team in college um that he was leading. He says they actually took I guess New Testament and kind of clipped up all the different parts and kind of pasted them. And I was like, uh this does not surprise me, Dr. Conley, you know, that you and you guys were doing that and uh So they kind of created their own, you know. So he's been at this a long time and uh just very thankful for him and and uh his efforts and these notes. So um just wanted to kind of highlight that before I got started. So so today we're going to be talking about um Jesus' betrayal and when he's arrested and and forsaken by his disciples. So I kinda like what Agapon did last week. where he read it and kind of took m a moment, you know, every so often as thoughts occurred to him to uh to open it up for questions and I do hope that uh y'all will feel free to interact because I tend to talk fast and run out of material. So um in any case. Um so we are on page two fifty eight in your notes, lesson forty-three. And um uh what I would say about this is This scene, it was it was the worst nightmare of Jesus' disciples. You know, they uh they had expectations. What what were some of their expectations, you know, as as his followers for three years? What do you all think he might have they might have been expecting was going to happen, you know, kind of next? Any thoughts on that? Maybe you overthrow Rome. Right, right. The Messiah, that that was certainly an expectation of the Jews that they had been oppressed by Rome and they felt they needed a uh uh somebody to come and and uh turn things around and uh they've been mistreated and they wanted things put right so they thought that was going to be something that would happen. Any other thoughts? Yep, Joe. Yep. Yeah. Yeah, they often ask, you know, when when you come into your kingdom when's what what's gonna happen and when will this be You know, I I think after they'd spent three years with them, just all the time following them around, I think they had a they felt like, oh, we know this is all This is this is good, this is all coming to be. And you know, certainly, you know, when he's received with Hosanna's, they thought, oh, it's just right around the corner. And um and yet all along he'd been telling them that he was going to ultimately die and um they were like what you wait a minute this is not what we were expecting so Just wanted to kind of set that up before we kind of get into this section. So they had just had their uh time there in the upper room And uh he's explaining to 'em different things that are gonna happen, that somebody's gonna betray him and they uh looking at themselves and saying, Not me, Lord. You know, I mean I I think in there's an aspect in that where they might have thought Is it possible that it could be me? They certainly didn't expect Judas, which is interesting. Um I think a lot of times we think of Judas as you know kind of lurking in the background, but um he was someone who was one of them He, you know, did everything that they did. Jesus treated them just like any of the other disciples, so they really had no idea who it was gonna be, although they definitely seemed to understand that that somebody was gonna betray 'em and they they just Couldn't imagine who it was gonna be. So um so let me go ahead and start reading the blended account. Now that's a good a good comment. I think the uh Uh it's interesting, you know, when we look at the disciples, you know, sometimes you say, Okay, well, I'm like this one or I'm like that one and what does it show us? I mean you have you know, somebody like Peter who never let a thought go unspoken, you know. He uh he was called the disciple with the foot shaped mouth and Um it's uh y and yet you have you know somebody like um John who kind of self describes himself as the the disciple who Jesus loved and And, you know, that wasn't a prideful thing, that was probably to his amazement, you know. And um and yet, you know, you see the different characters And what does it tell us? It tells us that God can use, you know, any any sort of person, you know, whether you're an extrovert or somebody who um you know kind of keeps to yourself and is quiet and um you know but different people respond to different sorts of people and God can use all of us. So um there's a really good study uh um call it the the the master's men that uh Dr. MacArthur did. Um and it kind of tells you, I mean he squeezes like every bit of truth that you can find about all the disciples. Some There's very little that's known, but there's some that there's a lot that's known and I I I thought that was a really good study. So all right I'm going to head and start reading here. Immediately while he is still speaking, behold, the one called Judas, one of the twelve, came up accompanied by and preceding a large crowd with swords and clubs, who came from the chief priests and scribes and the elders of the people. Now Judas also, who was betraying him, knew the place where Jesus had often met there with his disciples. So what does this tell us? This is um obviously Judas, you know, h had uh had always assumed, like all the other disciples, that they were going to be uh um entering into the kingdom soon. And uh what we also find out elsewhere is that he'd been uh kind of pilfering from the treasury. He was the treasurer, so that says the other disciples must have thought he was trustworthy. And yet, you know, it seems like a lot of his motive was, what can I get out of this? And when it was becoming clear to him that this kingdom wasn't going to be brought in, you know, he started thinking of other ways to kind of, you know I guess cut his losses or whatever. And um he was familiar with this place, so he set it up with the chief priests and the people that wanted to uh destroy Jesus. to um to find a place where they could uh arrest him. So um so that's what's going on there. Um says Judas then, having received the Roman cohort and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, came there with lanterns and torches and weapons. One thing I wanted to to uh kind of emphasize throughout this is w what what we see and what the disciples saw is You know, this is kind of a chaotic scene. You know, it's it's like these were their expectations and yet it seems like he's going to be arrested and it just feels like How can this be? And yet what do we see in Jesus' words, particularly as we go on, that he was completely aware of everything that was going to be happening. That That i it was under God's control. And so we'll see that, I think believe, as we go through this. It says, now he who is betraying him gave them a sign saying, Whomever I kiss, he is the one. Seize him and lead him away under the guard. After coming immediately, Jesus went to Jesus after coming immediately, Judas went to Jesus and said Hail Rabbi and kissed him. And Jesus said to him, Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss? Friend Do what you have come for. So Jesus, knowing all things that were coming upon him, he went forth and said to them Whom do you seek? So that was kind of what I was just getting at there. He knew everything that was coming upon him, he knew uh everything that was going to be happening. And you know, he uh he kinda goes out You know, he sees this large crowd coming, and here he is, and going out to them and saying, Whom do you seek? They answered him, Jesus the Nazarene, and he said to them I am he. So I wanted to say a couple things about that. Um first of all, you know, he didn't wait, you know, for them to to come and try to figure out who he was. He he took the initiative and went out and and uh it said who are you seeking? And the interesting thing when he says, I am he, the actually the word he is supplied. What he said to them is, I am. And what we see in John And we'll see in the next verse or so. When he said that, he said it in such a way it shocked them that they all fell back, you know, to the ground. And uh, you know, it's just it's almost comical to think, you know, here's a guy they're coming to arrest, he's one guy, and here they have this large group of men and they're coming to arrest them and just by his his statement they all fall to the ground. And uh it's just it i it's it's just amazing to think about. From what I uh I've understood there's numerous times where Jesus you know, says, I am, you know, I am the light of the world, I am the true vine. That um the uh the the Greek is you know ego ego ami, which Um when you see in the Old Testament, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, it's the same wording. And I think a lot of times, I mean in particular this case, um that's all it says is um is I am. Um that's how uh uh God identified himself in the Old Testament. So Um, I don't know if that answers your question, but yeah, I I uh honestly I this is the part only time I can think of that the you know the uh I mean all those other places he says I am and then there's something after that. But this is the only time I can think where it's kind of implied. Yeah, I I don't think they expected him to come out and kind of identify himself. You know, they probably thought he'll be hiding in the back or we're gonna have to really hunt for him. And, you know, here he is completely in control and That that just kind of strikes me, you know, just he knew exactly what God's plan was and he was completely submitted to it. And Judas also, who is betraying him, was standing with them. So when he said with them, I am he They drew back and fell to the ground. Therefore he said again, and they asked him, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus the Nazarene. Jesus answered, I told you that I am He So if you seek me, let these go their way. I think something that's helpful to uh to consider there, what was Jesus doing? He was he was making it clear, you've come here you you've come here to arrest me. And, you know, he was with his disciples and he was trying to protect them. you know, by saying, uh, I'm the guy you're looking for, so you know, let these go their way. And um I think a lot of times You know, we see in this instance he was trying to protect his disciples in various ways that um God pr has promised. protection for us as we uh we are his his believers and uh it's uh it's uh I think that that's that's uh one insight there that that um it's very clear he wanted to be sure You know, because I mean these people, these disciples had spent all this time with them, you know, that I guess had he not said that, made that clear, they may have been arrested as well. And um but Uh anyway, so we'll see some more interesting things. Yeah, I think a lot of times, you know, it's like you see how people kinda respond to Jesus You know, it's the people that were intent on arresting him, that were intent on his destruction, you know, they can look at something I mean, after the resurrection They're all kind of going, Well let's see what kind of story we can come up with. It's like the guy resurrected, you know, he's not in the tomb anymore. This these big burly guards that you set there, they they uh they they lost them And uh it just doesn't occur to them that something amazing happens. And yet, you know, you see other people, you know, some somebody who's just watching Jesus die and they it says that the way they saw him die He said this is the Son of God. You know, that God is just has that ability to to break through unbelief and um you know, so that's So he says, if you seek me, let these go their way. And this was in order as his to fulfill the word which he spoke, of those you have given me, I have lost not one. So he uh He was trying to protect his his disciples there. Verse 49. When those who were around him saw what was going to happen, they said, Lord, shall we strike with the sword? So one thing I wanted to mention there, I think they were, you know, a lot of times we think, oh, the disciples, they were frightened, they were scared. It's like at this point they were they were willing to die for him. They thought Okay, here's our moment here. We have, you know, I mean i it's amazing to me that they thought they were going to take on this large crowd of soldiers And uh these guys that were coming at him, but they were willing. And he says, you know, should we strike with the sword? Then I'm glad you asked that. I always talk and I always want to be pr prepared to answer any questions that come up and I knew that was going to be one of them. It was interesting. Um a uh cohort is typically around five to six hundred. They said it could have been as few as two hundred or as many as as twelve hundred. It's like, that's a lot. So uh yeah that was part of the confusion is all these guys coming. Yeah. So uh yeah, so that's uh that's what I found. Um uh so they said, should we strike with the sword? And it says, uh then they came and laid hands on Jesus and seized him. And behold Simon Peter, the uh one that you know usually if he's gonna say or do anything, you know, he's doesn't wait for a uh an an appropriate moment. He just does What pops into his mind. One of those who stood by with Jesus reached and drew out his sword and struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his radier. I've heard uh various theories about this Um do you think he was trying to uh remove his ear or do you think he might have been going for something more significant? You know, he's probably trying to take his head off and but he uh The other ones are saying, Should we strike with a sword? Peter's like, Oh And uh anyway it uh said the slaves It said this was a uh a slave who ha just happened to be standing nearby, his name was Malchus. It says then Jesus reached no I'm sorry Then Jesus said to Peter, Stop, no more of this. So this kind of reminds me, Dr. Plumley, toward the end of the class last week. He was saying there's parts where the Bible um and we see in the Gospels where Jesus says um uh it is enough. I think we were talking about that a little bit. I think this is kind of a uh an uh maybe m for more emphatic way of saying, you know, this is not the way this is supposed to go. And I mean it's very the word stop, no more of this. You know, you guys are getting this all wrong. You know, I I'm supposed to be arrested. And I think that moment was so so impactful for them. I mean they went from Should we y you know use these two swords that we have to you know suddenly they were they were gone? And um I think that was This made that very clear to them that this is not the way it's supposed to be. I am supposed to be arrested. Yeah, I guess you could say we can prepare them up to a point You know, it it's it's like he tells them this is going to happen and you know, it's it's I always think this is funny. Um when they were on Sea of Galilee at the time And he's like, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. And they're going, Leaven, leaven It's because we don't have bread. You know, I mean they're they're trying to understand you know, what does he mean by what it's like, no, he really meant, you know, in the sense that they're teaching And uh, you know, but if there was ever any time they could get things wrong, they usually did. So um but I think that's the other thing about this this study is just, you know seeing how Jesus talks to his disciples, interacts with people, and the other thing I think is just amazing to me, you know, is like you don't really think about it until You get into a lot of the passages in John the High Priesthood Prayer, he's actually talking to God and we get to listen in, you know. And uh these are two parts of the Trinity interacting, just amazing. So I think a lot of times we think, oh if I'd been there I wouldn't have run away. Yeah, I think a lot of times people are are har hard on Thomas, you know, he was one of the ones who wasn't there and you know they said we've seen the resurrected Lord and He's like, unless I see and put my hand on his side and you know, but um and the the thing I think is cool is when he sees him doesn't have to follow through with what he said. He says, My Lord and my God. I think that's that's very cool. And um Jesus received that worship. Okay. Let's see. Alright, so Jesus says Stop no more of this. Put your sword back into its sheath, for all those who take up the sword shall perish by the sword. So in this particular case You know, Jesus knew he was going to be arrested and um need to sell him. It's completely inappropriate, you know, to to do what you're doing. The cup which my father has given me shall I not drink it. What do you all think that means I think um this is one of those times where we see the humanity of Christ, you know, when he's facing the crucifixion, when he's facing the facing the suffering that's coming. He says again about the cup. Father, let this cup pass from me. And then he says So in his flesh he didn't want to suffer, he didn't want to die. And yet he recognized it was necessary for the salvation of anyone who'd who'd receive him. So um That's uh I think that's a another nice insight in terms of you know kind of the struggle that he was going through. And um and I think that's part of this this cup that that God has given me. I uh shouldn't I this cup that my the Father has given me shall I not drink it? So he knew the arrest and the suffering that was coming was all part of God's plan. I like this insight. He says, For do you for do you think that I cannot appeal to my father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? That's a lot of angels Um I think the uh number came up came up with with Legion was perhaps as many as six thousand. And uh it's interesting. Um the the concept it it's not so much you know the uh the number. I mean you had one angel that killed a hundred and eighty five thousand Assyrians so you know, if you had that many angels they could do tremendous amount of destruction, but his point was, you know, you twelve aren't going to be able to protect me, you know, and and if I need the protection that God could handle this easily. And yet you know, that I think that was the end for them is when they heard, you know, that that this is going to happen. And um so And he says something interesting here too. How then will the scriptures be fulfilled which say it must happen this way? So there's there's a couple scriptures in this kind of kind of related to this that I've written down um let's see, fulfilled prophecy In this passage he's betrayed by Judas, you see in Psalm 419, he says, Even my close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread has lifted up his heel against me. I think that's a picture of the betrayal of Judas. Um Psalm fifty five, thirteen and fourteen. And if you look at Psalm twenty-two, I'm sure there'll be references to that in the coming weeks. Um that passage is just filled with imagery from the crucifixion, so it's not technically related to what we're talking about today, but um Just wanted to mention that, Psalm twenty two. So um so he says scriptures were fulfilled that all these things in terms of his arrest, his betrayal, that the the the scripture is says that it has to happen this way. And then it says he touched his ear and healed him. I find I find it interesting that that's found in Luke, the physician. So he always had that uh uh that little you know uh insight as to uh the healing touch of Jesus. So at that time Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders in the crowd who'd come against him, have you come out with swords? And clubs to arrest me as you would against a robber. Every day I used to sit with you in the temple teaching, and you did not lay hands on me to seize me. But the this hour And power of darkness are yours, and all this has taken place to fulfill the scriptures of the prophets. So in a lot of ways he's he's kind of um reproaching them, you know, it's like you all had an opportunity, you know, in broad daylight to arrest me if you were going to do that. And here you are, you know, coming out here in the middle of the night, you know, and and if you look at all the things that they um all the laws they broke, you know, in terms of arresting him and the time that they did it and you know, things that they were supposed to have done that that they didn't Um it just shows you this is just a setup. So the Roman cohort and the commander and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him. And it says, then all the disciples left him and fled. And yet, I think we we see, it says, all the disciples left him and fled. We'll see next week in particular. One disciple It kind of hangs around to uh kind of see what's going to happen. Who's that? John, certainly. Peter. Yes. Yeah. Peter's kind of the uh steal in the show of next next week's lesson. We'll be uh talking a lot about his denials. So they wanted to see what was going to happen to Jesus. They knew he didn't want them to protect him, but They also loved them and wanted just to see what was going to be happening. So John and and Peter certainly are there in the uh in the kind of just slightly offstage. So um and then it has this interesting passage. A young man was following him wearing nothing but a linen sheet over his naked body. And they seized him. But he pulled free of the linen sheet and escaped naked. So that's from Mark. And uh I was reading about that. I'd always heard that the the theories on that was It was probably Mark himself. Um and yet, you know, there's other ones that I read that is probably just somebody who was awakened, you know, what's all this commotion that's going on and just kind of got something over his his whatever he word of bed and went out to see what was going on. But we don't really know. But it could have been marked. It's uh one thing that we can look certainly learn from John, as I mentioned, he describes himself as the uh the the disciple whom Jesus loved and doesn't refer to himself and and I was there, you know, it just He just was so astonished that that Jesus loved him that he chose to refer to himself in that way. And um so I would say the jury's still out as to whether this was really Mark or not. But um It is there's there's a lot of uh fun things in Mark, you know, just kind of how he writes everything is immediate and this happened next and it's like He's very excited to relate all these things. So Okay. Um let's see I guess as we finish this, you know, as I said, as we began, to the disciples, the events that occurred here felt hopeless and chaotic and yet we find out that from Jesus' perspective it was all going according to plan. He's completely in control. God was not letting anything happen here that um that wasn't wasn't meant to happen. And I I'll read these two verses from John ten. I think it it kind of relates He says, For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, so that I may take it up again. No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have authority to lay it down And I have authority to take it up again. This commandment I've received from my father. So he kinda told them that long in advance that nothing is going to happen to me is is uh gonna be by surprise that I'm making these decisions, I'm you know, laying my life down and uh you would think that early on they'd be like I wonder what he means by that, you know. But often they would just hear these things and I think that they probably didn't want to know. You know, what does he mean by that? You know, it just sounds like this is not what we're expecting You know, I I'm not one of these soldiers that has all these weapons. I'm just kinda standing here and and got in the way of the sword, you know. And uh but uh yeah, yeah, a lot I think a lot of times, you know, it's just like You read a passage, it's familiar, and then a thought like that occurs to you, and it's like you just kind of wonder, you know Kind of going forward, I mean he's named, which is interesting, and you know, but nothing else is said. So Something to think about. So one of the uh bullet points I thought was helpful to kinda sum this up, the last one says it was important to the Jewish leaders To arrest Jesus at night, away from the crowds who gathered for the Passover. Jesus drew attention to their cowardice. So a couple things that I had read, um, the Jews they were trying to communicate to the Romans. We think he's talking about overthrowing your government and they were saying that in hopes that they would bring in the the the military, you know, to uh to arrest them so that they wouldn't have to. The other thing, uh, I think that they were hoping to do it for um religious reasons after the Passover, but it was becoming clear to them that um it was going to need to happen before then. So You know, just to the idea that we'll just kinda take care of it at nighttime then and nobody will be aware of what's going on. So all right So uh section one hundred seventy-nine. So these uh these next couple sections are very short. All right, I'll read this. It says having arrested him They led him away to the house of the high priest and brought him to Anas first, who was the father in law of Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year. Expedient for one man to die on behalf of the people. And then Dr. Palmy has in the notes there John eleven, forty-nine to fifty-three. Now this he did not say on his own authority, but being high priest that He prophesied Jesus would die and not for that nation only, but that he gathered together one children of God who were scattered abroad Then from that day on they plotted it with him. What you get from that is this was an unintentional prophecy. And uh you know, uh we would kind of look at it like, man, he's got some incredible insight. He had kind of a different intent behind his words, and yet the the words that he said there were prophetic. And um so Uh what do we know about Caiaphas? Um I wrote some notes here. He became high priest in A. D. eighteen, being appointed by the Roman prefect Valerius Gratus. His father-in-law was Annas, who's mentioned in the passage, who had previously functioned in the same position from A. D. 7 to 14. And who exercised great influence over the office even after his tenure. Caiaphas remained in the office until A. D. thirty-six When along with Pontius Pilate, he was removed by the Romans. He took a leading part in the trial and condemnation of Jesus. In his court or palace the chief priests who were the Sadducees And the Pharisees assembled and plotted together to seize Jesus by stealth and kill him. Um so when he said in uh John 11, 50, that one man die for the people, um This commentary I pulled this from, he said he only meant that Jesus should be executed in order to spare their own positions and nation from Roman reprisals, but Caiaphas unwittingly used sacrificial substitutionary language and prophesied the death of Christ for sinners. 180. The blended account says Simon Peter was following Jesus at a distance, and so was another disciple. Now that disciple was known to the high priest and entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest, but Jesus was standing sorry, but Peter was standing at the door outside So we see Peter identified here and it speaks of another disciple. And who do we believe that to be? John. Yep. It's from the Gospel of John, and uh he uh would never refer to himself in the first person, um refers to himself here as another disciple. And what what's an interesting thing that we find out about John here? That's right. Yeah, not entirely sure how, but Neve's a he was a fisherman, but uh somehow he was known to the high priest Yeah. So yeah, as Dr. Tony has beneath this this section, the other disciple is likely John himself, as only he records this and the name of the high priest's servant. Maybe uh since we have so much time I'll go through some of these discussion questions at the end, see if we have any any uh thoughts. Usually a lot of times I'll be uh you know, kinda watching uh Jeff or Dr. Punlins like, how are they gonna get through all this material? And uh this week, you know, it's just kind of a big section for the first one and the other ones are are small. But I'll make up for it next week So um so it says uh examine the presence or lack of faith and obedience of this lesson's characters. What did they do right? What could they have done better? So you'll notice in Jesus the The good section is blank. And uh under bad it says that he took extraordinary means to have Jesus arrested at a time when most people wouldn't wouldn't have noticed. It's interesting um you know the the means of betrayal, you know he's like, I'm gonna identify him because he thought it was gonna be difficult to identify him when Jesus comes out and says, Who are you looking for? you know, so it was unnecessary And yet he'd worked it out with them ahead of time that he was going to betray them with a kiss. And uh Jesus even says, you know, do you betray me, you know, with a kiss? And uh that must have been pretty hard to hear. And it's interesting, I mean you see Judas You know, during time he betrays them and then like right after has you know second thoughts and tries to get the money back and and um It just his whole life just kind of spirals downhill at that point. So um all right, and Peter, uh what he did good, tried to live up to his promise to be loyal to Jesus at whatever the cost. It's interesting you see uh Um Jesus telling Peter ahead of time, this is going to happen, you know, you're going to deny me. We'll talk about that next week. And Peter just can't believe that he couldn't conceive of a situation where he would deny him And yet he does. And um and yet I think one thing is interesting, what one of the things that Jesus says, and we'll look at this next week, kind of comparing Peter and Judas you know, one who denied him versus one who betrayed him. Um what Jesus says to him it's kind of like in a little In insert, he says, when you turn again, and just what hope that must have given Peter, just to think, you know, oh I can't believe I would deny him. And then after he does, just how awful he must have felt. remembers that Jesus said, when you turn again, strengthen your brothers. So he's saying to them, You're going to, you're going to turn. You're going to Um you'll be okay, you know, you'll get through this. So that must have given him some hope. So um so what he did good Tried to live up to the uh his promise to be loyal to Jesus at whatever the cost. What he did bad, he didn't understand and responded in the flesh, removing ears, and it's not a good thing. Uh and then for disciples doesn't have anything that they did good. They left Jesus and fled. A couple were kinda hanging out in the wings. Um John and Mark, uh they follow Jesus for the mob. Oh, John Mark. Oh, as a c that's uh that's the the author of the Gospel of Mark is sometimes known as John Mark. Um so uh if that was Mark he uh he took off looking for some clothes maybe so um uh Peter and John they followed at a distance presumably trying to understand So so what do we learn about the humanity of of Christ in this lesson? Um says they found him as if that would restrain him. and allow them to control someone who healed a cutoff ear in front of them. What do we learn about his divine attributes? I think that's we see that a few times in this passage That he was in complete control. Teaching, scolding, healing, surrendering surrendering willingly. So yeah, that's interesting. I mean you would think somebody who's being arrested would be, you know, completely downcast and yet, you know, he's like, this is exactly what was supposed to happen. Is nothing took him by surprise. And he proclaimed his deity in the IM statement and his captors fell to the ground in response. In his character he had compassion on Malchus. What do we learn about Jesus' ministry strategy? He explained to his disciples and his chapters that this all all this would fulfill Old Testament messianic promises. He convicted them of sin. And what do we learn about his teaching? He repl he repeatedly explained when events would fulfill prophecy. So all right. So let me uh close in prayer. Father, we're thankful for this passage. We're thankful for the thoughts that uh in the questions that were asked. Just uh thankful for again Dr. Plumley's uh efforts in preparing this material. Uh just again thankful um for this day. We pray that we would go To worship now with our hearts ready to hear your word, and we just pray all these things your name, Amen