We are on lesson seven in the notes. So Henry's going to take us to Capernaum. Thank you, Pastor Flumley. Uh I hope everyone can hear me. Right? Yep. Okay, good. Alright, so um What I'm hoping to do is as we go through the notes, we will primarily read the blended accounts where it is provided. And there are some notes, some of which are questions, some are just observations. So what I will do is when there are questions, I will um I will ask those questions and invite your comments, insights, and maybe even questions as well. And hopefully that we will be able to generate some useful and helpful conversation. So I will begin by reading The very first blended accounts, section 28, Jesus arrives in Galilee. Verse 43. After the two days, he went forth from there into Galilee in the power of the Spirit. And news about him spread through all the surrounding district For Jesus himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country. So when he came to Galilee, he began teaching in their synagogues. And the Galileans received him and was praised by all, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast. For they themselves also went to the feast. So uh Jesus' return to Galilee is probably The real beginning of his public preaching ministry, particularly in the Galilean region. So my question is, why did Jesus withdraw from Judea and Jerusalem and head back to Galilee? As I look at this, there are there are probably about three three possible reasons I'm thinking. You will recall, I believe, that the Pharisees at some point were seeking to stir up some conflict between Jesus' disciples and John's disciples. And about the same time, also, as John's ministries was waning, he had learned of John's imprisonment. uh in i in in mark uh four of verse twelve and sorry mark one fourteen in matthew four twelve But perhaps more importantly, if you look at the passage we just read, Luke mentions that He went there into Galilee in the power of the Spirit. So one of the things that pops up in my mind is why would Luke say he went in the power of the Spirit. Is he trying to say that somehow that Jesus was more filled with the Spirit now or that He wasn't filled with the spirit before this? I don't think so. I think uh he is simply emphasizing that uh in the same The same way that the Holy Spirit led him into the desert to be tempted by Satan, this is just a continuation of the Spirit leading him. I should point out that you know the three synoptic gospels don't say a whole lot about Jesus' ministry in Jerusalem and in Judea. They're somewhat silent about that. But John fills in a lot of the details by taking us through his journey from Jerusalem through Samaria where he encountered the Samaritan woman, and then ultimately to his the miracle that he did at Cana. Um so um One point that the note mentions here is you notice the notes underline all the things he did in Jerusalem and it um sort of reminds us of some of those things that he did in Jerusalem, one of which is the fact that Nicodemus, in his encounter with Jesus, points out that Jesus had done all of these signs that I guess some in the Sanhedrin recognized. And then also is a reference to the first miracle that he did in Cana. So going on to section 29, where Jesus heals the noble man's son, I'd like to ask someone to read. That passage there. Well yeah, um Henry, if I can jump in for a second. Sure. The the way that Pastor Allen has composed his notes for this class. It you you almost and and maybe it's in scripture as well, you almost conclude that the going to Galilee happens right after they leave Pent um the Passover celebration And and then Jesus and the disciples take a detour through Samaria. So it I guess it seems sequential that this entering of Galilee for ministry is right after leaving Samaria and the Passover. Is that what you that when you say yes. Now I don't I don't know exactly how long it took. I I think in the one instance we read that he was in Samaria for two days Um I don't know exactly how much time elapsed between uh uh um him leaving Samaria and uh getting to cana I would imagine it was you know it didn't take very long um Uh after his stay at Cana, uh of course he he then heads back to Nazareth. Um I as I as I read through most of this text, I couldn't quite well at least I not yet. I don't I don't know exactly how much time you know passed between some of the events that are recorded. And I um I also mentioned that the the synoptic gospels tend to be tended to be somewhat silent between actually they're silent between when Jesus was tempted And when he uh goes to Galilee for his, I mean to begin his public ministry. So um I I would I would say uh I yeah from my from my reading of it it seems like you know his trip from the feast Through Samaria where he spent a couple of days and then to Canaan was somewhat immediate. If I could say that. I have a question. Um I'm wondering how let's assume somebody is born in Nazareth, how many times a year would they be expected to go to Jerusalem? Just a normal person. Yep. I don't know the exact answer to that, but I I think at least once to but probably several times when um There are you know the different feasts that that that uh take place in Jerusalem, but I don't know exactly how many times they would be expected to go to Jerusalem. Henry, if I could add something there. Um under the Old Testament law, there were three major feasts. that um people were um I I'm not sure it was a it was a hard and fast requirement, uh but it was uh very much the practice that people would assemble in Jerusalem for those three feasts. And so one was the Passover. The other was what came to be known as Pentecost. And the third was uh in the fall, the um sometimes called the Feast of Booths um the uh uh the in gathering of the harvest and so on. Um so it was very typical that people um would all go together. They would take a caravan, they would all assemble and and the crowd would would make its way toward Jerusalem. And in the case of people from Galilee, typically that would mean not going through Samaria, which would be the more direct route, but they would go down to the Jordan River basin, make their way uh east and then go south along the Jordan River And then um head east. Once they get to Jericho, they head east, kind of southeast, but mostly east, up to Jerusalem. And it's up because Jerusalem or Jericho is below sea level and Jerusalem is well above sea level and so it's quite a hike to get up to Jerusalem. But not necessarily everybody would go all those three times, I gather, but it was sort of the the norm that people would go. And so um That's when you see crowds. Like, you know, in the book of Acts, we've got uh uh the feast of Pentecost, uh large crowds there at the um uh the Passion Week uh of Christ, of course, with huge crowds in in uh Jerusalem And so that's why. Yeah. Pastor I'm wondering, you know, um Henry said that his ministry in Judea is not, you know, it's kind of silent. But if he were living like a Nazarene uh like a person from Nazareth, maybe he only was there when he you know, when it was traditionally expected for him to be there. Not that he set up headquarters or like he had to be you know what I mean? Maybe it's not silent, it's it's a matter of he wasn't there. He he was He was living like uh he was an uh from Nazareth. Well the I think the the silence Henry was talking about was John includes information about that first feast in um Jerusalem that the synoptics don't. And so there's there's miracles, there's interactions, there's lots of things that happened. that only John records. But of course, there are lots of other things that none of the four included, right? And so there are gaps And the fact that we've got four Gospels is helpful to get um a broader perspective. Anyway, Henry, go ahead. Well let me thank you. Let me throw in something here. When you said people, um, wasn't that more of a requirement for men to be at those three um three occasions than it was for uh Uh women. It could have been um but we do know that there were women as well. Well some men need caretakers. That's for sure. Okay, so uh moving on. Uh can I have somebody read uh the passage in uh John 4, 46 to 54? I can read So therefore he came again to Cana of Galilee, where he had made the water white, and there was a royal official whose son was sick at Capernaum. When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judah and Galilee, he went to him and was bringing him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death So Jesus said to him, Unless you people see signs and wonders, you simply will not believe. The royal officials said to him, Sir, come down before me, before my child dies Jesus said to him, Go, your son lives. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and started off. As he was now going down, his slaves met him, saying that his son was living So he inquired of them the hour when he began to get better. Then they said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. So the father knew that it was at the hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives, and he himself believed that his whole household believed and his whole household. This is again a second sign that Jesus performed when he had come out of Judea into Galilee. Thank you. In your notes, uh, it says how would this official have heard that Jesus was back in the region? Just the buzz that was going on. Wherever Jesus went, there was some buzz. Yeah, that's that's that's definitely true. Um but just just thinking about it though, this uh uh official of uh Herod Antipas in his court, uh probably a civil and military official, would have uh I guess lived in Capernaum. And Jesus was um at Cana at this point. So uh I believe that According to the accounts that we've read, a lot of Galileans had gone down to or gone up to Jerusalem for the feast, and they would have brought you know, news about the signs and and uh other wonderful things that Jesus Christ both um did and and said. So that that that would be my um answer to how the official would have heard. Although it's a little um interesting that he he knew how uh where Jesus would be. I I don't know that there was any advertisement that said he was going to be in Cana. So that I couldn't quite figure out. But uh thinking about the fact that Jesus goes up through Samaria to Cana and this official comes from Capernaum. Cana to Capernaum is I think about somewhere around uh perhaps 16 miles or so. So this would have been about a half a day Journey. If you'll notice in your notes it says that uh that this was probably 7 p. m. I I um trying to think through this, 7 p. m. If if it's about half a day's trip, about sixteen miles, and he left early in the morning, um According to Jewish time, it would be uh somewhere around 1 or 2 p. m. He would he would be able to head back to Capernaum, I would think But that would not work because in the notes it points out that, so in the in the in the passage he says that um when he eventually met his servants, they told him that it was at the seventh hour yesterday, which probably means that this event happened the previous day So the seventh hour that is referred to here would be 7 p. m. because at 7 p. m. it would be impossible for him to to make that trip back. So and the note does point out that this was probably using Roman time. But I have a question here that I'd like to invite your examination of. Jesus, this official comes to Jesus and is pleading with him for his son who is at the point of death. And the response that Jesus gives him uh at first seems odd to me because uh jesus just goes into this um uh thing where he says unless you people not just the the uh um Royal official, he says, unless you people see signs and wonders, you will not believe. So what was he rebuking? Oh why was he rebuking it seems like a rebuke that that statement there seems like a rebuke. What do you think was what was Jesus trying to rebuke there Well, the scriptures say the Jews require a sign, but I'm wondering if this royal official was not a Roman. And not a Jew. I'm a little confused. Uh even though it doesn't say specifically, I am um From my reading of this, I would imagine that the royal official was was was a Jew H Henry, one uh one answer that comes to mind to your question as far as what appeared to be almost a a rebuke was um in in other narratives Jesus seems to put out a test of a person's disposition as far as uh whether they're they're humble and So similar to the to the woman who was ready to receive the the crumbs from the that fall from the master's table, it was It was almost a um a test. So I don't know if that's the case here with a state with that kind of a s um somewhat um enigmatic statement that Jesus makes. Um so that that's my answer. Okay, anybody else have some thought about this? Uh I'll share with you what I think. I don't see it as a rebuke. Um the royal official It's humble even to come to Jesus on the open. And he does bring up, unless you see signs and wonders, so he had a reputation of performing. signs and wonders and so the official um responded, Sir, come down less my son dies And Jesus said, your son lives, so he didn't go down. He just healed his son without being in his presence. Um he challenged maybe his faith. Do you really believe that I am he who can do this? And that God does that to any believer or any person who comes to him for genuine faith. Is your faith really genuine that I can do this. He challenged even a blind man. He challenged multiple people. Um and God does that. Um and uh I think it was a good thing that the the guy did not quit. He did not go away, he implored him even more. Um, sir, come before my son dies. And um a rebuke will be um like what he did to the Pharisees or what um he did he does to uh I forget these people named but um it's different when somebody humbles themselves to come to God for genuine help. And God tests their faith to see if it's actually genuine. And this man's response shows that he believes that Jesus could accomplish what he requested. Yeah, I I think I like the way you put that, uh Thomas. Um yeah, I I use the word review because it's Seemed almost like that to me, uh, but I would agree that it probably wasn't a strong rebuke as such. But one thing one thing uh uh jumps out at you. I think when Jesus you know, came into Galilee. The Galileans were probably uh wanting to see him do some of the miracles and signs that he had done in Judea and and Jerusalem. So there is a sense that You know, they were wanting some of that. And when this royal official comes to Jesus, obviously he he had some expectation I believe that perhaps Jesus would would be able to do this for his son that was sick. I I think when you look at the progression of this man's faith from initially, you know, sort of believing in a general sort of way that Jesus could heal his son and him imploring him to come urgently because his son was at the point of death. If you look at that progression, we see where he comes believing in the power of Jesus And then eventually actually believing in Jesus' word when Jesus said to him, Go, your son is well. And then actually when he now uh uh gets home and and realizes that his son is well and that this happened at the same time that Jesus had, you know, that he had had this encounter with Jesus He now not just believes generally, but he now develops a personal belief and faith in the person of Jesus. So there's that that progression that we see there. I I I'm thinking that that's probably one of the things that we ought to learn from this um section of of um the the Bible. Now is that a pattern that would repeat In other places, I think we might see it, but you know, my my point is there's this progression from just believing in the power of Jesus and then narrowing it down or perhaps being more specific from the personal standpoint, believing in the word of Christ and then believing in the person of Christ. I think Christ was was um Maybe I should I I wouldn't I would say mildly mildly uh um uh rebuking them for not believing in his person, not believing in him as the Messiah who would uh come to save the world Can I have a can I say something? Sure. Go ahead. Go ahead. Um maybe the rebuke really wasn't for the man himself because he's coming to to Jesus like a physician. I need help, you know, my daughter needs help. Maybe the rebuke, if it's a rebuke, was for the crowd because he didn't show them a sign. Um he's like, You're you're always you always want signs, I'm not going to give you one today because no one saw that at that moment. And the only one who knew that it actually was a miracle is the man and that's like a lapse of seven hours, however many hours. So he really didn't give them what they wanted at that moment. Nobody, nobody's a good idea. Yeah. That's uh that's a useful observation. Yeah, go ahead, um Bill. Oh thanks Henry. Um I was just gonna say this is this Also is probably John making a contrast between uh the responses of the Samaritans and the responses of the Jews. Uh the immediate prior passage here in John is him uh teaching in the Samaritan city after um you know meeting the woman at the well. And what's evident in that passage is that the Samaritan And it doesn't say I don't think that he that he had to do any miracles there. Whereas by contrast the the Jews wherever he went seemed more focused on um judging his miracles and you know skeptical response until they were uh met with uh wonders and signs as opposed to sort of the the focus on his teaching that Jesus really wants. Um so I it may not be like a rebuke of this particular man, it may just be a contrary that Jesus is making between like the Samaritans were ready to hear me and you guys you you guys are skeptical, you need me to do a miracle first. Yeah. Greg, I think you wanted to say something. Yeah, I just I I find it amazing uh just as you look at the blended blended account and you You know, just the the hidden treasures in in the Word of God, how how it brings it out, how when you start focusing on things like like the timing of when things happen happen and just as Victoria was saying, you know, the the wording is you people So it's addressing not just the man, it's it's the crowd. But just just how important, you know, as you look at the Word of God, just how important verb tenses are. you know, uh specific, you know, time yesterday and timing of events. I mean, you know, Jesus pointed this out when he's Talking to the Sadducees, you know, it says, Have you not read, you know, it God is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? You know, the verb tense is that he is, he's not past tense, he w he was So the of the living, the resurrection. And I just I just find it really a blessing to to see the how the Word of God has these hidden treasures as you dig into it, trying to understand and and put the events together to understand them and how it all works and and just, you know, everybody adding here to to bring that out and and just the the faith, you know, that that it in in the sense it is a rebuke that, you know, you have to believe you have to believe by faith. Um No it's not by the works, you know. I mean the the signs the signs point to him and give evidence but but it's like they're they're unwilling to believe and it's just it's just great to see that that hidden treasure coming out. It it seems like a common it seems like a common trait of Jesus that whatever narrative that we're looking at that he's actually teaching church doctrine uh for that'll go go on down through history And so it's e even though it's a particular uh interaction with particular people at the moment It's uh Jesus seems like he's intentionally teaching not only for that moment, but for all of church history as far as the doctrine, the foundational doctrine. What do you mean by that church doctrine? Well, even like um you people, when he when he makes that you people, um I'm agreeing with Victoria that it's it's speaking beyond that man um and just teaching to the hearts of um a a large group of people, uh the Jews But yet verse um forty-eight says Jesus said to him, not Jesus said to them He said it to the one Roman of I mean, I I won't say Roman, to the royal official, but I guess it was within the hearing of the crowd Interesting though that it doesn't say Jesus said to them. Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah, that's a that's a good point. Yeah, in in verse 48 where it says, unless you people, that is translated from the plural in the Greek. It is the he's addressing more than just the man And the English trans uh translation here in NASB says you people to emphasize that it is the plural. Um but then he turns to the man and he sees the way he's pleading and it's not just he's seeking for a sign just for the the entertainment value of it Um but he was desperate and Jesus obviously saw that. But the royal fisher would never travel alone. Probably. He was a royal official, so he was not by himself. Uh Tammy had a question. I just want to interject real quick. No, I was just gonna state real quick, um This statement that Jesus makes, whether it's to the royal official or to the crowds, is a truth that I find is laced throughout all of his teaching. that unless God gives a person the gift of faith, they will not believe. You know, so whether that's seeing signs and wonders or some other thing that Jesus does the statement he makes is true for everybody unless we see signs and wonders or some other means um we just won't believe in Jesus. So the royal officials belief again we see is a gift of faith, a gift from God, his faith. is a gift from God. And what Jesus is saying is true about them is true for all of us. Unless he gives us that gift, we just simply won't believe Yeah, and it's all it it's also it's also good to um believe in the midst of um doubt, you know, at the end of John, uh Jesus says to Thomas Um you believe because you've you saw. Well, blessed are those who believed without having seen. Um and you know, in in academia and in science You know, there are people who say, demand evidence, don't just believe. Um and I think that has some merit when you're trying to figure out things about the physical world and the sciences. But um for trying to understand God, I think we have this our our prior has to be faith. I think it has to be faith seeking understanding. Um And yeah, um God is gracious, He gives us signs, um, but um, you know, reading the Bible and and things like that, I always just have to remind myself that, you know, my my approach has to be faith Um in order to understand it. Thank you. I think that that was that was a healthy conversation. I I think I'd like for us to move on to the next uh section here. Can somebody read from verse 16 through 23? And then somebody else will pick up from 24 to 30. Uh I can get that. Sixteen to twenty-three. Um See, Luke 16, 23. And he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he entered into the synagogue on the Sabbath and stood up to read. And the book of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him And he opened the book and found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He sent me to proclaim release to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind. to set free those who are pressed, to proclaim the favorable year of the Lord. And he closed the book and gave it back to the attendant that sat down. The eyes of all the synagogues were fixed on him And he began to say to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. And all were speaking well of him, and wondered at the gracious words which were falling from his lips, and they and they were saying, Is this not Joseph's son? And he said to them, No doubt you will quote this proverb to me, physician, hear yourself. Whatever we have whatever we heard was done at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well. Somebody else read twenty-four to thirty, please. I can do that. And he said, Truly I say to you, no prophet is welcome in his hometown. But I say To you in truth, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah. When the sun when the sky was shut up for three months For three years and six months, when a great famine came over all the land, and yet Elijah was sent to none of them, but only to Zarepath in the land of Sidon. To a woman who is a widow, and there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian And all the people in the so synagogue were filled with rage as they heard these things, and they got up and drove him out of the city, and led him to the brow of a hill on which their city had been built, in order to throw him down the cliff But passing through their midst, he went his way. Yeah, a few observations here. Um Cana was uh about four miles or so from um You note you you notice that he's it it mentioned here that um it was Jesus' custom to enter the synagogue on the Sabbath, point pointing out something about his you know his Jewish piety if you would. It also says that uh after he stood up and and read the passage from Isaiah, he now sat down, presumably to sort of give them an interpretation of what he had just read. Obviously he said more than Luke records here. But um you know in in telling them that the the passage he had just read from Isaiah 61, I believe, 61 verse 1 and 2. uh was fulfilled in their hearing. Initially they were very um they they found the words to be pleasing I suppose. But As it continues to, I guess, expound the word to them, they begin to get this, you know, somewhat perplexed and irritated. wondering how these things how these things that he was saying were fulfilled in their hearing how it could apply to uh the son of a carpenter who grew up amongst them So obviously they you know they uh they begin to get somewhat irritated and Christ points out to them and you know tells them about um you know so relates him himself, you know, to the prophets of old whom the Israelites had um rejected well maybe not rejected outright but at least not not not not um believed or taken their word and as a result these prophets Elijah and Elisha ended up you know, going to Gentile um people, Naaman and and and the and the um And the widow and they ended up receiving the blessings as opposed to the Israelites. And obviously, as as the uh the uh the People in in Nazareth heard this, I mean they became enraged. And they you know wanted to to get rid of him. They they you know drove him all the way to the edge of the cliff and uh at the outskirts of the city to to throw him down the cliff And we read how he somehow, somehow, he just slipped through them. Um We're told here that Okay. We're told that they had obviously heard some of the things that he had done in Capernaum But as we as we uh as I look at this particular passage itself, it it doesn't say specifically what it was. So it's according to according to the notes here, it's possibly news of uh the officials the royal officials son who had been healed in Capernaum that made its way back to Nazareth and obviously there was Most likely other stories, other you know, stories of people who had seen the things that he did in you know in Cana and also in Jerusalem The note states that even though he his neighbors spoke well of him, that Jesus challenged their hearts by giving two Old Testament examples of foreigners. Whom God was merciful to and who had more faith than the Israelites. Obviously this enraged them, causing them to want to chase him out of town. As a result of the events in Nazareth, Jesus would eventually end up leaving town. and heading to Capernaum where he sets up his the base for his for the rest of his ministry in Galilee So we will go into the next section unless somebody would like to add some thoughts or or additional perspective to that passage. Henry, the um the kind of exchange that takes place is is common, it seems, for Jesus to to actually make a a deliberately uh divisive statement that has so much truth in it that you the the crowds who are listening, uh many of them are not going to be able to accept it. And so they're they're going to make a decision to not follow Christ. So it seems like it's a recurring thing where Jesus isn't trying to attract a lot of followers. He's actually trying to weed out people based on their ability to accept um harsh truth and Oh yeah, the other thing, um if you haven't visited the Museum of the Bible, there's a I guess a replica, a so-called replica of the of the synagogue, I believe, in Nazareth. And so it it's a full-scale size um building and it it shows the seating kind of the um uh I've forgotten the term for it, but the um uh but it it shows the seating and the capacity of the building. So it's it's interesting to um to see that if you haven't. I am struck that um the fact actors says they were speaking well of him And wondering at his gracious words, um and then he goes into those two events and then the rage fills up I'm trying to f figure out, okay, he used those two events in response to them speaking well of him. Uh why does that uh get this response of rage where they want to kill him? What is the point of those two events in their history that would change their heart towards them? You didn't say anything about being a Messiah. You didn't You know, he he just mentioned those two events. What was so significant, or does anybody know about those two events that will make them respond like that to him? If I could, um I was gonna say it's it's interesting he brings up these two events, and I think what they found so aggravating was that he's speaking well of essentially Gentiles. Now his ministry early on, it's clear, was primarily to the Jews, even though you know we see instances where he has you know conversations with Gentiles along the way, but his focus early on was to Jews. And yet, you know, he and we were talking earlier about, you know, the rebuke of their lack of faith. You know, that's that's a common thing. But my favorite one is the Syrophoenician woman who comes to Jesus, begs you know, please, you know, help me. And he uses, you know, a uh uh essentially refers to her as a dog. It's it's not worth worthwhile for me to spend any time helping you know, you, a Gentile dog, you know, I my my ministry is mostly to the Jews. And she understands him and she says, yes, but even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from the table And that response i i it amazes him. And he says, you know, go your way, you know, this uh this answer is is uh indicating that you you have the faith to understand what it is that I'm saying. And I think that the Jews, you know, they they thought, yeah, it's right that primarily your focus should be for us, the house of Israel. You know, you're if you're the Messiah, you know, it's um it's just interesting that when he kind of puts his finger on, you know, here's a couple Gentiles that understood what I'm what I'm getting at, and you all don't. And suddenly, you know, there are speaking well of 'em turns to rage and they take him to be stoned and uh it's uh it's it's interesting. What does that say about his ministry then? Maybe maybe it's to rid them of bragging rights. You know how if you know, somebody from your hometown does something magnificent and you spend the rest of your life bragging about You know, and so and so came from my town. So they spell spoke well of them and with all those miracles They would have thought, Wow, he's he comes from us, he's one of us, you know, this is how great we are and and all Jesus did was reverse it. He just said something that angered them and they disowned him kind of thing Yeah, I think Yeah before we go on sorry. Uh Jonathan, go ahead. I think they want to point to their pedigree. I think they want to say, you know, we're the descendant of God's chosen people. And I think he's saying Um, I'm gonna call people from all nations and from all backgrounds into my family. And I don't think they really like that because he's he's saying, I've got some good news. The captives are gonna be set free. you know, the oppressed are going to be liberated and they're saying, all right, you know, I'm going to be I'm going to be vindicated. And then I think he's saying, well it's not just you. I'm going to call people from all nations. you know, into my family. And I think that's the thing that, you know, I think they're a little bit nationalistic. You know, they're like, well, we don't want people from all nations in this, you know, chosen people. We want it to be just us. Hi, can I um That's even true for evangelism today? There's a a Jewish man that I knocked on his door and I I knew his family was Jewish. And his basic answer to me was, we are, we're Jewish. We're already in favor with God. And So that's our confidence that we that we have today. So please go to some of these other neighbors with your message, uh, Kirk, and we're we're we're safe. Hi, can I piggyback off of Yeah, that's me. Um I wanted to piggyback off of something I think Victoria said and uh maybe Jonathan as well when they were talking about um you know, the fact that they were happy that Jesus was there um based upon the scripture in Isaiah that he read. Um first I wanted to point out something about that. He didn't finish the whole passage, um, because the second part of it didn't apply until um his second air of it or the second coming of Christ So he didn't finish the whole verse, he stopped. But also um the fact that um you know he said he came to set the cactus free, um, to heal the sick. all of these things. So they were like, oh Jesus, you know, he he just came from hell and all these people. He's about to do this here. But um he really got to the heart of the matter of their unbelief in him as the Messiah. They were looking kind of for a show, like, okay, show us um who you are that you're able to do all of these things and Jesus was like, I'm not going to heal all of these people or do all of these signs like you guys want me to. When God heals, he heals with intent for his glory. And he gave the example. um of the widow of Zaraphath. He also gave the example of Naaman and um there being all of these leopards and people to heal and um it just kinda reminds me of today where we think, Oh, okay, well You know, God is God. He's supposed to heal everybody or, you know, um save everybody and do all of these things, but he does it with intent, um, according to his purpose and his will. So Um, it may not be his will to heal everybody and um him being God, Jesus, he walked past tons of people who probably needed healing every day um during his um three year of ministry and and didn't heal them. So that just brings it in perspective for me. Yeah, before we before we move on, I was just gonna say um uh one one thing that I didn't do that This is not really obvious from the face of it, but it was something that encouraged me as I was going through this passage. Charnay, you mentioned the passage that he read As I was reading through it actually, some of the commentaries that I looked at pointed out the fact that the last clause in just before verse 19, where it says to set three those who are oppressed is actually not uh in uh Isaiah sixty one verse one that that last clause is actually from Isaiah 58 verse 6. So I went back to look at it myself You know, and I I searched real hard to see if because we're told here that you know he picked up the well he he was handed the scriptures and he read it. So One would expect that if he read the scripture as it was written, that you could always go back and identify that specific um passage and read it and see that he read it exactly like that. So When they pointed that out and I went and I looked at it and I and I observed that, yeah, it it does seem like that uh clause there came from a different part of the scripture. I was wondering why that was the case. Um some of the comments that I that I read um said that he uh was probably reading from a uh a variant of the scripture that was available to him at the time. Now ordinarily that would have uh caused me to start wondering, you know What does that do? What does that have to do with the versions of the Bible that we have? But I found it encouraging that Jesus, okay, trusted whatever variant he was using at that time enough to use it as you know the basis for his preaching Uh which means that um I can also trust that, you know, for the most part when you put together all of the different you know, translations that we can get a good reading of what the actual Word of God is. My point being that I think The fact that it there isn't an exact match between what I see in my NASB in terms of that passage that's read helps me This sort of helps me uh be more uh trusting of the scriptures that we have today. And I don't know if that it'll be the same thing for anybody else, but just a little side note of you know w what what happened as I was going through this notes earlier. So we will move on to um Section 31, Jesus moves to Capernaum. I'd like for somebody to read the blended version, verse 13. Through the end there, please I can do that. And leaving Nazareth He came down to and settled in Capernaum, a city of Galilee, which is by the sea in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali. This was to fulfill what was spoken to Isaiah the prophet, the land of Zebulun and the land of Natalic, by the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles The people who were sitting in darkness saw a great light, and those who were sitting in the land in shadow of death, upon them, a light dawned. The notes point out that Capernaum is means the village of Nahum, but that it is not known whether this actually refers to the prophet. Um and also Capernaum was such a strategic commercial uh uh town There were, you know, probably one that required the presence of a tax collectors booth. And it was also a a a uh a city where you had I would say probably a lot of Gentiles as well. The notes also noted that it was the um residence of uh four actually five of the uh of Jesus's apostles Um I guess the the notebook thing there is that when Matthew records you know this move, he he references the fact that this was in fulfillment of um the prophecy in in Isaiah nine, one and two that it's actually a large um The structure of it is is of the Emmanuel's coming and pointing to the fact that, you know that that um god really intended that his his grace would would um not only be available to the Jews, but also to the Gentile nations. Because here you you see Capernaum, which is not like Jerusalem, the center of you know religious and perhaps uh yeah, a lot of the uh uh of religious activities, Copernicum was not like that. And yet this is where Jesus would would make, you know, his headquarters if you will And so when when Matthew records that this was the fulfillment of that prophecy, it was simply referring to that fact. You know, God had always intended that his grace would be available to the Gentiles as well. So a place that would sort of indicate where you have great darkness because of I guess the the the population there is where Christ would go and the light would dawn there Um so uh moving on to sorry Moving on to section 32, Jesus taught and preached repentance. Um I will also have somebody read the blended version, verse seventeen I can do it, Henry. Um from that time Jesus began to preach the gospel of God. And say, the time is fulfilled. Repent and believe in the gospel, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Jesus' message here is an exact echo of what John the Baptist have been preaching. Mark does add that little section there that says that, you know, that You know, to not only repent but also believe in the gospel. Um the notes point out that uh that Jesus stressed the necessity of repentance and faith We believe in the gospel and that these are two sides of the same coin. The good news was that God was intervening in human history to pay for the sins and that separated people from him, making it possible for people to have a right standing before him. Jesus said the time is fulfilled. He was saying that the time the prophets had spoken of of when the Messiah would come was at hand. Um yep. So Down to uh session thirty-three I will read I'll read this last blended session and then we can just look at some other questions in the end of this lesson. Now, as Jesus was walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, who was called Peter, and Andrew, his brother. casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen, and he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. Immediately they left their nets and followed him Going on a little further from there, he saw two other brothers, James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother. in the boat, with their with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. And immediately he called them. Immediately they left the boat and their father with the hired servants and went to follow him. You will know that Jesus had actually encountered Peter and Andrew earlier briefly. in the Jordan region. Andrew and and I I I suppose Peter had become uh disciples of John the Baptist. They left to follow Jesus for a time. before returning to fishing and caperna. Um so But we see here that you know uh in Capernaum He's walking by the sea and then calls them and uh they immediately follow him. Uh Kirk had sent out a um some observations in an email earlier and wondering or if he's mentioning how it seemed like Jesus called them and without hesitation they just picked up and and followed him. And I had wondered myself Uh it would without any additional background information, it would seem a little challenging to imagine that somebody you know, would be called and they would just drop everything and follow Christ immediately as the scripture tells us. But in understanding that at some point they had earlier followed him and after a while, you know, went back to their uh profession and and previous life. It it's it's not too hard to see how his second time around now calling them to full-time uh ministry or discipleship that uh they would follow him. We also read here that he called uh James and John John, I think we're uh quite familiar with uh James, his brother, is uh easily distinguished from other James in the Bible. We we read about um I mean most of the time when you read about this particular James, he's always mentioned in connection with his brother John. And he was the one that was martyred and recorded in Acts 12, verse 2. So having said that, let's take a quick look at some of the questions that we have in the session of your Henry, uh we're probably gonna have to um wrap up here so that people can get to the service. Um Okay. That's hopefully those questions will be self-explanatory and helpful as people work through this on their own. But let me go ahead and close it for her now. Okay.