So we are on lesson 19, page 116. Okay, so you can tell from the notes here that we're entering a major news section. Jesus has been uh ministering broadly, traveling quite a bit uh to the various villages and uh healings and And other miracles and teaching. But now there's in all of the Gospels, there's a bit of a Transition or right around this period where his focus is more on preparing the 12th for his departure And so we're going to pick that up today. And in section 85 I'll go ahead and read the blended account here. It's taken from Matthew and Mark. Jesus got up and went away from there and withdrew to the region of Tyran Sidon. Now, where is the region of Tyre and Sidon relative to Israel? On the coast On the coast where? North. A little bit north, right? So we're today we think of terms of Lebanon, right? And when he entered a house, he wanted no one to know of it. Yet he could not escape notice Now we've noticed before that there were times when he wanted to get away to an isolated place with his disciples And the people would follow them and it didn't exactly work out the way he intended. So here he's going farther afield, even outside of Israel And um he could not escape notice even there. So Esther, um I have I have a question. I've noticed all along Under each lesson, under the blended account, you have a math location and a time and that I I use to get myself oriented as to where and when these things occurred And here you have spring 29 AD. Yet when I look on the map, 9. 6, and it shows this tire, number one It says the date is Passover to Tabernacles 31 AD. And I just wonder why the discrepancy. Yes. I don't know if you remember, may have been our very first lesson, I mentioned that there are several at least two uh alternate dating methods um and they have to do with the cues that we get in the scripture of you know, back in the early chapters, um, you know, in the in in the reign of uh Tiberius and Corinius and all these things, um And that leaves us, and there's some uncertainty about some of those secular dates that are referenced in scriptures. And so the short answer to the question is the dates that are used in the maps use one system, and the dates that I've been relying on use a different system. They're not all that different, but maybe off by a couple of years. And you can go back to the early part of our notes Uh see if I can actually find it here for you. Well, on page one, actually, chronology gives a note, but there's Other I think it's it's actually embedded in the notes when we talked about um the you know the the timing related to the birth of Christ and beginning of his ministry and all the cues that are given to us in scripture there. There's some alternate views as to which w when the reign of of I think it was Tiberius began because he overlapped with his predecessor I think it was Tiberius. So there is some uncertainty, and it's not a huge deal as to which year it was, but that's the explanation. Thank you for that. Uh so that would lead me to believe there's two trains of thought as to the year that Christ died. Yes, the whole system, right Okay, thank you. But it's fair to say that uh we've entered the last year of the disciples training. Uh yeah, well yeah. Of course we get our cues as to the time of the year based on the references to the various Passovers. That's pretty much our only Our main specific calendar orientation in the Gospels. And Yeah, so it would have been, according to the system I'm using here and relying on, the crucifixion would have been, I think, in the spring of AD 30, right? So let me just double check Yes. So we're about a year away. I think we just had reference to The Passover in an earlier lesson. So that would have been the next to last, the one right before the crucifixion. Okay. But that's a good point, Ann. I haven't highlighted a lot that beneath each one you see references to the where and when. Neither of those, by the way, is inspired. But I think you will find them helpful. Okay, so you've got the problem here. He's trying to get away, spend some time with his disciples. And yet uh he can't escape notice. That's one of the problems, you know. I don't know if you've noticed that. Whenever you do miracles, people follow you. Um and so it's understandable why he's he's got this problem, but even this far away. Um passed the public is really the study that showed me how mobbed he was. I mean not by those who want to kill him, not by those who want it that and use him for healing. And and the cause that I can come to is like Yeah, it's probably a mix the crowd you see references in things we've been already reading to the crowds, the multitudes, right? People pressing in and so on. And it's probably some combination of people who obviously are themselves needing uh some kind of miracle or they're bringing someone who who does. And where they are in their their faith and trust in him, we don't know in most cases. Um but also people who are just, like you said, paparazzi, just following along because of the spectacle of it all. Um and it's the god is completely iconic And it there's probably also people who genuinely are seeing that this must be the Christ. And there's probably a wide range of of people who are in those crowds. Yeah. Okay. We don't know uh how much of a crowd there is here in the region of Tyre and Sidon, but he couldn't escape notice. Okay, so section 86, the blended account here, again, picking up with Matthew and Mark. But after hearing of him, a Canaanite woman from that region immediately came out and fell at his feet, and began crying to cry out, saying, Have mercy on me, Lord, son of David. Which would be interesting because she's a Gentile, right? My little daughter is cruelly demon-possessed. Now the woman was a Gentile of a Syrophoenician race, and she kept asking him to cast out the demon out of her daughter. But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and implored him, saying, Send her away, because she keeps shouting at us. But he answered and said Presumably to her, let the children be satisfied first, for I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But she came and began to bow down before him, saying, Lord, help me. And he answered and said, it's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. But she answered and said, Yes, Lord. But even the dogs under the table feed on the children's crumbs, which fall from the master's table. Then Jesus said to her, O woman, your faith is great Because of this answer, it shall be done for you as you wish. Go. The demon has gone out of your daughter, and her daughter was healed at once. And going back to her home, she found the child lying on the bed, the demon having left. So Multiple insights here concerning Christ's heart Concerning the the issue of uh faith. What have we been seeing throughout here? Um Jesus commends those who demonstrate that they have faith. It doesn't need to be great, but often he commends them as that's great faith Um and then he he uh um admonishes really those Who don't have faith, who aren't getting it, including his own disciples. We're going to see more of that today. And so there's a um A bit of an irony here that on several occasions we see that those with great faith are not even Jews. Mm-hmm. Yeah, she was shocked. Um That's interesting. But we also see Jesus' heart here, his compassion, but also his response to faith. But I have to chuckle a little bit in the early going here, he wasn't really interested. You know, e even though he's compassionate, he his initial response was let the children be satisfied first. So I was um Like he pretended to walk further with the two uh disciples in the man, and then when he's on the boat, he pretended he's gonna attach the boat Possibly. Possibly. But remember the context here, he was trying to get away from all this for a while and spend some time with his disciples. And yet this was compelling. She was compelling. Um the faith was compelling and is compassion kicked in from a human perspective. Could could you say that this was a incidental hypo Dialogue and encounter, whereas the woman at the well it was deliberate was That's a good contrast. Yeah, he was more strategic with with the woman at the well. Here it it just happened He didn't um he didn't plan or anything. He was reacting to the need. Well you've got that scripture in John. He says all that the Father gives me to do I think this Yeah, yeah, you you see here though both, I think, some of the humanity of Christ, but also the deity of Christ. Coming and uh found it interesting that um Jesus referred to the Jews as children and to the Gentiles as dogs in this story because late many of the Jews just called them Gentile dogs Yeah, yeah, whether he meant I I um I I'm not sure he meant it to be derogatory, but clearly he meant it to be um Wha where was his priority? His priority was with Israel um and the Jews, but then Maybe she should have asked, well then why are you up here? Can I just point out that um I've heard Some so-called theologian who's used that passage there to claim somehow that Jesus or somewhat racist in calling the woman and referring to her as a dog. But I think like you pointed out, Pastor Flambe, he really wasn't calling her. That was more of an error An analogy analogy thing that if you were looking to um those one of our children see what it's necessary but he wasn't calling her at all. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and in fact, uh he he commended her. Right? So Okay also pointed out it's a question of priorities. Remember the gospel's for the Jew first and then for the Greek. This is a this is a good Right, right. Um definitely um a lesson in priorities. Was this what was this also Where is your faith in that either heal or faith and believing him for salvation? Um I think the faith he was commending was not just faith that he could heal, obviously She believed that, that's why she came to him. But I think he was commending her her persistence. And um that notwithstanding the priority of of focusing on uh The nation of Israel, that there ought to be some benefit blessing to the rest of the world of God's uh blessing the nation of Israel. And that's that in fact has always been God's God's um That was a plan. Yeah. All the all the n all the nations of the world will be blessed through you. Yeah. So even if this isn't it isn't the rock story station, but her she took it because her knee was great I think he went to the phone. Yeah, well I think she I think he'd be just using the vernacular he calls her well he calls them dogs. That's just what he says. But her deed is greater than hearing death. Are you calling me a duck? No, she's she's not a referred to you as a touchy back then. Well he's you're not touchy now. He's not touchy. I'm I'm touchy. He's not he's not addressing her as a dog. He's saying here's an illustration. You know, there are priorities. The food goes to the children, not to the dogs. That's just uh And um he could use an uh any of a number of different illustrations. And she understood the the priority, the difference of priorities, but she said, yeah, but Sure. And so um I'm I'm it to use your analogy, I'm very happy to pick up the crumbs. So yeah, I wouldn't I wouldn't read more into it than that really. Yes ma'am Um, so I notice uh Jesus in these passages not only commends faith and admonishes People for their lack of faith for the also test faith, like in the feeding of the five thousand, he says, you know I think it was so that you feed them, you know, you give these people food. So in this situation, is it possible that Jesus you know, in his deity knew how this woman was going to respond, but was using her or testing her as a demonstration to his disciples of faith and the persistence of faith um in in the way that he kept seeming like he was trying to send her away, but really was using her face as an example of persistence and believe. It could very well be. I was just looking for any clues to that effect here, but it doesn't really matter. It could be that he knew this would be a great example um to his disciples. Um yeah. Okay. Well we need to keep we've got a lot to cover here today. Let's keep going. Sections 87. Again, we're continuing with Matthew and Mark Departing from there, Jesus went out from the region of Tyre and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee. So he's coming south and east. within the region of the Decapolis. Now the Decapolis was largely on the east side, the other side of the Sea of Galilee And having gone up on the mountain, he was sitting there, and they brought to him one who was deaf and spoke with difficulty, and they implored him to lay his hand on him And when it says they brought him, I'm assuming it's the people there. It wasn't the disciples who brought him. Jesus took him aside from the crowd by himself and put his fingers. into his ears. I think Jesus' fingers into the man's ears. And after spitting he touched his tongue with the saliva. Now that would go really well with modern uh medical uh standards, right? Tonight. And looking up to heaven with a deep sigh, he said to him, Epapha, that is, be opened And his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was removed, and he began speaking plainly. And he gave them orders not to tell anyone But the more he ordered them, the more widely they continued to proclaim it. They were utterly astonished, saying, He has done all things well. He makes even the deaf to hear, and the mute. to speak. So um the the capitalists, uh these people also were predominantly Not Jews. There were probably some Jews living in that area, but predominantly non-Jewish again. So he wasn't in the the heart of Israel for sure. And yet his reputation precedes him, and people bring their needy to him. So he continued to respond to needs out of his compassion. He may have As Victoria was suggesting earlier, he may have been thinking again this would be useful in his training of the twelve, but This is still not allowing him to spend much time alone with his disciples. So it's interesting, maybe you've noticed that, and we're going to see a little bit more later, how his method of healing was not always the same. Sometimes it was just a word, sometimes he he involved touch and and saliva, right? Who knows uh all the the reasons for that, but um uh It just, I think, underscores the fact that that these were genuine healings and there was nothing canned about them. They're all unique and immediate. Pastor Allen, it it seems like it's important for Jesus to have taken his disciples to a a non uh predominantly Jewish area so that they could maybe learn some engagement skills with in an environment of just other other people, whether they had a corrupt Jewish faith or they were purely Gentiles. But it it seems like a precursor to the birth of the church and then the expansion into other parts of the world. Yeah, that's that's a good point, Kirk. That um the more the more they're exposed to the idea of uh the message of Christ going out beyond um Israel, the better off things would be. But of course, when we get to the book of Acts, um even though he told them to start in Jerusalem and and move out from there to the remotest part of the earth, uh it still came as a bit of a surprise that the gospel was to be offered to uh Gentiles as well. This um the last um session on this one is It seems to me that while these occasions would be just healed, they didn't seem like a feeling Plan them ahead of time. They just sort of interrupted the flow of the strategic industry planned. But we seem to take the time To express those concerns, speaking to his care of the individual put in the distance of the big picture of what he can do. I think that that just brings out so clearly he care Deep and in this particular case it talks about enrolling epic, you know, standard state process for some just unmistakable. I mean, we did Yes, yes, he certainly did. Um it w it was it was a personal um interaction with the person who was being healed in pretty much all these cases. And even when he was touched By the woman, you remember? Um if only I touched the hem of his garment and she was in fact healed. He had to Make that contact even later to find out who um who would touch them. So Yeah, the fact that he personalized this and was his compassion was personal, not generic. Makes it all the much harder when he's in a crowd and they're all screaming for for attention and so on. It just from a human perspective that would be draining And um so in fact he did um get very tired and um Even attempts to rest and be alone with his disciples was not exactly always the way he planned. Okay. Okay, so then again, sticking with Matthew and Mark, we go to section 88, the feeding of the 4,000. And in those days, when large crowds came to him again, bringing with them those who were lame, and crippled, and blind, and mute, and many others. And they laid them down at his feet, and he healed them. So the crowd marvelled as they saw the mute speaking, the crippled restored, and the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel. And they had nothing to eat. And Jesus called his disciples to him and said to them, I feel compassion for the people. Because they have remained with me now for three days and have nothing to eat. And I do not want to send them away hungry to their homes, for they might faint on the way. And some of them have come from a great distance. The disciples answered him, Where would we get so many loaves of bread in this desolate place to satisfy such a large crowd? And Jesus said to them, how many loaves do you have? And they said, seven. Now, what do we know about that seven? It's more than the five they had for five thousand. Right? Seven and a few small fish. And he directed the people to sit down on the ground. And he took the seven loaves and giving thanks, he broke them and started giving them to the disciples to serve them. And the disciples served them to the people They also had a few small fish, and after he had blessed them, he ordered these to be served as well. And they all ate and were satisfied, and they picked up what was left over of the broken pieces in seven large baskets full, one for each of the original loaves. And those who ate there were about 4,000 men, besides the women and children. Now, when we read that, what's our first response? Didn't they get it before? You know, with the five thousand? The disciples. Yeah. Yeah. What was that? Uh he he goes into more ex explanation as to uh more than he did with the five thousand in testing on but this is also a test but it's uh doesn't use the word the um I'm just trying to see their work and they experience this situation again and they still don't get it so uh exist for them afterwards We're gonna get there. We're gonna get there. Yeah. We're gonna pick up on that in section 90 here. But it seems interesting that there's a smaller crowd and there's more bread. So if Christ could do it the first time, why can't he do it the second time? I would imagine Christ is Hoping? I don't know, does Christ hope? He's hoping that his disciples would show more faith at this point. But nonetheless, he goes through it and it has much the same effect as the feeding of the 5,000 Okay, so we're going to pick up on that again in section 90. But before we get there, in section 89 Jesus rebukes the Pharisees who ask again for a sign. And sending away the crowds, which he could do now because they're filled, Jesus immediately got into the boat with his disciples. Remember after the feeding of the 5,000, he sent them away in the boat and he stayed up and prayed on the mountain, right? But this time he immediately got into the boat with his disciples and came to the region of Magadon, or Dalmanutha. which was apparently on the western side, the Israel side of the Sea of Galilee. And the Pharisees and the Sadducees came up and began to argue with Jesus, testing him, and they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. But sighing deeply in his spirit, he replied to them, When it is evening, you say it will be fair weather, for the sky is red. And in the morning there will be a storm today, for the sky is red and threatening. Do you know how to discern the appearance of the sky, but cannot discern the signs of their times? Truly I say to you, an evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign. And a sign will not be given to this generation except the sign of Jonah. And he left them and went away. Now there's no indication here that he explained to them what he meant by the sign of Jonah which he did provide at a later uh instance. Um section 115, we'll get there. But the sign of Jonah was was just like Jonah was in the belly of the great fish for three days, so the Son of Man will be in the heart of the earth for three days. So is this thinking at this uh a continuous prove yourself, prove yourself or you can get um would be tricky to be old. Yeah. I I'm you know, it doesn't necessarily say whether these Pharisees and Sadducees um had been around at his earlier um miracles. I'm guessing that maybe they were not, and they were maybe this was their first time to actually see him in action and said, you know, we've heard about your stuff now, show us. We want to we want to have some confirmation of your of your powers as well and um uh Jesus, of course, was not impressed. And you see here again the contrast between Jewish officialdom here and say the Syrophoenician woman up in up in uh The northern parts and um This is a rather continual thing, not necessarily the same people, but uh official Judaism for the most part not entirely, but for the most part was feeling threatened which they should have been feeling threatened, but um the the threat to them is the exposure of their their interpretation and application of the law as being shallow, superficial, and off the mark. And I think most of them understood that was the implication here is this guy was true. And He didn't coddle them at all. He says, um, you're looking for a sign? Um, even if you had a sign. You know, as as he he told that that um that story of uh Lazarus and uh the rich man and they both went to they both died and And the rich man was saying, Please um send somebody from the dead to testify to my relatives, right? And Jesus said or Abraham said to him, No, they've got they've got the word, they've got the law, they've got um God's revelation and uh they're not going to believe someone even if they rise from the dead. And that was true when Jesus was revolved Yeah. So there's hardened hearts and there are hearts that God has prepared to receive the truth. What what would you say characterized in these situations to believers who for reasons but just consistently did not believe and then you have these People who if that knows, you know, most of them I don't think were significant people in society, then they believe what is it Well it's it's um the the the question is why i is there any one reason why uh Jewish leaders, people in positions of of responsibility, authority, and so on are not believing, but the simple folk are. Well, I I think there is a lesson there that the trappings of position and authority and maybe even wealth tend to uh blind our eyes and our hearts and the people who are are at the lowest um layer of society realize that you know they've got no prospects and so on. There's there's a humbling uh among those people, whereas those who are in positions of authority and power and and uh position Tend uh to not have any needs and they're not humble. They're proud. Um so More to lose but uh I have a testimony that even though I wasn't rich or I was very worried, I felt threatened by Christ I felt threatened that he would change my life. And some people that I've witnessed to are threatened by that. They don't want to change. They want to remain in this city and they feel threatened by him. So like the Pharisees were their position in riches, he's a threat. Yeah. So a threat, and that gets also to pride and self-sufficiency, um not a humility that would lead them to um come to him on bended knee. in the Old Testament that went out and found the squirrels after some beech that they really had absolutely nothing to lose by going out there and seeing what was going on. And then they found the loot and they brought it back. And it's it's really an amazing analogy when you get to a point where you have nothing to that wouldn't be with us. Yeah. Yeah, it is it says something about human nature that um that we often wait until we've got nothing to lose. But um God often brings people to the point where they're humbled and they're uh um they're in such a uh a down position in life before their eyes are opened and they're willing to submit. Um so that makes it harder probably for a lot of people. But God in the sovereignty brings them through that. Yeah. One one way the translators could have uh translated the scripture is to put about ten exclamation points after what Jesus said, except the sign of Jonah. Because that was his greatest miracle that impacts the entire our world was to rise from from the dead. Rise from the dead. Yeah. So it's it's almost said a little bit um in a enigmatic way But he was he was pointing to his greatest miracle and he just stated it in such a soft way Yeah. Now that reminds me, there is another thing going on here, and we saw it in the uh the previous section as well where he told people not to tell anyone and and so on. So the other thing that's happening is he knows he's got another year before his Death, burial, and resurrection. And a lot of what he's doing is managing the calendar so that he doesn't prematurely get himself in hot water with the Jewish officials until the time has come. And we'll we're going to see that increasing as we go forward. But the more people, also the more people spread the news about him, the harder it is for him to walk from place to place without being inundated. Okay. Well, that brings us to section ninety. Page 119. Leaving them, he and the disciples again embarked and went away to the other side. You see how often they're just crisscrossing across the Sea of Galilee. Now they're going across to the eastern side again. And they had forgotten to take any bread and did not have any more than one loaf in the boat with them Still I think it's a greater percentage. One loaf for thirteen people than seven loaves with four thousand. I don't know. It's just a pita bread, yeah. Come on. And he was giving orders to them saying, Watch out, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees and the Leaven of Herod. And they began to discuss with one another the fact that they had no bread. He said that because we did not bring any bread, right? And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, You men of little faith, why do you discuss among yourselves the fact that you have no bread? Do you not see or understand? Do you have a hardened heart? Having eyes do you not see? And having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember when I broke the five loaves for the five thousand How many baskets full were broke of broken pieces you picked up? And they said, twelve? When I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets Full of broken pieces did you pick up? And they said to him, Seven. And he was saying to them, How is it that you do not understand that I did not speak to you concerning bread, but beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees. Then they understood that he did not say to beware of the leaven of bread, but the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. Um so um Two interesting uh tidbits here. You know, if someone were to suggest to you that the feeding of the 5,000 and the feeding of the 4,000 were really the same event but they were um somehow uh mangled in the manuscripts and and uh so on. Well This account ought to put that to rest. But they are separate events. He didn't think they were the same event. The disciples knew they weren't the same event. Is it possible to determine about how much right time there was between the first one and the and the second one? Yeah. Uh we had the feeding of the five thousand just a few weeks ago, right? The feeding of the five thousand I think was done at the beginning of it industry? Um I mean like in say a year or so. Yeah I think it was maybe later than that. No, no, no, not a week apart. I mean f in terms of our lessons and so on. But um the feeding of 5,000 was our section 79, and we're now um 90. So it wasn't all that long ago, page wise. What's also interesting is that the feeding of the 5,000 is one of the very few events It's the only miracle in all four gospels. It's the only miracle in all four of the Gospels and It's the only event at all prior to the Passion Week that's in all four Gospels. Meeting events happening within 12 months or something. I think so. You can double check the timing that I've suggested here, but yes, I think it's within a year. Two different places, although the places were close. Did the disciples ever try to replicate that specific type of miracle? Yeah. They did others, uh healing, you know. He he ch he taught that lesson twice as if, well, maybe you're gonna do this at a time of need. Yeah, I'm not aware in the book of Acts of anything like this. The other interesting thing here is the feeling of the 4,000 appears only in Matthew and Mark So Luke and John include only the 5,000, but uh they're all selective in what they include. Okay, that brings us to section ninety-one And this is only in the Gospel of Mark. And it's the second of only two passages that are unique only to Mark. Mark is rather short And except for these two passages, this being the second one, the first one being a parable, I think. This is the only one that's that's unique. And so there's no account here at the blend. I'll go ahead and read. And they came to Betheda, which is very close to where they were here And they brought a blind man to Jesus and implored him to touch him. Taking the blind man by the hand, he brought him out of the village. And after spitting on his eye and laying his hands on him, he asked him, Do you see anything? And he looked up and said, I see every I see men, for I see them like trees walking around. Then again he laid his hands on his eyes, and he looked intently and was restored, and began to see everything clearly. And he sent him to his home, saying, Do not even enter the village. So apparently he lived outside the village. It doesn't seem like this it was uh immediate restoration. He did it twice. I don't know we have a couple more sessions ago, so Yeah. Yeah I'm you you we can speculate as to why he did it in two steps. Obviously he didn't need to Um and it was with physical touching and so on. Um again, he seems to be looking for faith. And apparently he he saw glimpses of what he was looking for. Good. After we're done, my question is um what type of face pleases God. Oh my God instead. What type of faith pleases God? Well, faith The faith that takes God at His Word. That's pretty much the definition of faith. Taking God at His Word and acting accordingly. Um okay, section ninety-two. Here we got Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Now when Jesus came into the villages of the district of Caesarea Philippi along with his disciples, pause there, where is Caesarea Philippi? Northeast of if you're thinking of the Sea of Galilee, now they're going a fair distance northeast of there, still within the area of of Israel. Um but even today it's very much on the the the uh the outskirts the the the border. But what we know about Caesarea Philippi This is not the Caesarea on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. This is very much inland on the foot of Mount Hermon. Very high altitude, where a lot of the waters that feed the Jordan River and the Sea of Galilee come from. And what we know about that is it was like the Caesarea on the Mediterranean shore, it was built obviously in honor of Caesar. And also uh Harold Phillip, I guess. And it was uh kind of a Um a military town and a pagan worship kind of town. They had uh this sort of like what Paul ran into in much of of uh Europe and Athens and so on, just all these false gods and and everything. um because of the the the Roman influence there. But because of that combination of things the the idol worship, the the false gods, the military town. Wha w what happens in a military town? When guys are off work, they get into all sorts of you know, drunkenness and and um Censory. Debauchery and that kind of thing. And so that location was known for that. And any self-respecting Jew would steer clear of Caesarea Philippi Now, it doesn't actually say Jesus went to Caesarea Philippi. It says he went to a district, you know, that surrounding area. Why? Yeah, the Jews aren't going to follow him there, and the people who are there are not interested. Right? So he's finally got a place where he can be alone with his disciples. And not going into Caesarea Philippi, and by the way, I think that's one little quibble I have with um the chosen, it's using the set they have to show him in Caesarea Philippi. And I'm not so sure he ever went into Caesarea Philippi. It just says in the district, in that region. You know, I've always I've I've been wondering about this we get up to the mountain spray woman and I was wondering but you know, ultimately we think oh you're closer to the water But maybe it was because you know we knew no one's going to get that effort up up there, but maybe that's all That could be the s a similar sort of mindset just to be alone. Yeah. So anyway, um The district of Caesarea Philippi, along with his disciples, it happened that while he was praying alone, he was asking his disciples on the way: Who do the people say that the Son of Man is? And by now they must have learned that when he says Son of Man, he's referring to himself. And they said, well, some say John the Baptist, and others Elijah. But others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets of old, has risen again. And he continued by questioning them, but who do you say that I am? Simon Peter said to him, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah. Pause here. Bar-Jonah, Bar means son. Jonah, John, he's son of John. That's all that means. Because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my father who is in heaven. I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall have been loosed in heaven. Then he warned the disciples that they should tell no one about him, that he was the Christ. So um finally we get Peter uh hitting a bullseye. Right? And this is commendable. Jesus commends him. But he says, well, you know, you didn't just think this up. My Heavenly Father revealed that to you. And when he said, Upon this rock I will build my church, the rock here is a huge rock. And that huge rock is the affirmation that Jesus is the Christ, Son of the Living God. The name he gives Peter is a small stone. Not the same thing. But it's a play on words. That you, small stone, have have Come to see this this foundational truth that I am the Christ, the Son of the Living God. But again, he told them, you're right, but don't tell anybody why. He's still a year off. From his death, burial, and resurrection, and he's managing the calendar so that he doesn't prematurely Because he knows he needs to be sacrificed at the Passover. And that's a little less than a year away. Okay. Well, real quickly, let me wrap up here with section 93. Jesus foretells his rejection, death, and resurrection and challenges his disciples. From that time Jesus began to teach his disciples that he, the Son of Man, must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. And he was stating the matter plainly. Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, God forbid it, Lord, that this should ever happen to you. But turning around and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter in their presence and said, Get behind me, Satan. You are a stumbling block, for you're not, you are not setting your mind on God's interests. But on NAND. So here, very quickly, we don't know exactly how long. It may not have even been the same day, but Peter hit the bullseye and then he was off target completely. Right? Leave it to Peter. And he summoned the crowd with his disciples and said to them all, if anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save that is find it. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and lose or forfeit his soul? For what will a man give in exchange for his soul? For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him when he comes in his glory. and the glory of his father with his holy angels, and will then repay every man according to his deeds. And Jesus was saying to them, Truly I say to you, there are some of those who are standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom, the kingdom of God after it has come with power. So we're going to pick up on that um next week, I think. Um but Repeated times we're seeing Jesus prepare them for his death, burial, and resurrection. And sometimes it ex explicitly is saying they don't get it until it actually happened. And here it's clear that Peter wasn't getting it. And it's also clear that he wouldn't be getting it until uh God revealed the truth to him. He was just he was shooting from the hip here. He wasn't uh relying on um God's revelation. He bowled a strike and then he got a gutter bowl. That's pretty much the contrast to a home run and a strikeout. Yep. Yep. Well let's close in prayer.