So as you can see, if you go to I think it's actually page ninety-five, at least uh the online version that I have here, um, lesson fifteen, healing and parables So we finished a uh kind of a multi-week um uh look at you know the Sermon on the Mount. That was a a good time of discussion and now we're getting into a different section Where uh Jesus is traveling around Galilee with his disciples and ministering there. And uh also we see here Um his use of parables we're going to speak about that as well today. So with uh section fifty-six Jesus heals a centurion slave. What we usually do is we read the uh the blended account, so if you can see, you know, there it has you know Matthew 8, 5-13 and Luke 7, 1 to 10 You look beneath that, it says a blended account. We just have somebody read that. So uh as I was par participating in the Messiah last night, I want to save my voice a little bit. So uh Like you get some volunteers to read. Would somebody uh care to read the blended account for uh section fifty-six? Yeah, Joe Okay. This is a very interesting section. What I'm going to do as I go through, I'm going to talk about where the section is and people that we meet in the section will talk about those different things. Um in terms of where the section is, Capernaum, the word means city of Nahum and um from what I could gather We don't necessarily know that it was the prophet Nahum's um city, but that is what that name means. And then um it became Jesus' headquarters and um tradition has that it was Peter's home. So um A few things about Capernaum. And who do we meet in this section? We meet a centurion. And a centurion, well, maybe somebody might know, does anybody know um what a centurion w what it what it means and and uh Or maybe I just ideas. Something about a hundred. That's right. Yeah, he he's picked right up on that. Century. You know, we think of a hundred. It's a Roman a Roman uh soldier who uh commanded one hundred men and uh I was reading all these things about, you know, a legion is six thousand and it's divided into, you know th they had subcommanders and you know the centurion had one hundred men underneath him and and we'll see that as uh as this discussion goes on Um and it was interesting that the Jewish leaders so if you compare these two accounts, in the one account it looks like the centurion is there, but in the other account you find out that actually um uh the centurion sent some people to kind of bring a message to Jesus and he brought this message that that his His servant was was second to the point of death. And um those were the Jewish leaders. And it's interesting, usually Roman soldiers and Jewish leaders didn't get along, but In particular, these Jewish leaders thought enough of this centurion to bring a message to Jesus. And their assessment was, this guy is worthy of you paying attention to this request and uh and why was that? We see that in the passage. Why did why did they think he was particularly worthy of the church? He built the synagogue. Again, you know, this guy, Roman soldier, s it's nearly impossible that he would have been a Jew, and yet, you know, as a Gentile you know, had thought enough of the nation of Israel. You know, it even says in these in these if you compare the two passages that he loved Israel, that he spent his own money to build them a synagogue. And I'm sure that made him a very unusual Roman soldier. And um so it's um yeah that that was the thing you know he had provided out of his own funds and um So and and in all likelihood he was a he was a convert to Judaism. Um so uh we also hear about, not that we meet But we hear about his servant. And uh that was another thing. Usually if somebody had a servant and they were sick or they were at the point of death, it you know, it's like, oh maybe I'll just get another servant But but this centurion loved his servant and thought enough of him and was very concerned about him to the point where he had sent somebody to to reach out to Jesus to come and help. So obviously he loved his servant and um this is somebody, you know, that that he was concerned about. And um it's also interesting if you kinda compare the two passages in the one it says, you know, that he was um He was paralyzed and fearfully tormented. You see that in Matthew. And in Luke it says that he was sick and at at the point of death. And what do we know about Luke? What what uh what was his profession? He was a physician. So a lot of times you get little insights. You know, and and uh, you know, to us, you know, if somebody's paralyzed and fearfully tormented, you're like, Tormented by by what? You know, but Luke, you know, says he's sick and he was about to die, so it showed you that it was an urgent thing that the centurion, you know, sent, you know, this this uh this chief priest or whatever I mean the the leaders to to reach out to Jesus and say, quick, come, you know, help and uh you know, y i it was his uh urgency. But um so um the the other thing that's interesting I I I find a lot of times is where you see um Jesus commending people's faith, often you you'll see it's it's Gentiles. I think uh the you know the Syrophoenician woman, you know, the woman that understood what Jesus was saying and he recognizes her faith and in this case the centurion he says, you know Please come quickly, my servant, you know, is at the point of death. And then as he's approaching, he you know recognizes that had Jesus gone into the house, it would have made him ceremonially unclean because He's a Gentile and he's like, You don't need to come into my house. If you simply say the word, the s my servant will be healed. And Jesus recognizes the tremendous faith that that took You know, a lot of times, you know, people they felt like, oh, you gotta you gotta come here, you gotta put lay hands on them or or or do something, but he recognized in his position as somebody in authority, he recognizes Jesus' authority. You know, he's like, okay, I'm a man in authority. I ask people to do things, they do things, and you have authority and you can do this just by speaking the word And Jesus takes a moment to kind of sit tell everybody, This guy's got incredible faith. You know, I've never seen such faith and um and at that moment you know, he uh he does, you know, speak the word and and uh the the servant is healed. So um any questions or thoughts about this passage that I might have missed or Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yes. Yeah, yeah, that's an important insight. Thanks for for mentioning that. Yeah, and uh I think a lot of times as Jesus would kind of explain things, he would get like subtle digs, particularly to the uh the the leaders and the uh the The Pharisees, you know, you'd be like, Oh, you know, even in all of Israel I haven't seen such great faith and he's speaking about a Gentile. And you're like, you can just imagine So uh yeah, that's uh that's something that you see I think rather often. So any other thoughts? Right. Well sort of like um Israel thought, or a lot of um Jews thought if they were descendant of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that was it. I mean they were covered. So you're making it very clear that Yeah. And it's interesting that you'd say that, you know, because it's funny, they you know the elders they said, you know, this guy's worthy. Clearly they thought they themselves, by virtue of the fact of their birthright, that they were worthy. But he also is worthy because he did something nice for us, you know, he built us a synagogue. You know, it's just funny how they think. But uh, you know, and then Jesus kind of at the end, you know, is saying, you know, many are gonna come and they're gonna recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, but uh you know, these Sons of the kingdom will be cast in the outer darkness and yeah, it's like you can just imagine the uh reaction that that that statement made. But um okay. Yep. Yes. So we have a humility about it. Yeah. He understood compared to practice stuff, something. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Yeah, because I mean it's like you recognize pe yes, I have authority as my position, I can command people, but with respect to Christ, as you say I'm not worthy for you to come into my house because, you know, it makes you unclean and and you know, beyond that he recognized, you know, probably more so than most people, that Jesus had the ability to heal from afar. And uh that kind of took it to a new level, you know, in terms of the faith that he had. So, okay. All right. Well, it always amazes me, uh You know, Dr. Pumley, he just kinda glides through these things. Um Jeff always seems like, you know, kinda like I feel, you know, I don't know how I'm gonna get all this in today. So I'm gonna move on unless there's other questions, I'm gonna move on to the next section. Alright, so the next section, fifty-seven, Jesus raises a widow's son from the dead. We didn't need to blend this account because it's only in Luke So uh could I have a volunteer to read Lookie eleven to seventeen? Yes, Glen. Yeah that was It's in the in the Greek I think. So uh section uh so section fifty seven. So Where is this section? It says it's in Maine and the word means beauty. And uh the maps in the back of this uh in these notes are are great. You can kind of get a feel for, you know, kind of how Jesus was traveling around. It's a small town six miles southeast of Nazareth, where she's born, and twenty-five miles southwest of Capernaum. And uh so it took him a little while to kind of get from place to place Yeah they could probably cover that distance in a day. But um so who do we meet in this section? We'll meet a widow. This widow had lost her husband and now her only son had died. And a lot of times we might think Oh, that's very sad, but just try to imagine, you know, somebody in that situation. She was really in a desperate situation. I mean she had her husband had died and now she'd lost her her only son. And you know, the the chances of you know continual uh money coming into the house have been greatly reduced. So this is this is a really a uh a desperate situation that that um is is is there We see a crowd. These are uh mourners and I always find it interesting when you see um you know these At least in the Gospels, you know, sometimes you see people, you know, family members that are mourning, but they actually hired people to mourn and uh you know, they'd wail and cry and beat themselves and all that kind of thing. I I don't think that's what was going on here. I think the fact that it was a large or sizable crowd meant that this was somebody who was beloved in woman and her son. were probably very beloved in that community and there was just a large group of people people that had showed up to mourn his death. So um and This is the first time a resurrection from the dead is mentioned in Scripture. Luke 9, or sorry, Luke 722 might imply that others had been raised but weren't recorded But this is the first time I believe that um that a resurrection from the dead is recorded. But what we see as um as this passage goes on is Jesus' heart He saw the situation, he felt compassion. And what's interesting, did anybody ask him anything? It was this was completely unsolicited. You know, he He just sees the situation, he has compassion for the woman's desperate situation, and he acts. So he tells the woman not to weep, which, you know, she Like, my son dies and I'm gonna weep, but you know, he told her not to weep and then he raises her son from the dead. But it's interesting, you know, as the funeral procession is going on and Jesus walks up and tells her not to weep, it says that The procession just stops. And the thing is, you know, word of Jesus was kind of traveling around the community. A lot of people had heard the different things that he had done here and there. So, you know, I think they're probably wondering what's gonna happen, but you know, the fact that this funeral procession was heading to bury the son It's like they stopped and then then he says, Young man, I say to you arise just uh I'm sure they didn't expect him to be Rick raised from the dead and yet yet he was. And and uh you think they they'd be like, Yay it's like, no, they were filled with fear. Wha why were they filled with fear? Any thoughts on that? Right. It's like This is just not normal, yeah. But um it's uh it's interesting, you know, that their assessment is A great prophet has risen among us. And who were some of the uh the great prophets they might be kind of putting them on a par with, you know, is some of the uh yep Elijah. Elijah, yeah. Elijah, Elijah. They uh they both had been involved in in uh people being raised from the dead, and um so you know that's that's their assessment. And it's interesting, you know, at various points in G He asks his own disciples to travel with him every day. And um, you know, well first he asks them, Who do who do other people say that I am And it's kind of like this. You know, it's like, oh, maybe one of the prophets or or uh you know, some something a great teacher. You know, uh if you ask people today, you know, what do you think of Jesus, you know, they're they're willing to give you that, you know, that he was a great man He was a healer, you know, it's like, do you believe he was God? Oh no, I would not not believe that. But you know, they're willing to give him some pretty good marks, it's just they they're not willing to go that far. And yet Their assessment was a great prophet has risen among us, God has visited his people. So uh you know that was their assessment. But um I and I also I think I kind of mentioned this a little bit, but Um that Jesus acted, a lot of times people say, Oh, you have to have enough faith to be healed or I mean I don't know how you would have enough faith to be raised from the dead, but Um the uh the idea th this all happened without any reference to anybody's expression of faith, that Jesus he acted in compassion and raised this woman's son. So yeah. I think that that's that's worthy of note. So anything else in this section? Okay. All right. Then with that we'll move on to the uh the section I was telling Joe when we started. It took me a while to get through this when I was preparing. It's uh it's about John the Baptist and uh it's a very interesting character. And uh I I went for quite a while before I answered the one question that I had, and uh hopefully we'll have some good discussion about it. So uh John the Baptist question to Jesus. Let's see, did somebody uh No, it's a long account, but would somebody read the blended account for us on page ninety-seven? Very good. That's a nice long section filled with all kinds of uh detail that we can discuss. Um so I'll start off with Speaking about who's mentioned in this section, of course John the Baptist. That doesn't mean he wasn't Presbyterian or, you know, he's he his his his ministry is he um He was baptizing and he was doing that to prepare the nation of Israel for the coming Messiah. So and he uh interestingly enough was Jesus' cousin And uh it's very interesting we have detail in terms of, you know, when he uh is announced, you know, his dad uh has a hard time believing it and is struck dumb until he actually is born. So there's a lot of really interesting things. And what's something else that was special about um John the Baptist's birth? Maybe somebody can tell me that. Yep. Well it said that he was filled with a full spirit. Does that mean he was full of safe? That is a that is a good question I did not prepare for. Um but uh it is interesting. You know, it says that he he had he had the Holy Spirit in him. And um one way that we see that is um when Mary came to visit, and uh she just heard Mary's greeting John the Baptist, you know, did some calisthenics or something and and uh you know it was uh so that was an indication of this spirit filling. But he's certainly a unique individual, um and he understood his role. In the beginning, he was fulfilling the prophecy in the Old Testament of of the forerunner who would come before Christ. And He also recognized, you know, his ministry at some point would necessarily decrease, you know, and that Jesus' ministry would increase So um he understood that role well, although it confused them when Jesus came and and submitted himself to that baptism. He was like, you don't need to be baptized, you know. But But Jesus told him we we sh need to do this. This is all part of the plan. So um in any case, um but I'll uh maybe I'll take that question under advisement uh point us about whether he was that made meant he was a believer. I uh you know, it's like you you think you got every question answered and can and it you know, it's like it's just He was named John, yes? And and that yeah, that was that was the moment that his his father could start speaking again is when he was like, What do you mean the family saying John? So yeah yeah, it's a good insight Um let me put down here so I don't forget. Question. John And his parents are very old. That is true. Yeah, needed some help with child care. Spoken like a mother, I can tell you. Let's see. Alright. So um so what do we see in this section? What what's going on with John the Baptist? He's belt. He's what? He he's out? Doubt doubt doubting the moment of whether it is. I think the bigger point I was gonna get at is where is he? Okay. He's in prison. Okay. So he knew his ministry was gonna be decreasing. He didn't know he was gonna wind up in prison. So uh yes, he starts to doubt And uh that is something that uh we struggle with from time to time, isn't it? You know, if if you're a believer and you feel like, oh, my life is going well and all of a sudden you lose your job and you're like, God, I thought you were gonna take care of me, you know, and you start having these feelings, you know, which which are natural. You know, when we uh we go through kind of ebbs and flows in our life, you know, with the strength of our faith and yet you know John is in a a really uh difficult situation. I was reading about this prison. It was kind of near the desert close to the Dead Sea. So being in prison's bad enough, but and no doubt it was hot and dry and and uh, you know, he was He was not having his best life as as some would say. But he uh you know, I I often think of that. You know, John is described as, you know, up to that point, you know, the greatest person who'd lived, and he uh he had followed to the T everything that God had asked of him, you know, living out in the desert, wearing uncomfortable clothing, you know, announcing this is this is what's coming and You know, uh what got him that's the in other interesting thing is what got him thrown in prison was kind of raising a righteous standard you know, Herod had um had been married and then decided he liked his his brother's wife better So he got rid of his wife and married his sister I mean his brother's wife. And John had the p the poor uh uh taste of s saying, Oh, he really shouldn't do that and uh Harris took exception to that. and had him thrown in prison. And as he was um being thrown in prison, Herod had enough sense to say, Okay, I can put him in prison but, you know I I'm not gonna kill him because he's very popular with the people. So that was kinda how he found himself in that situation and I often think of of Joseph, you know, the young Joseph as he's you know, in Pharaoh's court, you know, doing or sorry, working for Potiphar, and Mrs. Potiphar, you know, kind of takes a liking to him. You know, again, you know, resisting all these temptations, doing exactly what he should do, she makes this false accusation against them and he's thrown in prison. And he's like I I did what I was supposed to. And so that kind of shows us kind of extreme examples, but sometimes when you do what God wants us to, does it always mean you're gonna have clear sailing and sunshine every day and you know that sometimes we'll have difficulties and sometimes related to obedience to God, you know, that we we suffer, whether it's loss of a job or, you know difficulties with family members. Um sometimes that is directly related to you know our obedience, you know, doing doing what God wants us to, and yet, you know, he honors that You know, and it's just I think John the Baptist is kind of an e uh a uh a significant example of somebody who did what God wanted them to and, you know, wound up in in this bad situation. Um and yet, you know, it's it's one of these things that he goes through this this time of doubt and he sends someone to ask a a question and that that kind of shows you, you know, that while Herod didn't appreciate, you know John intervening on his marital situation, um, he allowed his disciples to come visit him and to carry a message And um so it's interesting what we uh what what the nature of the question is. Um you know John was was like most Jews, you know, he believed And in fact, part of his message was he was saying when Jesus comes, he's going to bring judgment. That was part of his message. And was Jesus bringing judgment at that time? No, he wasn't. And um so he started getting confused. He was thinking, wait a minute, you know, I I thought that this is what was gonna happen, that you would come, you would kind of set everything in order and you bring in this kingdom. And so if you look at prophecies in the Old Testament, they have, you know, kind of the first coming of of Jesus and the second coming of Jesus and you know, it's it's confusing. The prophets a lot of times when they're writing things, they didn't always understand everything that they were writing, but God told them to write it, so they just wrote it And um so they kind of were trying to piece things together and John the Baptist was kind of in that in that boat as well that he uh he was trying to understand what the situation was and he was thinking, you know, have what I was my ministry up to this point, was I was I mistaken? You know, and he wonders, should we be looking for someone else? So So that's one reason that uh he started to doubt is that is that that he was in prison. And um a second one is at that time they had incomplete revelation So as Jesus was walking the earth they had the Old Testament and um after his death and the uh the New Testament was put together and then Around eighty, ninety or so, um, the the revelation was complete. But up to that point, you know, the um even the prophets You know, they they it says in First Peter um one, ten to eleven that they spent time trying to understand, you know, kind of how all these things fit together. So All right. And uh he had uh also um unfulfilled expectations. You know, he uh he he thought in Matthew three, eleven through twelve, you know has some of the words that he uses in terms of the judgment that's coming. And John had been talking about, you know, how he's gonna come with a win-wing fork in his hand and and all of those things were true, but just not yet So uh that's um that is uh that's another aspect of what caused him to to uh to doubt and wonder. So Um so John's disciples, we we hear about his disciples that come to him, and Jesus takes the time to explain to the crowd about the role of John the Baptist He used to be a messenger to prepare the way for Jesus' ministry. See that in Isaiah forty, verse three, Malachi three one, and also Malachi four five. And um and it it it says that you know, Jesus takes the time to say, you know, John, he was the greatest of all up to that point, you know, but the interesting thing, he says, yeah, the very least in the kingdom will be greater than he and that's what I spent a lot of time I was telling Joe. had all my commentaries. I couldn't make any sense out of that. You know, it's like I mean I see, you know, John as a very obedient you know, follower of of of God and doing exactly what he was expected to. And um so uh you know, why would he be said to be least So does anybody have any thoughts on why that might be like why that statement? What does it I don't know if anybody ever thought of it, but it was one of those things that it always bothered me but then it was like, Why have I never studied that out? Yeah. Yeah. I uh of course one thought that had crossed my mind is, you know, what's different between us I mean, John the Baptist is an old testament And one thing that's different about us is we have the Holy Spirit, but then it's like, well, so did he. So uh yeah, uh it's it's mentioned in Joe, you know, I was looking through all these commentaries and of course This passage is based on both Matthew and Luke, and um you know I have the MacArthur the big commentary set, and it's funny, I went all the way through Matthew and he doesn't even address it. You know, so I I I looked through Luke and he had some some things in there, but there's a uh book that that he put out. It's called One Perfect Life and it's a harmony of the gospel. Um I would recommend that book. There's another book I like, um, it's by Dwight Pentecost called The Words and Works of Jesus Christ. I think that's what it is. But that also it's effectively uh harmony of the gospel. I've always gotten a lot of help from that book. And uh but in one perfect life, incredibly, you know, you have these commentaries and say all kinds of stuff, but it there's a footnote in one perfect light. I'll read that here. Let's see. Um it says Jesus was greater than the Old Testament prophets sorry. John was greater than the Old Testament prophets because He actually saw with his eyes and personally participated in the fulfillment of what they only prophesied. Again, going back to first Peter one But all believers after the cross are greater still because they participate in the full understanding and experience of something that John only foresaw in shadowy form the actual atoning work of Christ. So I thought, well, that's an answer. It I I might ask uh Dr. Pomy next week if if uh he has any any further thoughts on that. But um anyway, that was a stumper for me, so I didn't know. Any other thoughts on that or yep. Then you found it's something I hadn't prepared for. But um Uh it says from the days of John the Baptist until now, kingdom of heaven suffers violence and violent men take it by force for all The prophets and laws I'm sorry, all the all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. I am not clear on what that phrase means Anybody have any thoughts? Yeah. That's that's a good uh a good theory, but I would like to I we'll weigh up that next week. I I'm good I'm full of a lot of good heresy. Yes, yes. But I appreciate that that difficult question, Gwynnis. That's uh that's two for you. So I appreciate it. But we will uh he has the inspired MacArthur study notes here. So this is an interesting footnote here. Is that the study note in Matthew? But then it or or Luke? Matthew. Matthew. Okay, thank you. I will check that as well. Okay. Was there another question? Yeah, yeah, that was all about being relentless. Okay. Um oh so I guess the other thing we need to to talk about. I think it's interesting you know, at the end, you know it has this conversation You know, where Jesus says, What do I you know, who do I compare this generation? It's like children, you know, in the in the marketplaces. And it's interesting, I mean, so often You know, as you live your life faithfully as a believer, people will misunderstand what you say, what you do, how you raise your kids, you know, um what job you take, you know, and regardless of you know you might be strict this way or not strict that way, but people will will judge you. In this case, you know, they're judging either John the Baptist They're saying, uh well I like it. It says we played with the flute flute for you, you didn't dance, we sang a dirge, you didn't mourn, you know, and um You know, they uh uh because John the Baptist had a uh a strict diet, he was he was following e essentially like Nazarite kind of things in terms of didn't drink anything came from a grave or you know just and they said uh oh he has a demon you know that's what we think of him And then they see Jesus who you came eating and drinking and they say, Oh, you know, a gluttonous man and a drunkard uh a drunkard, friend of tax collectors and sinners, you know, so you know, th that's the thing there's a lot of times, you know, whether you do this or don't do that, there's freedom in in in the uh in in the life of a of a Christian and yet you know some people will judge you based on you know, h whatever you do or don't do. And uh, you know, if somebody can show you you sin from scripture then that that's one thing, but a lot of times we'll people will will judge you for other things. So and I like it how it finishes off. It says, Wisdom is vindicated by all her children, or Matthew says by vindicated by her deeds. So um so that's how that section rounds out. Any other questions from that section? The uh I guess the only thing I would add to that is I think that showed Jesus' love for his cousin, you know, that Yes, you're doubting, but and then he just kind of says, Okay, I'm going to do all these things for your benefit. You know, I'll do all these things and your disciples will head back and tell you Well those happened. And you know, so we still must be on track, you know. But uh yeah, interesting. So okay, let's move on to the next section I mentioned that was gonna be a action packed one for sure. So let's see section fifty nine. Jesus' feet are anointed by a simple woman, sparable of the two debtors. So we're going to uh get into a section now where Jesus starts using parables and um I could have somebody read the blended well I guess again this is only in Luke so Luke thirty six to fifty seven sorry chapter seven thirty six to fifty A volunteer? Yes, Adam. So the people that we meet in this section, there's a Pharisee and he gives us his name, Simon. He invited them to dinner. And then we meet a woman who is described as a sinner, and she heard that Jesus was going to be there and brought an alabaster jar of ointment. In all likelihood, um people had such things to prepare um for their own death, you know, their body could be anointed with this this um ointment and uh it was something of great value. So in this uh again, as I mentioned, in this section we see Jesus' use of parables. There's uh two words para which means alongside and bole which means to throw. So it's You have to throw alongside. Um I think a lot of people misunderstand Jesus' use of parables. They think, oh, you know, it's And while that is True to an extent. There's another aspect where it was um at at some point Jesus made an offer of the kingdom to Israel, they rejected it, they rejected it, and finally He was like, you know what? From this point on, I'm going to speak to you in parables, which in a lot of ways made the truth more difficult to understand. It was a judgment And um but I don't think this this parable is in that category. I think everybody seemed to understand exactly what it meant. Um so um let's see. Yep, yes, obviously the the the Pharisee And uh and the woman um I mean everybody understood what it what it meant. Um what what's interesting, you know, it describes this woman as a sinner and uh one little insight I thought was pretty good. Um It says, you know, that she was weeping and she wiped his feet with her hair. And that implied that her hair wasn't bound up, it was loose, which Mike told you by Kano Sinna that she was. You know, and uh And yet um it's it's a wonderful picture. You know, here you have the two main characters and you know this this uh chersee Simon says if Jesus really was a prophet He'd know what kind of woman this this was, who's doing this to him. And Jesus takes that moment and says, You know, Simon, I have something to say to you and say, Oh, let's Let's hear it. Say it, teacher. And uh yeah. And then he gets a uh very pointed uh you know, this this two debtors, one owed five hundred denarii Denarii. Anybody know um what what a denarii equaled to? A day or a a day's wages. Yeah. A a denarii was what you would be earning in a day. So five hundred NRI is over a year's wages, you know, a year and a third or so. Um quite a lot of money. In any case, so one debtor owed five hundred and the other owed It it it's a lesser amount, I know that. Fifty, thank you. Okay. I'm looking at why don't I see it? Yeah. It's just a fraction of that. And his point is, you know, when somebody forgave them that His point was one of them is going to be more thankful, more appreciative of this this and and he asked Simon, which one do you think would love him more That's why I suppose the one who he forgave more, which, you know, like, duh, you know, um, definitely would appreciate that more. He says, You've judged correctly. And then he gets into application mode and then he says, Um, do you see this woman? And it was customary when he went into somebody's house to say They had a servant, perhaps they would wash your feet 'cause as you walked around these these streets there they would get dirty. And his point was, this woman, you know She has not ceased to wash my feet, you know, since I came in. This is something as a host that you didn't provide. You you gave me no kiss, but since I came in, you know, she's not s ceased to kiss my feet And um says, You didn't anoint my head with oil. Again, probably was a customary thing, but he says she's anointed my feet with perfume. And then he says, Her sins, which are many, have been forgiven So, you know, she's known as a as a sinner and this act of it really worship, it was something that was an indication You know, she recognized who he was and she came to him and he just in a statement says, you know, her sins have been forgiven. And then he says to her, Your sins have been forgiven, your faith has saved you. Go in peace. So uh yeah, that's uh you don't really see how Simon responded that, but again, it's funny, the people at the table, who probably were very much like Simon When he said, Your sins have been forgiven, they were like, who is this man who thinks you can even forgive sins? So it's like you could see whose heart was changed you this woman that was a sinner and you just showing adoration to to Jesus and yet you still have people who witness this and hear this You know, it's like, who doesn't think he is? You know, and uh it's very interesting. But any other comments about that? I thought that was yep Yeah, it's interesting as you see how Jesus interacts with people. You sometimes he tells somebody, Go show yourself to the priest, another person Don't say anything to anybody, you know, and yet what do they often do? You know, and then he gets all the wrong uh kind of press, so Okay. Um so we're getting but there are not other any other questions? I'll move on. Uh it's it's kind of interesting. A lot of times when people come to Jesus they think they're being magnanimous, you know. It's like when they say Should I forgive somebody you know this much? He's like, you know, try twice that or or you know multiple times that, you know, and it's like, I thought I was being generous, you know. Funny how Yeah, usually when people make these statements, it's like he gives them a quick correction. So there's a very short section, sixty. Um And maybe I'll just read that passage on the interest of time here. Um it says that in this section he goes through various cities and villages in Galilee. Soon afterward he began going around from one city and village to another, proclaiming and preaching the kingdom of God, the twelve were with him. And also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and sicknesses. Mary was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out. and Joanna, the wife of Tuza, Herod Stewart, and Susanna, and many others who were contributing to their support out of their private means. Uh one comes there's reading was hypothesizing that Mary Magdalene was this woman, but to me that wouldn't make any sense because In the very next few verses, it refers to Mary Magdalene as somebody who had seven demons cast out of her. So we don't know who that that woman who's described as a sinner was, but um I'm thinking it probably wasn't Mary Magdalene. So um but beyond that, you know, it just uh this this describes a second tour. So he would go from place to place. This is kind of his second time through. Any other thoughts on that that section? Oh, and it uh it mentions um these these people. It talks about how they contributed to the support of Jesus and his disciples out of their private means. So that's kind of interesting. What else is unique about uh Mary Magdalene since she's mentioned? But uh what's particular that we find out about Mary Magdalene uh something that was amazing and wonderful that happened to her. She was one of the first to see the resurrected Christ. So Yeah, and and that's the thing, a lot a lot of times, you know, people they kinda question the authenticity of the Bible. And it's like, well, if somebody was making these things up, they certainly wouldn't have, you know, kind of a group of women being the first to to see the resurrected Christ, but that's what happened. And uh they were faithful, they supported his ministry, they were there, you know, I'm not entirely sure why, you know, he was in the tomb, but they were there just to be near him and um so Okay. Now on to unless there's anything else, the parable of the sewer. And what I'm hoping is that you have five minutes left I know, I can see, yeah. Thank you. Um the the the beautiful thing about the parable of the sower is About a month ago we had somebody preach on that. So there shouldn't be any questions. Um what did we learn that week? We learned there were four soils. What did they represent? The hearts, yes, the hearts. And out of those four soils, how many uh represented people that had unbelieving hearts? Three. Three. She almost got all the answers. Um very good. That's right. In that fourth soil Yeah, had three uh fruit bearing yeah, I guess you could look at it that way. So uh yeah, that was the significant part is four soils, three represented hearts that indicated unbelief and one that had true faith. Um I also like in this passage where it talks about he who has ears to hear, let him hear. It's like uh most people have ears but uh do you have ears that hear And um so the idea is, you know, you have ears, let's use them. And uh so um also in Mark 4, um he starts with Listen to this. And uh I always think that's great. Mark is a a writer of action. You know, you see immediately. And uh, you know, so it kind of kinda g uh you when you read Mark you get excited maybe. So um and I imagine that got their attention. Um so Jesus' disciples at that point asked him Why does he speak in parables? And in particular, when he gets done the parable of the sower, they wanted to know what did it mean? And uh, you know, a lot of times you know, Jesus would ask his disciples, Do you understand what I've said? and they were like, Oh yeah And and then it was clear they didn't and and often you know, it's like I I remember them going across the uh the the Sea of Galilee and he's like, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. They're like, It's because we don't have bread It's like No, no, no, no. Yeah, so uh but uh that's the nice thing is you can sometimes see yourself, you know, it's like I would be one of those guys. So uh yeah, let's move on to the next one there. So uh again we should feel encouraged um to ask questions, you know, and and I think that's the thing as you read scripture You know, it's like as I was studying this, I had a question that had been bothering me for a while, but I'd never taken the time to to study it out. And uh I think that that's something that should be an encouragement to us, you know, that we have the richness of all of Scripture, but you know, it's um and we have many tools, you know, people that have gone before us that you know, have studied these things out, you know the original languages and and can provide help to us. And I I think that's that's all part of should be all part of our our feeding on God's Word is you know, just asking cr uh scripture questions when we read it and and searching being like a Berean, you know, those that that maybe they didn't understand anything but they diligently studied, you know, to uh to understand things. So um and uh the uh for some reason I wrote down John one twenty two Um it says, prove yourself to be doers of the word, not merely hearers who delude themselves. So I guess the point is is you read scripture Yes, we hear these things, you know, we can take truth in, but it should affect our life, should result in obedience. You know, a lot of times we do membership interviews, we talk to people about being submitted to the scriptures and we're always hoping that they'll say, oh yeah, so when this Bible asks me to do something, if I'm submitted to Scripture, that will be something that I want to obey you know, that I need to change my life. You know, a lot of times the Holy Spirit as you're reading scriptures kind of poking you in the heart and saying, You need to change this about your you the way you speak to your wife or, you know, w what you did, you know, in terms of disciplining your child or whatever. You know, God wants us to be changed by scripture and um so that's kind of the idea, being the doer of the words. So Um, let's see. Oh, and yeah, I guess this is all the part about, you know, the the uh the fourth type of soil is, you know, that to the extent that we hear God's word, we dec we we uh are you know in a position where we want to obey it, it will affect our our fruitfulness. And I guess the uh the thing about the other aspect um of the other soils, a lot of times as you're sharing your faith with someone, you see them respond to the gospel and yet in pretty short order you know, there's there's no indication of any any spiritual life. And and yet that should be an encouragement to us to share the word, to cast the seed on the soil because ultimately who's in charge of of what happens in terms of what with the soil? That's God. Yeah, he uh he brings the increase. He just asks us to to faithfully um cast the seed on the soil so And then uh um finally section two. Let's see. There it is. Jesus' mother and brothers tried to speak with him Okay. Maybe I'll just I guess we uh I'll I'll just read this again. Um this is a blended account. Then while they were s then while he was still speaking in the crowd, behold his mother and his brothers came to him They were unable to get to him because of the crowd. And standing outside they were seeking to speak to him. They sent word to him and called him A crowd was sitting around him and someone said to him, Behold, your mother and your brothers are standing outside looking for you and seeking to speak to you But Jesus answered the one who was telling him and said to them, Who is my mother and who are my brothers? Looking About at those who were sitting around him. And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said to them, Behold, my mother and my brothers, whoever hears the word of God and does the will of God My father who is in heaven, he is my brother and my sister and mu and mother. So um I pulled this from Dr. Plumy's notes. This was one of the several times when Jesus emphasized the priority of obedience to God. over attachment to family. Thought that was helpful. And um during Jesus' ministry, his brothers were in unbelief, but after his resurrection his brothers came to faith and even wrote books of the Bible, James and Jude And James was a leader in the early church. So with that, if there aren't any questions, I will close this in prayer. Father, we're thankful for this day. We're thankful for this time. to uh worship you and we're just thankful for your word. Pray that um that we would uh be in it regularly and that you would um speak to us through your word and we just are thankful for this day and pray all these things your name. Amen.