Absolutely. Um so I'm gonna start in on page Well, I've called it page two, but let's see. It's actually numbered page one in your notes, where it has a bit of an overview. You see that? It talks about the purpose, the uh some thoughts about the dates and the chronology. Those are all on page one. Yeah, yeah So what I want to emphasize from that purpose section is in that middle sentence. Although we will be discussing a lot of facts and making observations. The purpose of this study is application to our lives. We'll probably learn a lot, get a lot of more insights as we travel through the life of Christ together, but always be thinking in terms of application. And I think a lot of that application is going to come from are learning lessons that Christ's followers either were learning or should have been learning. And rather than just point our fingers at them and say, shame on you, we should turn those fingers back on us and say, would we have reacted any differently? Um am I making that same error in my life? You see what I'm saying? Um Likewise, I'm hoping that we'll all get a lot of insight into the character of Christ, his heart, his his um What was motivating him in in certain situations? And uh how did his character come through? And is that a lesson for me? If I'm to be more Christ-like, am I developing in that particular way? So there's lots of opportunity here for for application and becoming more and more Christ-like. And so I I would encourage all of you to do that At the end of each of the lessons, not so much today, but when we start the first lesson next week There are some specific suggestions for application and reflection and as well as some observations. But don't feel like that's the limit. You you may have some you may be going through some things in your own life and some of these things are going to resonate with you because of what you're going through. And there's going to be opportunity for application there that I couldn't have anticipated. So always keep that in mind Okay, so a word about the dates. Um uh each of the All the way through this, we've got notes about when this event likely occurred. And sometimes we have very specific information in the text. Other times we sort of infer based on things that happened before and things that happened later, it had to be sort of within this kind of range. Most of the events in the life of Christ hinge on either the date of his birth or the date he began his public ministry. And the timetable I'm using here is meant to be reasonably accurate. Um And I follow what I think most conservative scholars have concluded about those two key dates. And then everything else kind of flows from that based on what we read in the text of the Gospels. But I will note that the maps in the back Are also from a very conservative source, but follow a slightly different timeline. And There's some pros and some cons, as there always is with these things. So don't read too much into the the year, for example, but um they're gonna be very close. to each other anyway. Um that's not really the the main um the main takeaway from the the class anyway, but I just wanted to make that note that there is a little bit of of um variation in understanding of uh what year some of these events actually took place in. And that's not all that important. What is more important is the chronology. Which things happened, and in what order did things happen And here there's even more, I think, even more variation in what even conservative commentators uh have concluded and for the most part I have followed the chronology and even the section outlines here, each sort of event in a separate section, uh developed by Dr. Doug Bookman. Who uh some of you know, um, but he he's the one who has uh led us on our study tours of Israel. He's a professor at Shepherd's Theological Seminary and um a remarkable guy Uh but I I am very my chronology, for what it's worth, is very similar to his But even more than his chronology, I follow the Gospel of Luke. And we're going to see later today why that is. Um but uh again there may be others who um have a slightly different chronology. You look at some of these other texts, the resources that I've offered here, they will in some cases be a little bit different. I think the order is important. I think um even more important is our starting point, which is the conviction that each of the four Gospels is inspired by God. And they're verbally inspired, which means that every word of those gospels is inspired. I therefore don't believe that any of them got anything wrong And then when you compare the Gospels, it may appear that there's some disagreement. across the Gospels. And I think as we go through it, we'll find that um On the one hand, there are four different perspectives, and we're going to talk about that a little bit more this morning, but none of them is making anything up Right? They're they're four perspectives. They each have uh emphases and things which are important, and so when you weave them together, you get a fuller picture. Of the whole. Um but when there's a uh a detail that's provided I think it's important for us to recognize that that's inspired. And we shouldn't just ignore things that are in the actual text. That may seem a little theoretical now, but there are going to be a lot of cases where as we go through and we're looking at all four of the texts Um we need to allow God's word to speak for itself as to the um uh the nature of the events, uh the timing of the events, the um the lessons we're to derive from those events And so we're going to be weaving together all four Gospels in a chronology that's based pretty much entirely on the Gospel of Luke. So, Henry, you had a question. Yes. Um I echo um am I echoing back and forth? No. Um you were right now it's done bad. Okay, good. I I sort of backed up a little bit. So you've talked about um Altogether the gospel being inspired and therefore there is no error. The question that I want that I want to ask you if you could speak to is the completeness of the record in terms of its application to us. The reason I ask that is because if it is inspired but incomplete, then we might be seeking additional sources. uh to make up what the deficiency is. But if it is complete, then we can rely on it and any supplemental information that we get from anywhere else uh is simply to perhaps enhance our understanding of what's recorded. Yes Well, you know, uh we're actually going to look a little bit later today at what John um writes. You remember at the end of his gospel, he said, um this is just a little bit, right? If if if I were to write everything um that I experienced walking with Christ uh it would include lots of books well beyond the scope of what he was writing, right? And so that's an advantage of having four different writers who overlap substantially but also have a lot of unique material. But even with the four of them, we don't have the entire life of Christ None of them purport to. And in fact, we're as we we're going to go along here, we're going to see that even the four of them together uh focus almost half of their gospels on the Passion Week That's amazing. But it it does speak to their purpose, right? Um and um so we know there's a lot about the life of Christ uh certainly between say the ages of twelve and thirty-ish, right? Um a whole lot that we don't know. We can kind of piece together a little bit, uh but God's point here is not to provide us every detail, but rather to provide us what we need. And everything we need about the life of Christ is contained in the Gospels. So in that sense, It fits in with the doctrine of the sufficiency of Scripture. There's nothing we need to know about Christ-likeness that is not available to us in Scripture. or the life and ministry of Christ. So in that sense it's complete It completes what God wanted to communicate to us and certainly it's authoritative. Now, can other Other sources be helpful? Sure. There could be uh elements of history that fill in some little um we'll we'll we'll see a little bit of that here today. Um Things about geography will touch on some of those things as well to help see the context a bit. But in terms of the content, I would say yes, it's it's it completely represents what God uh knew that he wanted to communicate. And so it's sufficient in that sense. Okay. So let's Go then to the next page, page three. That maybe this is a good segue here. Um I have a timeline, at least a rough timeline of Jesus' life I hope it doesn't come as a big surprise to you that Jesus was born before Christ. You know, the the BCAD line was was um decided on many, many years later when they had less historical info to base that on. Um and yet it seems pretty clear from the the wealth of historical information from antiquity that Herod the Great Who is the Herod of the Nativity um story? Herod the Great died um at least 4 BC. And of course, Jesus was born before that, and they fled to Egypt. We'll get there, right? And it was after they heard he died that they returned to Israel. And so Jesus must have been born at least a year before that. to account for all the travel and the slaughter of the innocents in Bethlehem and um so Placing his birth at around 5 BC is pretty standard in conservative. Um Commentary. And so his boyhood would have been, you know, between the time of his birth and the account in the scriptures of his visiting with his family to Jerusalem during the feast and he's in the temple, right? You remember that story? He was said to be 12 at that point in time. And so that would have been around AD 8. And so you see the the years BC A D in the top row there. And then we have a large chunk of time where we don't have any scripture to specifically highlight any any events or anything. Um but it appears that his Baptism was around A. D. 26 at the age of around 30, and then his public ministry and his death around A. D. 30. And you see here uh some of the contemporaries in terms of um uh governing leaders, some of whom are mentioned in scripture, others are not. One of the problems with um Herod and Caesar and Pharaoh is that these are titles, not someone's name, although it becomes part of their name, I guess, when they fill the role And so when there's a mention of Herod, you you just sort of have to figure out which Herod usually he's talking about, or the text he's talking about. But it's also true of Caesar. You've got to figure out which Caesar is is. um talked about. But those are some of the ones that are contemporaries of France. So his actual ministry timeline is exploded here in the lower part of that page. And significant events um and locations. Now those locations are um just sort of generic. He did move around a bit across these borders. He didn't restrict himself to these areas. But There was a huge chunk of his ministry that um around 18 months that was largely in Galilee And of course toward the Andrews in Jerusalem almost exclusively Okay, so let's take a look on page three of the four gospel accounts. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, obviously. Two of them, Matthew and John, were among the twelve, right? Two of his apostles The Mark here is John Mark, who is featured certainly several places in Acts. And there's some uh indication also in his own gospel, in the gospel of Mark where he and he's made re referred to um in sighting and in first Peter as well in Colossians and so on. Luke, of course, is that the companion of Paul, who is referred to in several places in the book of Acts, partly because Like the Gospel of Luke, Luke penned both the Gospel and the Book of Acts. And what's in one thing that's interesting about Luke, apart from the fact that he's a physician, is he's also a very careful historian and the only Gentile author in all of Scripture At least that we know. Um I doubt the author to Hebrews was anything other than a Hebrew. And when they were written, basically there's some discussion about which one was first and second, but basically they were written in that order, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And John's of course came much later and had a different um focus There was much more dispersion of not just the Jews, but also Christians by that time. And so while Matthew was writing primarily to uh the Jews, both the uh believing Christian Jews and non-Christian Jews. Mark was more writing to Gentiles, particularly the Romans. And likewise Luke to the Gentiles, but probably more so to the Greeks. And John more so just to anybody, to the whole world. So there are some emphases and things that are different because of that. Um You see the row there that says out of order? That doesn't mean they they did something wrong. It means that of The sections that we're going to be looking at, every sort of event and section as you chronicle them throughout the life of Christ Um we've got 221 different sections in the whole uh narrative and um Because I'm following the chronology of Luke, he's got only one section that's technically in a different order. But that's because he's reflecting back in time, and it doesn't really matter when you reflect back, it's referring to an earlier period. But John also is, as it turns out, very chronolog uh chronological Even though he has a lot of unique material, it's still generally in chronological order. But Mark, not so much, and Matthew even less chronological. That wasn't his his point. Now in in the overall scheme of things, yes, it's you know he starts when um uh you know the the the birth narratives and everything there and works through the progression of his ministry but he He had no intent to write things in chronological order uh more thematic. Uh what are the themes and and um uh and again he's writing to the the Jewish mindset Um but uh there's nothing in his chronology that I'm aware of that when placed in the order given by Luke and John, that It contradicts that. I mean the these pieces in Matthew fit in quite well in the overall chronology. Notice that that um uh that line that says Palm Sunday to the end. Most of the gospels, particularly Matthew, Mark, and John. Um devote well over a third of their text to the last week of Christ's life and and then of course the uh resurrection appearances and so on that followed another forty days. Luke has so much other material prior to that that his is around a quarter. But still, uh this is a a um Well, I've got a note at the bottom here. That period of time is roughly 3. 7% of Jesus' public ministry. And yet they devote 10 times that. uh in their accounts because it's so crucial. Right? And like John says, they could have included all sorts of other things and it would have been very constructive and so on, but God and his sovereignty um led them to um have this emphasis And so in our class, we're going to end up spending almost half a year on the events just prior leading up to the Passion Week and then all that uh remaining those remaining events. And there's a lot there. There's a lot there. Okay, so there's uh a few terms here that are More common in some of the Gospels than others. Christ refers to himself as Son of Man, right? But that's more common in Matthew and Luke than it is in Mark and John. Likewise, Son of God, that's kind of uniform throughout, but John uses that term more than the others. Um The word immediately, I don't know if you've ever noticed this, but Mark is the shortest of the Gospels, but far and away uses the word immediately more often than the others. And I think it says something about the sequencing, but also the the pace That Jesus was following here. The term kingdom of heaven appears only in Matthew. Kingdom of God appears in all four of the Gospels, but more often in Luke. And you might not be surprised to learn that the word believe is in the Gospel of John far more than in the other Gospels. Likewise, the concept and term eternal life is far more common in John. Matthew, Mark, and Luke are called the Synoptic Gospels. I don't know if you've ever wondered why in the world they're called Synoptic Well, you know what optic is. It has to do with our view, our vision, right? And the sin prefix merely means that they have a common viewpoint, a common perspective. Whereas John is written much later and a very different perspective. after the fall of Jerusalem. There's a lot of dispersion. The church age has um taken taken off and it's just a different evangelistic perspective. Uh One Hi, Pastor Plumley. Um this is Sharnick. Um can I ask a question? Um so is Matthew's gospel the only one that uses the term son of David? Uh I'm not sure about son of David, no, but but son of uh I'm not sure about son of David, I haven't I haven't tabulated that. That'd be a good homework assignment. Okay, I'll look it up. Yeah. Um okay, so We're familiar with many parables of Christ, and it's interesting that they're all in the synoptic gospels. There are no parables in the Gospel of John. And they all of the gospels contain accounts of the various miracles of Christ. But John has only seven, and he clearly chose those for very strategic reasons to make his points And of all those miracles, only two were in all four Gospels And those are in bold here in section 7981. We'll look at those in a minute. Those were in John as well as in the Synoptic Gospels. Okay. That's a little bit of uh overview there. Any other questions so far? Yeah. Um So you mentioned seventy the the two miracles that are in all four gospels. There's also you have a parentheses, you have 75 and you have two in parentheses I wasn't sure what that referred to. I think that's two miracles in one section. Okay. And the other question is, like Well you like son of man you have it looks like um you have twenty-nine in bold and twenty-six in bold. What what is the bold referring to? The bold in those is is the most common Okay. That was a close, almost a tie between those two compared to the other ones. Whereas if you look at it immediately, it's not close at all. It's mostly Mark. Esther Allen, um I have a comment about that immediately in Mark And um if we notice, Jesus is presented as a servant in Mark. And I think if I had a servant and I wanted him to do something, I would expect him to do it immediately and not dawdle around, you know, just just do it. I just So that's tie those two things together. Mm-hmm. That's consistent. Yep. Hi, I'm Mia. Hi Mia. Um I had a couple of things to share. One was about Son of David. Um, I believe that Jesus has put Son of David down. I don't remember the exact verse But it says something like, uh, if David calls him Lord, how could he be his son? And I think that may be why it's not used very often. Yeah, um I know of uh one event comes to mind specifically when um I'm not sure if it was Bartimaeus, but one of the blind men who says, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Right? So the the term is there in the Gospels, but I haven't categorized it the way I have these other terms. So uh maybe somebody this week can can do that and see if it's restricted to one gospel or more. My guess is if it was going to be more common in one than another, it would be Matthew because of his focus on the Jews. But um I haven't looked at that. Also I was wondering what the two miracles are. Um I was when I used the John MacArthur chart, the only miracle that seemed same and all four gospels was um feeding of the five thousand, but that might be just me. Yeah, uh we're gonna look at that in just a couple of minutes. We're gonna look at that detail. That's a plumley. Thomas Thomas Rose did post um in the chat that son of David is in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Good. All right, ongoing research here, huh? Alright, well let's um I don't need to spend a lot of time on basically the table of contents here starting on page four, but it's a handy place to come back to to catalog, you know, we've um each row here is one of the sections that we're going to be studying in chronological order. And they're grouped by uh you know the the time range and the general um phase of Christ's ministry, and you see which parts, which actual verses of each of the four Gospels are covered in each of the sections. And Uh just to s show my nomenclature here, if there's a verse Take the Gospel of Luke here, for example. Category two, the genealogies of Jesus. Luke actually covers that in um chapter three. But um it seems like it's a bit better to um cover that earlier. And so I've hold I've I've highlighted that one in gray. And so all the gray means is it's not in the order that the that gospel placed it. It's in a different order. And likewise for John He says something at the end of, or close to the end of his gospel, about his purpose in writing it, and we're going to look at that hopefully in a few minutes. That's more introductory in terms of how I look at it anyway. And It helps to kind of set the stage for the rest of it. So I've placed it up front here. And he has a prologue that's also very helpful, and uh that of course does make sense at the beginning. Um So any place you see the gray shading means that's a section that's that's not in the order of the gospel as written, but it's it's Placed here to make it consistent with the chronology of Luke. Okay So you can refer back to those as needed, but if you turn to page 10 Y'all see that? What are the events? And here the events are numbered according to the sections we'll be using. What are the events that are unique to each of the four Gospels? Mark has just two events that are unique to him Luke and John have a long list that are unique to them, and so on. And then on the next page, page 11, what events are recorded in all four Gospels And so this gets back to something we were talking about earlier. There are Seventeen out of the two hundred and twenty one events are Covered in all in each of the four Gospels. And aside from the feeding of the 5,000, all of them are in that passion leap toward the end. And so um Uh the question earlier about what are the the uh miracles See, I don't have that. So the miracles that are in all four of them, one is one of them is the feeding of the 5,000 Is the other walking on water? Because I noticed that you had that listed as seventy-nine and eighty-one. Yeah Yeah, so eighty one. Is that what that is? Yes Yep. However That's not in loop. Okay. I think that's what Mia was po trying to point out earlier. Yeah, it is in the um the other synoptics, and so uh unfortunately where it says specific miracles here, it's referring to the synoptics as a whole As opposed to each of them separately. Gotcha. Okay. But yeah, so those would be the ones. Pastor Flemlin? Yes, sir. Do you think that there was a um do you think that there were source materials that all the writers had access to, like a document with the sayings of Jesus? Good question. Good question. Um go back to page Um three, where it looks at each of the four Gospels. Um And the third line down is credentials. Right So we know that Matthew and John walked with Christ. They were among his Twelve apostles. Um and so they were eyewitnesses, they were there. Um Uh so that helps a lot, right? Uh Luke was influenced greatly by Paul Um but Luke very specifically um did a lot of research. And he did that lot of research very early in church history, uh, even Prior to the writing of the Gospel of Acts, or the Gospel of Acts, the Book of Acts. And so he interviewed eyewitnesses. And um sort of like a a historian would today, to the extent that you're writing about somebody who um uh was known to and and interacted with people who could be interviewed today, that's what you want to do. You want to talk to eyewitnesses and that's what what Luke did Mark was somewhere in between. He was, as we'll see, kind of involved in some of the events But he was very much influenced by Peter, who was obviously an eyewitness and a key figure in the whole the whole story. Um so no I I don't think I I in in fact I I'm quite sure it's it's accurate to say that the four gospels are not influenced by any single prior written record. And that's one of the strengths. We have the the the life of Christ and its impact written from four different perspectives so we can piece them together And um uh there's there's greater strength in the sum of the whole than than any of them could have inde independently. Even though they're all inspired. Uh they all have the the fingerprints, as the rest of scripture does, the fingerprints of the human authors are there and the personalities and the context and and everything. So um these were written to become that written record, essentially. And the sum of them together accomplishes that um very well. Okay, so I want to wrap up here by moving to lesson one. And just the first page. That's page twelve of the notes. And look at the stated purpose of the Gospel writers. And fortunately two, Luke and John, are pretty explicit about their purpose And so uh could someone read for me that portion of Luke from verses 1 through 4 of chapter 1? I can do that. Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile an account of the things accomplished among us just as they were handed down to us by those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and servants of the word, it seemed fitting for me as well, having investigated everything carefully from the beginning, to write it out for you in consecutive order, most excellent Theophilus, so that you may know the exact truth about the things you have been taught. Yeah. Very key. Could someone also read the um couple of verses there from John 20? I can do that. Okay. Therefore, many other times Jesus also performed in the presence of the disciples. which are not written in this book. But these have been written, that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. John twenty three through three one Exactly. So here we're seeing um purposes. Very similar, but stated somewhat differently. Luke says, so that you may know the exact truth about the things you've been taught Very much emphasis on getting it right, talking with eyewitnesses, he says, getting everything in consecutive order. Um so it's to be a an authoritative record of uh the life of Christ, or at least as much of the life of Christ as matters, and can be reasonably put into one book. And John says he's got a similar purpose, but he goes even further to say it's not just so that you would know But that, as he says later, the truth will set you free, right? So that you may have life in his name. It's all it's evangelistic. Sometimes John is called the evangelist, right? And all of the Gospels have that value But John was very explicit that this this is his perspective. He's choosing events to include and and s and uh quote quoting of Jesus in verse various times. All with the purpose of convincing us of his deity, his um work on our behalf, his um the salvation that he brings so that we would have life in his name. Now That second bullet there I wanted to highlight here, Luke is the only one of the gospel writers who explicitly says that he presents his events in chronological order. And he uses the term cathexes in the Greek, which the Nazbi translates as in consecutive order. And that makes sense because it's built on the word uh hexes, which generally means next, like if you're going to say next day or next move. And both of these words are used only in Luke in the New Testament, both in the Gospel and in the book of Acts. And in each case, we have more info about this later, but in each case it refers to a definite time progression And so since he, by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, said that he was presenting it after much um research in um being the exact truth and in in chronological order I place a lot of weight on that. And so the chronology we're going to be following is almost entirely that of Luke. There are some things, there's one, I don't know if you caught it earlier, one of the subsections in the Sermon on the Mount, Luke has it in a different order than Matthew does. And uh I'm thinking that the timing of the and the cr chronological order of the Sermon on the Mount is not the issue. It's the chronology within that teaching session that's the question, and that doesn't really matter all that much And I think the order I used was the order from Matthew because people are more familiar with that. But it doesn't really matter. Okay. So um that's what I wanted to cover today. We're going to pick up here next week and get into the text more of the Gospels and begin our Study of the life of Christ. Any final questions before we wrap up? Yeah, Chris. Pastor Ponley, uh, thank you. Uh so for the book of Acts, I've heard that referred to as like the second book of Luke. Should we c also consider that to be uh kind of like consecutively or chronologically written? And then my follow-up is is that why it seems like some of the dating of the other books in the the New Testament are based off of Acts like when the Jerusalem Council happened and other things like that. Yeah. Um I I think we we should definitely expect that the book of Acts was equally he followed the same standard then. I don't think it explicitly says that, but um It certainly presents itself as being in chronological order. Yeah Professor Plumley, how can we be prepared for the next class? Is your plan just to finish the first lesson in the next class? Yeah, generally speaking. It's helpful if you want to be more prepared for conversation and discussion and so on in the class. To read through the upcoming notes for the upcoming class, maybe even start working through in your own mind some of the applications and so on, and then be able to participate in the conversation better that way. So we're going to pick up with section number one prologue next week. Pastor, I may not be remembering correctly, but earlier, did you say that Luke was the only book of the Bible written by a Gentile? That's my recollection, yes. Is somebody else? But wouldn't also Acts be written by a Gentile Oh, oh, oh, oh. No, it's not that Luke is the only book, but Luke is the only author. Oh, oh, okay. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. All right. Well let's uh let's go ahead and close in prayer, shall we?