Yeah. Because when you're out on the street today, you are trying to force others to do what you want. Whereas for them it's like Look, we it's like we have nothing to do with you. We tried and we're leaving. So it's not the same kind of Right, right. But this one gives me um uh does not keep moving from house to house. So the uh I noticed that in the the Pharisees from when They would go from house to house because they really didn't um they didn't like something you serve. They would go to another house to get fed. And another and another. So people were and they put people in a mode of trying to please them. Don't be like that. If somebody says something before you sit down and eat what they give you. If they're showing you kindness, accept the kindness. You know, uh so the The difference between people wanting to be pleased in the Pharisees, God said, accept the kindness of others. What a service you are rendering for me Um and then he goes into the uh uh the woes and that it gives me that uh If God had done miracles in certain places, these places would have repented, but he didn't do miracles there. He did miracles in other places that they did not repent. Um and I was thinking, well, why not do miracles and preach your word in places that you know would have repented and why go to places where you are rejected Anyone already understand the rationale of that and what he's teaching? Maybe they had already God had already judged those people and he knew similar to Sodom and Gomorrah, they were beyond redemption. Which is very sad to say. I guess even Abraham tried to intervene unsuccessfully for more than this too. But this is uh God's arm and choice choice. I'm sorry, somebody said something. It seems to me in Romans it might be it might talk about how um maybe chapter nine, I don't remember, Anne might who who Romans, Ann. Ann. Um, it that God is glorified in the judgment of the wicked so that Even if they're even more wicked, like these cities that reject them, it's even the judgment against them's gonna be even more pronounced and God will be glorified even more. Think about this with that. For Jesus to preach this word and do miracles to attest what he says, it is worse for those sinners They're rejecting the truth. How can you get in a worse state where God is preaching and doing miracles and you still reject it? You know, Sodom didn't do that. These other cities didn't do that. So they won't get judged as severely as these people who got the word, who received it, who saw the miracles Who attested to it but still did not repent. That's a hard reality for people. Even in our day, people proclaim the gospel to family and friends I mean we're not doing miracles, but if you proclaim the gospel, they know it's true, it sounds good, but they refuse to repent of their sin. They refuse to come to Christ. Would it not be worse for them? It is and is it for us not to proclaim the gospel to them if uh we know that if they keep rejecting the gospel, it was just gonna get worse for them. I mean this is a hard teaching that He sporned everything in city cities, especially conversion, and they still rejected it. He has family numbers like that. You know you have to go to cities, you know. They know that the truth They have seen it operating and they still it doesn't face them. Right. Now we know God's sovereign election and salvation, but the uh um Why do this? This is a hard lesson. This does present quite a problem in thinking about that. Jesus knew as he's telling the disciples here, his depositors, that If we had done the same thing in these places that we had done with you, they would have repented. Now if he knew that, why didn't he not do it? Because now he's doing these things here. He it looks like he's withholding something from each group that would have caused them to repent. If if they'd have said anything, it's it's a strange situation. Is it that he's withholding something? What do what do you mean? If they would have repented, then why didn't go there and watch a marine? They were a repentance. Why didn't he do it? Because he didn't want them to repent. That's the judgment. It's it's a strange Aren't you glad you stayed? Amen. My goodness, uh, that God didn't leave us in our simple state in the enemy of the kingdom, but he had mercy on us And um yes I'm sorry. Just um I don't know if you remember in the slides I did at the beginning of the quarter about Galilee Mm-hmm, pointing out these cities were very actually pretty close to Capernaum. Um but the the Interesting thing here is it says that most of his miracles were done in these three cities, and yet um the record we have in the Gospels It doesn't include any that we're aware of from Corizine. All those miracles that were a lot of them, none of them seem to have been um recorded. And likewise with Besseda I'm I'm thinking of maybe only one that made it into the Gospels, but there were many apparently. So what was it? Um I'm trying to remember, I think. Um Isn't that where Andrew and Peter are from? Originally As well as Philip, I think. Um I'll have to look that up, but I think there may be one that's recorded from the Sega. Anyway, it it you remember the the verse in John that says uh if if we recorded everything the the world wouldn't be able to reclude it all. But it is interesting that there are so many miracles that are recorded, and yet most of them take place in these three cities that are not recorded And I wonder if there's any connection between that and the unbelief of the people in those areas. This could be the prophet, this could be this. They affirm a lot of things but they don't repent. That is such a sad thing without these people. And now he's he's pronounced judgment on them. Tom, um several many years ago I decided to do a spreadsheet more exile on computer science And I looked at the 33 miracles that are recorded in the Gospels and uh had a sign Didiaspara What was the end result? So forth. Very few produced faith. And very few required faith. It's very interesting. Very interesting. Very interesting. You know, this is gonna really be good as we jump into the second part of this. The 70 reserve, go down to verse 17 The seventh he returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. And he says to them, I was watching Satan fall from heaven like lightning. I'm going to come ask you all what does that mean? Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions. And over all the power of the enemy, and nothing will injure you. Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this that the spirits are subject to you But rejoice that your names are recorded in heaven. At that very time, he rejoiced greatly in the Holy Spirit and said, I praise you, O Father Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent, and have revealed them to infants Yes, Father, for this way was well pleasing in your sight. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and who the Father is. Except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son wills to reveal him. Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light Turning to the disciples, he said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things you see. For I say to you that many prophets So it is sevenly return with joy, and their joy is based on what? Oh let me put this caveat up. He sends the lambs out in the midst of the globe, all the lambs come back. So God preserved and protected them. So all the lambs come back and they have joy, but what is that joy based on? What they saw, what they were able to accomplish. No, and their salvation. Well no, he bought that up. He bought that up. That's the same thing. Superpowers. Superpowers. Yeah, super cloud, right. And uh they they say something that he did not verbally give them authority over, that's even in demons So that's why they proclaim the gospel, even the demons were subject to them in his name. He sends them out to heal the sick, but they get more, they experience more than uh just that commission. But in the midst of that joy, them saying that Uh he says I was watching Satan fall like lightning. Then he teaches them after that. So based on all that he told him in the midst of that What does he mean by he saw Satan for my life? Because Satan is not in hell. He still reports from what we get in Job, he still reports to God with the other angels. Uh he's the ruler of the air. He's the world ruler. So what does it mean that Jesus saw Satan fall like lightning? And that's important to understand what this means I think it means when he was cast out of heaven, cast down to the earth. Why was why why did that why did God do that to you Because pride was found in his heart. And what is the thing he is guarding them from? In the joy. The pride of their superpowers. Right. I mean pride in that and what he wanted them to focus on That what? It was sinners saved by grace. You are sinners, we are sinners saved by grace. Rejoice in that. Not in necessarily in all the giftedness that we have and all the things we do and all the service we render Rejoice in something that God has done that made all of this possible. God took us from the kingdom of Satan. He brought us into the kingdom of his son. Rejoice in your salvation. Is that hard to really on a daily basis Take that for granted. To acknowledge God saved me. To rejoice in the fact that Jesus suffered much in order to save my life. Think about how many things we could take joy in or get up for, but it's hard to really get up for being saved sometimes And he wants them to focus on that. It gives us a humble, I I would assume a humble perspective on who we are, why we get to do what we do. We get to serve Yes. Thomas, um I I have another before you had a question. It's not a question. It's a It's a comment. No, I think it's apropos. Actually, it was in this morning's reading of Our Daily Bread, which I do read every morning, and it's an Oswald Chambers quote which says Seeing is never believing. We interpret what we see in the light of what we believe So even people that saw all those miracles in their heart, if it was unbelief, they weren't going to believe because they saw miracles See, they already had the mindset not to believe. I think that's a great quote and very apropos. It is. It is. So uh I'll comment. Uh in my world, you know, I I'm not I'm not too too uh eager if a demon submits to me. I I would like to submit to you, you know. I have a problem doing what's right. So Okay. We need to submit to a sphenom. Right, right, right. And that's where the gone Salvation comes in, you know, God God shoots the missing hand and that's a miracle. I will admit I'm I I get very impressed when I see God using people to do great things. I get very humble when I see what it costs Christ to save my life. Different perspective. I get pumped up when I see service rendered. I get humble when I see what God went through to save me. Amen. Right. So remembering that gospel and our salvation is most important before service. We're gonna get to that. I think we're gonna have time today to get to that too. I don't believe in memory. No, I'm initially. I'm a comment, Thomas, from Pastor Leek's class on um DM And angelology. He asked us to write a paper on Ezekiel and Isaiah, having to do with whether those actually describe the fall of Satan from heaven. And so different scholars have taken sides on whether those specifically allude to the fall of Satan. It's in, I think it's Ezekiel and Isaiah. And so this um this is more explicit in that Jesus describes uh watching Satan fall. Lightning. But it gives all the um things that this beautiful angel was thinking in terms of wanting to be like God. And to say saying all these things and that's why he was ultimately cast out. It seems like it's a truism that there's different levels of torment and judgment in hell So those who had more information and they had clear demonstrations of Jesus is is the only way, or maybe they lived with a family member who was saved. They unfortunately will experience greater torment, but someone with less information Would be less only we can't really know what it means to be less tormented than judging his judgment. Right. So it's an act of mercy for God to hold back being explicit, just like Jesus told parables, because in some ways that was merciful to to the listeners who he knew would not listen. Right. But still that is point across. And so um what did we drop over there That's the book rejoicing. So after they come back, give their report, he teaches them about the danger of pride, he uses Satan as an example. But then he tells them to rejoice in their salvation, to rejoice in their election. But then he rejoices. He says the mountain, does he rejoice in himself? The Father. So Jesus sends them out. They have success. They all come back. And he rejoices in the Father, not himself. Do you understand what he's doing? Why he's doing that? Why does he rejoice in the Father? To give a context, who saves people? The Fathers. The Father. He writes their name in the book of life. Yeah. And even though Jesus sent them out, who was really using them? I mean they walked God was using them, but he gives acknowledgment to his father. And he says he rejoices in down if they're uh I guess successive ministry they all came back, but that God revealed these things to infants and not the wise and intelligent And I was thinking, if I was, say, consider, if we were consider wise and intelligent people, and Christ said, I'm going to send you out as lambs in the Mr. Wolves, wouldn't we have debated with them? Instead of having childlike faith, why are you gonna send us out as lambdas and as the wolves? That doesn't sound uh wise. You know, can't you give us some protection or or something? I wonder if they would have uh uh rejected being sent out, but uh The Father's will is to reveal the truth to people who are not wise and intelligent. But the end Jesus rejoices in that. We said it was well pleasing in the Father's sight to do this. To have people with childlike faith and obedience who submissive the sovereignty of God. To be used by God to carry out his purposes. And then he says, all things were handled to him by the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and Or the Son except the Father. So we know Jesus, but do we know Jesus? Do we know him like the Father knows him? No, so we would never fully know all there is known right. So you can exhaust knowing Christ. I think Pastor Kirby preached that you can't exhaust the gospel You can't exhaust studying the gospel, looking at your life and light of the gospel. You can't exhaust getting to know Christ. Then he tells people to come to me, I think this is a Matthew Come to me all who are worried and heavy laden. I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. So in their environment, the uh uh my yoga is season my birth Like in their environment, they were used to the Pharisees teaching, right? They were under the yoke of the Pharisee teaching. And was that yoke easy? What what was the burden that Fergus put these people in? What made life so difficult for them in trying to be in their religious and what were they trying to do with the law and the way they were being taught? Perfect themselves. Right, fulfill it. Right. Earn their salvation. Work hard. And uh I remember Christ was saying, Woe to you, scrap this person, because you lay burdens on people You lay all these heavy burdens, heavy burdens on people, you won't let the family help no one. So you land all these religious burdens on people that no one can fulfill, they wear themselves out, you're really helping no one And yet this is the false teaching that these people are used to when they're trying to uh reach these fairness, which is I mean it's sad to be in um Uh Sam and I give an environment like that where you are trying to earn your way, earn it, earning, earning. You burn yourself out trying to earn, trying to please God. Never good enough. Never good enough, right? Never were good enough, but we're not taught grace. We taught trying to earn something, earn God's favor. How much of a burden is that when uh He's just in the environment, and the whole community is in that sacrifice environment. Then Christ comes in a humble, gentle manner, says, take my yoke upon you and learn from me. I know you I think you all know the context to two oxen with a yoke. The older oxen has the younger oxen, so the younger one learns from the older one. So take my yoke upon me and learn from me. are supposed to be they're if they're designed accurately they're supposed to supposed to make the the work lighter. And if it's a bad yoke then both of them are struggling. And so Jesus designed the perfect joke and you can make your work easy. Yes. Amen. Amen. Alright, let's go to one eleven. I think we can do this today. Because they all connect. Yes. All right, somebody please read section 111. You can break it up. Somebody read down two 31, somebody pick up 32. It starts with next now after this? No and the lawyer. Page 144. Section 111 And a lawyer, an expert in the Old Testament law, stood up and put him to test, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said to him, What is written in the law? How does it read to you? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength, with all your mind And he said to him, You have answered correctly, do this, and you will live. But wishing to justify himself, he said to Jesus And who is my neighbor? Jesus replied and said, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among robbers, and they stripped him and beat him and went away, leaving him happy. And by chance a priest was going down the road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side. Somebody else likewise a Levite also, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan who was on a journey came upon him, and when he saw him, he felt compassion and came to him and bandaged up his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them. And he put him on his own feast and brought him to an inn and took care of him. On the next day, he took out two Jadera and gave them to the innkeeper and said, Take care of him And whatever more you spend, when I return, I will repay you. Which of these three do you think proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell into the father's hands And he said, What is showing mercy to us? Then Jesus said to him, Go and do the same. So the lawyer who has knowledge or is an expert in Old Testament law believes that he can earn or inherit eternal life Um so Jesus posed this question to him. What is written in the law? And he was correct, right? You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and all your soul, and you shall love your neighbor Ask yourself. And so he said, um, you answer correctly, so do this and you will live Love God and love your neighbor. So the lawyer seeks to justify himself and said, who is my neighbor? And so Jesus gives the parable of the uh the Samaritan. And so what is the uh three example? He gives us a priest, a Levite, and a Samaritan. A priest, a Levite, and a Samaritan. So I'm guess so back to one because the robe from that he's talking about, is that a descent So that's a that's a steep descent? Like miles, we talk miles. So the steep descent, this man, this uh traveler goes And on that defense he's uh attacked, left half dead. So a priest on the road sees him, but he passes on the other side A Levite does the same thing, but a Samaritan who the Jews hate show compassion on him. So afterwards Jesus says, which of these three do you think proves to be a neighbor to the man? And the Lord said the one to show mercy. I was caught struck that he didn't say this mercy. But the one The one show first, he says go and do like oh M Oh who What the law really means. So you can tell what you can't do with. Right? He knows it, he knows the greatest commandments, but he cannot do it. So this is what the law means because he tells him to go in the same Does he ask this question? What was that extra light? Does he answer? Yes and no. Yes and no. Can somebody elaborate on what can somebody elaborate on what fast upon this and no? How does Jesus respond to the question, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He's helping a man now but uh go be perfect. He tells him go go be perfect. No No. That's the whole point. You can't do it. You know it, but you can't do it. You got the information, you have the knowledge, but you can't do it. Go and do the same. So then if he tries to go and do the same to be a neighbor to all the Samaritans, is he still in a bad place? Right. So he has to see his meaning. Um it's similar to the man who said, Well I I have kept these from my youth. The original ruler? Right. Yes. They want eternal life, but they think they could earn it. Um go and do the same. Now let me ask you this as a carry-up. We'll say, are we supposed to go out and try to do stuff like this in our own strength? Love people in our own strength not in our own strength, but certainly they he's showing a heart attitude. Like the real the religious leaders have all the pomp and circumstance, yet they don't have the heart to help those in need. Whereas the Samaritan person showed a heart that could help. And we do that in Christ's strength, but there's a difference between a A whitewashed tomb and a you know, a transformation. What should every believer I'm glad you said it, what should every believer understand by themselves? Um with sinners saved by grace. We should know we're safe. We're not in and of ourselves good people. Right. We're not in and of ourselves going out. The attention should never be on us to go and try to be something or do something in our own strength. We cannot meet this standard. I mean how many of you love God with all that you had? How many did that this morning before you got here? How many of you are loving me right now? And that is true, but we are saved to good work. And we often just let rest on the fact that we're saved. And for that we need to be working. Exactly. Not for honor, but to serve. We I'm going to go into 112 now. Thank you, Morak. This is a good segue to 112. We're getting there. I'm determined we're going to get there today. Alright, Ma Van Mary, this is not long. Somebody read that please Now as they were traveling along, he entered the village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her home. She had a sister called Mary, who was seated at the Lord's feet, listening to his word. But Martha was distracted with all her preparations. And she came up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to do all the serving alone? Then tell her to help me. But the Lord answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and bothered about so many things But only one thing is necessary, for Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from. Something I want to focus on here is the difference between worship and service So Jesus knows Martha. Martha knows him. She welcomes him into the home. She has a sister Mary. She sits at the Lord's feet. She listens to it as he's teaching. Martha is distracted with much preparation. Now, they both, both of these women love Christ. They both are seeking to serve Christ. But As Christ is teaching, and Martha gets distracted with much with all her preparations, she comes to Christ herself while he's teaching. So he's teaching, I'm trying to picture this. He's teaching. Then Martha comes over, Lord, look. Don't you care my sisters let me do all the work So I I think okay if I'm gonna miss the teacher and somebody comes and distract me with something like that, how would I respond? It wouldn't be this way. Martha, Martha, you are Weary and bothered with many things, but only one thing is necessary. And Mary has chosen a good part which would not be taken away from her. The difference between worship and service. She let the service come before worship. This story bothers me to no end every time I read it. Right. Right. Yes He he couldn't have sat and talked if Martha wasn't in the kitchen cooking. And Mary couldn't have sat and listened if Martha wasn't cooking. What Wouldn't you want him to do a miracle here? Well he wasn't what he feed the five thousand there, he was smelling it in the kitchen. So this is my the one story in my life That drives me crazy. So more recognition, you have the mother type of art. Oh right on. Right on. And I got and I bet the focus around him and do nothing. And they're talking about the Bible. Get up and serve. All right, so is Mary I like to honestly. Is Mary been idle? I E L E. No. Well, it's married and I don't. Jesus is teaching. No, this is this is fine. Jesus is teaching Because what I see here, what I'm struck here, is that this does confront the flesh. You can do service in the flesh. You can come in serving the flesh. No worship But your servant. Oh, here we go. No, no, no, no, no, no. Jesus is teaching. Jesus is teaching. What is the most important thing? God says the most important thing is what Mary is doing. And what Martha is doing. He accepted her service. She was servant, but it wasn't the best servants. I will say this, that Martha missed out, and this is probably one of the last teachings she Okay. And we sometimes don't grab the opportunity we have because we're so taken up with the mechanics of stuff that that was the last time we could have received that message. Or whatever. Right. Because later on Mary's going to do a great service. Mary is going to do a unique service for Christ because she was listening. Yes. And she would have learned how to serve God in this way if she did that. Some service is only based on uh So again, worship and service. Could it be Martha's hard attitude as to what's the is where the problem is because she's she's grumbling, she's not content, uh just doing the service. She's not happy because she doesn't have additional help. So it's not this is it like that if she were just doing it and being content that she was enabling Mary and the other disciples to to receive the teaching while she was preparing. You know, if she just was content doing that, instead of grumbling about it, No. I thought I mean to you you guys are excuse me from this side of the view, this side of the story. And uh uh Jesus was teaching and it was very valuable, but you do you even know how it is? I I have to be sitting in the liver room You're slaving over that stove. But it's the hard attitude. Can I I know what he's about is correct, obviously I love your honesty because this is this does confront us where we are Yeah. Uh Thomas, uh Thomas, I would like I would like to come to Morak's defense in this because I had never looked at it this way before But Martha doing her service was enabling Mary to be taught. And yet and we look at that and think Oh, somehow Mary is more holy than Martha. For Mary is more spiritual than Martha Yet, in the very wait a minute, in the very next chapter of John, when their brother Lazarus dies and Jesus comes Mary and Martha each, word for word, say the same exact thing to Jesus. Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. So Martha was not less holy than Mary or anything like that. They were on a par spiritually And and uh that's not the lesson here. No, but we have to take scripture as a whole. The whole of scripture shows us that So people dwelling on this one little story would think, Oh, Mary's so much more holy than Martha and she was not. That's not what we did. That's not what it's doing, that's not what this is showing. We're not Uh that's previously notions you all came up with. That's not what I did. I'm not saying you did it, I'm saying people in general and that's why it it nags that morn Because she's a service present and she's not any less holy than others of us who don't do that kind of service. Yeah, it's a very simple story. Very simple story. That's what I'm saying. The first thing you said Jesus was teaching. We don't have any evidence of that here He's at their home. He was friendly with Martha and Mary and Lazarus and the whole family. That was his resting place when he was in Jerusalem. No, you just listening to the thing. Yeah. Serious teaching. Serious teaching Yeah, with the windows. Yeah. Mar Martha could have overheard from the kitchen. Oh she couldn't either. The pots were boiling. Raise my hand. This is Sean. Can I raise my hand for a sec? I still don't I still don't think this was a teaching session. I think Jesus was visiting in the home And Martha was always pro worried about getting things ready for Jesus being there, and Mary's listening to what he has to say. And that's how he interprets the story at my home And and what what what Jesus is saying is here, hey you don't need to do all this for me, you know, you don't need to do all this for me. What's more important is we are together enjoying each other's company And Martha has chosen to stay in my presence when you're off in the kitchen working and you don't need to be. You can spend more time uh in fellowship with me rather than being involved in all of this uh Work that you're doing. Look that you was 77 minutes. That's my case. But the uh but the word Jesus is talking Mary is at his feet listening to his word. Monty is distracted with all her preparations. She came to him Instead of he's speaking, Lord, don't do you not care. Do you not care? She says that to him, do you not care? that my sister has left me to do all the serving alone. Alright, so that's because I don't want to get beyond that. I know you all have Young right. But I just want to focus in on what we see and not beyond that. Okay. Yes. I do that. I set my standards for how things need to be. I expect everyone else to do this. Exactly. That's what she was doing. I don't set the standard. I know she wants everybody to be. I know, but I'm still saying it couldn't have been bigger But I'm I'm saying Jesus wasn't worried about the dinner. He wanted to spend time with Martha and Mary. It's just like the it's like the hostess who says, I'm gonna do the dishes after the pizza believe 'cause I want to spend time with them versus I've got to get this all cleaned up over there. I don't know. Look at the chat. Look at the chat. I can't I can read it if you can. Oh, go ahead. Um he says the teaching and all of this section is all about the heart We all have a tendency to measure our spirituality against what someone else does. Right, and and that is not what we're doing here, but I understand there's a passion for Martha and Mary story in um uh because a lot of these have beat down Martha over over the years. And um But that's not what Jesus did. And then beat her down. So we should but he is teaching a lesson, he's teaching a valuable lesson here about service And some service in it in her response to him can't show some service can lead us to be in the flesh Some service can lead to self-righteousness if we're not careful. Some service can lead us to even question the Lord about other people Mary didn't say to Martha and just, you know, throwing that in, come over here and sit down and listen to the Lord. She didn't say that. She wasn't caught up what Martha was doing. So the but it is something important here about service and the dangers of too much service. But what Martha should have said should have was when Mary is cleaning up after the meal, I will come in and talk to you I wonder why this is hard for I mean um this is a term in this section because maybe most of us are very used to the service Well, I I I can almost get into Martha's by myself and sh and she's going, If she could help me, I could get out there and listen. If she would help me, I'd be done and I could get You mean obviously? Right, right, right, right. So you relate to it but you said right. Well, I didn't say it was right. No no, I'm not saying you right, but what I'm saying in general. And what he said is right But I still identify with that story very easily. Me too. And so what is the one thing that is necessary? Ultimately that's least. What is the necessary thing that Mary has chosen over month? If you are the choice, I'll need to cup tea Don't worry about all this other stuff. I only need a cup of tea. We're going to be able to do that. Mary has children to go for it. Right Alright, then the stick clear. That's not goal in these other carayots, okay? Other places. Only one thing necessary. Mary has chosen the good part. What was the choice? What was necessary? What was chosen Let's say this. Don't go anywhere. Don't go anywhere else. One thing is necessary. Mary chose the good part To sit and listen to Jesus, that's right. That is the context, that's the environment. We fully understand that. And so what I'm saying is to get beyond that is to miss the point. That's that's the missing point. He teaches her one thing is necessary, and he teaches that Mary has chosen to go for it. Because we do get distracted in everything that we're doing, whether we're surveying or we didn't reading scripture we can get distracted which is what Jesus is seems to be doing now over and over again is the tendency of our hearts to take our eyes off of him with our ears away from listening to his words and meditating on his words and put them on ourselves. And so I feel like the lesson here is like shock Whether we're eating or drinking or listening or whatever we're doing, do it all for the glory of Christ. It could be much serving without worship. Yeah. Much serving without worship. And uh you know you can feel bellies, people have a good time, and there is no worship. Yeah. And that is not what is necessary. The main thing is to be what Mary was. It's a very difficult thing to put all these things. It is. And to know that we are weak to do this in our own strength. I would rather I'm sorry, let me put this I'm more used to serving than worship. I will come here, I can like like even this. I had to ask myself, would I be this involved in a word if I wasn't teaching? True Probably not. Yeah, I would. You know, I'm I'm I'm preparing for something. I I understand I have a responsibility, so I'm gonna be careful about what I say or what I hear But in my personal time do I dig deep to commune with God, to meditate on the Word, to pray to God, or when I have to serve in some capacity so I get more geared up for that Just knowing God, what he said before, just knowing that you are saved, should mean so much to you. Not necessarily service in and of itself. Knowing God should mean a lot to you Much more and serving from that perspective should be what is most important. And it's easy to get distracted with much service. And let's go to the last one Miracle happens sometimes. Alright, 113. We have, oh, we got enough. We got our lights out. Who would like to read down to verse 8 and somebody pick up the next part, please? Section 113, page one forty-five. disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. And he said to them, When you pray, say, Father, hallowed be your name. name. Your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread and forgive us of our sins. For we ourselves also forgive everyone who is indebted to us and lead us not into temptation Then he said to them, Suppose one of you has a friend and goes to him at midnight and says to him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has come to me from a journey and I have nothing to set before him. And from inside he answers and says, Do not bother me, the door has already been shut and my children and I are in bed. I cannot give up get up and give you anything. Next part, please. I tell you even though you will not get up, give them anything because He is his friend, yet because of his persistence, he will get up and give him as much as he needs. So I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you Seek, you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds. And to him who knocks Now suppose one of you fathers asked by his son for a fish, he will not give him a snake instead of a fish bully. Or if he asks for an egg, he will not give him a scorpion bully. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Thank you. So Jesus' life of prayer impacted his disciples in such a manner where they came in one came and asked, Lord, teach us to pray as John also towards the disciples. So he gives them a lesson, a model for prayer. And the first thing is what? Father, hollow be your name, your kingdom come. What does this mean? In his model to acknowledge what about God? Holy. But he's sovereign. He's holy, he's sovereign. What else And his name needs to be held. used to your kingdom come and then what else what's the next part of this model prayer give us each day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those everyone who's indebted us You're thinking in that verse 4, there's something we miss sometimes, including me at one point, and forgive us our sins for We ourselves also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. I like the mask version better than this one version. When he says that, he says forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. And then at the end of this He makes a comment about that in verse 14 of Matthew 6. For if you forgive others their trespasses Your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. And when I realized that, the difference in that, and I have said this prayer hundreds of times, that this was saying this I did what it says and my life has never been the same since. Mm-hmm. I remember we even discussed this boat a couple of weeks ago, I think the last time I saw it But so in this of this model prayer, we acknowledge God, we acknowledge his holiness, we want his kingdom to come, but when it comes to us now, in um Asking for forgiveness of our sins, we must first acknowledge what? We have sinned. Right. We have sinned and we have since people have sinned because we have forgiven others The forgiveness we want from God we give away. Right. So what is it saying? If I don't ask if I don't forgive somebody for doing nasty things to me, what is that What do you mean by uh it depends what the D the nasty thing is? Oh, no, um Are you harboring? Sure Ill will unforgiveness for this person. But you want forgiveness from God. Right. So as a person who was dead in their sin, found for hell with the enemy of God, and God forgave you. Um Can anybody match that? No. And so if somebody's, if I've gotten to the point where I can justify my own forgiveness in light of God's forgiveness Why would I want God's forgiveness? I mean to you the church is full of people that have done unforgiveness towards others and they live in the church full time Take a step back and ask if we are really saved if we if we live in that environment of the If we can't forgive mothers or fathers for what they did to us or brothers or sisters what they did to us. Then and this happens. Right. But is that we are not being forgiven by God. Is that what it's saying? It is, because you if you have a sin that you Your heart being a little bit more. And you're justifying it. And I'm justifying it. And so why would God God will not forgive you of yours? I think that's even in 1 John I know. So I what I'm trying to say is we need not skip over that. That is a very big teacher. And that's the bill we're saying. If you have uh there's all sorts of things that people do to us and for some unknown reason we can't let it go, knowing God has forgiven me everything And yet I can't let it go this. Right. Now, I will put this, we don't have in and of ourselves the capacity to do that. We need God's help Yeah, we need to look at God's work for His help. But what I'm trying to say is we need to be teaching this so that people can see it. added to your collectivist too. Well button I found a forgiving for right if you haven't forgiven relatives or whatever, whatever they did. Yeah. It's hard. It's not saying it's gonna be easy and say it's gonna happen quickly. But it can happen by God's grace. It's a lot more fun to hold. But even forgiveness, but it certainly makes your life miserable and the long way. And forgiveness is God's grace through you to support somebody else, and it's God's grace to you to be able to forgive. I mean yeah Thomas, yeah I understand what you're saying, but I don't think you're seeing the enormity of it, how it affects the church. Oh I I would never know that. No, no, I mean in our within our fellowship. Oh within our Yeah, I definitely wouldn't know that perspective. If somebody holds a grudge against anybody, does that mean God doesn't forgive you the sins you just confessed? No. Okay, be careful of that. That's what I'm saying. This is a very big teaching and we don't teach it enough. And it's very serious. This is what affects the fellowship of the church greater than we can know. Is it a sign that that person, even ourselves, were not actually saved? No. No, that's why he was saved No, no. Uh because they come to him and I even sometimes when he said it they said, Lord, increase our faith. Forgive your brother seventy times seven All right, who can do that? Increase our faith. So you got immaturity, maturity. I mean, it's not something you don't say, but you see the level of what it means to be a believer. Being a believer is not easy When you get to these uh levels of God's standard, showing love, loving God with everything you have. None of us do that. All that I have, all that I am Should we all be reprinted, Lord? I am not loving you. Should I reprint my heart about that? I love other things more than you. I love other people more to you. I love this service more to you. I love their attention more to you. I love that people come into my house and I'm serving. I love that more to you. There are a lot of things we You can ask God for forgiveness of, but if you are heartbreak if we are harboring unforgiveness, you will not be forgiven All right, so this was just a little bit more. Thomas, Thomas, excuse me, again, I'd like to bring in the whole council of God again. First John 1 9. If we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. It does not say if you also forgive those that you have a grudge against. Yeah. You get up, Bill. With each lesson. Alright. So persistence in prayer, previously in prayer Be persistent in prayer. We're about to pray out. Um anything else about this last session Do you want to pray about something once? Let me just put that out there. Twice. What does it mean to be persistent? Don't stop don't stop praying. Don't stop praying. And it might be you want to pray for one thing for a long time or it might be you want to pray for several things one time one time, but don't stop praying. And don't give up if you don't get it right away. Which is which is different than vain repetitions Exactly. Very different. And some things do, some fruit takes a while to produce, right? Some answers to prayer takes a while. Don't give up Um yes Mr. Well the the ask and and the guarantee that Jesus says in verse thirteen, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who are And it seems like he's saying through the whole passage, ask for whatever it is you want. But then he's very specific on what it is God will give when you ask. And that's a question really. Why is he so specific? About the Heavenly Father will give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Yeah, it makes it sound like everybody is is going to be asking with the Holy Spirit and the Father will give it because he's generous and kind, not like you know the wicked fathers who are even in their wickedness will do will give good gifts. But here's It's a very specific app and it doesn't seem to fit with the rest of white school here. The Holy Spirit's of those who ask people. So anyone who comes sincerely to God and asks to be saved, will God grant that request? Yeah. That's that one kind of request. It's a guarantee. Right. It's a guarantee. Right. You come sincerely to God for the salvation, you will get this gift. Alright. Ten fifteen, thank God.