All right, well we are on lesson thirty, page one hundred eighty six. This is Uh continuing some of the um introductory well not introductory but the preliminary things associated with Christ's final um approach to Jerusalem uh for the whole Passion Week. And so he's sort of on his way. Remember last week he um uh uh basically joined uh a a caravan of people from Galilee who were coming toward Jerusalem for the Passover, uh but lots is happening along the way. And so um I'm gonna start reading from the blended account. The blended account on page one eighty-seven. This is uh Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And as he was setting out on a journey, a ruler ran up to him and knelt before him and questioned him, saying Good teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may obtain or inherit eternal life? And he said to him Why do you call me good? What are you asking me about? Or why are you asking about what is good? No one is good except God alone. But if you wish to enter into life, keep the commandments. You know, um it it it never ceases to marvel me. that the various accounts, the interactions Jesus has with people in the gospel. Um uh sort of one-on-one evangelistic encounters where here's here's someone who's saying, how do I get saved? You know, it's like a softball. Um thanks. Um and every single one of those encounters I would have done differently. You know? And Here's this guy. Um he's he ran up to Jesus and knelt before him. What's that suggest? Submission, humility, recognizing Christ. Um not entirely sure what he recognizes about Christ, but it's respectful. Right? And so he's teachable, presumably. Uh and he says, good teacher. Um but what's his problem? He wants to earn it. His mindset, like everybody else's mindset, is about works, right? Um what good thing shall I do that I may obtain eternal life? He's very clear, that's his mindset, right? And If I were Jesus, I probably would have overlooked his address, good teacher. But Jesus picks up on that, I think, as a way to because he he referred to Jesus as a good teacher and he wanted to know what good things he should do, right? So here's the the um the epitome of goodness being asked, what do I need to do to be good, to obtain eternal life? And so Jesus challenges him. And he says, why are you asking me about what is good? But if you wish to enter into life, keep the commandments. Okay. So he says, um his mindset is um Thank you. A salvation by works that doing things would would satisfy God, make him acceptable to God And Jesus challenged them saying, Okay, go ahead and do everything in the wall, right? Keep all the commandments. Now does that mean Jesus is proclaiming a salvation of works? Well that's a trick question, right? Yes, it is a a um an impossible task. And Jesus knew that If you wish to enter into life, keep the commandments. Do everything. And then he said to him, which ones let's be a little bit more specific here because this is getting too broad. And Jesus said, Okay, quoting now from the Ten Commandments, you shall not commit murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, honor your father and mother You should love your neighbor as yourself, actually that's not in the Ten Commandments, that's elsewhere. About the Ten Comm it's a summary really of what's in the Ten Commandments. Now, before we go any further, Jesus is quoting for the Ten Commandments, but not all ten. Of the Ten Commandments, what category is he quoting? Love your neighbor as yourself. Yeah. Rather than the first four commandments is all about loving God, first and foremost. He could have gone there, but these external things are noticeable. Right? And um the young man said to them, All these things I've kept. What am I still lacking? And again, if I were in this situation, I would have said, well, there are these first four commandments, you know, and loving God and Him only and serving Him and so on. Um and what's needed there is is a devotion from the heart. It's not just the externals that you're looking for, but it's it's a heart commitment to do the right things for the right reasons, to honor God. And so all these things I have kept, what am I still lacking? When Jesus heard this, he felt a love for him, and looking at him, Jesus said, One thing you still lack. If you wish to be complete, go and sell your possessions and distribute it to the poor. And you will have treasure in heaven and come and follow me. So he said that specifically out of a heart of love for this guy, knowing what? He couldn't do this And he wouldn't do this. And so verse 22, but when the young man heard this statement, he became very sad, and he went away grieving. Why? For he was one who owned much property. And I think Jesus understood that. Uh probably everybody around him knew that because maybe the way he was dressed and presented himself. Um he was obviously not a a poor beggar. He was um a wealthy person, um Jesus probably had a pretty good understanding of how wealthy he was, whereas other people might not have. But he understood this was going to be a hard point. for him. But he said this out of love. It's a tough love, right? But then after he went away grieving, in verse 23, Jesus looking around at him, looking around at him and said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, how hard it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. The disciples were amazed at his words, but uh but Jesus answered again and said to them, Children, don't you just love to be called children? What his Jesus is saying here is y you're you're shallow in your understanding, so I need to tr train you. Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God. In what way is it hard for people to enter the kingdom of God? It's hard for them to enter the way this guy was anticipating, doing enough to satisfy God. And They want it to be simple, not sacrificial. This guy wanted it simple, not sacrificial. And he wasn't willing to sacrifice everything He would have seen that value as more valuable than all the stuff. Right. And that's that's exactly what's going through the minds of Christ's disciples here. Um Jesus said, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God. For again I say to you, it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God Actually, I I'm not sure about this, but I've been told that there was a place in the wall That was just kind of a narrow passageway that um you really couldn't get your camel through because they're typically loaded with all the gear And they would have to stoop down and maybe crawl through and camels probably aren't all that good at crawling. Um Yeah. Um But that's really no different, even if that is what Jesus was referring to. And if he was referring to that, it would have been well known to everybody that's what he was referring to. Um it but the same principle is true about even the kind of a needle that we're talking about that we understand. with a real small eye. He says it's um easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Uh does that mean it's it's really hard for every rich person? It's unlikely that rich people are going to enter the kingdom of God? In large measure it's probably mostly true. But what's he getting at? Your riches don't mean anything to God. Right. That's you're not going to buy your way into it like you might buy your way into some other kind of transaction or or uh privilege or something like that. You can't buy your way into it. Not only that, but getting into the kingdom depends on things that are not material at all and you're gonna have to humble yourself like you're not used to being humble. He wasn't explicitly drawing them out, but he was getting heading to the same heart issue. So even the disciples were were dismayed here, right? Easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. When the disciples heard this They were even more astonished and said to him, Then who can be saved? It's it's like their conclusion, I think it was last week or the week before, where he's talking about marriage And they said, well if that's the case, it's better not to marry. You know, it's a high standard. Uh and so here they say, who can be saved? If the rich can't, who can? And looking at them, Jesus said to them, With people, this is impossible. It's impossible for anyone to uh enter the kingdom of God on account of their wit riches, on account of their power, on account of any asset that they might have. Um what it takes is simple, childlike dependence on God and humility on our part, not pride. Um like Paul says, um our salvation is not by works lest anyone should boast. There's no boasting before God. And rich people are used to boasting, relying on their uh material resources. And so Jesus said, With this with people this is impossible, but not with God, for with God all things are possible Then Peter began to say to him, Behold, we have left our own houses. We have left everything and followed you. What then will there be for us? And he's thinking, you know, okay, Jesus is talking about great sacrifice, and he's saying, Peter's saying, yeah, we've sacrificed everything. to follow you. And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, that you who have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man will sit upon his throne, his glorious throne, you also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or fathers or mother or children or farms for my namesake For the sake of the kingdom of God and for the gospel, we'll receive a hundred times as much now in the present age, houses and brothers, sisters and mothers and children's farms along with them persecutions and in the age to come will inherit eternal life. So it's not really clear maybe it was whether the the the original guy is still around. It seems like he went away grieving, but it also says Jesus was looking at him, maybe looking at the guy as he was leaving. Um but anyway, he's sort of getting at the answer here that this guy needed it. uh or our possessions, but it's about uh devotion to God, submission to God. Um there's nothing we can do of our own power, of our own resources, our own wisdom that will satisfy God's standards, but God's grace. Um it's a good thing Jesus understood people's hearts better than we could ever have known people's hearts. And he knew what this guy needed. And he knew what his disciples needed to see as an object lesson. But anyway. And then he says in verse 30, but many who are first will be last and the last first. What does he mean there in context? Many who are first will be last and the last first. By the world standards, if the people who are the rich, the powerful, the wise or whatever, for by world standards, uh that doesn't really count at all with God And so uh the people who are last, the the the ones with lack of resources, the lack of uh uh human uh recognition and standing, uh are more likely to be at the head of the line with God because they're humble. They're um submitted to God. And he gives an example of that. or transitions into a a similar topic anyway. He says, For the kingdom of God, or heaven, is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard, so day laborers, right? When he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius for the day, now the denarius was a unit of currency, but it was basically a day's wage. And everybody understood the going rate. And when they agreed at that rate, he sent them into his vineyard. And he went out about the third hour three hours later, and saw others standing idle in the marketplace and said to those, you also go into the vineyard and whatever is right I will give you. And so what were they thinking? All right, we came in a little late. Probably won't be a full denarius, but he seems like a fair guy. We're willing to work for him. And so they went. Again he went about the sixth hour and the ninth hour and did the same thing. And about the eleventh hour He went out and found others standing around and he said to them, Why have you been standing here idle all day long? They said to him, Because no one hired us. And he said to them, You go into the vineyard too Now, when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last group to the first. Now we're not uh Jesus doesn't give the uh details here, but apparently the owner already gave instructions to the foreman about what to do. And so when those hired About the eleventh hour came, each one of them received a denarius for only an hour's work. When those hired first came, they thought that they would receive more, but each of them also received a denarius. And when they received it, they grumbled at the landowner, saying, These last men have worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden. of the s and the scorching heat of the day. But he, the owner, said to them, uh one of them, Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for denarius? Take what is yours And go. But I wish to give this last man the same as you. It's not lawful for me to do what I wish with what I what is my own? Or is your eye envious because I am generous? So the last shall be first and the first last. So what is the um lesson or application of that to us today. It's not about working and wages, right? What what's the what's the importance of this spiritually? Yeah, so it has to do with the sovereignty of God, right? And what else? Because if he were fair, what? We'd get what we deserve, which is what? Hell. Yeah. Um and when you think about um the contrast between somebody like uh the early apostles, let's say Peter and Paul, who went on to uh many, many years of ministering for the Lord through lots of joys, yes, but lots of tribulations as well. And in the end we're both martyred for their faith, great examples to all of us, and yet you've got the thief on the cross who has the same privilege privilege of eternal life. In fact, uh he was going to be in paradise with Christ the very same day, right? Um and didn't have the wor any works to show for it. He's being sentenced to death. He he was being m um not martyred, um executed for his sins, rightfully so. Um and so he's like the person who came and only worked an hour and yet got a full day's wage. And Peter and John uh or Paul uh put in a lot of work and got the same eternal life. Now actually in this passage he's saying that um Peter at least is among those who would be sitting on thrones in the the kingdom. Uh so there is a bit of a uh exaltation of the apostles, but the principle still applies. I mean it's not about our works In terms of the eternal reward. Eternal life with Christ is freely given to everyone who repents. And trusts in him alone. Right. Um want to qualify that a little bit. We need the attitude of the bro prodigal son after his conversion. Right, where he came to his senses and says, I need to go back and repent to my father and I'm willing to be treated just as a slave Um not the attitude that led him to that low point in his life, right? Um so yeah. Yeah, and um he he so he's saying the the maybe the first will be last and the last will be first, and it's gonna be counter to our human standards, our human expectations because the things that are important to people here in this life um are not things that are qualifications to get us into heaven. And God is uh In the text here he uses the word generous. More often we use the word gracious, right? And we don't deserve any of that grace because it's grace. It's not based on our works or our merits. Right. Um okay. Anything else there? Yeah. If the if if there are people who grumbled They probably wouldn't have gotten hired the next day. If I were the uh Yeah. Anyway, um so this is just another example of how Christ in his in his teaching ministry and his ex example um is showing that God's interests, God's methods, God's um paradigm Is not at all what people are expecting. What people are expecting is a a salvation of works, of merit, uh, and that things that are are uh uh highly regarded in an earthly sense, a human sense, would be real impressive to God, but over and over and over again we see him communicating that that's not the case, guys. You've got to be like a little child With childlike faith and humble yourselves. And um yes, good works are important, but they're the result of the right heart. You're doing the right things, yes, but for the right reasons from the heart. Um and so over and over he's he's he's beating heads. to some extent. Um trying to get people to realize that it's not what you're thinking. Um and this this is a great example of it Okay. Then let's go to number 138 here. Jesus again foretells his death and resurrection. Um Okay, the blended account. As they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, Jesus was walking on ahead of them, and they were amazed And those who followed were fearful. Then again he took the twelve disciples aside by themselves and began to tell them what was going to happen to him, saying, Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem. And all the things which are written through the prophets about the Son of Man will be accomplished. For he will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and will hand him over to the Gentiles, and will be mocked. and mistreated and spit upon. And after they have scourged him, they will crucify him, and on the third day he will be raised up again. Very, very clear, explicit statement of Well what's going to happen? Actually, quite soon. But the disciples understood none of these things. Why? Probably two reasons. Let me continue. They understood none of these things, and the meaning of the statement was hidden from them, and they did not comprehend the things that were said. They weren't given the ability to understand it. was saying was it didn't fit in with their understanding of what the Messiah was going to do. Um you know the Old Testament gives lots of um specifics about the Messiah and what he would do, but it's not it's not easy without the benefit of history and the New Testament. It's not as e it's not easy to s to realize that when the Old Testament speaks of the Messiah, what he would do, what he would accomplish, what it would be like, it's not separating his two Cummings is to Advent, clearly, sometimes in the same passage. And so it it's sort of understandable that people could have been confused that the glorious king who would sit on David's throne, which is what his disciples were anticipating happening pretty soon. That was all about his second coming, not his first coming. And the the other context that not just the disciples but Jews generally uh at that time had was their oppression from Rome and that the Messiah would be our deliverer from that, much like uh God sent Moses to be the deliverer from Pharaoh Right? And so that's their thinking. That's their mindset. And Jesus says this, by the way, the fifth time he was explicit about what was going to happen to him This is time number five. The previous ones are in section ninety-three, ninety-five, ninety-six, and ninety-seven. And here we are in section one hundred thirty-eight. Um multiplications. Jesus was being very explicit with them. Not so much for their current application, but um we understand particularly from the Gospel of John that um later the Holy Spirit brought into their their opened their eyes to understand the things that Jesus had already told them so that now, okay, I see. Um but that wasn't true of them at this point. They were still clueless. Um even when it was happening on the cross They were perplexed. I'm s i i i it's it it goes beyond their being sad for him, but they were just confused. This wasn't this wasn't what I was anticipating. Um which also explains why um after he rose from the dead, Jesus opened the scriptures to them to tell them how these things must have been and they were foretold and now people say now I get it Right? That wasn't true yet. Um okay. Any other thoughts here? Yeah? And I think we've noticed this several times, both from here in the Gospels, but it's also true of the nation of Israel. um, in the Old Testament that even the people God worked through were just plain folk and they had all sorts of warts A lot of dirty laundry and so on, if you will. But God worked through them anyway, not because of their merit, but by grace. Okay Um I was anticipating that we would have a little more time today. And so I think there were some questions that came up a few weeks ago when Jeff was teaching and he um um suggested that maybe I should address them. One of them. Yeah. And the Gentiles he's referring to here are what? Romans. So Pilate and even Herod and and Okay. So back in section 127, I'm on page 174 Or it will be on a minute. Um Jesus um In the second part of that there, Jesus uh tells, starting in verse nineteen, where there's a split there on the top of page one hundred seventy-four. This is taken from Luke sixteen Jesus says now he's just giving this story. Um it's kind of a parable, I guess. Now there was a rich man and he habitually dressed in purple and fine linen. See there's another example of Um and joyously living in the splendor of every day. And A poor man named Lazarus, this is not the Lazarus who Jesus raised from the dead in John 11, uh but anyway, this guy named Lazarus was Uh laid at his gate, covered with sores, and longing to be fed with the crumbs which were falling from the rich men's table. Besides, even the dogs were coming in licking the sores. The poor man died and was carried away by the angels to Abraham's bosom, and the rich man also died and was buried. And Hades he lifted up his eyes, being t in torment, and saw Abraham far away and Lazarus in his bosom And he cried out and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool off my tongue, for I am in agony in this flame. But Abraham said, Child, remember that during your life you received your good things and likewise Lazarus bad things. But now he is being c uh comforted here and you are in agony. So this is kind of tied with the um The uh parables Jesus told in our lesson today about the the workers. The first shall be last and the last shall be first. Um and besides all this, between us And you, there is a great chasm fixed so that those who wish to come over here from here to you will not be able, and that none may cross over from there to us. And he said, Then I beg you, father, that you send it to my father's house, for I have five brothers, in order that he may warn them. So that they will not also come to this place of torment. But Abraham said, But they have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. But he said, No, Father Abraham. But if someone goes to them from the dead they will repent. But he said to them, If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, they will not be persuaded even if someone rises from the dead. Which, by the way, was very much what was happening even after Jesus rose from the dead. after after um uh the real Lazarus was raised from the dead. People didn't believe, right Or at least some did and some didn't. But anyway, the the question is here, what is all this about um Abraham's bosom and um this this chasm between and everything? Um The short answer is, um, I don't know. I'm not sure. But I'm gonna give you the long answer too, okay? Um so remember that God created us as humans um with a material part, our body, and an immaterial part, the real us on the inside. Scripture refers to that as our soul, our spirit. spirit, sometimes using the word heart, right? It's the immaterial part of us on the inside. So today, well, it's always been the case, That when a person dies physically, what happens to the material part? gets buried anyway and eventually decays and and whatever. What happens to the immaterial part, the real us That goes somewhere. So there's a separation between the body, at the point of death, the physical death, there's a separation between the body and the spirit. the soul. So if you're a believer today, your body of course is uh finished the physical body is is is done, it it goes into the ground, it's buried, let's say. Um the soul, however, of a believer goes where? Directly to be with the Lord Jesus. Yeah. We see that from scripture. Um and you remember in um uh I guess it's Philippians. Paul says, Well, you know, um I've got this dilemma. I'd love to be here to minister to you, but I'd really, really love to be with the Lord. And to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. Um Nevertheless, he understood that God was going to keep him around a little while longer to minister. But um and there are other places as well where we see that um A believer, well, just like Jesus told the thief on the cross, today you will be with me in paradise, right? Um and so for Christians today, believers today, that that um oh the one other part. So at death believers soul, spirit, goes to be with the Lord, their body goes into the ground, except you get to First Thessalonians four And you learn about the um the rapture where Jesus says um uh people are are concerned that uh And Paul is writing in 1 Thessalonians 4, be out of the concern that people express to him, hey, there have been believers who have died. Are they going to miss out on um heaven and and so on, or they have to be around when when um uh Christ returns, and Paul comforts them by saying, actually, when I when Christ returns, he's going to return um and those who are in the graves who are in Christ will rise first. What is it that's rising at that point? Their body, the soul is already with Christ. Right? So their body is going to be resurrected, just like the body of Christ was resurrected and join with Christ and be united with their soul again in a glorified body And then he says, 1 Thessalonians 4, then those of us who are still around when this happens, who are believers, will also be caught up with them in the air. That's the rapture Unfortunately, as far as I know, Scripture isn't explicit about what happens to Old Testament believers at the time of the rapture. I'm assuming that those who are dead in Christ, according to 1 Thessalonians 4, is speaking primarily of Christians, those who are in Christ. They're part of the church. Um but it may well be that Old Testament believers were not part of the church, but they were saved by God's grace through faith, just like we are, that their bodies will be resurrected as well at that time. Uh we learn in Revelation twenty that there's another part of this initial resurrection of those who came to Christ during the tribulation period and they were martyred as believers. during the tribulation period. So their believers, they've died, they beheaded many of them, it says. Um there's gonna be a second resurrection of believers at that point. And then later in Revelation 20, it talks about the revelation of the the resurrection of the bodies of everybody else, all the unbelievers, and they're gonna come before God at the great white throne. Um okay. So we've got this because we're two part beings, physical and um spiritual, material and immaterial. We've got two different um I was gonna say resurrections But resurrection is really in scripture, I think it's only referring to the resurrection of the body. But anyway, you've got the departure of the soul from the body at the time of death. to be with the Lord if you're a believer, um, and the resurrection of the body later to be rejoined with the soul and Now, if you're not a believer, you get that same separation at the time of death. And the body is eventually going to be raised into judgment and but what about their soul? Um, I'm not aware of anything other than the the Old Testament reference to Sheol, uh where um there doesn't seem to be a distinction when the Old Testament refers to Sheol between whether it's just for believers or just for unbelievers, it seems to be general. Um and it turns out that the uh the rabbis over the many years during the Old Testament period leading up to the time of Christ Their understanding, their tradition tradition about this was that yes, Sheol um had two parts, one for believers and one for unbelievers. Uh I think they may have even spoke of this chasm that Jesus was referencing. And so the presumption from current uh interpreters is that Jesus was giving an example that fit into the paradigm of the teaching of the day so that people would understand it. How how that how much that reflects actual reality, I'm not sure It's a pretty good indication if Jesus used it that it's it's it's okay to understand it this way, uh and that there could be communication between the two parts, and that there's a chasm between them And there is great torment in the one part and great joy in the other part, and that's about all God wants us to know. Abraham's bosom was referring to as just fellowship with the good guys As opposed to uh or similar to are going to be with Christ as believers. But these are now uh uh Old Testament believers and there were some, there were many, and it it's kind of a similar thing where eventually they're going to be brought into um fellowship with God in heaven, uh just like New Testament believers will. And everybody's body is going to be raised at a certain point in time. Uh the believers first and then the unbelievers. Um my understanding is that this rich guy who's not named, even though Lazarus the poor guy is named, uh this rich guy is weeping and gnashing himself also. Uh everybody who has regret that they got it wrong is going to be weeping and they're going to be gnashing their teeth in defiance, even though they know they're wrong They think this is unfair, right? Um and it's not a single point in time when there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. It's a place where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth And so that's presumably been happening all throughout history as unbelievers have died, and it's going to continue to happen even at the end of the tribulation when the sheep are separated from the goats and the goats go to um judgment right before the millennium. Um but the final judgment where they're all brought together and sentenced into the the into the uh the fiery pit uh is at the end. I don't know if that answers your question. It's not like there's just one occasion when there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. I think it's a place where that's what's happening Yeah, I think what what Jesus is describing here where this guy is in torment because of that's and He he's got some conflict in his heart. He says, Well I if I can't get out of this, let me try to help my kin. Um I think that's probably typical of people who end up there and realize, oh, everything I believed is wrong. Yeah. I don't know. Hope that helps. That's the long answer. The short answer is easier. Uh we got a few minutes. Any other questions? Yeah, it's it's a it's a warning. Yeah. And that warning doesn't require someone to raise from the dead to say, Hey y I've gone through this, you know, don't don't uh make a mistake here. Jesus' point is that um Um God's word ought to be enough to convict people of sin and their their uh um coming judgment. See Yeah, you know and but um I got the thinking here, which is dangerous, but I I got the thinking we know of people who have been raised from the dead, uh even the the ministry of of Christ There's um Tyrus' daughter. There's the son of the widow from Nain. There's Lazarus, of course. And I got to wondering, so can you imagine having been raised from a dead by Christ? Yeah. Um and how that would change your life, right? Now we know a little bit more about Lazarus's situation because there was a lot of opposition to Christ and it seemed like Lazarus was um at risk because of that. You know, we w we saw a lot of example in in the book of John particularly where uh someone was healed and the religious leaders are are questioning him and uh I particularly like the the blind guy and and in John Nine, where he's trying to explain the simple facts of life to the religious leaders. It's amazing that, you know, he he opened my eyes, but you don't know even where he's from? And you're the leaders? Now you should know better than that. Well they kicked him out of the t out of the synagogue because he was bucking the system. Uh so we know that But that wasn't being rise raised from the dead. I imagine that Lazarus, who the raising of Lazarus was far more um I think the word is notorious It it was a very noteworthy thing that everybody it was it made the headlines. It was on the internet and everything, right? And it was dividing people about Christ. And Poor Lazarus was sort of the fulcrum there, and you can imagine if I knew Lazarus, you know what my question to him would be? So what was it like? He probably heard that question a million times. And we don't have any record at all of that, right? Um but what we do know from scripture is that um God has a place for everybody and uh we have an eternal destiny after this life. Um And so we should be warned. Yeah. Fortunately we we we have at least the outline of what that eternity is gonna look like. And it's amazing Yeah. But there are a lot of people today who in a lot of religious traditions that officially hold that after you die physically that's it. There's nothing. Some of them say that if you're a believer there's heaven, but if you're unbeliever There's just extinction. You're gone. There's nothing. Scripture is very clear about the torment, eternal torment that's going to be very real to people. Well on that very cheerful note. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you have given us your word, that you've given us uh Um as much as we need to know, to obey you, to trust you, to know you personally, to be confident that we have eternal life in Christ, not because of any merit of our own, but by your grace. And that we have the great privilege to proclaim that truth to others. And we know that many will be drawn to you, but probably many more will be offended by that. And that's just the way it is. And we pray that we would be faithful in the meantime, that we would be conscious of and focused on eternity and not the trappings of this world. And I pray that we would use, be good stewards of our resources during this life, but that we not hold on to them and that they not be a stumbling block for us. Help us, Lord, to indeed love you from the heart, to serve you from the heart, being humble before you, so that you would say, Well done, good and faithful servant. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen