Well, I hear you guys didn't listen fast enough last week. And so um We're still we're gonna pick up last week's lesson at the end and see how far we get. So I'm on page one hundred seventy-five in the notes. We're in the middle of a fairly long section in the Gospel of Luke, several chapters. Section 128, Jesus teaches his disciples about forgiveness, faith, and servanthood. Um he said to his disciples, this is Luke seventeen, he said to his disciples, it is inevitable that stumbling blocks come, but woe to him through whom they come. It would be better for him If a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea and then he would uh cause then that he would cause one of these little ones. Be on your guard. If your brother sins, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. And if he sins against you seven times a day and returns to you seven times saying, I repent, forgive him. The apostles said to the Lord, Increase our faith. And the Lord said, If you have faith like a mustard seed, you would say to this mulberry tree, Be uprooted and planted in the sea, and it would obey you So his focus there is well he's saying our focus should be not on the size of our faith necessarily for its own sake, but rather what is the object of our faith. Is our faith in God alone or something else Which of you, having a slave ploughing or tending sheep, will say to him when he has come in from the field Come immediately and sit down to eat. But will he not say to him, rather, prepare something for me to eat and properly clothe yourself and serve me? After all, I'm the master, huh? You're the slave. Um serve me while I eat and drink, and afterward you may eat and drink. He does not Thank the slave because he did the things which were commanded, does he? So you too, when you do all the things which are commanded to you, say, We are unworthy slaves. We have done only what we ought to have done. Yet I'm I'm amazed at how many um of the illustrations and parables and so on Jesus gave uh were in the context of masters and slaves And uh I think his point here is that he is the master, he is lord, he is the king, and we're his servants. And it's not about us, it's about him. Okay, I'm going to breeze right through. The next one is Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead, section one hundred twenty nine. Familiar uh story um taken from John eleven, but there's much significance as it's preparing us for what's to come here in the Passover Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha, and we've already seen it from them. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick. So the sisters sent word to him, saying, Lord, behold, He whom you love is sick. But when Jesus heard this, he said, This sickness is not to end in death, but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified by it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus so that when he heard that he was sick, he then stayed two days longer in the place where he was Then, after this, he said to his disciples, Let us go to Judea again. That's where Bethany is. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you. And are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. This he said, and after that he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep But I go that I may awaken him out of sleep. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus has spoken about his death, but they thought he was speaking of literal sleep So Jesus then said to them plainly, Lazarus is dead, and I'm going for your sakes, I'm glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let's go to him. What's the connection between sleep and death in this case anyway? With sleep, it's temporary, right? You're going you're going to rise again in the morning. And that's his point. He see Lazarus is going to rise. Um Verse 16. Therefore Thomas, um, who was called Didymus the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us go also, that we may die with him. Always the encourager. When Jesus came, he found that he had already been in the tomb four days. Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. Uh this consolation was a very um cultural uh thing. We see it in several cases, like with the race or the uh uh the death of Dyrus' daughter, all the weeping, the the consoling, it was it would go on for days and be a uh a very significant thing. Uh verse twenty. Martha therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went out to meet him, but Mary stayed at the house. Martha then said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here my brother would not have died. Even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. And Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. And Martha said to him, I I know that he will rise in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I and the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live even if he dies. And everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, even He who comes into the world. When she has said this, she went away and calls her sister Mary, her sister, saying secretly, The teacher is here and is calling for you And when she heard it, she got up quickly and was coming to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but he was still in the place where Martha met him. Then the Jews who were um as the religious leaders, who were with her in the house and consoling her, when they saw that Mary got up quickly and went out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb, to weep there. Therefore, when Mary came to where Jesus was she saw him, fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Same thing Martha said earlier, right? When Jesus therefore saw her weeping And the Jews who came to her came with her, also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit and was troubled, and said, Where have you laid him? And they said to him, Lord, come and see. And here it is, the shortest verse in the Bible. Jesus wept. Uh quick question here. Why did Jesus weep? He was feeling compassion for the family, right? I think it was deeper than that. I think he was seeing the response of all the crowd around him. Um doing the obligatory uh grieving as if they had no hope. And they needed to I don't know how many of them were were predisposed to believe in him at this point, but um what they needed was a um uh a saving faith in God. And uh I think he wept in part because most of them were When it really comes down to it, I'm believing. Um anyway, um verse thirty-six. So the Jews were saying, See how he loved him But some of them said, could not this man who opened the eyes of the blind man have kept this man from dying? There's some natural questioning So Jesus again, being deeply moved from within, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it. Jesus said, Remove the stone. And Martha, the sister of the deceased, said to him Lord, by this time there will be a stench, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not say to you that if you believe you will see the glory of God? So they removed the stone. Then Jesus raised his eyes and said, Father, I thank you. that you have heard you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but because of the people standing around, I said it, so that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth! And the man who died came forth, bound hand and foot with wrappings with his face wrapped around with a cloth. And Jesus said to them, unbind him and let him go. You can imagine the uproar this was causing. Right. Well he continues here in the next section, verse forty five. Therefore many of the Jews who came to Mary saw and saw what he had done believed in him. That's good. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them the things which Jesus had done. Therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees convened a council and were saying What are we doing? For this man is performing many signs. If we let him go on like this, all men will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation Now there's an extent to which that may have been true. But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you take into account that it is expedient for you Now he did not say this on his own initiative, but being high priest that year he prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation. And not for the nation only, but in order that he might also gather together into one the children of God who were scattered abroad. So from that day on, they, the religious leaders, planned together to kill him. So Uh we we've been seeing evidences all along that the attitude, the motives of the religious leaders in opposition to Jesus was superficially they were thinking, um, protecting our law, our traditions and so on. But It's becoming clearer and clearer that it's driven largely by selfishness, their position, their their standing, their reputation. And so on. And if Jesus is right, it exposes them as being what? Imposters, uh hypocrites. All right, well let me read the last one then we can have a quick discussion before we're going on to today's lesson. So this is now uh continuing John verse 54. Therefore Jesus no longer continued to walk publicly among the Jews He and the disciples already knew that the religious leaders were out to get him, right? This happened very close to Jerusalem, and uh it it The shockwaves of this very quickly had their impact. So he no longer continued to walk publicly among the Jews, but went away from there to the country n uh near the wilderness into a city called Ephraim, and there he stayed with his disciples. So um Bethany is um just a couple miles due east of Jerusalem, just over the Mount of Olives, and Where he went here was to get further away from Jerusalem for now. Why would he want to do that? Well, because they're threatening him. He wasn't necessarily afraid of the threats, but what It wasn't the time, right? It had to be the Passover. And so um he went north through into and through Samaria and kind of bided his time, although we're going to see some other activity here coming up. And then he came with um a typical caravan of people coming up to Jerusalem for the Passover from the Galilee area later on. We'll catch that later. Okay. Um any thoughts, questions? Yeah, and it it's written here as if that's an actual prophecy A true prophecy as in from God, but he didn't understand it. His hearers probably didn't understand it. Well, they maybe understood it from their perspective but had a wrong interpretation. All right. Well I was talking with Jeff last week um after he alerted me that um uh he didn't have time to cover those sections last week. And it just reminded me of when I first taught this class, I did it in three quarters, three calendar quarters, and came to the conclusion, man, we were just skimming the surface. We gotta take slow down a little bit. So I formatted it into four quarters. Still feels like we're skimming the surface and and uh just hitting the high points. But in part that's kind of the purpose, to kind of get see everything in perspective, in chronological order. Um work through the the main issues, not have to dwell too much on little details, but provide a structure for your own study in in years to come. You've got a resource that can help you get into some of the details. So anyway, breezing along here, I'm on uh page one hundred eighty, section one hundred thirty-two. So Jesus is now in the process. This section is sort of the preamble, if you will, to the whole passion of Christ, the Passion Week and so on. Um we're of just a little over halfway through our one year travel through the Gospels. The Gospel message, the the Gospel records take about that long to cover fashion and the events leading up to it and after it. Um and so you think that's important? It's real important. And all four of the Gospels together spend so much time that it's going to be it's going to be fun Okay. So this we're starting out. He's remember he's he's left the Jerusalem area, he's up in Samaria, um, and In Luke seventeen it says, well he was on the way to Jerusalem, so he's heading back for the Passover. He was passing between Samaria and Galilee So Samaria is north of Judea, where Jerusalem is. Galilee is north of that. And so the the boundary between the two is where they were. And as he entered a vis a village, ten leprous men who stood at a distance met him, and they raised their voices, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. When he saw them, he said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests. I'm sorry. Yeah And as they were going, they were cleansed. Usually it's the other way around. They would be cleansed, and that why would they show themselves to the priest? It was required by the law to be basically certified that you're no longer um an outcast, like a leper, which they were. But he said, Go um uh go and show yourself to the priests when they're saying, Please have mercy on us Um if they turned and it seems to indicate they did, if they turned to that point to show themselves to the priest, based only on that command, go and show yourself to the priest, what does that display? Faith. Right. That's what God that's what Jesus was was looking for. And as they were going, they were cleansed. Now one of them, when he saw that he had been healed, turned back Um you know what leprosy is, does? My uh my understanding is not all that thorough, but I I understand it's you y you lose the sense of um pain and you're s more susceptible to to uh harm And uh before you know it you're you're uh you know, you're sore, you're bleeding, whatever. There are other the it it progresses I gather and and uh it's contagious, so people want to stay away from them Um but they could literally see that I'm healed. I'm no longer um showing those those signs of leprosy. But when one of them saw he had been healed, turned back and glorifying God with a loud voice and fell on his face at his feet giving thanks to him. And I love this. And he was a Samaritan. Of course that's where he was, on this border between Galilee and Samaria. Then Jesus answered and said, Were there not ten clans? But the nine, the nine others, where are they? Was no one found who returned to give glory to God except this foreigner? And he said to him, Stand up and go, your faith has made you well. I presume that was also true of the nine others. Their faith has made them well. What he's getting at here is that they should have also been thankful for it. Okay, 133, again from Luke 17. Now having been questioned by the Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God was coming, He answered them and said, The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be observed, nor will they say, Look, here it is, or there it is, for behold The kingdom of God is in your midst. What's that mean? Who is the king of this kingdom? Jesus. He's right there with him. Right? But also, um, I think he's emphasizing that the kingdom of God is not like the kingdoms of the earth where you see um you know all the politics and uh trappings and all this sort of thing, but rather the kingdom of God um is made up of people who have been changed at the heart level um by the king, Jesus. And so it's it's not a physical kingdom like we're used to, it's a spiritual kingdom of those who have been transformed by the king. And when the king's right there in front of them, uh the kingdom, as it were, is both at hand, which is the message that um uh Um Jesus, the disciples and I think even John the Baptist preached. Um but also it's it's spiritual, not physical. Like when Jesus was uh being questioned and uh tried before uh I guess it was Pilate. And Pilate asked him, so are you a king then? And he says, Well my kingdom is not of this world. And that's what he's getting at here Okay. Um the days will come when you will long for one of the days of the Son of Man and you will not see it. They will say to you, Look there Or look here, do not go away and do not run after them. For just as the lightning, when it flashes out of one part of the sky, shines to the other part of the sky, so will the Son of Man be in his day. What's his point? It's just gonna happen. Um you don't actually get a except for the fact that there was lots of lightning all over the place at the same time, you don't get any particular warning that a lightning bolt is going to flash in any particular place. It just happens, right? The lightning flask gives you an indication that there probably will soon be some thunder, because that happens slower than light. Um but just like the lightning, it's just gonna happen and it's gonna be quick, and you're gonna see it. And when you see it, you're gonna recognize it That's what he's saying. Um verse twenty-five. But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation And just as it happened in the days of Noah, so it will be in the days of the Son of Man. They were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying. And we're being given a marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all. We're going to come back to that in a minute. But he gives a second example, verse 28. It was the same as happened in the days of Lot They were eating, drinking, and buying and selling, and they were planting, and they were building, but on the day that Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. It will be just the same on the day of the Son of Man the day of the Son of Man is revealed. On that day, the one who is on his house top and whose goods are in the house must not go down Oh by the way, you you realize that we shouldn't think about this as being on our housetop. They're d our housetops are not designed for peop for human habitation, right? Um it was very common for them and it still is common. in the Middle East in many places, that the rooftops were flat and there was access usually internal but sometimes external up to the top so you could make use of the rooftop and I'm not sure about then but certainly is the case now that they were also built in such a way that um you could build another old story on top of the first, the original story. typically to house um the expanded family, maybe the next generation. And so the house top for them was was um habitable, useful And if you happen to be up there when this happens, don't worry about going down to the house. Just tweet, right? Um on that day, the one who is on the house top and whose goods are in the house must not go down to take them out and likewise the one who was in the field must not turn back. Remember Lot's wife. What is it about Lot's wife they need to remember? She looked back, what was wrong with looking back? God told her not to, but why did she? She wasn't quite prepared apparently to abandon leave everything behind. And Jesus is saying here, remember that. Don't go back to your home, don't go down to get your things. Um don't be like her. Uh remember Lot's wife, verse 33. Whoever seeks to keep his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life will preserve it. What do you call that? A paradox. So what's he mean by that? Whoever seeks his life, seeks to keep his life will lose it. Serving is evidence of it, but it's evidence of what? The right heart. Where is our heart? Is our heart on me, myself and I? Or is my heart focused on the Lord's commands, the Lord's will Um and yeah. Yeah, our our natural tendency is to be thinking about the here and now. And Jesus repeatedly, including here, says you need to be thinking eternally And that should shape our priorities, right? If if we're thinking eternally, we'll probably make a few decisions differently than if we're thinking about just today and tomorrow. It's not just that it's eternal versus the temporal, but it's The the um the permanent versus the passing away. Yeah. Okay. Um verse thirty four. I tell you, on that night there will be Two in one bed, one will be taken and the other left. There will be two women grinding at the same place, one will be taken and the other left. It's just a note that it's the same kind of example. Um so what do you think he means? One will be taken and the other left. Yeah, it's natural to think this is very s This is picturing the rapture. But he's giving two examples here. He says it will be like the time of Noah and the time of of Lot. in Sodom. And in those cases, the ones who were taken were the ones who were judged, not the ones who were saved. And I think that's what he's t talking about here, that there's going to be a separation of the sheep and the goats essentially. This isn't that particular time, but um a separation of believers and unbelievers. And um The critical thing is that God will make that distinction when He returns, when Christ returns. And um it's a warning. Yeah. And then in verse thirty seven, and answering they said to him, Where, Lord? And he said to them, Where the body is, there also the venture the vultures will be gathered. That seems like a roundabout way to answer their question, but the illustration is pretty clear. Right? So if the vultures are gathering, you know there's some kind of meal down there waiting for them. They're kind of circling. And the sign that someone has someone or some animal has died is that the vultures are circling. And so you'll you'll see evidence of the sign of it when it happens. Um don't ask well in fact even later he says it's not for you to know the the the exact timing Uh and what he's saying here is don't worry about it. You'll you'll know when it happens. You'll see the signs. And it'll be too late. At that point. Yeah. At that point it'll be too late. Good point. Okay. Um So this section was titled, Jesus Illustrates the Imminence of the Kingdom of God, meaning it's it's here and now, but also its fulfillment, its culmination, is not far away. It's imminent. Um okay 134. Jesus illustrates the characteristics of righteous prayer. And we've seen already some similar uh parables that Jesus taught to make a similar point. This one is in Luke 18. Now he was telling them a parable to show them that all times they ought to pray and not to lose heart saying, in a certain city there was a judge who did not fear God and did not respect man. There was a widow in that city, and she kept coming to him saying Give me legal protection from my opponent. For a while he was unwilling, but afterward he said to himself, Even though I do not fear God nor respect man, can you imagine a guy saying that Even though I do not fear God nor respect man, yet because this widow bothers me, I will give her legal protection. Otherwise by continually coming, she will wear me out. And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge said. Now, will not God bring about justice for his elect who cry to him day and night? And will he delay long over them? I tell you, he will bring about justice for them quickly. So um Jesus here isn't isn't uh saying that God is like an unrighteous judge who fears not God nor respects man. He's saying, look at that extreme. Even in your human experience, this this um unrighteous judge was convinced, even for selfish reasons, to uh give in to the demands of this widow. And if that's true, how much more will God be faithful to do what is right for you, just don't lose heart. And that's his point. Don't lose heart. Verse 8, I tell you that he will bring about justice for them quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes Will he find faith on earth? Faith that's evidenced in this context by what? Faithful prayer. Dependence on God. Seeking God's protection, provision, will. In verse 9, he also told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous, and viewed others with contempt And so he said, two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and the other a tax collector, polar opposites The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself. God, I thank you that I am not like other people. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers, even like this tax collector. I'm sure he said it with uh disdain, right? I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all I get. What's what where's his heart? On himself. What's his understanding of salvation? By works, right? And that was characteristic of most Pharisees, I'm sure. That's why they had such elaborate rules on top of the law. Verse thirteen But the tax collector, standing some distance away, was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven. Why? He knew his guilty Unworthy. Yep. But was beating his breath saying, God be merciful to me, the sinner. That's at least confession, probably an expression of repentance as well. I tell you, this man went to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. So um What's our natural inclination? Pride or humility? Pride. Pride. Yeah, our natural inclination is pride. And God needs to work in us such that um he humbles us. And sometimes that is a hard experience for us Sometimes it's repetitive, sometimes it's over a long period of time. Um but we see elsewhere, you know, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord. It's a constant theme in scripture. And uh it it makes sense because if you look at it from a human perspective, we could probably list a long list of things that would pridefully um establish our credentials and and so on. But if you look at all of that from God's perspective, what does he see? Filty rags. So um Uh we're at his mercy. He's not at our mercy. Yeah, I I'm I'm guessing that w what's meant there is that he's praying silently. He's not He might just as well be announcing it to everybody else because that's where his heart's at, right? Um Okay. Uh yes, I just want to pick up where I was, yes. Especially if we're praying for patience. We want to be zapped real quick with patience. It doesn't work that way. So verse 14, I tell you this man went to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. Um yeah, and and about prayer uh and persistence in prayer, it doesn't mean that God's not hearing us. It doesn't mean that necessarily the answer is no, but there may be some reason that we don't know and maybe never will know what he's trying to do in us and around even others, um, that we just need to be content. But not content without um care. I mean he's saying yeah but uh pleading, uh persistent prayer is is fair game. As long as our our f our focus is on God and His will and not trying to get Him to do what we want Him to do. Um heaven forbid that he would do what we want to do, it would wreck everything. Right? We are not omniscient, we are not omnipotent, uh, and our understanding is so limited. But God does not have any limits on his understanding on his wisdom and his ability. And um just think of how long he waited between the last Old Testament prophet and the coming of Christ. Do you think there were people pleading for the Messiah? You bet Um but his timing is perfect, even if we don't understand that particularly in real time. Maybe looking back on it we can get some additional uh uh insight. But yeah. So the difference between a no and a not yet Yeah. Yeah. I think the most practical thing to do unless it's very clear that it's a no, is to assume it's not yet. And just keep praying. Lord, if it be your will. And if it's not, let me know for sure and I'll be content with that. And and sometimes he does show us one way or another, you know, things happen. that if we had gotten our way those things would have been catastrophic and we say, Thank you, Lord. I still don't know all that you have in mind, but It's clear that you're looking out for me. Um that's that's a good sort of interim recognition. But think about Job. You know, when we read the book of Job, we have insight that Job never got. Even after the fact, as far as we know, he didn't understand what we understand. in the opening of the book of Job. Job and all of his friends, counselors, thought that the problem was God's justice. But it had nothing to do with God's justice. It had everything to do with God's sovereignty. And you look at the end of Job when God was kind of um humbling Job and eventually replaced much of what he lost and and more. He still didn't explain it as far as we know. He didn't explain it, but he didn't have to. And so sometimes he does explain things Uh we see clearly through circumstances, oh, I see what he's doing here, but we can't expect that's always going to be the case. And we need to be content with Content with he's always good. Everything he does is always good and right and his timing is perfect and ours isn't and we're not. Um and that's that's sometimes a hard pill to swallow because we want answers. It's kinda natural we want answers, but um yeah. We also want answers that go away. Yeah. Prove that God's as smart as we are. Yeah, good luck with that. So the more we see God at work, the more our our faith in Him grows the more our trust in him grows and our contentment and okay, I'll wait for your timing, Lord, and your answer. Um that's a sign of growing maturity. That reminds me. Um many of you have had children who have been, you know, toddlers and um well even up to the teen years. And one of their favorite questions is why? As if it needs to pass muster with their wisdom in order to um be obeyed or understood or whatever, right? Do you think we're any different with God? He wants us to mature. And the more we know him, the more we trust him. The more we trust him, the more we'll obey him. With or without understanding, at least now. Sometimes we'll know later In hindsight. But um that's all a because of um relationship, knowing him and knowing ourselves Um and faith. The reason we can have faith in him is because we know him. His track record is a whole lot better than ours. Okay. Uh 135 on page one hundred eighty-one. Here now we're looking at Matthew and Mark. When Jesus had finished these whoops, whoops. I want to get on page 182 to get the blended account. When Jesus had finished these words, getting up, he departed from Galilee and came into the region of Judea beyond the Jordan. And large crowds followed him, gathered around him again, and according to his custom, he once more began to teach them and heal them there. By the way, as I mentioned earlier, you know he's He's on this last trip from Galilee down to Judea to get ready to go to Jerusalem for the Passover, the final, his final Passover. Um and um large crowds followed him. Well w it would have been common for uh large caravans of people to go together on their way down to Jerusalem for the feast. And he presumably uh either caused one of those or uh uh hitched a ride, if you will. on one of those. Anyway, there were a lot of people going anyway. Large crowds followed him, gathered around him again, and according to his custom he once more began to teach them and he healed them there. Some Pharisees came to Jesus telling him and asking, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason at all? And so That was a a question hotly debated between um a couple of major factions of of Jews. at that time, and maybe still is. And he answered and said, What did Moses command you? Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning? made them male and female, and said, For this reason a man shall live leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh, so they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God is joined together, let no man separate. Well that didn't quite satisfy the religious leaders. And so they said to him, um, Why then did Moses command to give her a certificate of divorce and send her away? And here he's quoting from Deuteronomy twenty four, which I've inserted In the box down below, which we may as well read at this point. Uh Deuteronomy twenty four, one to four says, When a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes, because he has found some indecency in her and he writes her a certificate of divorce this is not a command and he puts it in her hand and sends her from his house and she leaves his house and goes and becomes another man's wife and if you see all these ifs here And if the latter husband turns again against her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, or if the latter husband dies, uh, who took her to be his wife, then her former husband who sent her away is not allowed to take her again to be his wife, since she has been defiled. For that is an abomination before the Lord, and you shall not bring sin on the land in which the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance. So they were building a a um um a theology of divorce on that. Um it wasn't a command of Moses, it was um a lot of ifs And conditions, and so Jesus says um in answer to them, where they say, why then did Moses say that Because of your hardness of heart, Moses wrote you this commandment and permitted you to divorce your wives. Permitted it didn't command it. Um permitted you to divorce your wives if those conditions were true is what he means. Um but from the beginning of creation it has not been this way. I say to you, whoever divorces his wife except for immorality And here immorality, the word means uh any kind of sexual immorality. Um if anyone divorces his wife except for immorality and marries another woman, commits adultery against her. Now why would it be adultery if he divorces a wife and marries another? The wife is not only still alive, but she still is wife. In other words the divorce wasn't legit. So what he's saying is if if a man divorces his wife for any reason other than sexual immorality on her part, he thought he divorced her, but the marriage is still intact In God's eyes, they're still married. And uh he continu and if she divorces her husband, I guess in a similar way, and marries another man, she is committing adultery because the marriage is still intact. The divorce was not legit. In the house the disciples began questioning him again about this and said to him, If the relationship of a man with his wife is like this, it's better not to marry. Well, they they saw the seriousness of it for sure. But he said to them, not all men can accept this statement But only those to whom it has been given. For there are eunuchs who are born that way for their mothers with yiboom. What's a eunuch? All I can think of is the Ethiopian and Ethiopian eunuch, right? What's a eunuch? A eunuch, well let me continue reading here. Um there are eunuchs who were born that way from the mother's womb, there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are also eunuchs who made themselves eunuch for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. So a eunuch is someone who cannot reproduce. And so some of them are that way from their mother's womb. Others are made eunuchs by men. Who would be made eunuchs by men? Well the Ethiopian eunuch for one They're made eunuchs so that they can be in charge of the king's harem without uh and some make themselves eunuch for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. What's that? Celibacy. A vow celibacy to be so devoted to the Lord that uh um marriage for them is not an option. Yes. So um the note I have at the bottom of the page mentions that. That's from 1 Corinthians 7. Uh there's a Uh there's a link really between the two. It really comes down to it through the same reason, um, in my mind. In in First Corinthians seven, uh It's the par uh parenthetical statement at the bottom of page one hundred eighty-two. By the way, First Corinthians seven twelve through sixteen allows for a complementary, permissible scenario when an unbelieving spouse takes the initiative to leave a believing spouse. The believer is not forced to recognize the marriage any longer, though seeking to restore the marriage, uh particularly through the salvation of the unbelieving spouse, would bring the most glory to God, so it would be wise to pursue that as long as possible. Um here in Matthew nineteen, the question Jesus is being asked and the way he gives the answer is all about taking the initiative to um to end the marriage, to issue a divorce. He's not addressing the question of what if it's happened to you, right? And that's what 1 Corinthians 7 is about. The unbelieving spouse deserts the believing spouse. The believing spouse didn't take any initiative for it, but is is counseled there that if in First Corinthians seven, that if this happens to you and uh I think from the context of all of Scripture, after every attempt to um to reconcile and to avoid divorce, if the unbelieving spouse forsakes that, then the believing spouse is free to accept that as an end to the marriage. The link between these two is forsaking the marriage vows. In both cases if the marriage vow vows are forsaken by by um the other spouse in a very um what tangible um clear way and there's no no interest whatsoever in reconciliation, then um the believing spouse is free to to uh accept that. Um okay So at the end he says, he who is able to accept this, let him accept it. It's like when earlier he says, he who has ears to hear, let him hear. Okay. Any questions so far on that? That's not exactly what he's saying, or it's not the f totality of what he's saying. Basically he's saying don't take the initiative to end the marriage Uh i he doesn't say adultery. He says any kind of sexual immorality. Adultery would be one example of it. Yeah. But um the point is that while on the one hand, if um someone's spouse takes the initiative to um forsake their wedding vows, their marriage vows, Either by forsaking the one-flesh relationship with their spouse and God's design for marriage, so it's just one man, one woman for a life, if they're d abandoning that Um or for whatever reason they want the the uh the the other spouse just wants out, no longer wants the marriage, the first inclination of the believing spouse ought to be um restoration, reconciliation. Working on it. Um that won't often or won't always yield progress. Yeah, we'll just be married to other person. Yeah, yeah. So there are there are times when that just isn't going to happen, but there at least needs to be an effort to make sure that they are not the stumbling block and that they're reaching out in love and and um uh patience and humility to their unbelieving spouse and if that bears no fruit and they uh the unbelieving spouse pursues the divorce then If the believer has done everything they can to protect the marriage and do what is right, what would be the most glorifying thing for God, and the unbelieving spouse just clings to their their immorality and their their abandonment of the m marriage vows, then the believing spouse is freed from the marriage. What it doesn't mean is that if your spouse um commits some kind of sexual immorality, then immediately you divorce them. It doesn't mean that You look at all the scripture. In fact he's even told us here that it's if someone sins against you and it's willing to repent You need to forget them, right? Um but what it does mean is that those those conditions where the other pouse is taking the initiative and you've tried everything you can um and they persist then although it's the divorce itself is not right, the believing spouse is released from the marriage because of the sin of the unbelieving. Well that's a pretty clear sign that there's a forsaking of the marriage, right? Yeah. I was just gonna say kind of um on from a bigger uh perspective. Of all the king of this coming, the kingdom is coming, eminence of faith, and of all the questions in the entire world, the Pharisees asked about the one And it's kind of like, so what's what's the are they looking just to trip Christ, or are they looking to you know find a a whole a loophole that they can get around in like marry divorce, marry divorce, marry divorce Um I I I think that because this was a hot issue, dividing different groups within Judaism Um and here's a guy who is doing a lot of teaching about God's will. They said, well, let's see what he has to say about it. And they're probably thinking, he's going to side with us on this one. Or the other group saying, and reality sided with nobody. Right, right. Yeah, so Anyway, let me wrap up with section 136. And here oh, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, right. And they were bringing even their babies to him so that he would touch them and pray. But when the disciples saw it, they began to rebuking him. But when Jesus saw this, he was indignant, indignant, and called for them, saying, Permit the children to come to me And let them alone, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child, and what's that? Childlike faith, right? Trust. He who does not receive the kingdom of God like a child will not enter it at all. And he took them in his arms and began blessing them. And after laying his hands on them, he departed from there. Jesus had a penchant for surprising everybody around him. And that's mostly because everybody, even the disciples around him, made presumptions about priorities and uh Um I think sometimes Jesus' uh responses were intentionally trying to get them to think and uh that this is not what you think it is. And uh there's lots of good examples, Jesus gave about um the heart of people coming to him ought to be like children. Okay. We did it. Let's um let's pray. Father, there is so much in your word about the the life of Christ, the teaching of Christ, the example of Christ that uh we can learn so much from in such deeper detail that um summaries like this are often um obviously incomplete. Yet Lord we're thankful that even at the highest level of surveying the life of Christ, we come away humbled, we come away uh with greater love for you and uh desire to please you, to serve you, and And we pray that would continue to be the case, that as we study the life of Christ, his ministry, his teaching, his demands, that we would be clay in your hands for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.