So today we're doing lesson 33, and this is it. This is all we have left in our course. We are heading towards the crucifixion rapidly. And there's only so much time and so many lessons that we're gonna see. So uh looking forward to really diving into uh looking forward looking at all of it, but like particularly this is this very exciting time here. Look at this section of Christ's life. Um I do have a little quiz for you. Our lesson is entitled Cleansing the Temple, Teaching and Healing. Extra credit if you can find the healing. part because I cannot. So if you'd find it, bring it up to me. Extra credit. Okay. Um so again we are in section thirty-three and it's certain on page two hundred. And then we reorganize a little bit. And the first one is a fake tree, a barren fig tree. Um And at this point again, again, we're just to reiterate, uh, we're beginning this march to the crucifixion, and I kind of went back to really see what is the purpose of the discourse. And at the very beginning, um you'll see the purpose of this application into our lives is drawn from scripture, particularly the life of Christ. So um I put some notes out. How do we approach lesson 33? So the first question I always ask is, is this section exposition, which is sort of a kind of a carefully reasoned argument or explanation? Um is it narrative, which is more of a story that includes both historical accounts, um events to uh convey a meaning, or um is it a parable which is used to illustrate a moral or spiritual lesson And typically it focuses on a moral lesson or moral moral dilemma to kind of highlight unintended consequences And I believe this section has all three. And if you permit me to have my way, the parable of the fig tree strikes me the most. Um it really seems random. We're marching to the cr to the cross. There's only so much time left. And Christ is going to talk about a fig tree? Um And if you only read Matthew, the commentary immediately follows the event. But when you read Mark, this is a great reason for blending these Gospels together. you'll see that the lesson of the fig tree tree is not revealed until the next day. So my radar goes up and says, this must be important. There has to be a reason for why this is here why it's broken up um and why God is going to use his scripture which has limited words but he's gonna be talking about a figure Twice. So um I I I spent a little more time on this section than I did the others. Um okay, so you're gonna see the fig tree is in both section one hundred eight And then at the end, section 151. So I'm kind of kind of taking the liberty of addressing and putting them both together. Is it not a lesson on horticulture? But there's a lesson um on faith and prayer, um and just some bullet points of observation. Um it strikes me, here comes Christ, he's hungry, curses the fig tree, and then moves on. That's what section 144 Why would Jesus do this? A lesson again on the uh fruitlessness and faith. Um and as we do Um so some other bullet points before we read it. Did Jesus curse the tree because he was hungry and it didn't produce fruit? Just kind of a don and move on. Um But it can't be because in the text, I believe it indicates um this wasn't even the season for a fig tree to be produced So there's something else going on here. Um and these are just kind of random weird questions that I ask myself that just kind of drives me into the text. Did he simply use his divine energy to zap the fruitless plant in Um so why don't we go ahead and let's read one forty eight and you'll see if it strikes you as it's Could someone read that blended section on page two hundred? So this is screams, parable, allegory, figures. And it's even more striking when it when Christ going to this fig tree, talking about fruit, yet he's Very well aware, it's not even a season and I'm assuming probably the disciples also knew wasn't even this it wasn't even the season for fruit. So why why why would you expect anything to be there in the first place? So we we've got some figurative language. Who uh you know, what what is what's the fig tree? What what are the leaves? Um then he just kind of leaves it there. And then there's these other sectors. But again, I would like us to continue the thinking about this by going all the way to the end, which is 151. And there we find the lesson for the withered fig tree. And again, if you only read Matthew, it just kind of goes right together. But if you look at Mark, we can see that there's about twenty-four hours of difference. So the disciples have had a lot of time to think about this. And it's clearly important if scripture's going to come back later and look at this. But for me, I mean it it was you know it would have been very easy for me just to go, oh, no fruit, just keep on reading. Yeah. And I think this is gonna be a good lesson for us in terms of the purpose of our course is to draw out application. Yeah, so we're gonna find out the lesson now. Um somebody wanna read is the first couple of verses of 151, which is on page two oh two Maybe twenty to twenty-three. And there's a lot of words uh that kind of jump out at us. There's uh you've got faith, you've got prayer, you've got believing. Um Forgiving is in there. So this is obviously more than just hungry and there's a fig tree that has no fruit Fig trees. Um fig trees were very common across Israel. Um in Isaiah 5, and I'll just throw some other some some verses out there if you wanted to look. Isaiah five one talks about a vineyard. Israel representing a vineyard that did not produce fruit. Um and again, fig trees um Uh there's a m mention of it in Joel 112. Um and back in Luke, Luke 13, 6, there's a similar parable that uses a fig tree that is not produced. Again, Luke thirteen six. Um where is the godly fruit in the nation of Israel? Remember we're not just talking about fig trees, we're talking about pe talk about believers Where or the expectation of representing God. If you're representing God, how do you know you're a believer? Show me, show me your yeah Show 'em your fruits, right? We're supposed to be producing fruits. Um where is the godly fruit in the nation of Israel? Miracles, signs, healings, references to the Messiah of Israel. Um there was abundance evidence of himself as God and Messiah. Where is the repentance? You would have expected, here is Christ, here's the Messiah. You've had all of this scripture pointing To who to me, so where's your fruit? The time is coming to an end. People of God, yet they've been unproductive for God. And again, coming to the application, can we apply this to us Now I'm going out on kind of a limb, but the leaves, kind of just thinking of, you know, the outside. Um, you know, we have lessons, we know the truth, but are we producing the fruit And I think that's a really good application that we can do, that we can look at ourselves. Are we producing the fruit? Now um collectively, there is a lot of fruit that comes from Hope Bible Church, church as a whole, and members I've gone to a lot of churches and a lot of people say the right things, but there's not a lot of fruit. And so I think this is what Christ is focusing on. If you're a believer, show your fruit. I mean and we've seen that throughout his uh his ministry. These giant crowds, they're all loving Christ and they're looking good and they're saying the right things. Um but as we've continued on Christ has caused not division. He has um made things more difficult. And as time goes on, we see the believers separated from the unbelievers. And you know that by their fruit. The ones who are producing fruit remain with them. And those who are not fall away. And so I think that's what this parable is reflecting on. Yep. No, I think he's No, I yeah, no. I don't think he clearly he knew there wasn't gonna be any figs on it. But he's looking at this fig tree and he's saying this is what happens when you don't have fruit It's just you may look good, but if you're not having fruit, you don't I I don't know you. You're gonna wither and die. Well I I and I love that I love that parable. Um and there's a little bit more to it because um the context is that um the reason he wanted to the reason um the reason that the um the background of that the the context is um he just wanted his own he didn't want to he just didn't want to comply to to Christ. Um it was also uh he wanted his inheritance probably. So he was gonna stake around. What if what if father just lived for another twenty years? Well He's not gonna come until he is because the inheritance was more important than following Christ was the heart the heart uh issue. Um And in this case, in this example, I don't think you'd be able to to to have the same impact. Like if if this was during the season that it produced fruit, well That would be a really weird illustration of of, you know, why would you why would you zap and kill a uh plant that's producing fruit? So this this plant is just looking at those who look good on the outside but don't produce fruit. So it would have to be the acceptable would have to be done when the plant was not producing fruit. fruit. So it had to be out of season. If it had been done in season, why would why would he wither and kill the fig tree? He would because someone who uh produces fruit is clearly a believer. But someone that is not is not a b and they're gonna die. And and you said could you repeat that last part again? You said uh what that was odd to you? But this is like he you take the parable Yeah. And it's kind of I I it it's it just seems so random. I know it's Um but if but if we look at it as just he's talking if if if we view it as re uh referring to an unbeliever, I could see the you know that you know if you looked at the the righteous, you know, Jewish leaders at the time, they looked great, they knew that scripture but they didn't produce the fruit fruit of the heart that Christ was really after. We're gonna show our belief through our fruits. And a funny story is I've actually tried to grow faith trees. I've done I put them in root growth hormones and I've done everything and I put 'em out there. and they look beautiful and then something always a deer comes through, takes it off. Or it's just it's just, you know, okay, it it's wintertime, okay, it's supposed to lose its leaves and then it's just a stick the next season I can I can I I get this. I'm just gonna rip it up and I'm gonna just put concrete. I definitely touched them and they didn't grow, that's for sure. I'm not gonna give up on the thing tree. I'm gonna I'm gonna get it in there. It's gonna grow. It's gonna grow. Yeah, and and it's interesting and I yeah, we shouldn't miss that part on um should I have that. Those those exact those those that that terminology, faith and prayer, believing. Um because if you look around Verse 23, truly I say to you, you will not only do what was done um wait, truly I s I say to you, you will not only do what was done to that But whoever says to the mountain, be taken up and cast into the sea. And does that doubt in his heart, but believe that what he says is going to happen. So there's also a lesson of prayer and belief here. Right. Um and we shouldn't get thrown off and start thinking that we can go and go around casting mountains into the sea Um, but there is this idea of faith, prayer, belief, and the bearing of fruit, right? I mean, how do we bear godly fruit? It's not our power. But if we're not praying for things, if we're not having faith that's that that, you know, I'm a believer, God hears my prayer, and if my prayers are in line with God, they will happen. Again We're not gonna pray for casting mountains into the sea, but there are things that we can pray for daily that we know um are in align with God's will. Well it's a it's a re you know, it's it's all about a relationship with Christ, right? Um and so when we start asking for things that are aligned with Christ Um why would he not bear that fruit? I almost like if if I'm not bearing any fruit, I can't imagine that I'm praying very often. Or if I am, am I praying and believing? So I th I think that's a uh an additional important takeaway. And and I and I like the uh fact the point that you also brought up was significant that it does come after the triumphal ent because there is going to be a new covenant, an eternal kingdom. Versus what the Jews of the time were just looking for. They just get the Romans out of here and let us have our place in it. Um it is a greater covenant, a greater promise and a greater king. So um yeah, separating out or I d focusing now on the church age of new leaders with a new vision, understanding that the Old Testament pointed to a greater kingdom and the church is gonna bring that about. Christ is gonna bring that about. Yeah, I you know, it's gonna be from every nation, right? And secondly, you know, when I talk to my dad who is I'm I'm Jewish. So so I say and I I also tell them, yeah, Jesus and the disciples were Jewish too. So um there's evil with all and and God will draw who he wants. will be. Um okay, so now there's no other questions. We still have two other sections. But I really I really liked this uh parable because I guess because it was very challenging. Um and yeah, it makes sense coming after the triumphal entry that it's probably more focused on this change that's about to happen. That it's not just freeing us from wrong. It's freeing us from sin and the eternal kingdom to come. Um okay. Why don't we do section 149? And so that's going to be back on page 200 from the bottom. Um we'll do the blended section. Would someone care to read that section? It's only a couple of verses. Anybody want to read? There is two Old Testament prophets that are mentioned here. And the first one is Isaiah 56, 6 to 8, and Jeremiah 7, 8 to 11. That's where these um that's that's where it where where he where he says it is written. These prophecies then come out of these two Old Testament prophecies. And I'll just read the word. But the first one is Isaiah 56, 6 to 8, and then Jeremiah 7, 8 to 11. I'll I'll I'll I'll read those. So here's Isaiah 56. And the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord to minister to him, to love the name of the Lord, and to be his servants. Everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it and holds fast my covenant, these I will bring to my holy mountain. and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all people. The Lord God who gathered the outcast of Israel declares, I will gather yet others to him besides those already gathered. And in Jeremiah 7, 8-11, behold, you trust in deceptive words to no avail. Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, make offerings to Baal and go after other gods that you have not known? And then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say we are delivered only to go on doing all these abominations? Has this house which is called my i which is called by my name become a become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, I myself have seen it, declares the Lord So what used to be a house of worship and a house of prayer have now become more of a way of taking for the people. Um There's money changers, there are people um merchandising, and they've really have lost the purpose of God's temple. And he's gonna change that. He's gonna change that. Um kind of a note here. It's also interesting that this is the second time that Christ has come in to cleanse his temple. Um how we approach worship um is important and it's it's a shame that that We're the weird to see this lesson a second time. Um about fifteen minutes. I'm gonna I hate to race past this, but um um I guess my my my last point on this section is um Um the references to the Old Testament, clearly what God sees as um um uh uh important or uh holy, um reverent, um Um has all of a sudden become the opposite. And again, God is going to change that. Um and then secondly, the um you know something that's Um yeah, this this was the second time that God had to come to make a point about the holiness of this temple and how it it it has to be kept holy. I also like the fact that um Christ always goes back to the old Testament. I love the ability of going back and showing um that even back then there was this idea of opening the kingdom that it wouldn't just be exclusive. There are there are definite promises to Israel, but Christ has now opened the ability of bringing in people outside of just Israel. Israelites and that's clearly in many passages um in the Old Testament. I definitely want to hit section one fifty, which is a very long section. Um it's on page two oh one Again, there's a lot in here. Um and he talks about fruit to get a little bit. But throughout this next passage, um if you're doing a word study The word light comes up like half a dozen times. Uh I see four times it comes up. Um it's entitled Jesus Reveals That His Death Is Imminent and the Importance of Believing in Him. Let's read this. I'll read uh when I read verse twenty through thirty-six, and if so, we'd like to pick it up after that. Now there were some Greeks among those who were going up to worship at the feast. So password. These then came to Philip, presumably also of Greek extraction given the name, who were who was from the Seda of Galilee, and began to ask him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip came and told Andrew Andrew and Philip came and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. He who loves his life loses it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it uh keep it to e life eternal If anyone serves me, he must follow me, and where I am, there may there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Now my soul has become troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name Then a voice came out of heaven, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. So the crowd of people who stood by and heard it were saying that it had thundered. Others were saying, An angel has spoken to him Jesus answered and said, This voice has not come for my sake, but for your sake. Now judgment is upon this world. Now the ruler of this world will be cast out. And if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself. But he was saying this to indicate the kind of death by which he was to die. The crowd then answered him, we have heard out of the law that the Christ is to remain forever, and how can you say the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this son of man? So Jesus said to them, For a little while longer, the light is among you. Walk while you have the light, so that darkness will not overtake you. He who walks in the darkness Does not know where he goes. While you have the light, believe oh yeah, while you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may become sons of light. These things Jesus spoke and he went away and hid himself. Um someone like to continue reading? Verse thirty-seven? It's a big section. and a lot in there. Those um messages from Isaiah, they are from Isaiah uh 531, and then I also have Isaiah 6, 1 to 10 Um but in here if I had to summarize a couple of points, there is um salvation for many people. The light exposes unbelief. There is um reference of the Son of Man. Son of Man name uh often used by Christ for referencing himself, a messianic title. Um also referencing to his humil his humanity more significantly tied to Daniel 7, 13 to 4, which is a revelation of the Messiah coming in glory to receive the everlasting kingdom from God the Father. Um but he is revealing his death, his death is imminent and um again, that word light half a dozen times in here Look at the light. I am the light. Um and not only you seeing Christ, but you're also seeing the Father through Christ. Um one thing I did want to highlight that I thought was kind of interesting was um Uh up there in like verse twenty seven. Now my soul has become troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. If I only read that, I would be like, does he have doubts? But he doesn't, because he quickly follows, but for this purpose I came to this hour He knew exactly what was ahead of him. Maybe seeing if there was another way, but knowing in his heart there is no other way. This had to be done. This had to be done this way. Um and it struck me as, could you imagine dying and taking on the wrath of separation from God on behalf of all believers for everything they've ever done in their entire life? and compressing that into a small amount of time. I mean it's an amazing thing to think about. Just um I I can't even imagine what that would be like. Um and yet still our savior marched forward, knowing what was about to happen. Um how could you not believe, man? How could you not believe this man? Yeah, it it doesn't it doesn't always have to be the um um uh the murderer that we have to look at. There are some people who are, you know, their knowledge is just off a little bit? Or they're not really haven't really been um tested really. Do you really believe and believe isn't just knowing the facts to actually Um in some cases having to put put yourself in a position of I'm gonna lose all my friends or um people are gonna hate me. Am I willing to you know am I willing to really make Christ my Savior Um someone came after my child, am I willing to really take the hit for them? You know I love them, right? But if I'm like, uh, I'll I'll let my I'll let my kids kind of sense them themselves. So we see it by our fruit. So believing is more than just understanding in terms of knowledge, living up there. There's a lot in this section. a lot here. And then the the light, I think the light is also very interesting how it it um one of the purposes of light is to kind of expose unbelief, right? Light comes in and the darkness goes away. Same thing here, you know, believe in the light, I am light. Um and we see as we get closer and closer to the crucifix uh crucifixion. Um he's shining the light on the darkness and he is exposing unbelief. Um and um Christ is Christ is the light and everything else is light And it it's interesting. That's the first time I've seen that word with that word heel and it's in bold right in front of me. So it is in there. I don't have to pay I don't have to pay Hog a hundred dollars on it. Um let's read let's read it. That was good. If anyone hears my sayings and does not keep them, I do not judge him For I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. So it's the word, God's truths, that are judging, not necessarily, although Christ is yeah, so what's the difference? The words are judging. The words God's law is judging? I think it is. I think yeah, that that word reject is much stronger than just care and does not keep. Um because we can't keep Oh we can't keep it. Can't keep his word. Um we try. We confess when we don't. Um and and Jesus is and when he talks about saving the world, he saves us when we come, we repent. Um he covers it, saves us. Um I would agree he who rejects um if we reject Christ, if I okay. I reject Christ. I should put that I'm just I'm just using as an example or an analogy or something. Sorry about that Um if I said I rejected Christ, there's no other way to be saved. I've almost kind of condemned myself. Um Whereas you're right, in verse forty seven, if anyone hears my word and does not keep them, there is no rejection. There's no rejection of Christ. It's more of a I know all the time, I I read the Bible all the time and I see how I fail miserably. That does appear to be a different perspective than the one who it's like an adamant just you know hand out against Christ. And if you do that, well, how else can you be saved? There is no other way. So I'm I would think yes. I would think those are like two very different perspectives. Um where a believer would fall into the camp of the first one and an unbeliever Uh as we see here l looking at the um uh Pharisees who w are out you know looking for a way to kill him, they're totally rejecting it. And that would be more fitting for them in that First. Mm-hmm. Get given a new heart, regenerate a new heart. Yep. Mm-hmm. And the the ability to, you know, for scripture to you know, all of a sudden, you know, my eyes, you know I couldn't I as an unbeliever, this scripture this book made no sense. But as a believer, like all of a sudden it's like things make sense and they impact me, whereas they had no impact before Well um at this at the first coming, he's not coming to judge, but he will second coming. But but for for for this lesson here Yeah, he is not coming to judge at this time. But the second coming, he will be the judge. Second coming. Oh wait, Steve has the answer. says this is not the time. We're always assuming I understand your what your purpose here on Earth is. When are you going to do this? He's like, it's not the time It's not the time. And in this passage he's like, this is the hour. You know, he knows he always knew God's time tape and what God was doing, and he says This seems the reason I was sent or is not judgment, it's to save the world. He's coming via sacrifice to save the world, and the purpose of his second coming is to put everything right And bring judgment. And in this passage it also talks about there's a form of judgment for people if they've been exposed to the truth. They will hear it if God is drawing them, or I mean they they hear a voice from heaven, oh it's thunder. You know, it's ridiculous. You know, it is that's that's just a blatant rejection of something that that's obvious, you know, and those people are under a form of judgment. They've almost kind of just judged themselves really. And it definitely when it comes to the c the concept of rejection, I don't know how more blatant can be. Raising, you know, Lazarus, I mean how could you Yeah, that's rejection. Yeah, so so I I would be careful with um you know words can have multiple meanings and so that's why it's important to stay within the context of of of the passage. Um for um the concept of turning a a heart of stone, the idea is it's hard It's immovable, nothing penetrates it, or as heart of flesh, yes. It's not the sins, it's not the sinfulness. It's moldable, it's um teachable. Those are kind of the ideas. Not um I'm gonna take this stone and I'll give you a sinful desire. Definitely not. Especially if you look at the at the context of those passages, Christ would would never answer. Questions Absolutely right on your interpretation in this passage. Let me go back to that Moses I I know. I will add to the list. Moses' comments on lifting up. Because I I just don't want I don't want to say anything without without looking through the the passage, but that's that's one. Steve has the answer. Steve has the answer. Oh yeah, yeah. So it's in the same way, flipped up in front of salvation. Something real quick. Um I've always overlooked it to overlook But this whole passage starts with Greek converts, Judaism coming to Philip saying we want to see Jesus. And they told Jesus and said, Jesus answered them saying. And he goes on to say Great discourse about you know the time has come and and so on. And I always assumed that he was ignoring the guys, but apparently not. He's answering them and he's probably seeing that there They're Gentile believers, the crosslight, to Judaism. And they're wanting to see Jesus, it seems like he and with his disciples hearing, he gives them some pretty heavy stuff about time that's now come So even going into what does it mean by the grain, you know, a grain of wheat falls, any of the earth dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. So also referencing, you know, Christ's death bears much fruit. There's an analogy there. of he will die but he will raise he will rise again. And when he does, well actually you could just say, even just the death of Christ, the payment of sin and and you know, conquering uh the plan of Satan, um it bears much fruit. But yeah, he's talking to the the new, you know, Greek uh to the Greeks at this at that point. I'm going to close this in prayer. Dear Only Fa, your word is uh magnificent. It's deeper than um we have only scratched the the surface of this passage. So much here. Um Uh it it breaks my heart that we can't spend more time to really dig into this. Um but I'm also grateful that um your word is true and it is worthy of of going back um and looking at it more deeply Thank you for this exposure, and may we continue to be amazed by your word. We look forward to worshiping today together as believers, knowing that you are the truth, you are the light. And looking forward to um being with you in your kingdom forever. And it's in your name that we pray and give you great thanks