Uh I'm gonna use a little I'm gonna use the Passover to bring us into the context of how the audience would understand that middle section, that the Passover really will enlighten the way you interpret, especially this section. So uh we are starting on page one twenty I'm sorry, one twenty And again, there's three sections. The first one, um, again, I'm going to go through it real quick. The people of Genesareth implore Jesus to heal them. Okay. And again, that's on page 124 Um and I just have a few why don't we read it? Actually why don't I I'll give you I'll give you some four points and then we can read through it. This is an account of the people of Genesaret. And if you look at your map, because a lot of moving parts, but if you look at your map, which is page 316. You can kind of get a little bit of a visual person. You can kind of get an idea of where uh Garasset is, and then they also mention Tiberias, they mention Capernaum and then the feeding of the five thousand was on the opposite s end of the Sea of Galilee. And we uh we saw there the feeding and then we also saw the section that were Jesus walked on water and now we're landing here in the area of uh Genesis. So it's on this page a little visualization as to where we are Um essentially, Jesus and disciples arrive in Genesis from the other side of the Sea of Galilee where the five thousand were fed. Um One thing that we see here is that Jesus is becoming very well known throughout the land. Um we can see that he's immediately recognized. People are They're taking boats, they're they're coming they're getting word from the people who see them on shore and the throngs of people come from the towns. Um but unfortunately, although the crowds are greatly increasing, their only their interest is primarily in healing and data. Um and this Um if you if you're following along on some of the uh discussion questions that are always at the end, there's a part that talks about the very last part uh what do we learn about the humanity of Christ in this lesson. And we're gonna see him go through a whole host of different emotions, different reactions. Um pretty much so far we've seen him just doing a lot of healing with a lot of signs. um identifying himself who he is, but now we're gonna start seeing patience. Astonishment that the that the people aren't hearing what he's saying. There's probably some frustration. There's some sadness some disappointment. But now we're also going to start seeing the tides turn a little bit. Now we're going to see more confrontation. And we're gonna see a separation of believers and unbelievers. I'm gonna go back to my earlier I mean we'll get there later. Okay So why don't we go ahead and read it and then we're going to quickly get into the next section. So would someone like to read that blended account on page 124, section 82? Yep, so still we're seeing a lot of healings. We're going to see more feeding, but these are going to slowly start to dwindle off, and in its place a strong gospel message will come up we will see confrontation and we will see um the true heart of why a lot of people are out there. And at the end, you either can we're gonna see some disappointment. At the very end, um, Jesus is gonna look around and say, Are you gonna depart from me also? 'Cause the crowds at this point in five ne next few lessons are gonna slowly dwindle and the ones that are there are believers or those who are hostile to them. Okay, now the big section. Section eighty three. Um it's a very clear message. Jesus is the bread of life. Believe in him for eternal life. And this scene in section 83, which is entitled The People Refuse Jesus' Spiritual Demands Um I have a bunch of notes and observations before we jump into it. First off, it's heavy with symbolic terminology. Very, very heavy with it. Um bread, flesh, blood. This is where we're gonna get into that idea, and this is where the Roman Catholic Church goes to, to establish that idea of the Eucharist where the actual bread and the wine become the presence. And I I didn't spend a whole lot of time on ex there's a lot of nuances on Catholicism So I just took a little skim off of it and just said because I really want to talk more about what it means rather than what it doesn't mean. Uh but essentially and you uh please correct me uh or if it needs some some elaboration, the bread they propose are the bread and the uh wine become the presence of Christ. It is flesh and blood. And sadly, not only do the Roman Catholics believe that you should be doing this daily, but you should be doing it multiple days if you're a really good Catholic, which Um you can see how that just drives people into slavery. And all of a sudden they're you're no longer concentrating on Christ. You're just you're just doing these rituals. that I do enough of them and then the last one that I did was in time before I have to meet my maker. So it's it's it's a sad state, but if we really look at what the text is saying, it's clear that this is very simple And again, I think it's really gonna be exciting when I talk about the Passover because the Passover um really enlightens the w the context of this of this Passover. Um okay. Okay, so um interpretation of passages with a lot of symbolic metaphor terminology um is throughout this passage. You need to remain consistent with the usage unless there is strong evidence to indicate one word is a metaphor but the next one is literal. So if you see if you're in a passage and you see a lot of metaphor figures of speech You can't just like pick and choose like, oh this is a metaphor, but this next time he uses it, it's it's something else. There's a consistency. and interpretation. So you can't just switch a category of a word or phrase without a solid reason. There are rules of biblical interpretation. So it's consistency of word usage, structure the audience, very critical, um parallel passages. That's why Dr. Puddley takes these gospels and puts them all together to give us a clear um a more deeper, fuller understanding of a past. Um context all help uh to reveal the intention of the author, and that's what we really want to know, right? We want to know what God says, not what a man says, right? So Um right. We definitely don't want yeah. Hold on. I'll just read it. We definitely don't want Jeff's theories. We want to know what God intended us to understand and have the correct interpretation, right? So Trust me, you don't want to know what I say. You want to know what the Bible says. More specifically what God says. Um couple more. The messages are changing from things like sig okay, I kinda missed it. The messages that we're gonna see are are changing from things like signs and healings to a strong gospel. In fact we're gonna see uh more of this um usage of the language is a little more cloaked, but it's not as clear as it was initially. Um there's we're gonna see a separation of believers and non-believers. It will become very clear. Um hypocrisy is gonna be exposed, false religion is gonna be rejected, we're gonna see more hostility, contention The death, resurrection. Um and as mentioned before, sadly these the people that we see really are more interested in uh daily food than the message of eternal salvation. They are not interested in the spirituality of their or the reality of their souls for eternal life And at the very end of this, we're going to see that the crowds start to disperse. Um so why don't we go ahead and read? So we'd like to read. We're I'm gonna break it up a little bit Why don't we read verses twenty-two to forty and interject, yell, throw things at me, stand up? Um and we'll wrestle through this 'cause it's it's very interesting. At first glance it could be a little confusing, but I think when we really dive into it, it will really come up. So someone would like to read the lot there. The ton there. Um and actually kinda funny, I got a um I also got a uh I ran into uh Gabe Saturday morning And he's gonna be preaching on the first five or six verses here this morning. So um I'm gonna leave that part to you. Actually he sent me his notes I was like I gotta I'm not gonna copy it. I just wanna see if I'm like gonna be phoned uh in the morning. But no, so I'm not. I'm good I'm well I'm good. I'm not saying anything that you're not gonna hear again. But you're you get a little bit of a running start for for eleven o'clock service this morning. Um so there's a lot there. There's a lot of language, there's a lot of clarity and also just some symbolic moving Moving parts. Um that first section you can see and again that's kind of where the map helps me out. Talking about Tiberias and you came across from the other side of the sea. uh Capernaum, um uh Janissareth is there. It's all on that eastern side, northeast side, whereas the feeding of the five thousand uh on the I'm sorry See that 5000 is on the east side. All these other little towns are on the west side. So they're all coming together. There's boats coming north, there's boats coming across. They're all meeting in Caperna. That's where this setting is. Verse 27, do you not work for the food that furishes that perishes, but for the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. For on him the Father God has set his seal. And then in the next verse it says, What shall we do so that we may work the works of God? Um the work is very simple He said it multiple times here and in previous passages. The work is believe in Jesus, who is sent by God the Father. This concept, again, repeated several times in this section And say it back in John 5 24. So again, context is going to be very important. So if someone could someone read John 5, 24? And if someone could read John 5 39 to 40. And then if one other person can do Romans ten, nine. And then I'm just going to throw out a couple more verses just to really drive home the the fact that Belief is what saves and in Christ alone. There's also going to be we're going to see a lot of John 11, 26, John 20, 31. So there's a whole slew of verses. Again The way to uh interpret passages that appear to be unclear is to go to passages that are very clear And to look at the abundance of passages. So if one verse categories like, I don't really understand that, I can go like a million different ways, go to other passages that speak of the same thing, and it will bring clarity to exactly what happened. And so that's why it's important that when we look at some of the later verses in here, especially when it comes to flesh, bread, wine, blood, it's important to go to other verses that bring clarity into this verse. If someone can read those maybe just the maybe this uh the the two John verses John five twenty four and then John five thirty nine to forty. And and I know you know this, but I just kinda wanna so that realize I go into other verses. Um another point. You seek after bread for daily life, right? I mean that's what they're coming here. They want bread, they're hungry, they want to be fed. Christ uses that and says, I am the bread, not just for daily life, but for eternal life Right. Seek after me. Bread provided by God the Father to people during the exodus from Egypt was temporary for the physical body, whereas bread before your very eyes, Jesus Christ provides the spiritual, eternal life to all who believe. Um Jesus is using very straight, clear language, but also appeals to the people's need for food, their understanding of what it meant to have bread provided them during the Exodus, right? Um there's also I wanted to point on this metaphor, I am the bread of life, we're gonna see other metaphors similar to this In John 6, it's I am the bread of life. In John 8, it's I am the light of the world. In John 10, I am the door of the sheep. And again, in John 10 again, it's I am the good shepherd. And in John 11, I am the resurrection and the life. John 14, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And in John 15, I am the vine. There's metaphors here, right? Is Jesus Christ really a vine? No. Um is Jesus Christ really a door No. Um Jesus Christ like a beam of light? No. But we understand that life, eternal life, comes through Christ. And so All these metaphors are are trying to prick the consciences of the audience so that they would get on the necessary I'm necessary for eternal life. And so these are different ways that Christ is going to call himself out as being God and the one work that they need, which is his uh perfect life uh as a as a perfect sacrifice so that God is uh appeased. God is satisfied so that sin no longer reigns. There is victory over sin that's only in Christ. And so he's going to be using these metaphors um to bring the focus upon him rather than any kind of works type salvation Um and again, metaphors. This is all metaphoric languages, so we need to remain there. And twisting the scriptures so that People are now enslaved to again another works mentality. Um and the focus is now off of the worker price It's back on what I can do. Um and in terms of this whole c idea of the Eucharist, um, really an enslaving, just uh it's gotta be a horrible way to live. Oh, I did want to I thought I had a little like star notesing. Make sure you go to because I do want to talk about this um oh I oh I'm sorry Oh it's coming up. Okay. Um okay so the idea is believe in the Son, through him you have eternal life. And even goes on to say, and I will be the one who will raise you up in the last day. Now in verse forty-one to seventy-one is where we begin to see opposition. We begin to see really the in the true intentions of the audience there, of the crowd. Uh we see disbelief. And so Jesus is going to start making this message harder. And he's going to display the hardened hearts and the blindness of those who are unbelievers. And we're going to see Um I'm looking for my little note that says, go talk about the Passover. I think it's coming up soon. Okay. Someone would like to read verses forty-one. Why don't we go all the way to the end Something like to read? Why don't we kinda break it up a little bit? I think it's good to just kinda go through the whole the whole passage, please. And when you get tired, just kinda put your hand up. Thank you. There for you. So all of a sudden we start to go into some really crazy language. My flesh, my blood, Jesus referring to his impending sacrifice upon the cross necessary for eternal life. Jesus must be embracing. and believes completely there is no h human work that can save. Um why do you think he's all of a sudden almost like he's talking about being a cannibal, eating flesh, drinking blood? Why why might he all of a sudden go to this very kind of I mean you know uh first time you read it's kind of a dark and strange concept Yeah. Yeah, just like with the uh you know, rich young ruler says, Well, you've done all these things. Now give you give uh everything you own to the poor. But you're really putting the pressure on 'em. Like, are you really my believer? You saying you say you are. You ru are you willing to hate your father, your mother? He's really pushing because he really wants to see true belief. It's really the first time. So yeah, just going with that, just I I see it as him testing the people and especially most so and when they were all walking away that when it wasn't making sense to their rational minds that they were going, okay, enough of this Jesus stuff It doesn't make sense to me, so I'm gonna walk away. And like the biggest way I see it as a test is when he says at the end, when he's talking to his disciples, says, Are you also gonna leave And what he was wanting, what I say is that he was wanting the response that Peter had, to whom else shall we go? Meaning that there's no other options, that there is only Jesus and nothing else can satisfy nor can actually make sense. So even if it doesn't make sense I I just think of the one verse in Proverbs, trust the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding, but in all your ways acknowledge him in all that you do And this is something where don't lean on your own understanding, even though it does sound like cannibalism. And he already proved it so much. So I just see it that yeah, don't lean on your understanding just because it doesn't make sense to immediately still trust God and that He is who He says he is And you're right, yeah, and also I mean he's really pushing especially this Jewish audience, um, on a couple of things. One is the whole idea of um uh eating flesh, drinking blood. This was characteristic of the outside pagan religions. So I mean it was detestable to a degree. to think about that. In fact is even eating flesh and drinking blood, if you go back to um I don't know if it's probably not time to read it, but you can put it in your notes Strictly prohibited in the uh Leviticus seventeen, ten to fourteen, and also Deuteronomy twelve, sixteen, expressively saying eating the blood and flesh um is prohibited. So If you were a Jew, you understood this already. Um the other thing is they were not looking for a Messiah who'd eventually be put up on a cross and killed. So, um, you're gonna die? This is not the Messiah I'm looking for. And so he's really pushing the current religious system. Um Yeah, they're failing to see the spiritual metaphor that points to Jesus' life and death as necessary for eternal life. Also kind of interesting, on that page there, there's another, there's a little uh box there that Dr. Polly put in there about some of the parallel statements. Um and you can also to that You can uh uh we won't go to it, but you can add John 524 to that table as well. But in that little box on page one twenty-five, there's a see how he um takes two verses and there's kind of a parallel idea going on there. Um to eat his flesh is to actually to to behold him and to drink the blood is to believe in him. Um beholding kind of means to come to him um only if the Father gives the person to Christ and draws him to Christ. But there's you can see that parallel, everyone who beholds the Son and he who eats the flesh holds him and believes in him and drinks my blood has eternal life and I will raise him up to the last day. So there there's uh He's kind of marrying these words of eating my flesh, beholding, drinking my blood, and believing. And again, you can add John 5. 24 to this table as as well. Um I did want to get into the the um one of my purposes was. This is where the Roman Catholic Church establishes what they call the Eucharist to justify that transubstantiation where the bread and the wine or the bread and the wine become the actual flesh and blood of Christ. So again we had mentioned Jesus is not promoting can uh cannibalism. He's not incorporating pagan rituals. And I would kind of go off if if flesh and blood was necessary, I mean Jesus already produced loaves and fish and man of for the entire nation through their through the excess why not just right there. We'll s set 'em up with an IV and just um we'll make blood for everyone It just wouldn't make sense. Wouldn't it wouldn't if blood is re if eating Jesus' blood is really the pivotal critical uh activity, well then why not do it right there? Um secondly I would say if um if that were the case, if an unbeliever ate flesh, drain flood, would he be saved? No, there's no there's no Eating blood and eating flesh is not saved. Do you it's not it does not save you. It's believing Christ that saves you. And it's his sacrificial death. That's the reason of the flesh and the blood Um but this whole idea of the Lord's Supper, uh and I I don't think we have time. Oh we can't. We can't. Um so I want to look at some other passages. The institution of the Lord's Supper, if you went to Luke twenty-two, fourteen to twenty, I think we can read that Christ is using the using the Passover elements into a new ceremony that represents the fulfillment of the Messiah's victory over sin through his atoning death. We embrace it We believe it and now share with him eternal life. So if someone can read, let's take a look at that passage, rather than just me saying it. Luke 22, 14 to 20. This is really an interesting passage. Um there's no mentioning of eating, drinking, flesh and the blood. He's saying do this in remembrance of me. Um they're in the Passover. And so that's why we're gonna go to the Passover a little bit. to shed some light. But essentially some other points I wanted I wanted to bring up. Um where I tell you I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the uh I'm sorry He took the cup and when he gave thanks, he said, Take this and divide it amongst yourselves. For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the blood. No. I will not drink of the fruit of the vine Until the kingdom of God comes. So we're gonna be we're gonna be chairing in the ceremony in heaven with Christ Friends? Would Christ need to be drinking his own blood? No, this doesn't make sense. And he took the bread and when he had given thanks he broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given to you, do this in remembrance of me. He took the bread and he broke it Here's here's the picture. Jesus Christ's body, the bread, saying, look at it, I'm breaking it. That's what we're that's what we're recognizing. That's what we're that's what the this this um uh ceremony is all about. Looking at the brokenness of my body. Not eating the body. This cup is poured up for you is the new covenant. This cup represents a new promise nothing to do with drinking blood. This represents a new promise. And it's gonna cost not your blood, it's gonna cost my blood. It's gonna cost my life. So there's nothing magical about drinking wine. In fact, I don't even know how you so my background is is a scientist. Please show me how this wine is actual blood And there's nothing biblical that says anything about the wine actually turning into blood. Um, it's really just wine It's really just juice. And the same goes for the bread. It's bread. Um I also wanted to go again, I'm pulling more passages out because I want to show that an unclear passage becomes clear in light of of a passage. Yeah, th we'll be having communion in heaven. So the time of when we're in heaven, again celebrating communion, it's it's not gonna be blood, it's gonna be it's gonna be wine, right? Twenty-two or I'm sorry, six eighteen? Oh loop, loop, loop, loop. Let me go let me go there. Loop. Twenty-two thirteen. Eighteen. Eighteen. Where I tell you from from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom comes, right? He knows he's he's he's gonna go to his crucifixion. He knows he's going to die And he will be in heaven while we are still here. And so um from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the blind until the kingdom of God comes The kingdom is coming when he is in heaven. They're here, they're in the Passover. Um soon Christ will be gone and they are not gonna be sharing anymore. Next time we'll be in Avenue. Is that is that correct? Um okay. Um I wanted to also talk about uh First Corinthians eleven twenty-three twenty-six Um again same ideas of metaphors that parallel with the Passover. Let's go there. I think we have time. First Corinthians eleven. I really struggled with trying to put a ton of other verses, but I want to balance that with not making this a a four month course. But it would probably be a great idea to do Um 1 Corinthians 11, 23 to 26. Again, some ideas here. Same ideas of metaphors, parallel with a pass with Passover. A greater promise found in Christ, a ceremony for us to remember this new covenant paid for with the sacrificial life of Christ. So let's look at this. Um 123. For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus on the night when he was portrayed took bread, and when he gave thanks, he broke it, and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Again, there's no drinking of blood, there's no eating of flesh. In the same way he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Notice the nuance. We're not talking about even drinking really the wine It's the cup. What's it what's the significance? It's the new promise. It's a new covenant. And the only way to get this new covenant is through the life of Christ. He had to die. He had to spill his blood For as often as you eat of this, for as often as you eat of this bread and drink the cup, what are we doing? We're proclaiming the Lord's death until he comes. That's the purpose of this sermon. Proclaiming Christ There's nothing magical that happens to us. There's nothing in the bread other than its bread. There's nothing in the wine other than its wine. Um so this is that flesh. Another you know, again, another verse That is not saying there's this transubs uh transubsantiation going on. This term of communion means to have common, participate, have partnership with. Um Commemor commemorating, Lord's Supper was a practice by which believers remembered their Savior's death and celebrated their common salvation and eternal life. So There's another verse if you want to write it down. It's 1 Corinthians 10, 16 to 17, and I'll just read it. Um the cup of blessing, which we bless is not the communion of the blood of Christ. The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? For we, though many, are one bread and one body, for we all partake. of that one bread. True believers, they understood this metaphor, this metaphoric language. Passover was approaching and the crowd understood symbolism. We spoke earlier of how context And audience background leads to a correct interpretation of a text. So at this point I want to give you a little better understanding of the Passover context, which supports the idea that the bread and the wine are symbols never actually becoming Blood and blood and uh or flesh and blood. So Passover, I don't know how many people are familiar with Passover. Um I primarily I wanted to go right to the source. So if you're ever interested in in learning about Passover and Judaism, you can go to Shabbat. org. It's actually spelled C-H-A-D-A-D. Sounds like a T, but it's really a D. org. And it gives you tons of information. It's a great website, it really is. Um I'm going to read a little bit about some of the elements of the Passover dinner. Um there's several elements, but you could s and and the person I want to read this is so that you can see The Jewish audience, they understood symbolism. Okay. So one of the elements that they have at the Passover dinner are bitter herbs, and it reminds reminds the Jews of the bitterness of the slavery they experience in Egypt, right? So Vegetables, they were dipped in salt water, they were represented in the tears shed by the Jews during their enslavement by the Egyptians uh the matzah or the bread, symbolic of the three groups of Jews, the priests, the Levites, the Israelites, their and their celebration of freedom from Egypt. When the Jews do Passover, do you think that they think that that matzah are Levites, priests, and Israelites? No. They they realize it's symbolic language, right? At the Seder, which is just the Passover dinner, I'm just going to read exactly what's written from this site. At the Seder, before we begin to tell the story of the excess, we take the middle, so there's there's three my there's three breads. Again, one is represents the priests, one represents the Levites, the other the Israelites. Um and so when when they do the Sedar, when they do the Passover dinner, the middle of the three matzas, or bread um is split into two parts. So it's the breaking of bread right there. Um we return the smaller half to its place with the other th with the other two pieces of bread, and then we place the other half in a bag. or wrap it in a cloth and then set it aside. So they've broken the bread and they've taken a piece of it, they've wrapped it in cloth and they put it aside. Um and this piece is referred to as the Aficomin. I'm going to talk about this at the end 'Cause it's super critical. And that's why Christ is using this broken bread analogy. Um oh there's another uh there's a mix of like apples, pears, and nuts It's another element of the of the Seder dinner and it represents the brick and the mortar that the Jews used toiling under Pharaoh's uh uh slavery. So today when they eat this mixture of apples and nuts. Did you just think, oh yeah, this is really a mortar? No. They know it's symbolic language yet. I know I'm pounding on this idea of symbolism. There's also wine at the Passover dinner. Wine considered a royal drink, one that symbolizes freedom. Um okay, many reasons are given for drinking four cups of wine, and here are some of them. When promising to deliver the Jews from Egypt, from the Egyptian slavery, God uses four terms to describe the redemption. And the Jews or for Passover they go to Exodus six, six to eight. And again you're gonna see all these IM sequence again. Uh so I'm just gonna read Exodus six six eight. Say therefore to the people of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you up from under the burdens of the Egyptians. I will deliver you from slavery I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with a great act of judgment. I will take you to be my people, and I will be you your God, and you shall show them And you shall sh you shall know that I am the Lord your God who has brought you out from under the burdens of Egyptians. I will bring you into the land I swore to Abraham, to Isaac and to Jacob, I will give it to you as a possession, I am the Lord. So again right here, even today, the Passover ceremonies, they recognize already these I am statements. They recognize symbolism. Um The four cups civilize our freedom from our four exiles. Okay, well this is very crazy. You'll see the announc the the parallelism with Christ. The four cups symbolize our freedom from our four exiles. And this is right out of this Jewish website. These are the four exiles. The Egyptian The Babylonian, the Greek exiles, and our current exile, which we hope to be rid of very soon with the coming Messiah. That fourth cup is is the symbol for the coming Messiah. That's why Christ is using it. This is me. I am that Messiah that you're looking for. Um oh I mentioned that other piece of bread that was wrapped in a cloth and put away called the Athacoman. Um again I'm just reading right from the the Jewish website. The Athacomen represents our liberation Um that re redemption, however, was not a complete one, as we are still waiting the final redemption with the coming Messiah. So setting aside or hiding the larger half of the mantra remains reminds us that the best, the real redemption, is yet to come, still hidden in the future And yes, the Athacomen was eaten at the end of the Seder dinner. They not they did not think it was the flesh. They knew it was of a symbol to remind them of a future Messiah, which we recognize as Jesus. You could see Once you dive into the context, there's a reason for why Christ is using the bread and the wine, and he's doing it during Passover. The people knew exactly what they were talking about. The people knew, at least the true believers, that you're not really eating flesh and blood. It was symbolic. I would say it doesn't replace. I think it finishes the story. Right? Because even if you look at the Passover here, they were looking at um the the the blood, which is the final redemption I'm I'm sorry, the cop. The cup is being a final redemption. And this Apikoman also looking forward to the Messiah. So it's really a kind of the conclusion of the story. You know some Jew, some who have Jewish backgrounds still do the Passover. And actually, um there's uh like Jews for Jesus. If you go to their website, they will explain it in context to who Christ And it's well, because we celebrate the conclusion of the story. Because we know I don't think there wouldn't be anything wrong with doing it, but we know that the the new covenant is Christ. So that's what we celebrate There's nothing to say that you couldn't do Passover. Um back in my old church, uh in the John McConfirst church, they used to shave Passover. They would have us uh because there's a big Jewish community And they would sell have times of celebrating Passover there. Yeah, yeah. So it's nothing to say you can't. It's just that we celebrate that final new covenant Um that now that now also brings in Gentiles as well as um the Jewish nation. Yeah, so nothing wrong with student password. isn't a complete story. And for Gentiles, um again, nothing wrong with Gentiles doing it either. But but it's the what we do here in communion is we're celebrating that the the final the final end of the story But there'd be nothing wrong with it. So the communion is that final is recognizing that new covenant The ones that uh the Messiah that the Jews are looking for for final redemption, we find that in Christ And Christ is using that Passover as this is a complete story. I am that anthricomen, that bread that you're hiding, that you're looking for towards to the future Messiah. I am that final cup that I'm pouring out my blood. Do this in remembrance of me. So it's a way of what we do in communion is we are celebrating uh Christ You know what? I'm not exactly sure. They may have done both. They may have done both. Possibly. Yeah, but that's a great question. Did the did the church celebrate the other aspects of Passover? It's a great question. Um Jesus said that he didn't come to abolish the law But to fulfill it and and kind of look at it the same way. You know, there's there's aspects of the law that Jews kept, you know, the ceremonial law um that we don't today, but the aspects of the moral law And it was the idea that you know he recognized the goodness of the law and yet what he was coming to bring was a completion, as you're saying. just this idea that that he's coming to to uh to resolve the things that were begun and you brought fuller. Mm-hmm. That's a great question. I'll I'm gonna look into a little bit more and I'll have a better answer next week in terms of early church history, how much of the Passover was celebrated. I don't want to say something without knowing definitively. I suspect there probably was, but because we there are uh some who do that today Especially if of having a Jewish background, I know there's believers who still do it, but they complete the story and they say this is what the Atikoma meant, and this is the other cup, what it meant and what it signifies. It's the end of the story. It's the concluding And as a Gentile, um, especially they're celebrating that last aspect that we call community. It's a good question. Um we have five minutes. So I didn't even get to the last section. Um okay. Okay. I'll just mention um the next section, eighty-four, Pharisees rebuke Jesus on ceremonial defilement. So we'll have to hit that next time. Um and again I'm going to get that question actually too. It's a good question. Um I'll pray and uh we'll go to worship. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that you have uh you clarify uh this this passage that our hope is not in uh a work that we can do, but it's the work of simply believing in the work that you have done to satisfy uh the wrath of God covering the sins of those who believe in you. Lord, um may our worship be honorable. And uh a time of celebration, knowing that you are in the kingdom and that one day we too will be with you to celebrate forever. To be free from sin and to know how to worship you completely and fully forever. Amen