All right, so we are on lesson forty-nine, the very last lesson. And for the last couple of weeks we've been exploring the various resurrection appearances of Christ. And we'll continue those today as well as all the way through the ascension. And if we've got time, we'll pick up a little bit of the beginning of Acts to complete uh that period of history So I'm on page two hundred ninety. Does anybody need a copy of the notes? Everybody got a copy? Okay. Section 216. You remember last time Jesus appeared to the disciples and and some others in that upper room, and Thomas wasn't there. Well, uh now we get his his uh uh citing of Christ as well here in in John twenty. So after eight days, so I guess it was eight days after that first appearance when he met with the other disciples in the upper room. Uh so that makes this probably a Monday. Um His disciples were again inside, and Thomas was with them. This time, Jesus came, the doors having been shut, and stood in their midst and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, kind of singling him out, right? Reach here with your finger and see my hands. And reach here your hand and put it into my side. And do not be unbelieving, but believing. So what Thomas had said earlier was Unless I see his hand in his hands, the imprint of the nails, and put my finger into the place of the nails, and put my hand into his side. because of where he was jabbed with a spear, right? Uh unless I see and feel those things, I will not believe. Um and so he didn't have to uh explain that to Jesus. Jesus already knew his hang-up and so he said he challenged him, okay, go ahead. And Jesus said in verse 29, Because you have seen me, have you believed? Blessed are they who did not see, yet believed. Which among that crowd was probably few. Um people were beginning to believe because they had seen him and interacted with him. The only one we explicitly read of in the Gospels who believed without seeing was who? John. John. At the tomb, right? By his own admission, he believed at that point. Um Yeah, yeah. So it's it's not entirely clear w what he had to do, but clearly he ha he needed to see Christ risen. And so all of these accounts, I think, are there in Scripture for us to emphasize that those early disciples were not looking for a way to um uh you know steal the body, claim that he is raisin Um if they were gullible about some appearance or something or other, they were as skeptical as anybody, more so maybe, and yet Christ patiently um revealed himself to them and made it clear that indeed he he was alive. And not only that, but that he and we'll see again here today Uh he opened the scriptures with them, like he did for the two on the road to Emmaus. And says how this is It shouldn't be rocket science to you guys. It's already laid out in Scripture that these things had to happen. And um he just patiently led them through that. So he says, blessed are they who did not see yet believed. Now he puts that, it's written here in John in the past tense. Blessed are they who did not see yet believe. So there may well have been others other than John, who may be at the the um uh It's not clear, I don't think, how many of the women who followed him actually saw Christ, but they saw angels who gave testimony of the the risen Christ. And so that may have been enough for some of those women to say, okay, this is good. Um and there may have been others. We don't have a full account of who was there and and who had already believed by this point. But The ones you would expect to believe, his disciples, for the most part, did not until they saw him themselves. So both Jesus and some of the angels, when they're encountering the women earlier. reminded them to go to Galilee, where he would meet up with them after his resurrection. And so we see that starting to unfold here in John 21, in section 217. And uh th this portion of it is only in the Gospel of John. After these things Jesus manifests himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. Remember that that's just one of the names given to the Sea of Galilee. which is just a lake, but by the way, um uh the Jews thought of of uh bodies of water that you could put a boat on and fish in. Uh that that was a sea. Anyway, he manifested himself in this way. Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus, so now Thomas is with them, and Nathaniel of Cana and Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, who were Wahoo? James and John. And two others of his disciples were together. So we've got a total of seven, two of them not named by John. Uh good possibility one of them was Andrew, being Peter's brother. And uh maybe Philip because he was close to both Andrew and Nathaniel, but we don't know. Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. And they said to him, We also will come with you. many of whom were fishermen by trade, but some not. But anyway, they went out, got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing But when the day was now breaking, Jesus stood on the beach. Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. So it was partly, I think, because they were a little bit of a distance from him, but partly because of what we've seen earlier that he wasn't immediately recognizable in his resurrected uh form. So Jesus said to them, Children, you do not have any fish, do you? Now that word children really means very young children. Can you imagine how demeaning that might have been with somebody just calling out to them after a long day catching no fish? Hey kiddos, you know? Um Um you don't have any fish, do you? I can tell. Anyway. They answered and said, no. And he said to them, Cast the net on the right hand side of the boat, and you will find a catch. Now, what should that have prompted in their mind? Deja vu. Right? Been there. Um and so maybe that wasn't in mind, we don't know. So they cast, and then they were not able to haul it in because of the great number of fish. Therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loved, who's this? John said to Peter, it is the Lord. I mean it's gotta be. Put you know, connect the dots, right? It's the Lord So when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment on, for he was stripped for work, and then threw himself into the sea. But the other disciples, that's always fascinated me, why you would put the coat on to jump into the water. But I think it says here, um, but the other disciple came in the little boat for they were not far from land, but about one hundred yards away. So Peter probably knew well enough that um He would touch bottom as soon as he got over and so he wanted to be uh fully prepared Um April's not bad, but this was very early morning. So it would have been on the chillier side. Yeah. Um So uh the disciples came in a little boat uh dragging the net full of fish. Peter left them to do the dirty work, I guess. So when they got out or when they got uh yeah out on the land, they saw a charcoal fire already laid and fish placed on it and bread. And Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish, which you have caught, no. And uh Simon Peter went up and drew the net to the land full of large fish. How many? 153. I mean they counted the fish. Although there were so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said, Come and have breakfast. None of the disciples ventured to question him, Who are you? Knowing that it was the Lord. Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and the fish likewise. This is the bread and the fish he was frying, I guess. This is now the third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. The earlier two times John records were the time without Thomas and then the time we just read with Thomas. Now that that's when he met with them as a group. So it's the third time as a group. So when they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, Do you love me more than these? These what? Who? Possibly. Some have speculated that maybe he's talking about the fish, too. Um, his his default um action when left without any other instructions was to go back fishing. To his old job. And so some have speculated that he's trying to Jesus is trying to get him to think, new job, right? At this point. Or it could be, do you love me more than these others? It could be that as well. Or maybe some of both. Anyway. Jesus says, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? And this word for love Jesus used was what? Agape love, the God's kind of love, unconditional, fully devoted. Probably. Probably. But um when Jesus I'm sorry And uh Peter responded to him, Yes Lord, you know that I love you. And how did he respond? What kind of love? Phileo, the brotherly love kind of thing, not as Not as exalted a love, unconditional love that agape would be. And so Jesus said to him, Tend my lambs. What's he saying there? Tend my lambs. Right. Yeah, so he's getting him to um work through his his um calling from Christ to um shepherd the uh the church as it would now be formed. Tend my lambs. And he said to again a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Same exact question, except he didn't say this time more than these. But Peter said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. And again he responded to the agape question with the Phileo answer. And uh there's been lots of speculation as to what was going on in Peter's mind. Um but then Jesus said to him, Shepherd my sheep. Very same thing as tend my lambs. I'm just using different words. And then he said to him a third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? And um this time he uses Phileo. Yeah. And of course, knowing what Peter had gone through, he was struggling at this point, for sure. And um he said to Jesus, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. And um Oh yeah, I said earlier Peter was grieved because he had said to him the third time. But you know that all things, you know that I love you. And again he's using the Phileo kind of love. And so Jesus said basically the same thing, ten my sheep. And then he says, Truly, truly I say to you, when you were younger you used to gird yourself and walk wherever you wished, but when you grow old, you will stretch out your hands and someone else will gird you and bring you. Now this he said, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. I'm not sure that they understood that completely at that point, but by the time John wrote this, it was clearly understood. And when he has spoken this He said to him, Follow me. And so that comes full circle, right? When he was calling Peter and the others initially, he would say, Follow me. And I will make you fishers of men. And Peter, so in other words, things haven't um you know, we've gone through a lot of um events that in the disciples' minds cast a lot of doubt on everything they've gone through with Jesus for three years. And uh it seems like these things were sort of like a game changer, what's going on, whatever. Jesus is coming back to the original command. Follow me. Right? And so it's not any different from what Jesus had intended earlier. It's it's just a continuation of it. And Peter turning around, I don't know if he caught the follow-meething all that deeply, said, Saul the disciple whom Jesus loved following him, the one in whom he had leaned back on his bosom at the Last Supper. And said, uh, Lord, um oh, and and he said, Who is the one who betrays you? That's what John said during the Last Supper. So Peter, seeing him, said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? And Jesus said to him, If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me. Therefore, this saying went out among the brethren that the disciple would not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but only, if I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? This is the disciple who was testifying these things. So he's identifying himself here now. And wrote these things. And we know that his testimony is true. And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which, if they were written in detail, I suppose that even the world itself would not contain all the books that would be written. So very interesting interaction here. Jesus is with all the disciples, yet he sort of focuses on Peter. Peter needed that. He needed the uh the individual um Encouragement, commissioning, re-establishing the whole point of what Jesus had been investing in them for. But it is interesting that even in that context, he says, Well, yeah, well what about this guy? Um it's so human, right? It's so Peter. Um Anyway, uh yeah. Who Peters? Yeah, I I'm not entirely sure, but he knew that um Jesus had singled out him, Peter, because he was one of the leaders. He had also fallen far short. And uh he had been uh boasting of his um willingness even to die for Christ and then just um didn't come close to that in terms of commitment. Um but he probably would have also known that that John uh was also very close. I mean basically it was uh Peter, James, and John who were in the inner circle with Christ. And so Um I d I don't know that we have much indication whether he was uh concerned about John or um kind of searching for where do I stand going forward. Um you know, he says, feed my sheep. He may have been thinking about, well what isn't he going to help feed the sheep too? It wasn't just the manner of death, if that's what they even understood at that point. I don't know um exactly what's going on in his mind, but um Yeah, so there may have been some curiosity there, uh there may have been some concern. Um you know the impression you get as you read through the gospels is that Peter spoke first and thought second. That's again kinda like us often, right? Um but I don't I don't have any strong ideas about what might have been going on in his mind there at that point. Yeah. Yeah, he is definitely connecting it with um his new mission. His his I mean the new paradigm, as you say. Yeah. They're eating the fish. Yeah. I thought they ate the afternoon. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. And but he does he does um it it seems like he's intending for Peter and the others to see that no, this has not been this is not a plan B. You know, he's still saying this is plan A, even though you didn't understand what had to go on before we get to this point. Um but follow me. And um and that that ministry is is not going to be fishing for fish, it's going to be uh building up a church, which at this point they're probably um very, very what limited in their understanding of what that's going to involve. But Jesus is starting to prepare, particularly Peter and probably the others in his hearing for that task. That's fun? Yeah The only the only instruction really they had was go to Galilee and I'll meet you there. And there's even going to be some more of that. And so they were in a halting pattern for sure Yeah, eventually, and that clearly had not yet happened. So they're in a holding pattern. Right. Yeah, you know, you remember Uh I forget which section it was in, but um Section two fourteen. Um this is right after the Emmaus Road account and they went back To Jerusalem and found gathered together the eleven and those who were with them, like the women and whoever, saying, The Lord has really risen and has appeared to Simon. Presumably Simon Peter. And so there's some encounter between Christ and Peter before this one. which probably focused on that that healing that that um Peter needed And probably wasn't as much focused as this one is on commissioning future. But man, I wish there would have been an account of that of that uh encounter with Peter Pryor. But that's probably still somewhat happening here, but clearly the focus is also on preparing him for the future. That's right, because you know, you know, I think that's probably right. Yeah. We don't know why or how he was known to the uh uh staff of the high priest and and that the whole um context. But um uh whatever that was, he might not have maybe felt as threatened because they knew him and he knew or they would have known maybe that he's not really a threat. But that's all conjecture. I don't know. Okay, well, um so we're here in Galilee, and then that's only in John. Matthew and Mark have um another account. Um Well, certainly Matthew does. Mark has an account that's not in the original or the earliest manuscripts, so it's not clear how much of Mark's is original. But um There's at least one more appearance in Galilee. And so in section 218 The eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee, to the mountain which Jesus had designated. So There was a familiar place that they uh he had instructed them to to go at some point in time. And uh Um when they saw him at that place, and they got there and he was there or he joined them, uh, they worshiped him But some were doubtful. So, you know, there are several occasions when people uh are are uh recorded as having worshiped Christ. And what's interesting is he doesn't rebuke them. Right? He's he's Worthy of worship being God and they understood that and they worshiped him. So that's a good thing. Right. And we see examples of that in uh I guess Revelation where um and and other places where angels were being worshipped and and they rebuked the person who was doing that said, no, no, worship God, not me. Okay. Uh and Jesus oh they worshiped him, but some were doubtful. This always has struck me that this is not early in the resurrection appearances Uh but some were doubtful. It's not clear who the sum included. Um Clearly, the eleven disciples were here. There may have been others as well, although they're not mentioned. But what it says is some of them Some perhaps even of the disciples still were doubtful. I think I think all it's saying is their their minds were still mixed up. I I don't understand what's going on, what's been going on, how it fits in I'm confused. Um uh I don't have a lot of clarity here. That kind of thing, I think, is certainly there. Um Um whether there's more, I don't know. Well that's part of it. That's part of it for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Um, Yeah. And so he appeared to them. It it this This is outside as opposed to those earlier times when he was in a in a closed room. But um Yeah, so some were doubtful. And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation. All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. And so that is normally referred to as the Great Commission passage, but in each of the Gospels there's a a commissioning like this. And this one draws from both Matthew and Mark. But all of the Gospels, and even the book of Acts. um record these instructions that Jesus has given to them. And that it's it's um um All encompassing its it's um uh to continue until he returns. It's it's uh worldwide in scope and Uh he says it fairly simply. It involves um proclaiming the gospel. Preaching the gospel. Uh making disciples. What what's that? What are disciples? Followers. Followers of Christ. And then baptizing those disciples. And teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. And so there's this this um uh cycle in which people are are brought to Christ, they come to Christ, are built up in Christ, and are also sent out to have the same ministry in other people's lives and it just is to continue so that it wouldn't be just the the the original apostles who would be doing this in their lifetimes, but it would set in motion that same process that would take on uh take off uh over the years Because he says, Teach them to observe all that I commanded you, and one of the things I've just commanded you is this. Right? Right. Right. It's it's the disciples who get baptized and then taught and so on, right. And also in all of these accounts, the command, the core command, the instruction, is not go, but it's make disciples. And the the word go in in the original Greek is actually a participle. It's like as you're going. Uh while you go, wherever you go, make disciples. Preach the gospel. That's the core. Yeah, I'm pretty sure that and and so uh yeah the question is at what point do you know someone's a disciple in order to baptize them? I'm pretty sure that the context back then in the early church was a little bit different from now. And it was also kind of changing over time, even in the early church. Um So if someone comes to Christ in the context of um uh uh um persecution, threat of maybe even uh death or ostracism or whatever, and yet they publicly identify with Christ anyway, you kind of know this person is for real. These days, particularly in our culture, that's not really the case. And so we may not know by their outward actions quite as early as we might in a different context. But like John said, you'll, or Jesus even said, you'll know them by their fruit. And John said, bring forth fruit in keeping with repentance. So ideally we'd be able to see some fruit, but if there's not something that's forcing that fruit to be noticed, it may take a while for us to be confident because we can't observe what's going on in the heart, right? But ideally there would be evidence of that fruit before we baptize them, because then we know that they're disciples. But also ideally that would happen very soon after they're saved. I've I've mentioned to people here that um My informal survey is that something on the order of half the people we baptize here have said in their testimony that they were baptized earlier in their life. And not they're talk not talking about infant baptism either. They're talking about maybe in their youth or something like that. But then they realized they weren't really saved. And so now this is a baptism for real. And um I'm pretty sure that's more common these days than it would have been back in the early church. Um, better late than never, that's right. Yeah. Okay. Um No, it's referring to people. Although, you know, it reminds me of a mission organization that had a um uh an initiative they called the Every Creature Crusade. It kind of keeps your your focus on the the worldwide nature of the of the task at hand, right? But yeah that's that's Because we know that the only ones who can be saved are human beings. Yeah. Very cute. Yeah. Um Yeah, so I I th I think the the the point here is that there are like in Genesis, there are uh sufficient uh instructions in Scripture showing our responsibility for being good stewards of all that God has given to us, all the resources, animals and and so on. But this is specifically preaching the gospel. Not just general good stewardship. And so this doesn't doesn't undermine at all the need for us to be good stewards of all of that. That's just kind of a separate issue. This is specifically, it says, preach the gospel, which is The good news about salvation in Christ alone. Right? That's the task Right. Yep. So it doesn't undermine that the the stewardship, but the focus on here is preaching the gospel. Okay. Um, oh, yes. Yeah, the the the more transformed our lives are and submitted we are to the worship of Christ, the better stewards we're going to be, you would think, right? So it's it's an outflow of our uh becoming right with God rather than um uh uh viewing life as it's all about me Kind of thing. Yeah. Well, Very much so, good insight. You know, w uh how did God what was God's way of of um Uh what shall I say here? Reach out to the entire world Was that a new thing here in the New Testament? No. No. So what was his way of doing that under the law, for example? Yes. So the his plan for the nation of Israel was to be put on display Right in the very crossroads of of of civilization at that point, for the world to see that there is a God that they're accountable to and here are here's how he um interacts with his people. Um We see a glimpse of this a little bit under Solomon and the Queen of Sheba coming and all this sort of stuff, but frankly I think the focus there was not was on his wisdom, on the splendor he had created, not so much about the God who was responsible for all that, perhaps. She did recognize it, but um uh his point was to put put Israel on display for the world to see. And for the world to uh be humbled by that and to come to God and so on. And of course, Israel for the most part didn't live up to that. And so Right. Yeah, but so um Willie's point, which is which is right on target, is that there is a paradigm shift here. It's we're moving from putting Israel on displays so the world can see them and see the God who works through them and is leading them and so on. to the paradigm where now people are going out rather than waiting for people to look at us. Now there's a sense in which people are looking in at the church And we need to be a testimony and and so on. But the commission here is to go out. And it's just presumed that we're going to be scattering everywhere. And we need to be taking the initiatives, not waiting for people to come look at us. Even in the life of Christ. I think I made a point about this earlier on, but um You know the the passage that says um that Jesus um pronounced his woes, I forget the exact wording of the passage, on the three cities where he performed most of his miracles. Do you remember what those three cities were? Corisine beseda. Come on, you got it. Capernaum. Now those three spots are very near each other. North end of the Sea of Galilee. Um and except for one, I think there's the healing of a blind man in Bethsaida, all the recorded miracles are in Capernaum. There's no recorded miracle in Scripture from Corzine. And yet the three of those were where he performed most of his miracles Why those three areas? They were right on the the interstate. From uh the uh the whole Assyrian Assyrian area up to the north And Egypt down to the south. Anybody coming through Israel would have to go very near that those areas. They would hear So he was still in the mode of letting people observe um what's happening in Israel, but now after he's resurrected, he's sending them out And there's gonna be some of that same thing going on in terms of their their signs and and wonders and so on, but um this is a paradigm shift It's it's a it's a going out and it's making disciples, not waiting for people to come to you. Yeah. So that's that's important. Yeah. Okay. These last several verses, particularly in Mark, are um questionable. But he says, he who has believed and has been baptized shall be saved, but he who has disbelieved shall be condemned. These signs will accompany those who have believed In my name, they will cast out demons, they will speak with new tongues, they will pick up serpents, and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them. They will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover. So actually I I made a note here that all of those things ha were evident in the book of Acts. Actually that's not entirely true. The bit about the poison, I don't think there's a reference in in Acts. But for the most part, these are things that we know happened in the early church. And so they may have found them way in on the the epilogue of Mark's Gospel, whether it was in the original or not. Okay, so I'm going to go to page 293, section 219, real quick. We're still in Luke. Or now we're back to Luke. Now he said to them, These are my words. By the way, he's in Jerusalem now. We're going to see here. These are my words which I spoke to you while I was with you. That all things which were written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures And he said to them, Thus it is written that the Christ would suffer and rise again from the dead the third day, and that repentance for forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all the nations. Beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things, and behold, I am sending forth the promise of my Father upon you. But you are to stay in the city. That's where they are now, apparently. Until you were clothed with power from on high. So this would have been late in the period of the resurrection appearances, and he's still continuing to teach them from the scriptures that all these things had to happen. And of course the promise of the Father is the promise of the Holy Spirit, who he had referred to uh even in the upper room. Or yeah. Okay, and then, section two twenty, Jesus ascends. So then when the Lord has spoken to them And uh he led them out as far as Bethany. You remember Bethany? Just on the other side, the eastern side of the Mount of Olives, where uh Mary, Martha, and Lazarus lived. He led them out as far as Bethany and lifted up his hands and blessed them. While he was blessing them, he parted from them and was carried, received, up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. Um so he met with them in Jerusalem early, he met with them up in Galilee on at least two occasions, perhaps more. Now he's back down with them in Jerusalem, preparing the way for the ascension, which happens. Um And that ascension, according to Acts 1, which I've got here on page 294, I hope it's okay to include Acts in a study of the Gospels. Um uh Luke records in uh Acts one that he appeared to them over the course of forty days. All right. When does the Pentecost festival feast happen? Fifty days. The Penta is the the fifty. And so they were waiting after the ascension, they were waiting there for ten days. And so after he ascended into heaven, they returned to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives, which is near Jerusalem. And um And then of course in um section two twenty one They, after worshiping him, returned to Jerusalem with great joy, they were continually in the temple, praising God And after that, Jesus Himself sent out through them from east to west the sacred and imperishable proclamation of eternal salvation, and they went out and preached everywhere while the Lord worked with them And confirmed the word by the signs that followed. And then later in Acts one we see that he appeared to um Yeah, when they when they entered the city, they went up to the upper room where they were staying. That is Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, James, the son of Alphaeus. Simon the Zealot, Judas the son of James, these all with one mind were continually devoting themselves to prayer, along with the women, Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers So, first reference here that his half-brothers, including James and possibly Jude, maybe others uh were saved at this point. So he must have probably, not necessarily, but good likelihood he appeared to them as well. Well, he was already Listing all the spiritual brothers anyway, the key players here. So yeah, I think it from the context it's it's referring to the his half brothers. Yeah. Not necessarily all of them, but we know at least some of them were saved later and became very uh key players. Yep. Um Even yeah And and there's also the weight probably of everything he had been teaching them. Oh, it's all on us now. Sort of on us. I mean we're gonna wait for the Holy Spirit to to um empower us, but This was an awesome moment, not only to see that, but to realize that now things are different. He's going to be working through us, not just with us and for us. Yeah, it would be. It's possible that they could have been very much like Lazarus and others who Jesus raised from the dead. They eventually died again. Um whether they were given um Glorified bodies like Christ at that point. I don't know. Yeah, I like you said, it'd be real nice for scripture to have been more clear on all the details. Yeah. Don't have that. But let's let's close in prayer.