Okay, we are on lesson thirty-one, which is page one hundred eighty-eight. Where Jesus um is in Jerusalem now for the last time, well for the last time during his earthly ministry. Um So we're starting with section 148 on page 188. And we have an account here that occurs in Matthew and Mark uh only. And it seems like a little detail, but it's interesting. So I'll read from the blended account. Now in the morning, on the next day, so this would have been Monday morning after the triumphal entry. On the next day, when they had left Bethany, remember he went back to Bethany for lodging. And he was returning to the city, he became hungry. And seeing at a distance a lone fig tree in leaf by the road, he went to see if perhaps he would find anything on it And when he came to it, he found nothing on it but leaves, for it was not yet the season for figs. And he said to it, May no one ever eat fruit from you again. No longer shall there be ever be any fruit from you. And his disciples were listening, and at once the fig tree withered. So you take that sort of out of context and just on its own, you say, wow, that is a really weird account. You know, what's what's going on here? Right? Um but that's only part A. We're gonna get part B a little bit later. Um But suffice it at this point to say that Jesus would have known that this was not the season for figs. I mean it was a no-brainer. But there are a lot of leaves on the tree. And uh that may not have been uh as common at this point, but The overarching uh point here I think is that Jesus uh following the triumphal entry and his remember his prayer for Jerusalem given the and his weeping for Jerusalem because of their unbelief. Um he's setting up the disciples to learn a lesson about fruitfulness. And we'll get to that um I think later today. Okay. So if you knew that when you were getting fixed, why did you look So that he could he could give an object lesson to his disciples. And that fig tree represented what? The nation of Israel. I know that. Lots of foliage, very little fruit. Yeah. What would be a a sign of their the nation fully? All the pump that the the Yeah, the religiosity and adherence to the law but not the spirit of the law, right? Um So it was it was not lasting spiritual fruit that God was looking at. He They were very famous and proficient at all the externals, but not the internals. And um Um so over and over again he would try to make uh a point of that, sometimes confronting the religious leaders directly on it You whitewash tombs, you know, very direct. Um but here, trying to you know, uh earlier he had told the Disciples to beware of the leaven of the pheas Pharisees. And it took him a while to figure out what he was talking about Um but what he was talking about was the teaching, the the example of the Pharisees that was nice and polished and everything on the outside, but rotten to the core on the inside. And um He marveled at the faith of often just Gentiles, right? But also marveled at the lack of faith of Um many of the Jews, including including at times his own disciples. Um something else that can be seen in this passage is it seems sorrowful. Sovereignty over the created, over the creation. And not just his sovereignty, but also his humanity, because it says he became hungry. So, you know, I mean the humanity the same limitations and sovereignty. You know, as many so you see both as deities Yeah, that's an extra interesting point that um um you know in his deity He wouldn't have had to question whether this tree had figs on it. But in his humanity, he wasn't most of the time he wasn't drawing on his deity to to know everything about everything. And here's an example where he um uh I think just wanted to check. And uh he wasn't relying on his omniscience in this case, as very infrequently would he have to But um, another comment about his um power over creation is trees aren't usually Even if a tree is knocked over in a storm, it takes a few days for the bees to start to dry up and die. Where's the cave plant eggs and the twigs? And it takes time for the branch room to wither. But it says that this one withered at once. Yeah. Yeah, and w we're gonna see here when we get to part B of this that I think what it's referring to here is the leaves. They just withered immediately. Uh what we're gonna see later is when they came back the next day. They were marveling that not only that, but the thing withered from the roots up. I mean the whole the whole tree was just root. Um just the gnarled nature of the thing just Mm-hmm. You know, as opposed to just the leaves wrinkling. Which is I think what's happening immediately. Yeah, that's in my sights. Yeah. Yeah. Um with a storm on the sea instantly. Yeah. It didn't take time. Right. He heals someone instantly. Yep. Pastor Allen, it it's similar to in Revelation where Jesus is speaking to the churches and he gives commendations, yes there's some level of fruitlessness or fruitfulness or some foliage, but in in one case it was actually dead and he said he's going to remove it. I don't know how many of those seven churches were actually removed Or or if you could use the term curse, because of their not around today. Um okay. Well, that moves us to Jesus cleansing the temple. Um And I've written in the little title here, a second time. When did he clean the cleanse the temple the first time? Uh John Two. John Two. Okay. The beginning of his ministry. Yeah, and here we are at the the last week of his ministry. Um Now I think there are some who think those are the same account. And um They conclude that John wasn't very careful about chronology. He had more themes involved Actually I think he was very careful about chronology. And you see in the opening chapters of of John, the Gospel, when he talks about um you know, the encounter with uh John the Baptist describing Christ and introducing Christ, and then he says, the next day, this is what happened. Then he says, the next day, this is what happened. He's very Yeah, deliberately going through uh some very early chronology. And toward the end of that, um the next day they went up to Cana of Galilee. And shortly after that he went to Capernaum for a little while, and then the Passover the Jews was at hand. He goes back to Jerusalem. So it's it's Very much in the context of careful chronology in those opening chapters of John. You know, there are several other places in the Gospels where it would be uh sort of natural on first reading to think that these events were the same event. Um Uh uh maybe a good example would be um this is what sort of the w the easy extreme. Um um The feeding of the 5,000 and the feeding of the 4,000 couldn't both have been the same event? And the answer is no. Scripture specifically tells us Both Matthew and Mark were after both of those events, the disciples weren't quite getting it about Jesus' um deity and his ability to provide for them. And he quizzes them, right? So you remember the feeding of the five thousand, how many were left? And say, okay, yes, seven. Or no, I guess twelve baskets full. One for each of them. Um and after the feeding of the four thousand, how many were left? Okay, um and so both Matthew and Mark have both of those miracles and both of the both of them have that quiz that they got later. It's clearly two different events. That's easy because Scripture is very clear, helping us interpret it. This, the first cleansing of the temple, appears only in John. And the cleansing example the second time was only in the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. So it's not quite as easy, right? But again, what do we how do we come to the right understanding? What does the text say? Right? And so when you look through John, you see it's very clearly early in his ministry. And when you look at the synoptics, it's very clear that this is in his last week. And slightly different reactions to them And so I don't really see any support whatsoever for the proposition that they're the same event, at least not in Scripture. Um so one of the points I wanted to make here, and I didn't try to belabor that, is that there are some other things that were going to be. Getting to where we need to see what does the text actually say rather than Maybe the easiest or maybe even most traditional interpretation. Let's see what the text actually says. And the text is inspired. It's inerrant, without error. So uh it's authoritative and let's see how they in fact do blend or complement one another and so on. Margaret. Dr. Bookman says, that Dr. Bookman led the tour to Israel that I went on a year and a half ago. He asks the question, given Paul Sunday, Hosanna, Hosanna, why Friday? Crucify him. And he points to this event as one of the reasons for the big change of attitude among the population. So um can you elaborate on that? Yeah. Um Yeah. Not everyone was turned against Jesus, but um clearly the religious leaders had Um by this time. And by by Thursday they were bound and determined to do it, initially thinking not while everybody in is in town, because it's going to be harder. But they ended up agreeing to that because things kind of fell in place for them with Judas and whatever. Um And it was they who incited the people early in the morning. It wasn't a huge crowd of people at the at the um trial of Jesus. But it was they, the leaders, who incited people to in the morning, not as people were up and about. Right. Yeah. Deliberately done early in the morning. Yeah, they had to do it with as few people around as possible. Yeah. So I don't I don't see the picture of um well on the one hand, the crowd we talked about last week, the crowd at the triumphal entry Jesus wept over them, really, and over Jerusalem. There were clearly some people who who got it and saw him as the Messiah and although their understanding of what the s Messiah meant and w w how it would all happen was um weakly informed by Scripture. But clearly some of them got it. But a lot of them, they were just in for the spectacle, I think. And here's our opportunity to rid ourselves of all the corruption and the religious Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp, right? To coin a phrase. And also Rome. T here's our chance to to rid ourselves of Rome and they were behind both of those things. And uh his Teaching to a large extent challenged people, they recognize, man, this guy is he's got it together. But Actually having saving faith, probably not a large number of them. And it's this very thing. Um Foliage but no fruit. It was true not just of the religious leaders but of a lot, most of the people as well. So I don't think Jesus was reading too much support into the triumphal entry. Um And but by the same token, I don't think there was an uprising of complete turnaround in the space of a few days by those same people. I think um It's a completely different context where there are very few people around in in the trial and so on. But um Let's take a look let's go ahead and read here what it says about this cleansing the temple and what the uh um what the outcome was, okay? So I'm on section one forty nine, page one eighty eight. Then they came to Jerusalem. So they were on their way anyway from Bethany. They came to Jerusalem, and he entered the temple and began to drive out all those who were buying and selling. in the temple and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling doves, and he would not permit anyone to carry merchandise through the temple. So What was going on? What were they doing? Yes, they greeted in the temple. They were well okay. Uh but but I mean what was the pretext for their doing all this? Religious religious observance, religious activity. Right. So they the the law actually provided that people would come to Jerusalem, although Jerusalem wasn't named yet, this is the place where the Lord would put his name. Uh they would come to Jerusalem for the sacrifices and um if it was more practical for them, which for most people it was To not bring the lamb itself or the doves or whatever for sacrifice, but rather to purchase them there in Jerusalem That was perfectly acceptable. It's just a very practical thing. And um So the Sadducees, particularly, the rulers, the hierarchy at the temple, saw great opportunity here. To have a monopoly where um uh Hardly anybody would be bringing all the animals that they needed for sacrifice. They would come to buy them here. All right, we can sell them animals. At some exorbitant prices. And guess where the profits go. So unlike today. So uh so unlike today that you just wonder how could they could have even thought of it, right? Um as I understand it two different things. There was money changers and then there was the sellers because they had their their normal shekels or whatever they had, but you needed temple coins to buy these animals. So that's where the money changes payment. Go to him first and he overcharges you in giving you the temple point. Yeah, the exchange rate was an exorbitant. going uh everybody and I'm sure they hated them as much as they hated like Matthew the tax collector, but they all kept the prophets. But you're you're you're regular Jew coming in from outside of Jerusalem? Really had no options. And um They all, I'm sure, gr grumbled under their breath and said this is just a corrupt system. They uh it it wasn't a secret about what was going on, it's just they didn't have any choices. Um either obey the law Or put up with this you know, um obey the the only way to obey the law was to put up with the system, right? Um so yeah. It was maybe not just a practical reason. I thought that it was almost impossible for them to bring any animals because it w it wouldn't qualify that it was like a spot or a limbation. uh wouldn't be acceptable as a sacrifice and I I thought it was kind of the reason. It may be part of it, but where are all these spotless animals coming from? Well I mean if it blessed by the priest or you know, the chief priests or and you know, it's acceptable and so I thought that was part of the Yeah, I think probably it was. I mean it's clearly acceptable goods if you will. Yeah. Um but what was Jesus responding to then? Not the the um um the selling of animals to fulfill what the law provided for as a convenience to normal Jews, but doing so so corruptly. And in the temple itself rather than outside. And so yeah. Because people think badly of the Lord. Yeah. You know? If if someone feels like he or she's been cheated in buying the sacrifice, that doesn't put you in a good frame of mind to go worship. And many people might think, well if this is God's temple, why doesn't he do something Yeah. Well finally he did. Exactly. Right. So anyway, where was I? He began to teach them and say, Is it not written, My house shall be called the house of prayer for all the nations? But you have made it a robber's den. And he was teaching daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the leading men among the people heard this and began seeking how to destroy him, for they were afraid of him. And they could not find anything that they might do, for the whole crowd was astonished at his teaching, hanging to his every word that he said. It's I find it fascinating that the leaders were afraid of the people. The people were afraid of the leaders, and Jesus was afraid of nobody. But I'm thinking that if I were there I would have started clapping. Right? When he stood up to this corruption finally, um there probably were a fair number of people who were clapping and y yelling, Yay, and that made the religious leaders all the more Um mad, but also realizing that they can't just grab him now because They can't get away with it with the crowds. And so they have to figure out how to do away with them more subtly. Um So this is on Monday of Passion Week. Okay. So then we go to section 150. Jesus reveals that his death is imminent. This now gets us back just to The Gospel of John. So, verse 20. Now there were some Greeks among those who were going up to the worship at the feast. These then came to Philip, and I'm guessing they might have figured out that he was of Greek extraction, perhaps, given his name, but for whatever reason, they went up to Philip. who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and began to ask him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. And so Philip came and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip together came and told Jesus that these guys wanted to see him. And it never ceases to amaze me that Jesus answered them with something of a mini sermon, having nothing to do with these these these um Greeks. But he says, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. He who loves his life loses it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it to eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must follow me, and where I am, there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Now, my soul has become troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came out of heaven. I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. So the crowd of people who stood by and heard it were saying that it had thundered. Others were saying, An angel has spoken to him. And Jesus answered and said, This voice has not come for my sake But for your sakes. Now judgment is upon this world. Now the ruler of this world will be cast out. And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself. But he was saying this to indicate the kind of death by which he was going to die. The crowd then answered him, We have heard out of the law that the Christ is to remain forever. How can you say the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, For a little while longer, the light is among you. Walk while you have the light, so that the darkness will not overtake you. He who walks in the darkness does not know where he goes. While you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may become sons of light. These things Jesus spoke, and he went away and hid himself from them. But though he had performed so many signs before them, yet they were not believing in him. This was to fulfill the word of Isaiah the prophet, which spoke, Lord, who has believed our report, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For this reason, they could not believe, for Isaiah said again, he has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart. so that they would not see with their eyes, and perceive with their heart, and be converted, and I heal them. These things Isaiah said, because he saw his glory, and spoke of him, nevertheless, Many even of the rulers believed in him, but because of the Pharisees, they were not confessing him. for fear that they would be put out of the synagogue. For they love the approval of men rather than the approval of God. I think in the original Greek it was bold there, so I made that bold. And Jesus cried out and said, He who believes in me does not believe in me, but in the him who sent me. He who sees me, uh he who sees me sees the one who sent me. I have come as light into the world, so that everyone who believes I've come as light into the world so that everyone who believes in me will not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my sayings and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. He who rejects me And does not receive my sayings as one who judges him. The word that I spoke is what will judge him at the last day. For I did not speak on my own initiative, but the Father Himself, who sent me, has given me a commandment as to what to say and what to speak. I know that his commandment is eternal life, therefore the things I speak, I speak just as the Father has told me. Um so if you're one of his disciples, particularly at this point you're probably getting some percentage of this and a significant amount of it's going over the head still. If you're just one of the crowd Uh you're probably more confused than anything else at this point. Um but Jesus is testifying of his purpose, his upcoming sacrifice. Uh the father even testified um verbally at this point and uh there aren't too many occasions where that happened. This is one of them. Something like that. The the baptism and then from the transfiguration and this one. Yeah. Pastor Allen, it it it seems like at some point Jesus um turns from referring to himself in a third voice, in a passive voice And just as in these paragraphs he's using I and my and me pretty consistently. So it's almost like this last opportunity to for him to point directly to himself. And to so that people have a chance to get it. Yeah. Okay, I am the I am the door, uh I am the truth. Yeah, I think that's um just off the top of my head, I think Is use of personal pronouns like that maybe a little bit more common in the Gospel of John? Even in John 3. 16, I mean Jesus is speaking, but he's not saying I or my other person, so to speak, that that you must put your faith in. Right. Pastor Allen, go back to how many times did God speak, if we consider Jesus as God, then it was four times because on the road to the Yeah, actually uh uh to Jesus rather than Jesus speaking himself. Right. Yeah. But yeah. So even though we thought it was thunder at that time too. Mm-hmm. Right. So do you need a little Scottish history here? Scottish history? I thought you would like it. Apparently we do. Why you don't you don't want you don't want to know. It's okay. Moving right along. No, go ahead. Uh the our our flag has a Saint Andrew's cross and so at Saint Andrew, Miss Andrew, is a patron saint Oh Scotland. That might be the only religious part of Scotland. Don't get me know. Did Andrew know that? Well he knows it now. He knows it now, okay. But every time you see the name Andrew mentioned in the Gospels He's bringing someone to Christ. Yes. So you just need to do that. Start with his brother and then here. Yep. And this. And this. I thought you would like it. I just put the flag in your hand on it. Ten minutes. All right. So um we've noted multiple times already that Jesus over the last year probably has been um Mentioning, preparing his disciples for his upcoming sacrifice, sometimes getting very explicit about it being crucifixion. and uh several times being explicit about well, sort of explicit, about the resurrection on the third day. Um but it's clear that it wasn't computing for the most part and until e even when it was happening, they were confused and um frightened. Uh upset. But um they clearly um to put the pieces of the puzzle together better after the resurrection and Jesus laying everything out to them during his um Resurrection appearances. And several places we see that, and in fact, even here in the cleansing of the temple. Uh they would read uh they would remember after the resurrection. Oh, okay. That's what he meant by that, kind of a thing. So he clearly understood the timetable he was on. And um it wouldn't do for it to be too early or too late. It had to be in fulfillment of the Passover. And um Um we're in the days leading up to that, but if he were crucified on Wednesday, it wouldn't have worked. But didn't he have to have the Passover lamp for three days before even sacrificed. I meant back in exodus. I see. I yeah I'm not all up to speed on that. Yeah Yeah. And so he only had three years. Okay. Oh well. Something like that. Something like that. Yeah. And I thought that they had chosen that. Well they had I thought it was four days, but I Oh well but anyway. So they kept it Whatever, three or four, whatever it was, I thought it was four days, but so that the family could get used to it. Dog, cat, animal as a pet, you become extremely attached to it. And I think that showed the family then, when they killed the Passover lamb what really was going on. If you had to kill an animal or a fact of that. So it had to be a sacrifice in many respects. Yes. Yeah. Uh It is interesting here to note that multiple occasions beforehand, Jesus would say something like, My time has not yet come. But now he's starting to say the hour has come. It's not just time, but it the very hour is at hand. So he understood the timetable. All right, let's go back to the fig tree, page one ninety. Section 151. Again, we're with Matthew and Mark. So as they were passing by in the morning. So this is now the next day, right? As they were passing by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered from the roots up. Not just the leaves withered, but the whole thing was just withered from the roots up. And if you um i if you can recognize that that's the case, you know it's really withered. It's not just a little dry, but it's it's history. So being reminded, Peter said to him, Rabbi, look, the fig tree which you cursed has withered. I mean the tree itself is withered, not just the leaves. Seeing this, the disciples were amazed and asked, How did the fig tree wither all at once? And Jesus answered, saying to them, If you have faith in God, truly I say to you, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree. But whoever says to this mountain be taken up and cast into the sea, and does not doubt in his heart, but believes what he says is going to happen, even it will be granted him and happen. Therefore I say to you, all things for which you pray and ask, believe that you have received them, and they will be granted to you. Whenever you stand praying, forgive. If you have anything against anyone, so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive your transgressions. But if you do not forgive, neither your Father who is in heaven will forgive your transgressions. The part there in the brackets uh is in the NASPE because it's not in the earliest manuscripts. But he said that very same kind of thing in other contexts, so he may well have said it here as well. Uh uh yes. So yesterday Margaret and I had a conversation about this very thing in terms of praying and faith, believing and and just talked about This passage, you know, does not doubt in his heart but believe, you know, what he's praying for. And yet we know that we don't always get everything that we pray for. So we were discussing what is the correct way to think about it because we want to be faithful and pray in faith, yet at the same time we realize that God's sovereign and we also looked at the example of how Jesus prayed, which is not my will, Lord, but yours, because you're the master and you know all things and you do all things well. So that's typically how I would think we would pray. Sometimes they seem to be in con Can we just jump in there for a moment? Yeah, sure. Specifically in connection praying for unsaved refugees relatives. And and if I believe that I believe that you've received them and they will be granted to you. But can I pray someone into heaven who hasn't made made a decision for Christ, that's confusing for me. Yeah. Well, you know, in the greater context of scripture, we know that um that decision is God's alone. Pardon? And so um We can certainly pray that that would be his will, and if it be his will Um use us in whatever way to make it happen or whatever would glorify him. But not knowing what his will is on that matter, um, no, our prayer doesn't um Doesn't cause God to do something he didn't already will to do. about God wishes none would perish. That's true. So are they and yet again it's above our paper. Yeah. Well um Clearly excuse me for interrupting, but you know you see how Jesus wept over unbelief. Like he he wept over unbelief. I mean not as if he didn't have compassion for those that Exactly. Even for those who hated him. Father forgive them for they know not what they're doing, right? Well he says, I would that you would have gathered, but you would not do that. Yes. So even he couldn't But that's again confusing because he's sovereign 'cause if he wanted them to come, he would call them and it calls effectual. Well what he actually said though was that no one can come to me unless the father draws it. Right. Yeah. We have to end up just believing that God does all things well. Well, we do not have a clue how He does it. But in heaven we'll say he said that well. can't it's upsetting to think that they'll be forever, you know, separated. And um Pastor Lee said, Yeah, Karen, when you get to heaven you'll agree with it. You'll see And you do see the holiness of God and you see the wrath of man and and Nashik and peak and they they don't want any part of it, they can't be in a holy So, you know, w particularly when it comes to praying for unbelievers and particularly loved ones and so on Um it's definitely good to be praying that God would in fact save them, uh acknowledging as you've been saying that Lord, we know this is in your hands. It's um uh if it's according to your will, uh but that's certainly our desire. Um if our desire at that point is at least somewhat selfish, wanting them to be saved like we are and to have more of a a relationship with them on that level. Uh there's nothing inherently wrong with that, but it's still what we get out of it rather than what God gets out of it. Um then even praying for the right thing for the wrong motives wouldn't God may still do it because of what he hasn't you know, he's not limited by our lack of faith or narrow-mindedness or lack of understanding or any of that. Um but I I think the better prayer for our loved ones would be um And and really for pretty much anything that we know that we have no we have no uh power to make happen. Which is pretty much everything. Um just praying for not not only God's will, but for his glory. That he would be glorified not only in the result, but even in the process. Well and we can acknowledge that to him. Lord, we I think this would bring you the most glory. Yeah. Um but uh you know I I to submit to your your wisdom, your your sovereignty, um but m my heart's desire is your glory. Um And uh use me in any way to glorify yourself and draw others to yourself and so on. I I know in past Sunday school classes as well as sermons it's brought out that God operates with two wills. One is a moral will and we are very clear with what his moral will is. We have it scripturated, including the the salvation of all people at this point. moral will, but he also has a sovereign will that he doesn't share with us as to why he operates sovereignly and Certain yeses and no's. And then the other thing about praying for uh unsaved people, God may choose to specifically use our prayers for the unsaved person. And that's the means that God answers the prayer. And he and he may not have actually I don't understand this, but he may not actually save that person unless we are praying for them. It's a mystery. What's that? Everybody says you may not save anybody if we encrypt them. God can't be there. No, but if it is his will, then he can generate that interest in our hearts so that our prayers align with his will. I heard um the um explaining that so we also have to accept I think it was in biblical counseling that we also have to to accept that in our maybe one of our loved ones won't be saved. And we only have to It's very difficult. Yeah, we don't but you rest in God's will. To me it's become less difficult. I know it sounds really amazing that I could actually say that, but the Lord has caused me to rest in his breath. Hm and to trust him and all I mean, I can't even believe it, but I've gotten peace over the years knowing that Lord, you do all things well. And I just praise you for You know, giving me that key of knowing that you're trustworthy, you know? Yeah. I I just uh because my mom she's not saved and she's not interested in and um I used to say a lot for that and after I heard that I I cried a lot. Um but I just came to terms you know like I okay God, you know, it it was That's important to get the heart right, but that doesn't mean we should stop praying. For them. Because God's timing may be not our preferred timing, but he may still be He may still be uh working um to bring that to happen in a way that we couldn't have anticipated. And even once such a loved one dies, we never know for sure, well some most of the times we never know for sure exactly where their heart was. with the Lord and what God might have used in their thinking and their heart from things that were seeds that were planted over many years, perhaps. Um we'll never know till we get to heaven. But um um yes, resting in the sovereignty of God. And The beautiful thing for me is knowing that God is absolutely sovereign, but also absolutely good. Amen. You know, when we think of absolute sovereignty we say, uh oh. But that's if there's a human being in that absolute sovereign position. But God everything he does is good. And everything he does is just. Just. Well that's also good. He does what is right. Right and just are basically the same thing. Um so That's reassuring. You know who would you want to be absolutely sovereign? Someone who is absolutely good. Right? said that you said you shed a lot of tears over that. And I understand that that that your mother wasn't there. And there's something I've always wondered about if um if Scripture says when we get to heaven, God will wipe away every tear. And I thought, why would anyone cry in heaven here in heaven? You know, look around. Why are you gonna cry? It's because you look around and Your mother isn't there. And that makes you cry, but God will wipe away those tears and you will never have them again because you will be perfectly satisfied that she's not there Hard to understand, right? One of the things I often pray for is that we do serve a perfect God. Imagine if we were not serving a God that's absolutely righteous and perfect and that I can't you know that's that's really something. I was annoyed there was something one day which was unusual. Yeah, I'm sure. And I said to God, you know, if I were you had that person. Whoever it was, kind of remember And it occurred to me he's not like me. He'll never act that action unless it's the right thing to do. I don't ever have to see him Yeah. So it was quickly recommended. David and the credit I was actually sharing with someone one time, you know, about God's goodness and um but that's that's the problem we have. That God is good and because He's good, He doesn't overlook sin. You know, He He will judge sin. And so that's a reason for being But he's made a way, you know I share that how he's made a way to show show his mercy. Right. Yeah. I think it's that's hard for me to understand too, but part of being good is not a proven of what's bad. You know, you think of the teacher doing um playground duty at school, and a good teacher doesn't just ignore bad behavior. He or she dismissed the children. And I I took a good philosophy and theology class in college taught by believers. And one of the few things I remember from many, many weeks Seemed like many weeks to me. Talking about the problem of evil was appeal to God's mysterious ways. Volumes and volumes have been written about the problem of evil And you know, um I think there's a bit of that in Job. Um I think Job kind of just appeals to God in mysterious ways, but still says, you know, let's And then the theme for our for our theology class was faith seeking understanding. Our starting place is faith, belief. And then from there we go out seeking for understanding and it's kind of implied that the understanding will be incomplete. So those are two ideas that guide me in line. Well, uh to one of Carol's nephews at one time. A and he has no worries whatsoever about life. And and he he had uh he was much more interested as a younger person in uh Christ and the Bible and so forth than I when I talked to him he's a uh he God's a god of love I don't have anything to worry about. I said David is also just He said then he said, You're right. And I think it kinda at least it paused in that Yeah, I do. Yeah. Yeah, but even people who understand God's justice figure that his love trumps that and it gives them a little cushion. And they have no concept really of the holiness of God and how incompatible He is with sin. No matter how many or how little. We kind of underestimate God's holiness and overestimate our righteousness. Pastor Allen, uh two two questions about uh different passages that we read. And the first one being on her saying miracles and then the other one on a little bit on the understanding of temples um including the temple that the temple mount today. But did the The um miraculous power that the the apostles had, did it include cursing and pronounced cursing as a demonstration of this miracle power that only in apostle had or a a person associated with being an apostle. It seemed like a Paul pronounced Maybe occurs at least at one time, like partial blindness. I I can't remember that. And then the uh the other question is the the whole idea of cleansing the pimple and It was Solomon's Temple with the original and then there was the Arid rebuilt to And it was destroyed in seventy AD. And then there's this future temple that I guess isn't there today when you go to Jerusalem, but is actually functional during the tribulation period. So it it comes back into being sometime between now and that period of time. But I not really understanding much about the temple I was kind of curious as to when and how it's going to come back into This this is far removed from the temple, but the when, as you suggested, is um Probably in the early um part of the tribulation period Uh, because it has to be there midway through the seven year period when it's desecrated. Um And it's possible it could get built before then. I mean there there are Jews ready today to start construction, but the politics aren't right yet. But there is a there is a temple or a mosque there at that very site. Yeah, there's uh the dome of the rock right there. Um which Dr. Bookman refers to But the the the central part of that dome of the rock is supposed to be the place where Abraham offered Isaac Actually I don't think it is, and I disagree with him on that. But um was it the Holy of Holies? Yes, I think that's pretty much where the Holy of Holies was. Yeah. Um so we don't know, but I mean there there are people um uh conservative Jews and even organizations who have plans ready to rebuild the temple. So it'll probably happen very quickly when it happens. But um the political climate wouldn't allow for it quite yet. So the rapture is not contingent upon a a temple being there up and running No, but midway of the tribulation is. Well, with that, let's close in prayer.