And a great multitude follows him uh by the sea. Um he's showing his power and authority over them, but he's also very tender and compassionate. He begins with, blessed are you. Now contrast that with Luke, who said he came down and he stood. We pray that you would use us to reflect salt and light in this world. Okay. Uh my mind isn't working too good, but it did pick up on that. All right. um with the with a hand and um as I was looking at that I wonder if the Pharisees set that up to uh have an account to accuse him. Yeah, he's on section forty six instead of forty five. um to destroy him after he the healing of the man with the withered hand in the previous lesson. And Matthew and Thomas, James, the son of Alpheus, and Simon, who was called a zealot, Judas Uh what does this say about us and making decisions or even critical decisions, how vital it is to seek the father's um face before these decisions are made? afforded to them. w his words and that he was truly who he said he was and then his passing on of that that healing ministry to his disciples, to to the apostles. And he uses miracles to affirm his authority through the things he preached. And a great throng of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the coastal region of Tyre and Sidon, who had come to hear him and to be healed of their diseases. And turning his gaze towards his disciples, he opened up his opened his mouth and began to teach them saying. For in the same way their fathers persecuted the prophets who were before you, but woe to you who are rich, for you are receiving your comfort in full. A poor. Then I have a bit of a challenge with the blended account because it would then just sort of mix it all up and we would not be able to see the fine distinction there Poor doesn't mean Christ wasn't coming to make people rich, though it wasn't about material blessings, it was about um repentance of sin I had never thought of that before, but Kirk you put that in my head and it does seem to me now that's Henry. It reminds me of in the Psalms, like in Psalm 15, Psalm 24, where it says, like who may ascend into the hill of the Lord, who may dwell. and falsely ac say all kinds of evil things against you, and scorn your name as evil for the sake of the Son of Man Well somebody please read that section. It's actually 49, page 72. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. It slows corruption, correct? so that your opponent may not hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the officer, and you be thrown into prison. Do not even the cat tax collectors and sinners do the same? And your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for He Himself is kind to the ungrateful and evil men. multitudes by the Sea of Galilee. to help someone or to uh not to help, the Pharisees uh responded in a manner where they went out and conspired with the Herodians. I was promised. And he spent the whole night in prayer to God. and from Jerusalem and from Edumia and beyond the Jordan and the vicinity of Ty and Sid and Sidon, a great number of people heard of all that he was so that they would not crowd him, and he healed them all, with the result that all those who had afflictions pressed around him in order to touch him He will not quarrel, not cry out, nor will any one hear his voice in the streets. until he leads justice to victory. whom I have chosen, my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles Lay on the bodies of the sick and they would be healed. Jesus applied his unique strength in uh tender ways. My only conclusion was that remember how uh Christ um earnestly says he earnestly warned them not to tell who he was. prophecy and how he cared for the multitudes. When you see the most vulnerable people, you see how tender he is with them. Is that a couple of times it mentions this happening among the Gentiles. uh caught up in the excitement of what Jesus was doing. And when day came, he called his disciples to him, and he chose twelve of them, those whom he himself wanted, whom he also named as apostles, and they came to him And he appointed twelve, so that they would be with him and that he could send them out to preach and to have authority to cast out the demons And he appointed the twelve, Simon, whom he also named Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James also Thaddeus, the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor, who betrayed him. the the idea or or the notion, the practice of praying throughout the night is not uncommon. Um does anybody know the difference between a regular disciple and an apostle? And I I can't help but think, you know, praying all night when you fast forward to Revelation and you see how these twelve men figure in We're gonna have a s a unique type of authority that regular disciples wouldn't have. I'm not saying that we shouldn't be praying all night, but there are things that are so foundational and so crucial. And I was thinking about the whole idea of Jesus uh healing ministry to legitimize people are willing to kind of um t sometimes take things that are legitimate even even praying all night and just doing it out of a heart of um that uh this is gonna achieve my my goals if I put in enough time and uh that deity. idols couldn't do what he did so and something else God does not allow himself to be used as an idol. what self-centered motives we have. They weren't necessarily saved, but he healed them all. Blessed are you who are poor in spirit, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are you who weep now, for ye shall laugh. Powers coming from him, so uh so the but now it says that he saw the crowds, then he sat down, his disciples came to him, and this is right before he begins to and persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you, and scorn your name as evil for the sake of the Son of Man. But this person must recognize their sinner, recogni uh repent of their sin, not just be not just be uh remorseful, have a change of heart and uh um God changes the heart and God will satisfy that longing, um, that thirst. What does it mean for them to hunger and thirst for righteousness? uh favored uh I there's another word for what I can't think of at the time, but this is God blessing a person to recognize this and he's given progression. I'm sorry, can I ask a quick question? Uh uh and when you look at the when you look at Luke's account and Matthew's account, they seem similar except Do you think that he might have perhaps given the same um teaching at some other point that we don't know about? I hope I've not no no I mean we're not gonna stay too long um but n uh Matthew was an eyewitness to this. of it so the way that uh Matthew records it and the way that Luke records it that the context is not different in what the point is. So the focus is being poor in spirit, uh the helplessness of a person should be recognized and their need for God. I mean Jesus didn't he wasn't rich, he didn't uh seek material uh wealth. And if the Matthew said when Jesus saw the crowds, he went up to the mountain. And he sat down. Things that we would have thought maybe are parallel passages are actually happening at two different times. um, you know, in his temple, he who has clean hands and a pure heart. go back and say, well Matthew, he was up on the mountain teaching just his disciples, he wouldn't have added those woes to them. He is saying like, woe to you in this big crowd who are rich, and woe and woe and woe. to proclaim the truth of the gospel. I'll I'll go ahead and read it if you like. underfoot by men. But on the lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. to that. And Christ came to fulfill the entire law. If your right eye makes you stumble, tear it out and throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. Therefore, if you are presenting your offer at the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering there. uh before the altar and go. You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. It was said, whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce. Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with him too. For he causes his son to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. but to also expose false teaching. Anything beyond these is of evil. and to have authority to cast out the demons. whom he also named his apostles, and they came to him, and he appointed twelve, so that they would be with him, and that he could send them out to preach and Andrew his brother and James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James, to them he gave the name Boagines. doing and came to him. Whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they would fall down before him and shout, You are the Son of God. Where do people learn to that if they touch them, um that could be an opportunity for them to get a healing from Christ? I also wonder if there's some sort of um word of mouth effect where someone might say something and the rumor passes, so you might hear Jesus touched a man and by the time they play the telephone game and it gets to another town you hear that all you have to do is touch him and you will be healed Um that's uh something that uh the tiniest disturbance can snuff out a small green wick. And it says this was to fulfill this was fulfilling prophecy spoken in Isaiah. Okay, that's the section verse it was verse twelve. you know, the events that unfold and where their positions are in the book of Revelation. a night of all uh I'm sorry, uh praying all night to make this critical choice. long history of idol idolatry and paganism and you just you go you touch the idol and it gives you what you want So um and I kinda understand why Kirk is saying that because really there's only one God and it's like they were he was the real God, but I think how they came to him Uh so let's go to section 47, page uh 70. And the people were trying to touch him for power was coming from him and healing them all. Those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of God. For ye shall be hungry. religious um workings um to get God's approval. Well must they first recognize this is the first thing he said. So you recognize you as a helpless sinner, and what must be the response to that recognized recognization? Is it remorse or is it something else? This is a progression of um from salvation and then progressive sanctification. Was blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh. Uh let me put it this way, does a believer still need to recognize our need for God in all these ways? As I read it, you take the one word, actually the two words in spirit that Matthew puts in there, and it seems to me that the meaning is a bit different in what Luke records, which leads me to the question is, do you suppose that he might have given this same message at some other point? Um, not just uh remorseful and beating ourselves up. It is not entir not completely different from Matthew's account, but it's very easy to apply, you know, the poor so generally as to uh mean somebody who is just materially And there was the large crowd, and him he was teaching them. standing versus sitting down and teaching the disciples versus teaching the large crowd Laying things out in chronological order. However, in this case, the bulk of the Sermon on the Mount, you know, we're mostly used to the account in Matthew. But if you follow the the account in Luke, as we will, um there is an extensive um Rejoice and be glad in that day and leap for joy and behold, your reward is great from heaven. You say, Well at least I'm not going to hell when I was younger. Um an observation, just if I were there and I were Jewish and um to change their physical circumstances and their political circumstances. Do not think that I came to abon abolish the law or the prophets. to do the same, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Um, but he says you are the salt of the earth. I would say in the context, if you don't let your light so shine that men will see your good works, that would be like having salt that's lost its uh flavor He came to fulfill the uh judicial laws, he became to fulfill the ceremonial laws, he came to fulfill all of it perfectly, and um uh the law was the old testament law was not meant that he was just referencing or the new commandments that he was giving him. You have heard that the ancients were told you shall not commit murder, and whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court. And whoever says to his brother, you good for nothing, shall be guilty before the Supreme Court. If your right hand makes you stumble, cut it off and throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to go into hell makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. But I say to you, make no oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn and offer the other to him as well. Do not even the Gentiles do the same? Through your preaching, to us coming together to worship, and we pray and thank you that you meet every need. Nor shall you make an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black. And whoever takes away what is yours, do not demand it back. Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven Um Matthew was driving up there when he said. uh his voice will not be heard in the streets. Mm-hmm. um as you might think. I'll I'll be healed. mission for the Father, why the Father sent him. And then this person uh uh hungers and thirst for righteousness. An intriguing thought to me that this was two different times. uh context and and so on. In two different locations. sometimes it would it would be hard for me to endure that um uh without seeking to uh not reflect Christ likeness. And when he killed uh man with a withered hand, uh he was angry and grieved at at the hardness of their heart. I I could hear Jesus' words in a in a certain way that and those who were um expecting the Messiah to Thank you. I think that's two different I mean he used them both but the uh uh uh let's focus on the salt. Uh oh goodness. Help us to be the light of the world that diminishes the darkness. as to how they might destroy him. very strong to believe that even if um they just got close enough to him that um they would be healed. It's it's easy to to break a battered reed, but Jesus was so tender in his careful people, so delicate um in dealing with fragile people, he was uh uh fulfilling Yeah. And also uh beyond the Jordan and the vicinity of Hyr and Sidon. It's critical. So I maybe that's the application for me is that I can I can take uh anything and kind of think about how it can be said, well yeah, I I can I can I can actually get my needs met if I follow certain um And let's go on to the next page if no one has anything else. They came from a long history of idolatry and paganism that does that to a deity, that they think they can get something from Right, he was still right, he was setting it s uh setting it up and he was still ministering to the people. And you're not, you know, really truly worthy of God. Yes. Uh what's the next one? is uh looks to be um a person who recognizes they are helpless, um, they repent of their sin. God changes them. Definitely. If that makes sense, Eric. Uh do you think that the meaning might have been slightly varied from what Matthew uh from the way Matt Matthew records it? The idea that Jesus would be saying similar things on different occasions is very much true. Right, and that focus on outward religious ceremony to um reflect that a person's pure heart as what they were being taught. Um should I add just one more thing? Okay. How can a believer endure this being hated for Christ's sake? Um and to those who enjoyed this and enjoy enjoyed darkness, people would speak well of them. This at times is a struggle to personally to be mocked for being a Christian. I think the salt in those days uh was processed differently than what we're used like our Morton salt is different than what they were using from their uh surrounding salt beds, it I I think it could um over time lose its f flavor because of the decay of the minerals and things that were around it to uh uh it was meant to be fulfilled. I guess the slowest spread in the context that we live in now. Amen. Uh with the text I'm gonna ask other people to read for me. That seems like very strong faith to me to t to um think that all I need to to do is be near him, that I believe that strongly in who he is, that I could be healed. and um uh he's applying such care for it because he's representing the father as we represent the father in this world. And um uh so what he was about to do um in making a choice uh for choosing his disciples, it required prayer. And it says those he wanted. to Christianity or to one's life that they warrant that kind of effort. And I guess what strikes me is just the how we as humans we can look at something that God is doing and we can misconstrue it to to meet uh our personal needs and even to the point of like superstition that if I just touch him I'll um Teach. Um, from my understanding never heard um from the Pharisees or scribes. Um you shall be comforted. Um and the reason I ask that is this, if you take Luke's account, okay, um while God doesn't want you poor. the circumstances of the moment. Being well fed meant they were blessed in and of itself. So, you know, I kind of think of it in that that way, you know, his his grief over the hardness of heart and his his weeping over the rejection. That's my comment. We need a canvas. You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. warned him not to tell who he was. Would anybody like to engage with that before I uh say something? You notice that the healings did not necessarily mean that those people were saved. Um his purpose. After another uh uh extensive time of uh uh ministering to large crowds of people, uh Christ goes off to the mountain and pray and he spent the whole night in prayer to God uh used for my purposes and to achieve my my goals. It's going to be interesting that the miracle set up the preaching and how the preaching is what um then the crowds Thank you. Other versions of that say blessed are the meek. Plastic on me if I say something wrong, please interject. But we're following the chronology that Luke lays out because he intentionally said that he was Sermon, if you will, teaching time, that uh has um i i it's covered in both of the accounts. It's hard to explain why it was a lengthy discourse that was essentially the same content Uh what so how can we endure this type of assaults Exactly. Oh, I think w when he goes up to Jerusalem he weeps over them that that they wouldn't accept him and I wish we were all uh have that type of heart for lost souls that we will be more earnest. not cure them in a spiritual sense, but in in a different sense. Is Christ saying we ought to be in the earth? It's a preservative. It adds flavor. Well on page 74, the blended account in section, what is it, fifty. And what is he fulfilling? um section there it talks about you know Christ being uh God being pleased with him. attracting people from Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem, but also from places like Edumeah, the old Edom And to them he gave the name Boagenes, which means Sons of Thunder. Yes. Of course another another factor here is that Matthew's account uh is in Matthew 5, whereas the previous things we've been reading have been from later in Matthew. I don't know, I can't see the page fifteen. So how can well let me just put it in this context uh for application, how can we lose our effectiveness in this world Yeah, I think that's an interesting perspective and a good one too, I must say. This is a a local church. as they witnessed uh legitimate healings and demons being cast out, that there's uh people that that looked at that with an unbelieving heart. I I tend to agree with Kirk because over in that area, um, and and even in Jesus' time, there's this And he said, if they recognize that, um theirs is the kingdom. You recognize your need, you repent of your sin, and now says, blessed are the gentle. We still deal with sin. And so that's the assumption built into the blended account here. So, um twenty-four, the woe. D um he's speaking truth, but how do you think he is proclaiming this truth to the large crowds that uh he's speaking to? under uh Roman oppression and poor, uh economically poor, just as a class of people, and and probably hungry uh sometimes Uh that's true. How can we become corrupted or useless in this earth, even though our purpose is to be the soul? Um they're used to the harsh treatment of the Pharisees and um so this care for the most delicate, the most fragile And w and what was their role for the church? For their fathers used to treat the false prophets in the same way. Um light. So what is all night prayer? Actually we we we did it quite a bit when I was in Africa. Uh uh can you provide some clarity, do you mean you would take what they did and apply it to yourself? People were still coming and touching him and getting healed and there was uh if you would a dispensing of powerful healing grace to all the folks. Uh will somebody read that please? Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Luke only has those four woes at the end. And for the the purpose, it seems like that he uh was in prayer all night was to choose apostles were uh uh not just mere disciples, not just mere followers, but apostles. If I buy into Jesus' ministry or the apostles' ministry, I can get my needs needs met. Thank you. Uh excuse me, um, this is Ann. So let's go into forty-eight. Y you're helpless. And something I love too is uh uh Christ is fulfilling the Father's purpose. You are the light of the world. Christ's example. And when they come, the people not only come to heal them but to be healed. Material blessings mean they were blessed. All right. But Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there to see the sea with his disciples, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and also from Judea. That's that's interesting. I think that's a good question. Okay. And so uh before he made this choice, even though Judas discouraged as one of those people to fulfill scripture, it took um And is this a righteousness of themselves or is it foreign to them? Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Um I'll go to twenty-two. Uh section forty-six. But Jesus the way he healed people, it proved who he was. All right, thank you. You have heard that the ancients were told you shall not commit murder and whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court. Oh, go ahead. He did not make a decision, such a critical decision, without seeking the Father in prayer, even though he's God Himself. Let's pray. And it's reminded me of uh God doing a unique thing with Paul in Acts nineteen where even the handkerchiefs from his hands uh when he was in Ephesus were used to uh I think we I I I'm not implying that somehow that that they're bet they're better or that they're more spiritual, but what I'm saying is Woe to you who laugh now, for ye shall mourn and weep. So now that this person has been changed, they reflect God's mercy. Blessed are you who are poor in spirit. Right. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering. They long for righteous God's righteousness. No, I and I can see how um if you read Matthew, Blessed are the poor in spirit, then you read Luke, Blessed are the poor. And uh it would be contaminated with other things. What is the purpose of light in the world? Ten eleven. And he told his disciples that a boat should stand ready for him because of the crowd Um so look at the context. It's only when you when you add in spirit that then it narrows the context somewhat. You mean to to meet an immediate need to be to deliver right then and there? So I I was I was thinking of or maybe suspecting the element of of superstition that has always been in the human heart and it's and it's evident today that I mean God is God. His disciples came to him and he began to teach them, the disciples Um the per progression, is that the same thing as sanctification then? That's our um as Hebrew says, Christ is our example. Do you think it's no breaks, just intense all nighter? We pray, oh God, that you will bless us to reflect the heart of Christ, which is to love you and to love uh others. Um so how is prayer connected to the choice of choosing his twelve apostles? It may be there are two different occasions, but the length of it seems to suggest that it's at the same time. So today we're gonna pick up he leaves there and um uh he goes away with his disciples. Repentance. Thomas going back to your question about what it means to be pure in heart, um, for those people who see God. So this also seems to be a time when God was just doing unique things in the ministry where uh just to touch him as he would touch people, people would be uh healed. So either way, we have to wrestle with the implications. Yeah, well the the the point of of the in both of those expressions is humility. Um what what time is it's ten oh four. So uh before we get into uh the blended account, this is right after he healed a man in the synagogue on the Sabbath So we're not exempt from recognizing our need for God's righteousness to uh live through us. Okay. The next one he says is uh the gentle. Again, he was uh speaking to people who were taught that um Uh oh. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Uh Father God, thank you for sending your son to not only uh reflect the heart of the law, to explain the heart of the law. Yeah, section forty five. And people are coming from various regions um to hear him. It was um But is is Christ gloating over these people? And in his name the Gentiles will hope. Um we should not enjoy it or love it. So our hope is not in our own righteousness, but his. So so so Thomas the law that he says whoever teaches want to unknow these which which which commandments is he talking about there's the commandment of the of the So go ahead. Uh to proclaim the gospel. Um the introduction to the sermon on the mount. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. However, if we treat them as different then um um It's a preservative, it slows decay. Salt of deal slows corruption as a preservative. Therefore you are to be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. If we become like the world. Right. Because the context is he's healing them, he's teaching them, um, he's casting out demons who know who he is, but Matthew seems to make that emphasis poor in spirit. And when day came, he called his disciples to him, and he chose twelve of them, those who he himself wanted And you are blessed if God um makes you aware of how helpless you are. So what type of character should we reflect in the midst of this hostile environment? What is the purpose of soul? Bill, you want to read that again or mute, Bill. Matthew didn't have any uh intent of doing that. And uh the motive for them coming to him um did not uh detract from his purpose of fulfilling his Jesus came down with them and stood on a level place and there was a large crowd of his disciples It adds flavor, yes. And he appointed the twelve. Um he's given a an order. Not just a local church. They were the foundation. Repentance, thank you. Um we're on page uh sixty-eight, lesson eleven. And what does a blessed person who belongs to righteousness have to weep over? Um Hey Thomas, can I I don't I don't can I ask this question Um but if the salt becomes tasteless, how can it be made salty again? Uh oh goodness it's ten ten. Thomas, as I look at that that passage where it talks about him fulfilling that passage, I wonder that as well. Um uh any checks out motives. And so just as Pastor Pomer was saying, just the repentance, the inward humility, um, and then that leading to the outward reform Okay. Uh we pray that you will be glorified. He was dealing with the most delicate and uh fragile people. What does it mean for a person to be blessed? You are poor in spirit, what does that mean? Okay. God designed it to be fulfilled. But I say to you, that everyone who looks at a woman with lust in her lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart Yes. He is teaching people who have been under false teaching for years. I think it's to crave the things of God, to know the Word of God, to walk in the Word of God. I'm sorry, I got a phone leaning in the background. I'm thinking that perhaps that's uh what it is other than the fact that you know prior to that specific um um Their motive um was their motive. You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has become tasteless, how can it make be made salty again? But whoever keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. If you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? It was at this time that he went off to the mountain to pray. Mm-hmm. Um, who enjoy their sin. Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. That's good. Um um so it is progression, it is part of the same as the case, but it includes all of it. Material wealth meant they were blessed. Blessed are you who hunger and thirst for righteousness now, for you shall be satisfied. Give to him who asks of you, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. I came not to I I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. Oh, I'm sure I'm uh li go ahead and lift somebody else before I get there. 49? And help us, O God, to not be consumed by the pervading corruption of this world. And and then you contrast that with how he dealt with the Pharisees, who, like you pointed out, would have been really uh stern with the people. Um God will satisfy it. And that authority included, uh well, casting out demons. And so Christ is dealing with a people, he's delivering a people with truth that they haven't Mm-hmm. Uh this was too full. Okay, explain it. Blessed are those who mourn, they shall be comforted. So I looked back at section 47 And the next one he says, Blessed are those who mourn That's that's good. If you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? I can do that. You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. I think another um reason for this quote from Isaiah Okay. I mean he's the cornerstone, but they're the foundation Um they still deal with sin. You're you're looking forward by by faith. It seems that they their their faith was We did it in college. Alright, he he proclaimed the gospel and that was the ultimate purpose. That seems like two different instances to me. To drive out darkness. You must repent. I could I could hear those words and So it would become useless and worthless. And uh so I think that's part of the reason Isaiah is quoted here. Blessed are you when men hate you and ostracize you and insult you. Uh does anyone know what it means to be pure in heart? Uh any part of the law. But I say to you, who hear, It's in the text. And so people were coming not who were not just Jews, but also Gentiles, who were um So blessed are you when men hate you and ostracize you and insult you and persecute you. Nor does anyone light a lamp and put it under a basket. Simon, whom he also called Peter So there's a change of heart, there's a change of heart that God gives this person Uh Pastor Plumbing, what do you think? And those examples uh uh reflect that Um idols were healing people immediately. Somebody please read that, the blended account. We um you shall laugh one day. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchasteity, Yeah, section forty eight now So he with withdraws with his disciples Um that is something they are not used to. And he also named Philip and Bartholomew It's not it's not Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for their fathers used to treat the false prophets in the same way. If you dilute it with so many other things, you really you can't taste the salt any longer. So my question uh to us, um Now is it their righteousness that they hunger and thirst for? It's not of our own. It says woe to you are rich, you're receiving your war your comfort in full. If anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, let him have your coat also First just brought up Section 49, Sermon on the Mount the Theme. Our hope is what he did in fulfilling God's law. We did it in church. You're ne you're needy. Because we can tell from the context and so on. Um and we can rejoice in the midst of it. And whoever says, you fool, shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery hell Again you have heard the ancients were told, You shall not make false vows, but shall fulfil your vows to the Lord. We need your righteous power to live through us so that we can be effective in this world. It was at this time he went off to the mountain to pray and he spent the whole night in prayer to God What must they recognize to be blessed? Um I was gonna break down the first four Um just speaking generally, I don't know your life, uh more earnest about seeing God save more people and using us to be a witness Right. And he designed it for his son to fulfill it He didn't sit down. Jesus was just fulfilling um I have no not the blended account. It may be here because we don't do it that often, but it's it's relatively common When Jesus saw the crowds, after he sat down, his disciples came to him Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Um how was this person blessed? Um how can salt become tasteless? Um alright, I'm gonna get to this one. We uh give glory to you for this time in Jesus' name. Um again, Christ, even though he's God shows us that prayer is vital for any ministry to move forward. Yes. He came to seek and save the lost. A battered reed he will not break off, and a smoldering wick he will not put out Thank you, Dilverina. The um Jesus healed him anyway You recognize that you are helpless. Matthew's account doesn't, and if we They're gonna receive mercy. Um They laugh now instead of uh they're gonna weep later. Thank you. Yes. Truly I say to you, you will not come out of there until you have paid up the last cent And there thereby my relationship with the Lord is actually kind of superstition. Up to the mountain I w I would uh submit this to you. Um yeah, I I'm I'm thinking that But love your enemies and do good, and lend expecting nothing in return Right, because you send the bullets not just right, not just happy but We become like the world. Are we going to be able to read the last one here? Make friends quickly with your opponent of the law while you are with him on the way. It does. Um and they were still touching him and I I mean we actually had prayer meetings that lasted all night. Um regards of how selfish we come to him or Uh very right. I think an apostle is someone who knew him personally and saw his resurrection. Uh what else? How can salt lose um its influence, so to speak, or it's um I mean God's law is one uh i it's God God is the author of his law so if you change any part of his law, what have you done? The tiniest um uh I can go ahead. And so it's not it's not out of faith, it's kind of out of superstition Measure up to God's standard that you're not what you should be. It's Christ's righteousness. Thomas, you're um what you're describing I actually have never heard before and it's it's very interesting that I'll read Say that one more time. I I couldn't quite make out you know exactly what Alright, so now he comes down to the level place and before he preaches the Sermon on the Mount, uh, what do we see that's still happening? Uh so salt that then and it is that a very valuable For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? All right, let's go to Thomas. He stood on a level place And uh something Kirk asked last week It's quite it's it's not as uncommon But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court Behold, my servant You know, and he's we're gonna get into it later how he confronts that through the preaching. Yes or no? Okay. But let your statement be yes, yes, or no, no You know, he is he is he is focused on fulfilling his mission to Jews and Gentiles And we're going to see that on several occasions where You know, by blending the two of these, we're we're dealing with So I'm still leaning to two separate occasions Thank you. But he liken his people Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful A previous life. So I was wondering We need to remember Christ's example. Oh, go ahead, Kurt. Um in the examples that uh they use a smothering wick And these people, um the apostles Rejoice and be glad in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven You're not just simply looking at And he earnestly warned them and So um Jesus was aware of the Pharisees' conspiracy uh We're not we should still mourn um uh over sin. Um material things was not his focus. However, the the the And we see here that not only is he Spiritually spiritually needy. I'm sorry. Um so that Um So sanctification for the believer, let me That um What type of influence um We desire things of the world. Um or that's different? Um so after he engaged with them about what is lawful Up to the mountain at versus the level place And this the focus of this one is Jesus teaches and heals Thomas Thomas, I had a I had a comment about actually the previous section What does that mean? Uh And if if he if he had done that Things like what you're pointing out here Um Um Okay. To drive out darkness. Um the m the miracles was gonna be uh The false teaching of the scribes and Pharisees focus on uh the external Uh the next one is uh blessed are the merciful, but they shall receive mercy. And he's proclaiming the uh gospel through this whole process. What what do you mean by gloat? And if that's the case It's on page 72. Um And though I look at it, there's a pass that passage has the way it says that um Or uh um could you imagine doing that? Um uh I I'm not feeling well this morning and I didn't It's is it Matthew five thirteen through twenty phone? So, um You repent Um Paul But to this large mixed crowd Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments and teaches others Jesus said he came to fulfill the whole law. Amen. But I say to you, do not resist an evil person Right. Um because this is such a big section, let's go on to uh the next page. Luke was uh getting um witness eyewitness accounts Can't that be used to trip people up? He's looking for God's looking for humility, not pride. Uh Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. They are not used to religious leaders caring for them the way Jesus cared for them. Yes. Read that off then. Woe to you who are well fed now Um um Um our hope and our trust is in Christ alone How about I read it? Um But I actually this is section forty nine So it's God's righteousness. Um Right? Okay. For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled And these who were troubled with unclean spirits were being cured. How can salt lose its effectiveness? Um uh which is you know Amen. Even sinners lend to sinners in order to receive back the same amount. But the believer who mourns now over sin is gonna laugh later. All right, let's go to 49. To drive out darkness. We pray you will be glorified today. So will someone please read the blended account All right. Right, we still deal with sin, correct? I don't we don't have it in us, it's God's righteousness. Um And um So And then the other woes. Okay, I'll I'll get it. He came not only to fulfill the moral law Um Um It is 10 oh five. We should still be the repentant people. Um And Yes. Yes. Are you on page uh sixty eight? So they're not different. Um Blessed are I mean Uh