Uh-oh. Alright, so we are on lesson forty-seven. And so it's Good Friday, right? It's uh lesson forty-seven is about the crucifixion of Christ. Um And we're on page 280. You know, interestingly you mentioned Isaiah 53 and its its very detailed prediction of the sacrifice of the Messiah. When I was in college, a friend recommended to me, I guess from some experience he was aware of, that if you write out Isaiah 53 without any uh reference to Isaiah or chapter and verse, just write it out as paragraphs. And then use that if you have a Jewish friend who you'd like to share the gospel with. And just to hand it to him and say, I'm I'm curious to know what you think about this. And he'll look at it and um typically say, Oh, this is Well you may have to ask him, so who do you think it's talking about? And often they'll s they'll see that it looks like it's talking about Jesus, but I don't believe that stuff. Well, do you know where this came from? Isaiah fifty-three. Word for word. And that usually is a good conversation opener. Or closer, yeah, as as God leads. I think many did, but like many things, it just kind of went over the head of a lot of people. Yeah. It even starts before chapter fifty three, talking about his servant and so on. Um so yeah, I'm I'm sure it's a mixed bag. Some understood that it had to do with the Messiah, um but the prevailing view at the time of Christ was that the Messiah, the picture of the Messiah that they preferred from the Old Testament was as a victorious king, rather than a suffering servant. And so it really didn't compute as we've seen multiple times with even his disciples. Um but yeah, it's interesting. There's there's a lot, of course, of Well you even in in the sections we're going to be reading today, there are references to uh the fulfillment of prophecy in what happened. Not just what Christ did, what Christ said, but what other people did during this this time. And um it's it's interesting when you see prophecy being fulfilled after hundreds of years that uh God knows the end from the beginning. Anyway, uh I'll go ahead and read the blended account here on two eighty. Um after they had mocked him, you know, we've just now completed all the trials and interrogations and whatever before Pilate and Herod and Jewish rulers. Uh after they had mocked him, they took the purple robe off him, which they had given him to mock him, and put on his own garments back on him, and led him away, therefore to crucify him and went out and he went out bearing his own cross. Um and as they were coming out they found a pastor by of Cyrene named Simon the father of Alexander and Rufus coming in from the country, whom they had seized and pressed into service to carry the cross behind Jesus So um several things there. Um it seems apparent from historical records and and so on that What was being carried by each of the prisoners was just the horizontal cross beam and it w it would have been long and heavy. and that the the poles that they were attached to for crucifixion were already on site, um and they would have been fastened together and so on. Uh but whether it was the whole cross or just um the cross beam, it was pretty clear that Jesus was um so weakened by A the lack of sleep, B the torture he had already been given um that uh it was gonna take forever if they're gonna require him to carry the own his own cross the whole way. So they got somebody from the crowd randomly in And um he took over. Um and that someone, Simon of Cyrene, Cyrene being uh um I guess a n a province on North Africa at the time. And it says in Mark that he was the father of Alexander and Rufus. And of course Alexander and Rufus are names we haven't come across yet, and yet um it was pretty clear to Mark that a lot of his readers would know who he meant, which suggests that they were uh well known believers at the time of the writing of the gospel. In fact, if you look in Romans 16, 13, it makes sense reference to Rufus, presumably the same guy. uh in terms of giving him a greeting and so on. So um uh it's interesting that often the gospel writers would put in little explanatory notes and and so on. Um sometimes about language issues or cultural issues, but in this case, um about connections between different people. And and so I would infer that if all that is true, that this Simon of Cyrene was, as you can imagine, heavily influenced by what he he what role he was conscripted to fulfill. And um he probably witnessed the crucifixion itself and um like many there came to the conclusion that truly this was the Son of God. Uh it's the kind of thing where you'd love to have that kind of biography and uh historical background, but all we can do is is provide our own conjecture at this point. But that seems likely. Okay. Uh And following him was a large crowd of people and of women who were mourning and lamenting him, which suggests that Not everyone was joining the crowd saying, crucify him, just moments earlier. But Jesus, turning to them, said, Daughters of Jerusalem Stop weeping for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold, the days are coming when they will say, Blessed are the barren and the wounds that never bore. and the breasts that never nursed, they will begin to say to the mountains, fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. And of course the the all caps there is is um A direct quote from Old Testament prophecy about end times. And verse 31, for if they do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry? So here Jesus is um not only exhausted but um on his way to be executed and he's taking uh not only an interest in comforting the the onlookers, people who are kind of lining the path, Uh but um getting them to actually think through um what God has said in his word and things that would be coming to pass. And that there would be a a warning here even for them. So he wasn't just thinking about himself, which is the point. Uh two others also who were criminals were being led away to be put to death with him And when they came to the place called in Hebrew Golgotha, which translated means place of a skull, they gave him wine to drink mixed with gall, myrrh, and after tasting it, he was unwilling to drink, he did not take it. Okay, so a couple of things here. I think I mentioned several weeks ago that uh the the route that Christ took from Pilate's palace, Pilate's uh Praetorium, uh to Golgotha has come to be known as uh called Via Delorosa, the the uh the way of pain. And um from a long time ago, I'm not sure how long ago, uh perhaps as far back as Constantine. Um The presumption was that Pilate was operating from the fortress Antonia, which was sort of attached to just the outside corner of Temple Mount. And um In Acts we see that referred to as a barracks for the military. But recent evidence and and uh study seems to suggest that that wasn't the case at all. Why would he stay in the barracks when there is an empty palace here that Herod used to occupy. And so that's probably where he was, and it fits with other evidence as well. And if that's the case, then the the path, which is very um what, revered by Catholics, the Via de la Rosa with all the stations of the cross and everything, um, they got the path of that thing all wrong Um at least the one point, the starting point. The ending point, Golgotha, um, it seems like they've got that right. And we know that um not because we can look at it today and say, well that's it, because when you look at it today what you see is the um Church of the Holy Sepulchre. And it was built there to commemorate uh where uh the the death and burial of Christ actually happened. Um but that's somewhat recent, in fact ver fairly recent Not a few hundred years, but not um it doesn't date back to the original time because um at around a hundred AD, I think, the Emperor Hadrian uh completely demolished uh that site, particularly because people revered it as the place where Christ died. And he wanted to wipe out all association of that place with Christ. And so he instead erected a pagan temple there, just desecrating it from the believers' perspective, just desecrating the site, which was his intent. Um and that that's very clearly happened within uh seventy years of the actual event. I mean it was that soon after. And that that uh reviewing of the s in spite of that desecration, continued and there's good evidence of that. And so uh the location also fits very well with the gospels description of the place and how close it was and just outside the city walls. And so that location is probably right. Uh but the location where Pilot was working from probably not. Okay. There's another aspect here, and that is um Hebrew, says in Hebrew Golgotha, which translated means place of a skull. Why would it be called place of a skull? Um there are actually paintings in the um Church of the Holy Sepulchre that show that site with with the crucifixion and a lot of skulls around as if that was a natural thing. I doubt that was the reason for it. Um and to um well I'm not sure how to describe it, but to to to think through what evidence God has given us in his word. about where Christ was crucified, I'd like to take us back to Genesis twenty-two. You don't only think of Genesis when you think about the crucifixion But in Genesis twenty-two we have the um uh uh sacrifice, Abraham sacrificing his son Isaac by God's command. And I wonder if I could get somebody to read for us verses one through fourteen. After these things, God attested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am He said, Take your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains, of which I will tell you I shall tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him and his son Isaac, and he cut the word for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar. Then Abraham said to his young uh man, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac, his son, and he took his hand, took in his hand the the fire and the knife. And Isaac said to his father, Abraham, My father, he said, here I am, my son He said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son Son. So they went both of them together. When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son. And laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and He said, Here I am. He said, Do not lay your hand upon the boy or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, seeing that you have And Abraham lifted his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in the thicket by his And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of the sun. So Abraham called the name of that place the Lord of I As it is said to this day, on the mount of the Lord it shall be provided. Yeah, and that uh that name, um you you've maybe heard the phrase Jehovah Jara Now um at the outset and several places through there uh it describes Uh Isaac as Abraham's only son. Actually the way it's written in verse one is your son, your only son, y whom you love. It's kind of Bent over backwards who described the uniqueness of of Isaac, who wasn't actually his only son. It wasn't even his first son. His first son was who? Ishmael, who was like twelve years older. And what was unique about Isaac? God had told Abraham that no, Ishmael's not the son of promise. The promise was given to Abraham before he had any children, the promise of of God's blessing, the promise of of uh the land, the promised land, and the promise of um um many descendants, those three components were all given back earlier, well several times in in Genesis Um and so when God finally said no you're gonna have a son a year from now, he says, Well w I already have a son, Ishmael, doesn't that work And uh God said, No, the the one who is going to be the one through whom these promises are fulfilled is uh this new one who's going to be born, his and you'll call him Isaac. So Isaac was the son of promise in the Satouagent, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, which was widely available even in the time of Christ. That passage uses the term only begotten son. And that's of course how the New Testament characterizes Christ, not just a son, but only begotten. And that doesn't mean the only son. It means the primary, the the um uh in Abraham's case the the son of promise. This is the key person. And in in Christ's case it's um his exalted position that's being recognized as only begotten And so particularly looking back, we look at this and we, what is God doing here with Abraham? Testing him to to see how genuine his faith is, that's for sure. What else? Yeah, so testing his faith and his trust for sure. Yeah, so there's a picture here of what's to come, right? God's giving an illustration. Um Abraham's uh immediate beneficiary of it, but it's clearly not easy for Abraham to do this, right? But God is presenting a picture of the sacrifice of an only begotten son. and that what's involved is a substitute. In this in Abraham's case, the substitute is what? The Ram. Um and in the ultimate fulfillment of that, the the Lamb is the Lamb of God, who is our substitute, right? Um so With that in mind, look at some interesting details in Genesis 22. Um, how did God describe where he needed to go? Well, first of all, he described to go to a certain place, right? Not just where you're at. He had to go somewhere. And how did he describe that somewhere? Okay, go to the land of Moriah. Where's that? It's generally the area around Jerusalem. But he didn't say, go to Mount Moriah, what did he say? Go to the land of the Mount Moriah to what? one of the mountains of which I will tell you, not show you, I will tell you. So there was some description, presumably, of the physical characteristics of this mountain that when Abraham got there, he could see from a distance, oh, I'm here. I see it now, based on God's description. Um, okay. So given God's Let me back up before I say that. There is a Mount Moriah. What has become known as Mount Moriah for many years is basically Temple Mount, where the temple had been uh until it was destroyed. Um and what what things happened in the temple. sacrifice of animals, right? Which are a picture of of uh the sacrifice that that uh Christ would make Uh and so if you ask most people, they believe, I mean Bible believing Christians believe that that's where Abraham sacrificed Isaac, right there on the top of what is now called Mount Moriah. Um but I don't think that fits the text all that well. There's something about the appearance of the mountain, or at least how it was at that time that God could have explained to Abraham and he when he Abraham saw it, he knew he was in the right place. I don't think that was necessarily the case with Temple Mount, but it might have been the case if it was a place that looked like a skull because there were caves under it and with like two eyes and and nose. Um How it actually wor looked at the time of Christ, we don't know because it was completely wiped out a few years later, within a hundred years. But it was called the place of the skull for a reason, and that might be one reason, uh its physical appearance. Anyway, um given what God was trying to illustrate through Abraham's experience, uh I'm pretty sure that he wasn't trying to sh um give a picture uh prophetically of what would be happening at the temple I think it's much more likely that he was trying to picture prof prophetically what would happen at Golgotha. And I mean they're stones throw away from each other. It's the same area. Um So I believe it's far more likely, and I may be the only one in the world who believes this, but I believe it's far more likely that God, because he was very specific about the police very specific about the place, not just the general region, but he described what it would look like when he found it, right? Um and he was very specifically trying to foreshadow the ultimate sacrifice, not the sacrifice of lambs, but the sacrifice of the only begotten son. And that of course took place on Govatha. Anyway, hope that helps for what it's worth. Um and fortunately, it seems very, very clear that uh that location is today where the Church of the Holy Sepulchre is. It's pretty well established. Okay. Um maybe along the same lines, if you flip the page to two hundred eighty-two, there are several photos there. of a different location. It's commonly called Gordon's Cavalry. Gordon, I think, was some British military officer who was exploring at some point. A few a few hundred years ago. Um and on the upper left is is a photo of what it looked like Um I'm thinking probably in the early nineteen hundreds. I don't have an actual date. Yes, it does. It does, yeah Uh and then there's a photo on the upper right of what it looked like uh eleven years ago, well ten years ago. Uh obviously a lot of that rock kind of falls away and And it it distorts its appearance. But uh apparently when ca when Gordon looked at this he says, Aha, this must be the place because it looks like a skull. Um this must be where Christ was Crucified. And um on top of that, right next door, I mean right next door, is this tomb that's on the bottom of the page, uh, which is currently called the Garden Tomb. Um and they actually have created a garden around it. The problem with that though, well the problem with the tomb is that it's very clearly not the type of tomb that they had back when Jesus was crucified. And we know from scripture that the tomb he was laid in was a freshly hewn, unused tomb. And what we see here is one that was dates much earlier. hundreds of years earlier, um, just by its its size and function and and so on. Um but on top of that, um there was no suggestion in antiquity at any point that what is now called Gordon's Calvary um was actually the place of Christ's death. It was just his his sort of knee-jerk reaction to looking at it. Um whereas um the place where the Church of the Holy Sepulchre is has been built, there's tradition going back to um uh with less than a hundred years from the time of the actual event that that's where it actually took place. And that was the motivation for Hadrian to just wipe it out. Um yes, and you could say the same thing about, you know, the Noah's Ark. Yeah, everybody's searching for that, um as if finding it will prove the Bible right. Well the Bible's right whether you find it or not. Right? Or the shroud of turn, right? Or the art Or the Ark, yeah. Um yeah, that that is that is a a very human um proclivity, as you say, to worship the artifact rather than the God who is behind all this Um and in fact you look at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and you could argue that's exactly what's going on right there. They've erected uh this from my perspective, very gaudy uh cathedral on top of the right site, but um and Probably with the motive of of honoring and venerating what took place there, but their way of doing it, kind of what Well, it was already wiped out by Adrian. Um but that's a natural proclivity. In this particular case, I think they got the site right. Um and And yet what's been built on it um does support exactly what you're saying. You you you venerate the artifacts and locations Um rather than a um a heart that's really devoted to God, uh in a biblical way. Yeah, yeah. There actually is in the sort of the lower levels of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre there is a tomb, uh, but they're pretty sure it's not the one Christ was in But it's an example of a kind of tomb that was typical of that period. And there w probably would have been many in the country s in the hillside there. Anyway, um be that as it may. Let's go to section two hundred on page two hundred eighty-three. The crucifixion, the first three hours. And so, of course, all four of the Gospels give this uh a lot of coverage and so we're blending this. Um however I just noticed um earlier this morning actually that my blended account doesn't incorporate Mark fifteen twenty-four twenty-five. Um so I want to read that first At the very beginning here of Mark fifteen. And they crucified him and divided his garments among themselves. Now that and casting lots. That I think we've gotten elsewhere. casting lots for them to decide which each man should take. But the important thing I wanted to say is in verse 25, it was the third hour when they crucified him. Mark is the only one who puts that in sort of a time uh context, uh that particular, you know, the start of the crucifixion Later we'll see that um I think all of the synoptic gospels refer to that period of darkness from about noon to three. Uh they They all are in agreement with that. So um Mark is the only one who mentions that the process started a around um the third hour, which would have been when? The third hour around um well yes, I I believe it was definitely nine a um the problem with that, however, is Nineteen fourteen, is that it? Yeah. What I'm uh what I'm struggling with is I'm not finding that in my notes here, but that's because I'm trying to do it too quickly probably. But yes, that is the the challenge. Uh John says specifically that um Pilate brought Jesus out to the Jews at um the sixth hour. That's what it says, right? The sixth hour? Um and here Mark is saying that he's already over at Count uh Golgotha um and the crucifixion starting at the third hour. And so what's up? Most Bible scholars um um based not just on these verses, but on other verses, conclude that John writing much later the much later than the other gospels to a different audience, more of a worldwide audience rather than say to Jews, um, was using a different time-keeping method And you know, our timekeeping method is like from midnight to midnight, right? Um and so In that case, the sixth hour in the early morning would be six a. m. and uh Jewish time would have been from sunrise to sunrise, and so the third hour would be uh Um and sunrise around six AM. The third hour would be uh nine AM and so uh most Bible scholars conclude that um piecing all this together that th those trials that Jesus had went through the night and basically ended around six AM and then by the time they got him to Calvary, uh, Govatha and the crucifixion got started, it was three hours later, nine A. M. And then we'll see, I guess next week, that while he's on the cross, you know, the sky darkens for three hours and And that was between uh all of the synoptic gospels are consistent in saying that was between the uh the sixth hour and the ninth hour, I think is what they say. It's noon to three. Um so you can see the chronology, but uh the best way to understand it is that John being written so much later for a different audience was using a different uh time method um much like we do That understanding is not unanimous, uh, but that's the one it's the best explanation I've heard. Anyway. Okay So, back on page 284, the blended account. There they crucified him with two criminals, one on the right and one on the left, and Jesus in between. And then in Mark in verse twenty-eight it says, and the scripture was fulfilled, which says, he was numbered with transgressors. Now that's in brackets here, because New American Standard indicates that that verse is not in the earliest manuscripts of the Book of Mark. And so it's not likely to have been in the original. However, it's absolutely certain that the contents of that verse are absolutely true. Right. And so the stakes are pretty low about including it. But if you want to be real careful about what was only in the original, this is potentially, in fact most likely, and a a a uh an insertion by some copyists a little bit later. Um and fortunately what they inserted was absolutely true. Um And it's a good uh example of some of the other cases we're going to be reading here that are very specific fulfillments of what I think in most cases Isaiah 53 the detail provided for us in Isaiah 53 about the crucifixion. Anyway, so verse 19. I guess this is Mark still. Pilate also wrote an inscription and put on it, put it on the cross. It was written Jesus the Nazarene, the King of the Jews. Therefore many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek Pilate wanted to be sure that everybody could see that. And the chief priests of the Jews were saying to Pilate, Don't write King of the Jews, but that he said, I I am. And Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. Um you know exactly where the Jewish leaders were coming from in insisting on that. What's less clear is where Pilate was coming from. It seems like I think, at the very least, he was trying to exert um some authority over the Jewish leaders, even though in reality he caved into them. But he didn't want them to get the idea that they could continue doing that. That's the best I could figure. Whether it says something about what's in Pilate's heart or not, I'm not sure. Verse thirty-four. This is now of Luke. But Jesus was saying, this is while he's on the cross Father, forgive them, for they know not, they do not know what they are doing. Which speaks volumes of Christ's heart, right? Um Yeah, I think actually wasn't it um Stephen when he was being stoned said very much the same thing, much like Christ did. Um verse twenty three, back to Mark. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his outer garments and made four parts, a part to every soldier, and also the tunic. Now the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece So it's not as easy to divide up, I guess. So they said to one another, let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, to decide whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture They divided my outer garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Again, that's from Isaiah 53. Um and so you can see the likelihood that a copyist would say, you know, we really ought to point out that there's a fulfillment of prophecy here about him being crucified between two thieves, but uh probably wasn't in the original Therefore the soldiers did these things, dividing up his garments among them, and the people stood by looking on. And in the same way, the chief priests also, along with the scribes and elders, were sneering at him, saying He saved others. Let him save himself if he is the King of Israel, the Christ of God, his chosen one. Let him now come down from the cross, and we will see and believe in him. Hang on while I sneeze. Anyway, verse forty-three. Uh and I think this is Matthew. He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he delights in him. For he said, I am the Son of God. So that all caps is actually their saying what what I'm pretty sure this is also Isaiah fifty-three, uh prophesied that people would say about him when they crucified him. Um it isn't that interesting that here the Jewish leaders didn't believe anything about Christ being the king of the Jews And yet they ended up fulfilling scripture prophecy by saying things in in uh dis disbelief and mockery that scripture said that they would do. Um they weren't doing it uh they weren't trying to fulfill prophecy, but they did anyway. Interesting. The soldiers also mocked him, coming up to him, offering him sour wine, and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. So there was just disbelief Mockery, right? Um and those passing by were hurling abuse at him, wagging their heads and saying, Ha, you who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days Save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. Uh and and so that that saying, you who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, people Which um Christ said in his first cleansing of the temple, I think it was, right, in John 2. Um, but it's very clear from the text there that he was referring to his own resurrection after or on the third day, not of the physical temple. And yet that misunderstanding, that rumor kept spreading about him having said that, and it was used against him in the trial, but even at the trial, they couldn't get two witnesses to say the same thing. So it was kind of inconclusive But it comes out here as well when he's on the cross. And verse 44. The robbers, and this is interesting, the robbers who had been crucified with him were also insulting him with the same words. Robber's plural. One on the right, one on the left. Both of them early on are mocking him. And says specifically, uh one of the criminals was hurling abuse at him, saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other answered and rebuking him said Do you not even fear God since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And indeed we are suffering justly, for we are receiving what we deserve for our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. And he was saying, Jesus, remember me when you come in your kingdom. So we don't know exactly what prior background this guy had with the teaching of Christ. Um but whatever he had heard, whatever he had understood, crystallized when he saw the character of Christ on the cross, knowing that he was innocent and seeing the way he was um forgiving those who are doing this to him. And Jesus then in verse 43 said to him, Truly I say to you, today You will be with me in paradise. We don't know, but it couldn't have been terribly long. So the the the one the one who uh repented had some kind of an aha moment While on the cross, after initially hurling abuse at him and probably then seeing you know, if you're hurling abuse at someone else on a cross, the cross next to you, and the guy on the cross next to you, hurls the abuse right back to you, and who are you to judge me or something like that? You would sort of expect that. But he wasn't prepared for Jesus' response, I don't think. So there's something about that that time. I mean we've got probably a good three hours within which things are happening here. Um somewhere in there he seems to have had a change of heart. And I think it has to do with how Jesus was responding And and to others. Um and but I don't think that was his only contact, his only uh yeah, contact with the teachings of Christ. I think he must have heard some things and has had some reputation of Christ and and the fact that he would be coming in his kingdom uh uh who knows how deeply he understood what he was even saying. Um but it clicked with him and what was key was he was repentant And he was um he w instead of saying help us get down from the cross, he was saying He was thinking ahead to the reign of Christ as king. Um whether he was thinking that somehow this was gonna be uh fulfillment of most people's aspiration of the Messiah being a political king and overthrowing Rome and all that sort of stuff. I d I d I don't know that we can assume that's what he was thinking. Um it seems he He had at least some notion that this really was the king of the Jews and probably being a Jew he understood enough about the prophecies of the Messiah to say that And maybe he was even thinking through Isaiah fifty three in his mind when he's seeing what these people are saying. You know, all these things maybe could have been a a factor. Um well when you see the the four gospels side by side are are uh uh blended together, y it jumps out at you even more. Um but you you hear a lot of stories of uh d death row conversions. You you you're facing your mortality and what would be more uh compelling than it's clear you're already on the cross, you're gonna die. And that's an agonizing death. Um and here's this guy not responding that way Um he's probably more in tune with with thinking through the implications of all this than he ever has been. And it applies to him right now. Yeah. So yeah, but this is an example of something where you'd just love to have more detail in scripture. But God provided all that we needed, and that's it. And of course This um man this repentant thief on the cross is uh most often referenced uh in connection with the teaching that salvation is not by works because he clearly didn't do any works. He wasn't baptized not by water anyway. And so he's he's a good example of repentance generally, but also the fact that it's it's by faith alone. Yeah. But we know from the breadth of Scripture that uh for anyone to get saved, God has to give them faith and repentance. So yes, there there's a responsibility on the part of us to um exercise that faith and that repentance. Um but that wouldn't be possible apart from God's intervention. And so apparently God was doing that even in this guy's heart uh leading up to these events and it came to a climax, I guess, on the cross. Um anyway, just a few more sentences here, and we're almost done. Um Today you shall be with me in paradise. You could preach a whole sermon on that. There's a lot of but I'm not gonna go down that road. But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother, his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Klopas, and Mary Magdalene. There's an overabundance of Marys here and sometimes hard to keep them straight. We're going to talk more about that I think next week. Uh when Jesus then saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby He said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Who is he referring to? John. John, yeah. And then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother From that hour the disciple took her into his own household. So what does that tell us? It tells us pretty explicitly that Joseph wasn't around anymore. He'd probably already died It tells us also that Jesus, um, as the oldest in the family, had the responsibility to see to it that his mother was well cared for in his departure. But he had Several brothers. Um wouldn't the natural thing be for them to look after her? And um the answer to that is yes. But why didn't Jesus do that Well, we know from scriptures up until this point, at least, that his brothers were not believing in it. And th yet his mother clearly was, and that it made sense to have um another disciple. a like minded uh disciple to care for her. Now. From our perspective, if you include the rest of Scripture, including the Book of Acts, you see that in fact several of his brothers, particularly Um James and Jude, both of whom wrote books of the Bible by their own names, uh later became Christians, even by the time of Pentecost. Um so it was not long after this that they became saved. And so then the question is, well wouldn't Christ have known that? Why wouldn't he just let history just kind of go its way and let his brothers take care of And that was clearly the case at the point of the crucifixion, but wouldn't he have known that they would be coming to space? The the point is there's an immediate need. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Any other thoughts, questions? Father, what a remarkable picture we see of of Christ uh having such composure, calmness, tenderness it at a time when our natural reaction would be uh very self-oriented at best. And um we just are in awe of his sacrifice For sure, but also the manner in which he conducted himself. May that be a an inspiration and guide example for us as well. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.