Alrighty, so today we're on lesson forty-two. Uh remember we're in the middle of this section where if you if you can picture um In a film or uh the a TV setting, or maybe even a stage production, where you've got two things happening simultaneously, and you're kind of switching back and forth between them. And so on the one hand, you've got uh Jesus in being interrogated, uh tried, uh, if you will. uh in various settings for the Jewish leaders, but then you also have uh primarily Peter, the focus on Peter, out there in the courtyard in um uh being confronted and uh the contrast between the the responses of Jesus and the responses of Peter quite um quite telling. But both things are happening and and we're kind of in the middle of that here right now. Last week we Dipped into this lesson a little bit. We covered the first two little short ones there. So I think we're on section 190 now, which would be Peter's final denial. And I'll read from the blended account here at the bottom of page 254. After about an hour had passed, another band began to insist, saying, Certainly, this man was also with him, for he is a Galilean too Now how would you know he was a Galilean? Exactly. Right. And the byspand uh uh the bystanders bystanders were again saying to Peter Surely you are one of them, for you are a Galilean too. Even the way you talk gives you away. But Peter said, Man, I do not know what you are talking about. Then he began to curse and swear, I do not know the man. Immediately, while he was still speaking, A rooster crowed a second time. The Lord turned and looked at Peter. So apparently Jesus was in sort of a holding pattern. maybe between interrogations at this point, and he was able to catch the eye of Peter and vice versa. And that must have been a piercing moment, right? No, I think they were already assembled earlier and they'll be assembling again. Um Because in section 186, it says the chief priests and the whole council kept trying to to obtain false testimony from him and they're interrogating him. Sorry? We were where they when they were doing I presume in the council chamber? At the temple? No, i in the in the complex of of the high priest's residence Because he went first to Annas and then to but it's all sort of in the same complex, I think. Yeah. Um and so he's presumably still there, but uh when this final uh denial takes place, he was apparently um between portions of the interrogation so he was able to Actually, witness Peter's denial there. So the Lord turned and looked at Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had told him. Before a rooster crows twice today, you will deny me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly. Um so he was obviously convicted, probably uh uh every time he denied the Lord, he this was going through his mind, but particularly at this point. Um And wept bitterly. Um you remember when he he told Christ just the evening beforehand that he'd be willing to die for him, stand up for him. He's he's saying this in his own human Understanding, flesh. Um and when he sees that when push comes to shove, which is ver very actually uh Um maybe in the overall scheme of things, a fairly minor uh challenge to him, he crumbles. And So he's he's he's carrying the weight of how um how fickle he can be, how overconfident he had been. And And um as always the Lord was right. Many of us are because when we're here on Sunday, surrounded by Christians, we'll make oh the right words, we'll say the right thing. I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna do that. But on Monday, when you're out in the world and you feel like you're the only Christian and everyone else is against you. It's so easy to go along with them. And that's what Peter was obvious. Right. Right. And he understood that too, really. Well but uh the you know the threat has been on Jesus' life for for some time. Matter of fact, back when They were when they heard about Lazarus and they decided to go, Thomas like, well, let us go that we may die with them. Right. So they kind of all had I think maybe. But uh I think Peter kind of gets I mean I think he gets a little bad rap from time to time Because he was willing to when when they were when it came to arrest, he was willing to take up arms against that big group of people. Sure you know he had Jesus with them but uh you know he he he he he he was willing to go through with his desire Lord I will die for you But I think just like just like uh Anne was saying, I think when we when we kind of hit off one ounce, we think about all of the ramifications because that was kind of a spur moment. thing in the garden. But now he thinks, okay, wait a minute, Jesus is on trial. They might take me. Look at look at how they're railroading him. So he kind of put everything together. Then he's like, oh well maybe this is is a little bit more than you know than what I'm willing to deal with. So you know it it's in the times when we thought through all of the bad things that we kind of have to go back and realize that you know God still got it, but God's still in control. You know, even even if like Yeah. Yeah, no, that's exactly right, Willie. I think a lot of it has to do with not just Peter, but how pretty much everybody who was following Christ was expecting him To come in his glory and set up his kingdom now. And when Peter uh Claimed he would be willing to die for him. He was thinking, I think, he was thinking in that context. We're with you, Lord. And Uh uh everything Jesus had been saying about um the the true nature of his being here, like his coming and it um and his persecution and his death and and resurrection Resurrection, which he described multiple times. It kind of went right over their head, because that wasn't where their mind was. And Peter's mind probably still at this point. Up until Jesus was actually taken away and arrest and then taken to Caiaphas, up until that point, he was probably still thinking All right, how is he gonna take charge here and and establish his kingdom? But when it became clear to him that no, he really wasn't going to have that kind of um um taking over that was sort of in their minds, that's when this change probably was taking place in his head. Yeah. He went up doing to do as a style. And then later on we we see Peter uh incredibly brave on Pentecost when the Holy Spirit had come and he was in power and all of that. Um but at least uh I think about it now. Subsequently in uh Where was where was he? Talk about it in Galatians when a Jewish the the the Jewish folks came from Jerusalem We see him, you know, again acting cowardly hypocrisy. So this is one man who at one time was very cowardly, presumably because the Holy Spirit is not coming. And then we see it happen the Holy Spirit had come and he was incredibly brave. And then another time after the Holy Spirit had come, he was acting cowardly again. So I'm asking, what is the difference between What made his difference such that at one time he was grave and you know fatal and at another time he just cowardly, you know And the reason I ask that is because when I think about it, if we want to say that the reason for his brave was because of all this group of comma equals empower, well so are we. And then when you think about the fact that even after the Holy Spirit become, we did act empowered, well we're in the same place. So what made the difference and how can we Oh boy, what a good one. Yeah, good question, good observations. Um I I think the bottom line lesson to us is that Peter was very human And we are too. It's rather human to be man placers. Uh rather than God pleasers. And while you know you can you can analyze the life of David in a very similar way, even though it was before uh Pentecost, he still had the Holy Spirit, God was working. working through him can him. Um but he was still a work in process. You can look at Abraham. Very much a work in process. Yeah. Um so while we can't condone the the failures of people Uh I th I think we can understand them because we're subject to the same thing. Um we're guilty of the same things. Um and so while we don't need we shouldn't be taking comfort in their failures, we should be challenged by their successes. And see if if we can be more faithful to the Lord, particularly in those crucial moments. And And um being courageous when when that's called for, but all in the power of the Holy Spirit Not in her own strength. I want to come to Peter's defense. Alright, let's hear it for Peter. And he's the authority behind Mark's Gospel. So he's confessing, it's the first gospel that was written, and he's confessing, not only did I deny him, but cursed and swore. He's still on that on himself. Interesting. Very interesting thing. He felt bad about the whole thing. Not only did I deny him, I cursed himself And to for pe to Peter in Peter's uh defense, uh after what Paul was saying in Galatians and uh the Rebuke that Paul gave him at Antioch. Peter in his epistles praised Paul. And um actually refers to Paul's writings as scripture in Peter. But don't you think that's maturity and greater sanctions identification because he can believe no longer. Yeah. And how many And they had scattered, right? Whereas he was following. How many well do you think that was picture now obviously? But um how many follow, you know, how many And Peter was one of those two. So I mean he's I think he was like really in a conflict with the I mean he wanted to follow trace. He was going, he followed behind. Um but then the same comes in and he denies, you know, he just he was having that conflict. I think every one of us And I wonder I wonder if something else was going in Peter's mind when Jesus looked at him and that moment when their eyes met that probably seemed like two hours. Um he was also thinking, Jesus also said, Satan has desired to sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you. And um hopefully that would have brought him some relief and and so on. But truly, he had to see the empty tomb He had to see the resurrected Lord. And all of that was certainly enough to turn him around, but he also needed the filling of the Holy Spirit. Yeah, I mean I also think just how humbled Peter was by this, and we see that in John twenty one. When Jesus addresses him specifically, you know, Peter, do you love me and uh copy me and you know that I brotherly love you, Lord? You know, it it reminds me of the sinner who wouldn't lift his eyes to heaven, you know, but be depressed, you know, just and and it's a reminder to us to not think of ourselves more highly than we not to think. And um but you know it's also you can uh I mean we focus on Peter, but imagine the Lord here He's got his inner circle, his closest friends that walked with him during his ministry. the the the inflicted pain and uh of the heart, you know, knowing that they are denying him. He's hearing them curse and swear that they don't know him, you know, just to you know it's it's like Satan using any means possible to get him to turn away from the cross You know, to make it so painful that not to go through with this. He he was aware in advance that it would fulfill scripture that uh Um they would all scatter. But you're right, that must have d um uh added to the the Sorrow. Sorrow. Pain. Yeah. But he also knew that that wasn't the end of the story. And so he um he was First of all, one of the things that I noticed. Bible talks about the seekfulness of of sin. Although it's not stated enough I think it was probably known back then that John was a follower of Christ. I think it was known then. So when you think about the accusation of the the uh the young lady as well as uh men accused Peter of being a follower of Jesus. Um if you think about it It was some somewhat irrational people denied because there really wasn't any bodily direct to him, because he was not the only one who was So when you think about it, at least in my mind, it seems to me, you know, sometimes when we when when we are confronted with temptation to sin, a lot of times when we succumb to it, if you look back, we find out Yeah, yeah, often that's that's the case. Yeah. Anyway. Um So um he went out and wept bitterly. Um All right, so we're switching now to uh back to Jesus' uh encounters. And I guess between these official assemblies, uh the guards are around and and Jesus is um uh you know, in a holding pattern, I guess, between these various uh inquiries. And so in section one ninety one And the blended account here. Now, the men who were holding Jesus in custody spat in his face and were mocking him and beating him with their fists. And they blindfolded him, and the officers slapped him, and were asking him, Prophesy to us, you Christ, who is the one who hit you? And they were saying many other things against him. blasphemy. Now these are not the Roman soldiers, these are just the the temple guards. And they were Jews. And so this really was blasphemy as they were um um seeking to to ridicule him there. Um and so his his um What the the the weight uh of this uh included in the weight of is his um suffering was the departure of his his um closest people, his uh even But here is just the the the ridicule, the shaming, the um the blasphemy, because if if they knew who they were talking to. Um They wouldn't have done that, presumably. Um and so here he is, he's being officially accused and and And uh shamed and ridiculed. But even here in the unofficial, just the you know, the guards as they're holding in. Uh it's just a consistent um um battery, I guess, of of uh ridicule. And I think most of us, you know, quite apart from the nails in the cross, most of us would have crumbled at the this kind of unfair treatment But there's no record that he responded here at all So he just took it. So then he's taken back in to the council here on page 256 unless in uh section 192, the blended account. When it was day, early in the morning So this would be early Friday morning, not quite as early as the wee hours when those earlier interrogations happened, but it was Now becoming officially mourning. All of the council of elders Of the people assembled, both chief priests and scribes, and they led him away to the council chamber, saying, If you are the Christ, tell us. Now, on numerous occasions they've had similar demands, and uh this is a larger group of people now, and this is basically their final uh um setting in which to charge him. But he said to them, If I tell you, you will not believe. And if I ask you a question, you will not answer. But from now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God. And here he was quoting from the Old Testament. And they all said, Are you the Son of God then? And he said to them, Yes, I am. Then they said, What further need do we have of testimony? For we have heard it ourselves from his own mouth. In other words, they're all witnesses. Right? They don't need multiple witnesses. We've all heard it. Then the whole body of them conferred together against Jesus to put him to death, and binding Jesus, they got up and brought him before Pilate, the governor. So Uh um there there's some interesting things going on here. One observation is in much of the interrogation and much of what's going to come, he was silent And other times he answered. And uh the main difference between those times when he answered and when he was silent is he was silent when they were accusing him of something that It was not true. Particularly insurrection. Now why would why would they be accusing him of insurrection? Yeah, because then it becomes a Roman crime, and they're the ones who have the current authority to to To um to kill him. And that's what they wanted. So they wanted to make it a Roman crime. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yeah, I don't I'm not exactly sure. I mean clearly by the time of Stephen public stoning was was done. I'm not sure at this point how common that was given the Roman rule. I I don't think it's probably a whole lot different, but I just don't know. But clearly, if if they want him crucified as a public spectacle, that's got to be wrong. And um I think we're going to see later in their dealing with Pilate that these religious leaders knew that Pilate knew that if they could pin this charge of insurrection on him Um that that would basically force the pilot's hand. And um because I think still only happens access to it. And uh account where the woman was caught in adulty, mm everybody picked up their phone and made them drop that we can. That's right. And earlier they had all picked up stones to stem Jesus too. That's true. That's true. Bobber had to throw them off the side of the mountain too, but he it was yeah. Up in Nazareth where you We walked right through the mids. Yeah. Yeah, those are all true. Yeah. So um Clearly we're we're gonna see this unfold in in the interactions and the testimonies of of the uh uh Jewish leaders here. But they clearly wanted Rome to do away with him. I I I think another reason is um if if they could Pin this charge of insurrection on him. Rather than a theological issue, it takes the heat off of them. Um in terms of Christ's popularity with many of the people. And often it was saying, you know, they they they wanted to kill him, but they couldn't because they feared the people. Right? And so if they can pin this charge of insurrection on him, at least uh to the Romans, then it it solves their problem with the people. It maintains their their position, I guess, with the people. If on the other hand they had to argue about whether he's the Messiah or not, that's just gonna expose their own shallowness. And um they didn't want to go there. So I think that's that's leading to it as well. Yeah, Julie. Was this that only the Roman government could carry out a death penalty or was it Any situation where the Jews were allowed to? Or were they never allowed to carry out the death penalty? Well apparently the the stoning was still active As we've been noting. And got into trouble later. Right. Except a number of concerns to make the advanced. Oh no, this is the Old Testament, but maybe the Jews didn't want to be entirely responsible for his death. They wanted the Romans to do it. cowardly that uh they didn't want to lose their position uh because the crowds were uh Um many of them were following Jesus, uh believed in him, and um uh they didn't they they had no way to answer that threat to their position. And so um a cleaner way would be to pin this charge of insurrection on him Uh and Jesus had nothing up he didn't even answer it. Any of those those accusations. answered when he was charged with being the son of God. Exactly. Now you're talking. And Pilate caught it because what did he put up right on that that placard on the cross Jesus the the King of the Jews. He he wrote it in all three of the languages so that everybody had a very clear understanding of what the ultimate charge was. Um and of course that didn't sit well with the religious leaders, but they were willing to overlook it because they got them on the cross. Yeah. Anyway. Um We've heard it from ourselves. Then the whole body of them conferred together against Jesus to put him to death. And binding Jesus, they got up and brought him before Pilate, the governor. So uh they figure they've got their case. And they've got a whole council full of witnesses, and yet what those people are witnessing to is not insurrection, but is claim to deity. And that's not gonna cut the mustard with Pilate. It's interesting when he answered them to use the ancient name of God. Yes, I am. He used the I am since the beginning. Right. Yeah, and and back in the garden when they arrested him, that uh seemed to have an impact. Yeah. Okay, so um pilot uh well we're not there yet. Judas, this this account of uh Judas appears only in Matthew. Uh But in Matthew 27, 3. Then when Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that he had been condemned, Now that's interesting. At this point, Judas was aware of that, so maybe he was also kind of lurking around in the shadows, kind of watching what was unfolding. Because he had been with them in the garden, he may have followed the whole entourage as well. Then when Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that he had been condemned, he felt remorse. And returned the thirty pieces of silver, the chief priest uh to the chief priests and the elders, saying, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. But they said, What is that to us? See that yourself. And he threw the the pieces of silk silver into the temple sanctuary and departed. And he went away and The chief priest took the pieces of silver and said, It is not lawful to put them into the temple treasury since it is the price of blood. This is interesting, isn't it? They were so concerned about following the law. Really? Give me a break. And they conferred together and with the money bought the potter's field as a burial place for strangers. For this reason, that field has been called the field of blood to this day. Then that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, and they took the thirty pieces of silver The price of the one whose price had been set by the sons of Israel, and they gave them for the potter's field as the Lord. So Alan, why did you put this here in this phrase? Uh Because um it's it's referring to Judas Seeing that he had been um uh seeing that Jesus had been um condemned and um Yeah, this is sort of parenthetical. It could go in multiple places probably. I didn't know why he did, because he's throwing the silver in the temple. They're not in the temple at this moment prior to that But he went there to to give the chief priest. I know. Yeah. Um the biggest reason is Um it follows in Matthew's it's appears only in Matthew and it's it's following what Matthew has. It's Matthew one twenty-seven one through two in the previous section, and it's just continuing Matthew here. Now Matthew is not all that well known for keeping the chronology right. Uh-huh. And this is kind of parenthetical. It could have happened anywhere sort of in that range of time. On as they took Jesus to the cross, then Judas knew then. I don't know. Yeah. Um But Matthew picks up on in the next section additional interrogation with Pilate. And so Matthew puts it between those two times. That doesn't mean I mean Matthew isn't known to have everything chronological, whereas Luke is. But lacking any other direction, I just kept with Matthew. Yeah, I have a dear thing. Yeah. It's kind of parenthetical. And it's kind of like we've got Jesus and his encounters, we've got what's happening out in the courtyard, and we've also got what Judas is doing. It's these little vignettes that are happening kind of simultaneously. Who's to say what went first? Well, there are some interesting things about this, however. One is um The text here says that it was uh verse nine then that which would which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled. And it turns out it's not in Jeremiah's prophecy, it's in Zechariah 11. Uh but what was the custom at the time was to refer to the uh what we call now the Old Testament. in in three major sections, the the law, the writings, and the prophets And sometimes the shorthand to the prophets was Jeremiah because he was the first in their ordering of the books of the prophets. He was the first one being a large one. And so it's just synonymous with it's in the prophets section of the old Is there Old Testament order differently than we would look at it? Yeah, for the most well in in significant places. Not entirely, but yes. The Torah's first, then the writings, then the the uh sometimes you hear it called the Tanakh, Torah, uh Nathim and Or no, Nabim and Kethuim, something like that. It's it's the writings and the prophets. Yeah. T N K. Okay. Uh Mm. You know, it it's also kind of interesting just to compare and contrast the difference between Judas and Peter, you know, their reaction. I mean because Judith was remorseful that Peter went out and looked literally, you know, and it's Yeah, so the remorse that Judas had, uh even the word there, it it it's not repentance. It's um Maybe regret, but it's it's not a a heart change kind of a thing. Which is why he w one reason I guess he killed himself. Yeah. just bizarre. You know, he would say, Okay, go do what you but you know, it's almost like he forced him to and Judith completely messed up in the sense that, well, okay, so I've been trying to end this thing. I wouldn't go and tell myself hanging myself, why don't you go get the five and let's see if we can screen it, you know. There's no kind of I don't know if none none of it makes any sense Thank you. So my question is, do you think there are like um relationships with Judas and all over the next So it was the the fight was between Satan and Christ, not really Judas, right? But are there Judas types all over and God's relationship with them like this? Um Um he he's certainly unique in the sense that he was in the inner circle of Christ. And Satan was able to use him to accomplish what he wanted what Satan wanted to do. Jesus, of course, was wise to that whole thing. And he understood that Satan was not going to have the ultimate victory. In fact, this is what God was allowing to accomplish what God had ordained would happen Uh and say and and Judas was basically just a pawn in that in that battle. So he looked at an example of the center with the Um with these sovereignly used by God, so I think you know Yeah, I mean guys use it. What's the difference? Right. I don't think we can use it to that we don't. Yeah. Um but clearly um Well did God use Pilate? You bet. Right? Um, I think Pilate's gonna be in heaven Pilot pilot's an interesting person. Um and we're gonna we're gonna look at you gotta go around looking for a picture of No, we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna study Pilate here coming up. It's like Pharaoh and Nebuchadnezzar. Like we're really messed up. But you know, one guy chooses to say And the pharaoh just keeps showing his hands and hardening, hardening, right. And I think it also points to the graphic for that. You know, as humans, we don't really have as much control as we want to take. Um but it it does seem clear that that Judas was not saved. Um Um never was and um Jesus presumably knew that when he he chose him And knowing the ultimate role that Judas would play in this whole drama. So That's about all we know. Are there people like that today who are uh uh actors in what God is accomplishing in the world? You bet, even though they're not saved Yeah. Or even filled with Satan like uh Hitler, you know. He did to the Jews, the church chose the people. Yes. I I think much of a stuff is a 50 minutes really working out. Yeah, he he clearly had a sense of um what he thought was right. You know, he argued that the the price of that perfume should have been uh given to the poor and not just wasted here, right? And so he had this sort his own agenda, his own sort of m morals and so on that that he it became clear to him that that wasn't consistent with where Jesus was after all. And so he was Bailing out essentially. Um an interesting point is Judas committed up all the city. Committed what? A horrible sin. Right. That specific one. And he was confronted with the reality of it. Right. And and his response to that was Maybe regret, but then he then he kinda looked at it this way, tried to punish himself. And he he had no hope because he misunderstood completely the ministry of Christ. Um and what what you'll do if you have no hope. Yeah. For sure. Okay, well let's go back to the trials here, and this time with Pilate. And this portion is in all four of the Gospels, section 194. Page 257. Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the Praetorium, and it was early. And they themselves did not enter into the Praetorium so that they would not be defiled. Here's another example of them being being fastidious in their obedience to the law while they're trying to kill their own messiah. Right? What's wrong with him? He he's the governor. He he was weak, but he also understood that they were not going to bend their rules to um But remember he's witnessing that then Jesus was not guilty of what they're accusing him of. So we need that witness. Us written down. Yeah, yeah. Um so yeah, God was was using uh Um Judas for sure. He was using the the high priests and everything to accomplish what he had fordained already. But he was also using Pilate. And Pilate's maybe um Um maybe on any other day he might not have made the same choice. Who knows? But um anyway, they they didn't want to be defiled, heaven forbid, uh, but they want to eat the Passover and Therefore Pilate went out to them And said, What accusation do you bring against this man at this hour? He didn't say that here, but I think that's what he's thinking. Um it was it was um do we have reference earlier like six AM, right? It's just after dollars. Right. So it's very early. Friday morning. And they began to accuse him saying, We found this man misleading our nation And forbidding to pay taxes to Caesar and saying that he himself is Christ, the king. So these are all the elements of their their charge of s insurrection. Sedition. But that was a lie. He had told them render unto Caesar, what Caesar's to pay. Here's your coin don't pay your taxes. Yeah, yeah. I mean um the one thing that's truthful here is about him miss well not missing But they misunderstood, clearly. It wasn't because Jesus misled them, but they misunderstood. Anyway, these are the kinds of things they thought would tip the balance in Pilot's mind that okay, we're dealing here with a uh Traitor, insurrection, sedition. So Jesus stood before the governor, and Pilate asked him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? And he answered him and said, It is as you say. Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, I find no guilt in this man. But they kept on insisting, saying he stirs up the people. And stirs up all the people, why would that be significant to Pilate? Yeah, yeah. A rebel router is not what they need, and it's certainly not what Pilot needs in his tenuous relationship with Rome. their basis for using it isn't oh he's the messiah in a religious sense. Right. Is it he is, you know, claiming to be a messiah that would lead the nation. Yeah. And you know the implication Right. Right. So they're they're trying everything they can to convince Pilate in his uh Roman capacity that this guy needs to be done away with All over Judea, starting from Galilee, even as far as this place. If this man were not an evildoer, we would not have delivered him to you, of course, right? And while he was being accused harshly by the chief priests and the elders He did not answer. Then Pilate said to him, Do you not answer? Do you not know how many things they testify against you? And he did not answer him further with regard to even a single charge So the governor was quite amazed. So Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and judge him according to your law. The Jews said to him, We're not permitted to put anyone to death So you wonder why they picked up stones to try to kill Jesus, right? Uh to fulfill the word of Jesus which he spoke, signifying by what kind of death he was about to die. He had already said that he was going to be crucified. by the religious leaders and hand being held over to uh handed over to uh the Romans. Um The the irony is they wanted to be free of Roman rule. You know, they wanted someone to to deliver them from from the Caesar and yet when they say this man does this, he's an insurrectionist. Yeah, well i i um it's more complicated than that. You remember the Sadducees and the Pharisees were sort of at odds with each other? The Sadducees were pretty content with the status quo. They weren't all that excited about Rome, but Rome was their protector essentially in their position. Whereas the Pharisees, they had no they wouldn't give Rome the time of day. Um they were m very much in in line with the idea of of bringing back the glory days of of Israel and so on, not under anyone else's rule Except ours. And so but at this point, uh what's interesting is that both of them were cooperating. Because neither of them uh believed who Jesus said he was. Because to believe that would be to undermine everything they taught and stood for and their power and position. And so they had slightly different agendas, but they overlapped at this point. So yes, let's get rid of this guy. Yeah. Um So this Praetorium, I don't know if you remember from the slides we had uh a few weeks ago, uh was not far away at all. It was right there in Jerusalem. It's uh part of uh uh Herod the Great's um uh residence and palace and so on right there in in Jerusalem. And it would have been a quick walk from the high priests area over to um where Pilate was. Um And we're going to see, I guess, next week that no, we're going to get it next. We're going to get it now. Excellent. Let's let's go to one ninety-five on page two fifty-eight. And we'll kind of cover both of these sections together. And so this is only from Luke. When Pilate heard it, he asked whether this man was a Galilean. And when he learned that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction This is the same her there were several Herods around at this time. This is the Herod who imprisoned John the Baptist and and beheaded him. Herod Antipas. And when he learned that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was himself also in Jerusalem at that time. Why would he be in Jerusalem at this time? It's the Passover. And um where would he likely stay? Check into the Jerusalem Hilton? No. Inside the fortress to be protected. Uh no, he he probably was also staying in Herod the Great's palace Which was huge. And there was enough accommodation for him that was probably a a common place for him to reside when he was in Jerusalem. Pilate took the other part of it, and it probably didn't take much at all for Jesus to be carted back and forth between them within the same compound. Um that's my best guess anyway. Is Herod um partly Jewish or fully fully Jewish? Um Herod the Great was um uh Idemean, which means uh descendant of the Id Edomites. Um and so by the time You get to this Herod, who was his son. They were sort of loosely affiliated with the Jews, but they didn't really have that ancestry. Okay, so verse 8. Now Herod was very glad when he saw Jesus, for he had wanted to see him for a long time. had heard about him and and so on, because he had been hearing about him and was hoping to see some sign performed by him. Typical um Curiosity. And he questioned him at some length, but he, Jesus, answered him nothing. And the chief priests and the scribes were standing there accusing him vehemently. And Herod, with his soldiers, after treating him with contempt and mocking him, dressed him in a gorgeous robe and sent him back to Pilate. Now Herod and Pilate became friends with one another that very day, for before they had been enemies with each other. So isn't it interesting how um this most heinous of crimes in all of human history is bringing together the Sadducees and the Pharisees? Herod and Pilate, all these people have sort of common overlap here. Um the but that's the funny just wants to question though is kind of At least in my mind I don't think I was understanding that Herod will come to Jerusalem because of the upcoming feast and Passover and that he was But he would reside it close to pilot's um resident. I I think so. I we're not really told. Uh the commentary that does you know they were you know enemies. So I I'm I'm having a hard time understanding why they would want to want to stay in a place closer That palace was huge and nobody was a permanent resident in it um at this point. Pilate was mostly residing down in Caesarea on the shore of the Mediterranean, sort of the official Roman outpost. But when he was in Jerusalem, where would he stay? He would stay in this palace kind of thing. And he didn't need all of it for his short times there. Uh and so he would have been in a part of it. And uh uh the models um I've seen have that palace as being sort of two major portions with a courtyard in the middle kind of a thing And it wouldn't be too hard for them over the years to say, okay, Pilate can have use of this part when he's in town. Harry can have use of this part when he's in town, and they don't have to see each other. I don't know. Was it kind of the seat of governmental power? Was it the seat of power? I mean was it kind of a a symbol of of governmental power? That's why they they were there? Is that kind of no I don't think it the the the building itself was not but it was there and um Um they being the dignitaries would have the privileges to to stay there in their own way. When it talks here about the praetorium, praetorium just means wherever the praetor is, wherever the leader is. And so it could be anywhere And because he's there, he's he's basically set up shop and that's for now where the the headquarters is. Um but that's only because he was residing there. It's not it's not inherently designated for that. Rebecca. Do you know why um shared in cow And it's like the Sadducees and Pharisees were united because they hated Jesus. But Herod didn't I mean Pilot didn't hate Jesus, so I'm like I wonder what made Well what what made them be friends we're not told? I'm guessing that something had to do with the fact that they both came to the same conclusion about Jesus and these crazy Jews. So they united against the Jews in a white man. Yeah. Same thing, you know, and maybe they thought it was funny. Probably chuckling. Yeah. I think the dressing in the the rogue I'm gonna guess I'm not gonna guess that Aaron obviously wanted uh a kingdom where you wouldn't have all these people being a Just make the position and robbing up the people. And Pilate wanted the same thing. And when they see the Jews, you know, these Jewish leaders, you know, fighting amongst themselves and putting them on the spotters, they figured, well guess what? Yep. Common interest. Um, Okay, yeah. Just want to make sure I wasn't gonna miss something here. Yes. Some down, some down, somewhere. Morning to morning, a double passover. Yes. So did you just some some set to sunset kind of thing, right? Yes, but you're saying there is another section there? Which one is the biblical word? Uh which is biblical? I think they're both They're both uh more just custom and tradition. Um and so uh Um we're gonna get to it when they go to the empty tomb and they had to wait till the Passover is over and and the the Sabbath was over, at least. And uh that would have been the very early morning. Uh so the day would have begun um at in the morning. But in the Old Testament, wasn't it sun down? Yeah, I I haven't looked at that to know for sure what the history of it all is, but uh suffice it to say that well there are two things going on. One is this two different sets of customs as to the timing of of in this case the feast, the Passover. Another is just the references to time So we're not there yet, particularly, but we're going to see that during the crucifixion there are several references to time. on Friday. And the synoptics use the you know the third hour, the sixth hour, and whatever, counting from what is basically 6 a. m. sunrise John, however, uses a different timetable for the same event, and at least the one place where he talks about um time. It's more like the way we keep time, which is, you know, midnight to noon and and that kind of thing. So the different customs. I don't know much about how they got started. But uh that that helps us to understand w why Jesus and his disciples would celebrate the Passover already on Thursday, but uh uh the the Jewish leaders here were were expecting to to um celebrate it on Friday which actually is is Again, just shows God's sovereignty over this whole thing. Like I noted here that Jesus could celebrate the Passover with his disciples. on Thursday and then on Friday become the Passover lamb when the Passover was being celebrated by the locals. It had to be during the Passover. Okay, well, we need to wrap up. Let's let's close in prayer.