Yeah, that's where the first reading section begins. What do we learn about his teaching? Seeing the people, he felt compassion for them because they were distressed and dispirited like sheep without a shepherd. Okay. Yeah, it seems like it seems does I mean it doesn't tell us anything about what makes a person or a city worthy other than the fact that they were bringing a message And how do they were to comport themselves as they went, he says to them in 10 verse 16, that behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wool And I think you should recognize it in the fact of telling them that you will be well received everywhere. And somebody said, question, why don't we go out into the local neighborhood? They're trying to encourage us and like maybe pull us into the world, pull us away from our focus. For Herod was afraid of John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and kept him safe. And John the Baptist obviously was very vocal about how it was wrong to do that. I mean some people thought that um it was John the Baptist that had uh come back to life and that's why all these miracles were being done and so forth Four, what do you what do we observe about his character? Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew the tax In the midst of wolves, so be shrewd as serpents and innocent as doves. Uh Jesus observed all of this. We will see him refer to them as apostles. And you you you you try to gather as much stuff as you need so that you have everything you need when you do travel. That's true. statement to make sure that they had everything that they need. You know, I'm very fallible, and when I just um focus too much on one small section, I think I can draw the wrong conclusion. comfortable place. I I can't fault it, but definitely that. Jesus is leaving the world and he's telling them this is how you establish the church and do that. would not necessarily blend. So even if sometimes it means resort resorting to cunning ways to get their message across. Mission Strip. you know views and thoughts on all of that. uh I guess answers to some of them, but I think uh during the course of the class we're going to hopefully s hopefully um touch on a lot more as you all share your Um verse 24, a disciple is not above his teacher. collector, James the son of Alpheus and Sadhius, Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, the one who betrayed him And stay in his house until you leave that city. There. I don't think the Pharisees had said you see it's made their religious lives any easier. go and start doing that to his disciples. To only go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Phoenician mother. Yeah. Uh now um obviously primarily his message was to the Jews, though not exclusively, because like I said, um in in in that um account of his encounter with the Sarah Sarah had rejected the message God would then use the outcome of all of that and the persecution as a as a as a mechanism for now Okay. James and John to prepare a place from the long the way. And then you you know, you build the church and and so it's it's from the foundation up, you know, as you go. And that's probably why, you know, you start in Jerusalem, then Judea, then Samaria, then the outer you know, the outermost parts of the world. Yeah. uh his disciples as they went on teaching and also give those who received their message an opportunity to participate in what God was doing. We're taking two another point is uh amplifies what you would just say. And to learn the whole story and to try to um understand the overarching messages because um sort of thing. play a lot of times. become applicable as we're look as we're dealing with our individual lives. on the culture of people that that they're trying to reach. the passage itself, he he does tell them, you know, when you go to a particular um village, a particular town, and you're not accepted there, guess what is we can tend to be dug it in a in the you want you definitely want them to hear the gospel. can see you know the outworking of this not I mean instead of being shrewd and wise and realizing that okay maybe God has closed this door move on something else and instead you want to try to make it happen. They're you know wasting our time. uh to witness to present the gospel. Because they are the harmlessness does part when you are opening up your eyes. When he forewarns them of this um uh hard times, this persecution that we face, was not referring to what What would happen to them at this first journey that they were taking? interpretations of what he meant by you know the fact the the Son of Man coming in the Hussar problem. Jesus is predicting didn't happen during their time there. simplest interpretation in this to me is don't worry about it your work is never going to be finished that's what he's saying right here as long as you as long as you are my disciple your work will never be finished until I come again My mind is pretty simple. desert by by Satan. primary so to speak and so this is like doing their laboratory or clinical uh training on the job training. I I I couldn't really add to anything that you said. That I that I noted as I was reading through it, because I'd like for us to at least read this next very long section before the end of the class. For Herod himself had sent and had John arrested and bound to prison on account of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip, because he had married her Teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness To say. And what you hear whispered in your ear proclaim upon the housetop. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. to develop something of the kind of compassion that he felt towards them. um to um deal with the Samaritans for instance. on his on his way to Jerusalem, there uh they were passing through uh s uh Samaria and he he had instructed his I think it was uh Jesus had instructed. called. you know, what you were asking about why not to the Gentiles and and you point out the disciples weren't ready. He was he was still preparing them and training them, teaching them, you know, to lay us lay those things aside. God had to give him a vision about going and sharing the gospel and and so that point about their readiness, I think that's a really interesting point. And I remember talking about this verse with my uncle who's a master. Let's see, where did it go? A funny story about that. find that house, stay there the whole time. If they brought a message and they were received, that will stand the reason that that was a worthy house or city, if you would. Okay. passages that we don't take it out of context when we're taking things that don't belong in there. trip. gospel. We become friends with those of the world with the intention of presenting the gospel. And you know this person's not accepting it, they're ridiculing you in their heart. Talking about there. um messages in the New Testament to interpret. One of them said that it it it it means that um that when they return from this trip, you know, when they you know that Jesus will catch up with them because after he sent them out, he continues, you know of Jesus as the Messiah through his resurrection, that his resurrection and Pentecost is what it's referring to. Um then another interpretation that that I came across said that it was the second coming of Jesus Christ. there so okay but the one that um as I read it and looked at the others that seemed to make the most sense to me was the one that that uh um What was happening after his resurrection and Sounds good to me. If you didn't acknowledge it before men, then he will likewise not acknowledge it before his father Um the disciple would have to recognize the gospel. His message brings division. All else. Okay. of all that was happening, for his name had become well known, and people were saying, John the Baptist has risen from the dead. of it he kept saying to his servants, this is John the Baptist, whom I myself had beheaded. And when the daughter of Herodias herself came in and danced before them, she pleased Herod and his dinner guests. And he swore to her, Whatever you ask of me, I will give it to you up to half of my kingdom. And they went and reported to Jesus. And that is, who then is this that has been talked about? the one thing that this section of our note sets up this to answer the question who then this is that's been talked about because obviously he thought But the workers are few. Freely you receive, freely give. staff for the worker is worthy of his support and he instructed him that they should take nothing for the journey except a mere staff And yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he who loves son or daughter more than me Is not worthy of me. social socially active community to go out and help these people in their distress and discouragement. I guess. one of the easiest ways to become compassionate is when you find yourself praying for somebody who who is in a difficult situation if I think it helps to to um Samaria. heaven is like. The narrative there now gives us the list of all the twelve apostles. uh with the Samaritan woman, we you know, we see their there's kind of prejudice there that they have. uh a delegation, you know, to get Peter, it's like there's a reluctance, you know, to go that Now the message that Jesus um gave his disciples to to take to um And so, you know, it it takes time and it re kinda reminded me about the way you build a house, you know, with Jesus being the chief cornerstone and then you build and we have the prophets and the the apostles that you know God's promised Messiah that is here. um disciples as they're about to go out not to take any provisions. Oh he wants to dependent wholly on him? It's a win-win situation. But also the God is as concerned about the givers as he is the recipients. uh as a as gratitude as really an obligation too. That's God's design. sell your cloak and buy one. I mean sometimes we tend to just throw a gospel message at people and move on to the next place, whether they're receptive or not. say this is similar to witnessing to someone. Stay with that person and pour your time into them while they're open to spiritual truths mission. And you missed out on the joy that you get of baptizing a course and then teaching. on the churches because they think we can just go take this and just go. And the sometimes corrupt religious understandings that people have, and maybe even superstitions. is the wise action, which action is the being wise, being being aware that while we're trying to influence the world is trying to influence us. It appears here that Jesus is beginning, he's warning them of some hard times that lay ahead. Um now it's interesting also that Matthew in reading through in reading Matthew's account here of Israel before this happens. they're gonna run into resistance. His his coming, you know, i if if anyone thought oh uh that Jesus is Jesus has come, therefore you know, everyone would be um at peace with one another, that's not true being talked about here is Herod Antipas, the son of Herod the Great. But others were saying he is Elijah. For John had reprimanded Herod, saying, It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife, and because of all the wicked things which Herod had done Herod also added this to them all. A strategic day came when Herod on his birthday gave a banquet for his lords and military commanders and leading men of Galilee. And because of a sinner, yes, he was unwilling to refuse her. And he went and had him beheaded in prison, and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother. go through the the readings and the discussions and most times we don't get a chance to get to the end of the discussion topics. Just point, just draw your attention to some of the questions at the back of uh today's lesson. Therefore, do not fear them, for there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. Truly I say to you, he shall not lose his reward. over the harvest of souls and he wanted his disciples to recognize that and not just feel like, yeah, we can do this, we've got the message, let's just go out there and start, you know, preaching the God. look. observation. Shake up the dust on your feet, move off. So he was preparing them well. Of witnessing to others, we have an agenda of presenting the gospel. Good, thank you. Ease and then so forth. um a ruler over a fourth of the kingdom of the time. So I will I will um go ahead and pack it up here because we're cast by some of the To cast them out and to heal every kind of disease and every kind of sickness. No bread, no bag, no money in their belt, but to wear sandals. And you will even be brought before governors and kings for my sake as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. If they have called the head of the house the oath of all, how much more will they malign the members of this household Shall receive a righteous man's reward. And were anointing with oil many sick people, and they began going through the road, just preaching the gospel. And it's not that we hadn't seen Jesus actually, you know, um preach to Gentiles. to be a like a light on a hill to all those surrounding nations. uh uh initiatives that he put aside he set Israel aside You know, take the clothes you have with your bags and don't do sandals. So he's showing them this lesson. But Matthew 6. I remember talking about this verse with my uncle who's a pastor, and he said, well keep reading until you get to um until you get to Luke 22. So be shrewd as serpents and innocent as doves. From that from what he was saying to them there And there's no chance in spending time, you know, where it's not gonna happen. and saw that they had power to heal and and so on and and and get excited just assuming that everybody's going to be receptive to this message. To mess up our agenda for Christ. So you're opening up your lives in order to do that. And so I I think he's saying that that he knows the cities of Israel, the people of Israel, are not going to be completely receptive they were given this temporary maybe Old Testament filling of the Spirit to be able to do that. So that this is um this is prior to the church and prior to the going out in the power of the Holy Spirit He said that you know they would have to who anyone who was going to be a deceased disciple would have to acknowledge him before men. But who is this man about whom I hear such things? I want you to give me here at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter. I'll jump to the second one. So do not fear, you are more valuable than many sparrows. Because as Jesus went through their towns and cities, he observed that these people were troubled and discouraged and disillusioned That there was a plentiful harvest of souls waiting to be harvested. to his harvest. To um command and have authority over all clean spirits. So I I think uh this example and other teaching we see in Scripture is that um it's Not just for success if you will, but also for opposition. And the area in which we the church was situated, and the people around there, there were so many people going to our church in the neighborhood in which we were located. by presenting the gospel, but at the same time the ones that we're talking to, they have agendas also. going through the the the towns uh preaching the gospel. the temple would happen. And she said, the head of John the Baptist. In in Mark Season 20 and 9 and 7, they mentioned that error was very perplexed. So we're very complex and and um Our lesson today is lesson sixteen sewing broadly Um I think it's okay. These twelve, Jesus said out of embarrassed to proclaim the kingdom of God and to perform healing after instructing them: do not go in the way of the Gentiles and do not enter any city of the Samaritan It is enough for the disciple that he become like his teacher, and the slave like his master. But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny him before my Father who is in heaven. And the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward, and he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man He now delegates the same authority that he had to his disciples. Yeah, it it would seem that that God's plan had always been first to to uh take the message to Israel Sends the invitation out to the highways and byways. Israel and not going to the Gentile areas at that point. And uh more actually the S D was was I think it's a right one. All right, let's let's let's keep going on. So he says to them, just stay with where you are, you know, give your message and when you're done you can't would it be too much of a leap to to And as I read through those accounts, you don't see anywhere where it talks about the persecutions and the being brought before And um sort of like Mel says, uh there's always going to be a need to be evangelizing the people there. And so it's it's he's just saying that there's gonna be this resistance, but be faithful. A couple of things. prosperity. Okay, we have to prefer Jesus above all else. That way we can keep those questions in mind as we go through these somewhat long sections of reading that we have to do. You will be hated for all because of my name, but it is the one who has endured to the end who will be saved But whenever they persecute you in one city, flee to the next. areas into the Gentile cities, but instead as you're going focus on the lost sheep of the house of Israel This is just the listing of them. Why? is done. a townhouse and some other brother down the road has this nice mansion with a number of rooms, you know, and all of that and they say, Oh, why don't you come stay with us as well? You you're being harmless, you're you thought following you're opening up your lives. The council and the Gentile rulers on courts. But towards the end of that section there, he says to them, you will not have gone through all the cities of Israel before the Son of Man. Jewish uh evangelists during the tribulation. Actually my study bottle just four four different interpretations of it. Um like three years into after Jesus baptism and and trial in the in the death So I thought that um since we we tend to use So I would like to have at least a couple of volunteers read um go back to page 103 where But rather go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Whoever, any place that does not receive you, nor heed your words, as you go out of that house or that city, shake the dust off your feet his faithful uh loving loving kindness to uh to israel. you know, throwing scripture at 'em, maybe it's time to dust the feet off and go to the person who ha you know, God's opening their heart to spiritual truths and maybe It's around Israel attracts every nutty Christian in the world. But still stick to your message. He does not tell us what happened. And uh even until he comes, I take that to be the second coming. So there is it's like this ramping up on-the-job training on missions even before the birth of the birth of the church. He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me And after they've rejected him, that will now be a lunch pad to spread the message to the rest of the gospel. He says to the uh disciples as they're going to seek out a house that is worthy when you And so during this period of time, the church had not been birthed, and the disciples did not have the indwelling in the Holy Spirit. Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. For it is not you who speak, but it is the spirit of your father who speaks in you. He who has found his life will lose him, and he who has lost his life for my sake will find it. Yeah, I guess when whenever we try to do things on our own strength, we're doomed to fail. Well true. Yeah, Matthew. It's very human to look for something more comfortable. It says to make disciples baptizing them and then leave. That starts with at the time King Herod. But at but at the same time, we have to be wise as serpents because we're trying to influence That will be it. But instead he asked them to beseech to pray, to ask the Lord of the harvest, to send laborers out Preach was the same one that he was essentially preaching, you know, the kingdom of God uh is near. This is descriptive and not prescriptive. I was just gonna observe that um it would have been pretty easy I think for the disciples if they had gone out And I I yesterday I looked at the where we are in the timeline of Jesus' ministry, and this is They were to take two codes. Um one other thing I also think might have been that you you realize that when you make when you travel, for instance I think the business works. Um I haven't looked at that, but it they they could be midway in their training under in Jesus Seminary It's like a someone who throws a wedding feast and the people he invited didn't want to come. Maybe maybe their focus wasn't to be on the material worldly needs, just like he says, don't worry uh today or tomorrow what where you're gonna get your clothes and your food. If you're just planting the seed and you're just presenting the gospel and you always accept the free gift of salvation, then see you go to the next stop You need to read the blender account on page one oh just a moment. So obviously that's that would have been one reason, yes. So moving on, um why is he sending them out and instructing them, you know, where to go and Another one mentions that an interpretation of this passage means is the identification of So today many uh many churches, many people think that Jesus' presence will bring them a kind of tranquility, will bring them some kind of you know In fact, if you look at um if you remember the story of uh the Seraphonician woman in Luke chapter uh nine, fifty-two to fifty-six, I believe They probably were not temporarily ready to do that yet. 33, I think, uh ties everything up. And the other one that Bell was talking about is for life. Don't start shopping around for other places to stay. Um it is easy to mix and match sometimes even though when they're there when when when the context if you were just looking for what was meant by each each passage I think there are probably different ways you can look at this, but I think in the uh an obvious one just looking at the the uh the flaw Returns for the millennial kingdom. That's the blended account. Since the Jews uh in Jesus' day the they thought that the coming Messiah would bring political peace and return Departing, they oh, excuse me, departing, they began going through the village, preaching the gospel and casting out any demons And healing everywhere. Thank you. So obviously his he was not he was not exclusively sent to the Jews, but primarily he was. The other thing he said to them was in the blender account that we read that when you find that house that is worthy, stay there until your time in that city or that building. I guess the only thing that comes to mind is being sensitive to the culture and the kind of worldview and the mindset So I thought that that made the most sense that they uh that they would not have gone through all the cities and the miracles that we've been recorded. In verse 2 of Matthew 10, which is one of the uh passages that's blended here together with um Mark When I was in my early twenties, I was a Peace Corps volunteer in the Dominican Republic. I would obviously ask what does he mean by that? But Mark and Luke they did give us an account of what happened when they returned. Is it that is it that as he's like an itinerant preacher that he's gonna be traveling following up in these cities and going beyond where they go Jesus actually says there that I was sent to the to the lost sheep of the house of Israel I think perhaps one other reason might have also been that Jesus didn't think that his disciples at that point in time were temperamentally ready to He's sending them out. When a teacher makes no comment and goes on and things, well there must be something else. uh giving them the message of the gospel. And James remarked and asked him, Lord, should we call down fire from heaven? So so i in other words his intent was to develop the the faith of Um this message takes an interesting turn from verse 16 to 23 Actually, my mind is pretty simple. I don't know to follow the thrust of the Old Testament that uh Israel and the blessings of Israel were Actually, as I read that, I thought that it was out of the place. If our love for anything else supersedes our love for Christ, there's a problem. And lastly, that word and die is itself. Obviously a lot of them were downcast because of the uh women occupation and oppression. As it turns out, there are two major long sessions of reading that we're going to be going over. Refers that refers to um the time when um Next, we we see that Jesus now, you know, he goes through and tells them something of the high cost of discipleship. And he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. The questions are on page 106. soften your heart and build that that compassion. Um right after he he achieves it he he instructs them to to to do this That's that's very true. Matthew 10 10, 2. So the the person in ministry, as was said, needs to depend on the Lord, go out in faith, and trusting in him and obedience. So uh so on the one hand, yes, we should be careful and be sure that when we're reading and trying to under trying to understand what a particular Where it says, but now if you have a purse, take it, and also a bag. So the the fact that they were just going to trust God, you know, for their support, meant they didn't have to worry about all the other stuff that would take away from the message that they So um let's see. Therefore, beseeched the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest. It's not it's not that there weren't um people being Gentile studio to be saved So because the sections are long and I don't want to do all the talking, I'm going to ask for help in reading Don't don't worry about the material needs. Well it would say it's right there in Matthew 28, 15 to 20, we know the great That's one thing that you know that we as that disciples need to recognize. Others were saying he is a prophet. Instead, he says to them, beseech the Lord of the harvest to send out labor. It says, what do you learn about the humanity of Christ in this lesson? So that was a learning experience for me and I I've tried to just increase my biblical literacy There was obviously widespread spiritual hunger during those days in Israel. Any other reason why you think I I know it doesn't tell us here, but I'm just trying to see you know This is the point that we've made. It's interesting that as Jesus observed this, he did I mean he had been healing and he had the power to heal. In fact, I believe it's the only time he does. That you're using there. When God's judgment upon the Jews and the defeat of Jerusalem and the destruction of Jerusalem We also see we also I think in one of our classes last quarter we read about him passing through There's no criminal activity going on. Jesus was not well accepted everywhere he went, especially after his message. So I don't know how long he's actually been training his disciples when when this occurs and how close he is to passion week. And the reason why that, just contextually I thought that made most sense to me because obviously this things, this persecution that Jesus He locked up John in prison. As you enter the house, give it your greeting. Um why? So I think that's one way to to look at it. But Jesus insists that his mission entails strife and division. That's where the power would come from ultimately is through uh through Prayer. Because they're worthy of their support. Um we realize that he says to them um Uh I I would say also one of the things was perhaps you know Jesus saw these people and their distress, and he might have also wanted his disciples I mean there's some people who are clearly not interested and they are more hostile. That makes sense so far. Henry, um there's another kind of anachronistic uh verse in here and it's talking about the spirit of your father who speaks in you Do not acquire gold or silver or copper for your money belts or a bag for your journey or even two coats or sandals or a Sure. Because we plan our we plan our steps in the value extra. So can I have somebody please read from verse? People who are not receiving them and that they should shake off the dust of their feet and move on to the next place I'd like us to read the blended account. And whoever, in the name of a disciple, gives to one of these little ones even a cup of cold water to drink. But um just trying to be conscious since we don't have too much time left, I will just point out Read from the start to where it says to just before uh If you go back to Matthew chapter six that talks about the flowers and the birds and how everything God God provides for that, that's that's basically what you were just saying. And the man's enemies will be the members of his household But if there's an opportunity for like apologetics, to to actually be prepared to get into the mindset, the prevailing mindset Okay? Why did he do that? Why would do you think that he would ask them not to take any additional provisions than what they were that we wouldn't look at? The first one is uh He instructs them and says, do not go into the Gentile Don't even don't even go to purchase anything that you don't already have It says, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Because there is there is a a an an account of when um And so he is actually putting in practice this being as shrewd as a serpent. You're being harmless. Immediately the king sent an executioner and commanded him to bring back his head And the folks there rejected or did not want to allow them do as have And he was greatly perplexed and kept trying to see him Five, what do we learn about Jesus' ministry strategy? So that would make sense why Jesus would say, you know, just focus your attention on the lost sheep of the house or For truly I say to you, you will not finish going through the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes. But his it's interesting that his diagnosis of their problem is not to start a And I think that's backed up by a couple of the parables of what the kingdom of Although I don't know exactly how long their this missionary, uh this first missionary uh This is a mission trip, just a short-term mission trip. He doesn't give us an account of their return from this short A construction of it, until the Son of Man comes, that's almost always referring to his next coming. Evangelizing uh and always really saved at that time before the Son of Man This is not uh a program for the your entire life. Okay, just just want to point that out. Now how do we verify that? Immediately she came in a hurry to the king and asked, saying If it's any consolation, one of the commentators that I read indicated that this is one of the most difficult uh So the that's one interpretation that um you know they're coming back together, human is what it was Like one of the prophets of old has risen again. For I came to set a man against his father and a daughter against her mother. Now I think as human beings, especially for those of us who have certain types of personality. But beware of men, for they will hand you over to the courts and scourge you in their synagogue Yes. And when I look at this, I look for the simplest interpretation I can find. Um it's yeah. Um we're dealing with the spiritual right now. You're muted. Just to ask you let me ask you then in in the case that you're describing, I mean which action And Herodotus why Herodias was the one that he loved with after he divorced his wife When Jesus had finished these instructions to his 12 disciples, he departed from there to teach and preach in their city. But even so he he told them no issue only Don't say, oh I feel you know it's I want to be comfortable. I would stop there and ask if somebody would please, somebody who can read fast and can read And as you go, preach, saying that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Um and it's it's the two working together that And we have to be wise as serpents, but the harmless stuffs that we are opening up our lives In in in teaching them of what it would cost, what it what what it meant to be a disciple first, he he uh Departing the name of a disciple gives to one of the little ones They were not to, I mean, uh as as we read a little earlier Okay. Can I I just want to add something to something you've mentioned previously about the Um what does he mean by the You're being knowing that there's a chance that they're trying to witness to you in the world in the world way, like the mess of your focus. But when it comes to application, there are different and many uh passages of scripture that you know And he added, Do not put on two tunics. Now we know we notice that right after after this that um So it it's it's helpful for them to be involved in investing in that ministry We want to see God's sovereign work in our lives. And obviously Jesus recognized that the Lord of the harvest was God himself. What else? Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Now obviously other other other uh possible understanding of that If the house is worthy, give it your blessing of peace. Do not fear those who kill the body or are unable to kill the soul But an interesting uh thing that you will note there is in in Matthew, I believe it's And are there any um applications we can draw You don't need to be a rude back. But we are to love Christ above all. Therefore, everyone who confesses me before men, I will also confess him before my father who is in heaven. Matthew actually refers to the 12 as apostles. I I think perhaps you know Go to the next town. It was a temporary mission trip. You know you will do everything even if possible Just before sixteenth. Right? You're befriending someone to present the gospel Brother will betray brothers to death, and a father's child, children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death One of the reasons Diane so um mentioned the fact that this was a temporary mission Now, obviously the scripture tells us to love all men Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to put him to death, and could not do so So it seems uh One of the easiest ways to I think And so prayer is the important part of it to asking for strength from from the Lord. Last goes to Christian Jews first. And it led him to ask this question which will be addressed in other classes that we will take But the very hairs of your head are all numbered Why didn't he just say, let's just get up and start you know harvesting or saving these people He gave them power to heal and seek to So turn from your sinful ways of forsaken but we see Jesus now instructing his his Yeah. You're presenting the gospel. Now, the interesting thing that I would like to draw your attention to is this I don't know. And although the king was grieved and very sorry, yet because of his oath Okay. I I can remember at the previous church where I was, we had uh Okay? You know, you don't see that. Herod the Great was the one that had the children murdered. At that time King Herod the Tetrarch heard the news about Jesus And she went up and said to her mother, What shall I ask for? Now the names of the twelve apostles are these, the first And I guess it wasn't until Israel's rejection of um of his And so so you build with that core group Okay. Um The disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master. I mean, we see them referred to as apostles over and over again in Luke, but in Matthew And they go over there think that they're going to save the Jews, they go with no coats, no food, no nothing, no support. If you're not well received, move on. And so it was it was the Lord's covenant relationship with Yeah. I don't know if we can, but it seems to me that that's that makes more sense I I would I would agree with Mulragan. And I tend to be an idealistic person, but that wasn't in my life when I was especially idealistic. And Satan is using all these people This is the I I I think I think there are probably there are probably other reasons as well Stan wasn't you know they go to this place. So obviously, at this point in their training as disciples No, it says it says to teach teaching The other thing that he points out is that disciples Right? And interestingly, also, he didn't say, okay, because there's such a plentiful harvest, now let's just Or that they're receptive. And the pastor said, We have been there before, they're not accepting us. But we see that we see these persecution and these hard times for the disciples Are not two sparrows sold for a sin? Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful That's I think that's one way that sometimes you know you can I yeah, I I I I also ran into uh a few of them. By the people that they're ministering to. It is it is quite possible that they would have been distracted as well because they were trying to gather all this And being knowledgeable of those things And the king said to the girl, Ask me for whatever you want, and I will give it to you And when he heard him he was very perplexed. Instead he he diagnosed their problem and and came to the conclusion And in um What do you suppose he was doing? He has risen from the dead, and that is why miraculous powers are at work in him Number three, what do you learn about his divine attributes? That's a good that's a good idea. Being wise as serpents is being aware that while we're trying to witness The interesting thing that I would like to point out before we close here is And all these things will be added to you. And But when Herod heard it Evidently. I don't know what the four interpretations you have in your in your Bible I have to say that as as even though I didn't I didn't I didn't come up with it, the simple explanation seems But when they hand you over, do not worry about how or what you are to say, for it will be given you in that hour what you will say. They gave all kinds of excuses and so then he This is not the first time we'll encounter them. Oh now there there have been there obviously the there have been several um So, you know, you kinda start from the foundation and you go up and and grow it that way So it would appear as though Jesus, when he talks That's what I'm talking about. That's an indication that we're not agreeable And that is why these miraculous powers are at work in him And even in Acts chapter ten, when Cornelius sends Sorry, yeah, sorry, you're right. That's how it is. When I read that verse, I I always think about how we're in the process You know, he's telling them, you know, you guys will face persecutions But this time they were just to take nothing from this trip Yeah, well the context here is um And if you have a sword And Jesus summoned his twelve disciples together and gave them authority over unclean spirits. Do not think that I came to bring peace on the earth I think that's a really interesting point, you know, that when we see him at the the well It was not for all time He Behold, I send you out as sheep We simply use us to present the gospel When his disciples heard about this, they came and took away the body, and laid it in a tomb. But if it is not worthy, take back your blessing of peace. That's an interesting um perspective on it. Cheering the gospel So I think that for me, just looking through our lesson today, I think They're not going to be able to do that. You can't make mix to do what you And whatever city or village you enter, inquire who is worthy in it I have kind of a You're mixing up two situations. Okay Well that's that's yeah that's that's uh uh So can I have a volunteer start reading Perhaps the first house that receives them was um This is just for this mission trip So which which aspect of that then would be the harmlessness done? You may walk away, but you walk away nicely. And six Jesus was going through all the cities and villages He will sit, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons. And this would be the first time in Matthew that And I think that just So be careful because a lot of times we become friends And then after the Jews Um fifteenth says truly I say to you it'll be So obviously, in order for them to cast out unclean spirits. So I thought today I'll do something a little different Um and uh What I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light. In fact, this is not when they were So instead of trying to keep So the temptation would have been for them to start shopping around for a walk. Um he was So why did he instruct them And if they There's no need to spend our time One of them was um Yeah I didn't take the time to to look at that And I'll just go through a couple of things Yeah, I would agree with that But Jesus actually was preparing them for opposition But he used to enjoy listening to him. He is supreme And they're obliged