So today we are on page 78, lesson twelve. It's actually a three-part series on the Sermon on the Mount. And there are for for us there's I think there are eight sections. Forty five, forty six, forty seven, forty-eight. I struggle to try to keep this within our time frame. So um I think I have I think I might have to cut this short on the last part, which is part 49, right about the middle, but we'll see how we go Um I don't want to take away from questions and interactions, participation. But we are on page 78 and before we get to the Sermon on the Mount um Let's read uh number forty five. Jesus teaches and heals multitudes by the Sea of Galilee. Um I did want to do one little reminder. So this class is following the chronological order of the life of Christ. Mark and Matthew are intentionally not always strictly chronological. So therefore Luke is our backbone gospel since he explicitly claims that he is laying out everything chronologically. So that's why you're going to see, for example, in the previous lesson, we were looking at, we were working off of Matthew 5 And now all of a sudden, today, we're jumping to Matthew twelve. So it seems like what's going on there? Why uh why are we jumping around? But we are Uh we're not. It it actually makes sense. Matthew twelve is re is referring to the uh Sabbath controversy. which is what we read last time. So again we're going to continue with in this session only, we're going to continue with Matthew as it um it blends very well with Mark III And then once we get to mark three, then we're going to continue um into the actual sermon on the box. But for day, let's do um let's read the the blended account And then we could also refer back, there's a reference to Isaiah 42. So we'll also look at that as well. So we want to start us on our reading, Dominional Blended Account on page 78. But Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there to the scene with his disciples, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him And also from Judea and from Jerusalem and from Udumia, Ibumea, and beyond the Jordan, in the vicinity of Tyre in Saddam. A great number of people heard of all that he was doing and came to him. And he told his disciples that a boat stand ready for him because of the crowd. So that they would not crowd him and he healed them all. All with the result of that all those who had afflictions pressed around him in order to touch him. Whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they would fall down before him and shout, You are the Son of God! And he earnestly warned them not to tell who he was. This was to fulfill what was spoken to Isaiah the prophet, behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased. I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles. And he will not quarrel, nor cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A battered weed he will not break off, and a smoldering wit he will not put out, until he leaves justice to victory. And in his name, the Gentiles will hold it. So this um so first up we're still in that there should be a map If you're interested, kind of see where we are. We are sold by the near the city gallery. And if you look at my map, on page 316 Map 9-5. And so we're still up there in kind of that northern, slightly west corner i Capernaum. And so this makes sense that what we see here is going to lead next into the Beatitudes, which is an air a region just uh it's a little bit south of there, but still along the Sea of Galilee. But that's where he is right now. Why don't we read Isaiah forty-two? I just kinda like to read it in its full context to get the feel for this passage. So Isaiah somewhere in here. Would someone like to read one through six? Two. Behold my servant whom I have folded, my elect one in whom I have folded the light. I put my spirit upon him and will bring forth justice to the Himself. He will not cry out nor race in the voice. Bring forth justice for truth. The coastline is still away for his wall. Thus says God the Lord, who created the heavens that built the earth. that which comes. Gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those people. I, the Lord has called you in righteousness and the Holy What's also kind of interesting, um, and again this is my own This is not the word of God. My own um observation is a lot of these terms that are here in Isaiah Um a light to the nations. I will take you by the hand and keep you. uh righteousness, spirit, um like a gentle read, uh he will not quench Oh there. He will not cry or lift up his voice. All these things, there's some similarities to what we're going to get into when we reach the Beatitudes. Ivan, right? Yes, yes. We are do we have an extra book? Oh fantastic. I told Ivan you have to be here today. Keep me in track. We are on um lesson twelve. It starts in page seventy-eight. So we're just entering the Sermon on the Mount. And so this is going to be more of a three-part, maybe in a constructed four-part series. So we've just read this first account where we see Christ is by the Sea of Galilee. Um essentially continuing to teach, continuing to heal. Um and he's referencing um Isaiah forty-two uh which will be pointing to him, Christ. The next section is forty-six. On the following next page, seventy-nine. Here we see Jesus appoints his twelve apostles. Anyone have any thoughts on what the term apostle means? Why just why not just keep calling everyone his disciples? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it does, yeah, the Greek yeah, specifically talks about one sent out on a mission. These are given these twelve apostles will be given a specific uh purpose to preach And also to cast out demons. But more so, they are gonna be the men who are gonna lay out the foundation of a church. Um Can someone read Ephesians two twenty? Actually, why don't we start at nineteen? Can someone start at nineteen? See? So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household, having been built on the foundation of the apostles And prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone into the whole building being fitted together and growing into a body. No, into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you are also being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit. Yep, so these men will be formulating or laying down the foundation for the church. Um They will be declaring and writing his revelation. They will be confirming through signs and wonders and miracles. So they are just not just simply disciples, but they have a very specific office. Are there apostles today? Yeah, there's no apostles today. The apostles were eyewitnesses of Christ. They are given a very specific direction from Christ. And they were to build the foundation of the church. So these things have ended. So there are no apostles. today. Let's read this account. Would someone like to read this account? And just kind of um again just as a reminder Up on top are the scriptures in their completeness. For example, here we have Mark 3, 13 to 19 and Luke 6, 12 to 16. looking at a uh s the similar event but from a different perspective. And then that blended section that we're gonna read takes from both of these gospels and puts them together. So it's one glowing, it's easier for us to read. Um but again The scripture, the written word of God, is right up there so that you can always go back and forth up and down. Um I can again I I like the blended accounts because It's really difficult to flip back and forth between gospels on a on a phone. Especially if I go back to books. Would someone like to uh read the blended account, please? And he went up to the mountain and prayed. He spent the whole night in prayer to God. And when they came, he called his disciples and chose twelve of them. Those who those whom himself who he himself wanted whom he also named as apostles. And they went and they came to him and he appointed the twelve so they would be with him and he would send them out to preach And to have authority to cast out the demons and he anoint the twelfth, Simon, whom he also calls named also named Peter, Andrew his brother, James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James, to them he owes he gave the name of Bonoga and means son of thunder, and Philip and But Bartholomew, and Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Um Alphaeus and Simon was called Zealus, Judas, the son of James, Judas Isarius, whom became the traitor who betrayed the And kind of some interesting notes there down the bottom there. Um before, so who knows how many disciples are up there? I don't know, hundreds, thousands Out of all these men, he's going to pick twelve. Makes sense that Jesus is going to be praying the night before. The whole night. Um so our kind of a lesson that we should take is Let's go before the Lord and seek what his will does. And whatever we do. This is a a significant moment in time. Think about yourself, anyone's running a business or anything, and you're gonna decide how I'm gonna run, you know a factory out in Montana and a a shipping yard in Baltimore. You need to appoint those who you can trust and who you can send out to do um do the mission. So this is a very important appointment worthy of Christ's time in prayer to the Father. Yes. I wonder if there's any any uh link to the point that he he um those whom he themselves wanted um aspect of uh if he picked who he wanted. I I'm I'm just sort of thinking in my mind wondering his dialogue with the Father in prayer, Lord who should I pick and we're getting the the message from the father for anything you want. So sometimes in in when we make those kind of decisions in prayer and so forth, I I wonder if that You know how the Lord communicates with us in that way. Right. Sometimes it's quote. Yeah, yeah. So this would be an example that we take from Um, Christ is always doing the will of the Father. So it's never like Christ saying, I want these twelve, but God the Father saying, uh maybe s eight of those, but I really want these other four to be there. Um they're in total communion all the time. They're in total agreement the entire time. Um so whether the prayer may just be, you know We don't know exactly what the prayer was. But I think the take-home message is Christ is always in communication with the Father. Um there's nothing the Father would do that is not in agreement with the with there's n nothing that the son would do that's not in total agreement with the father. Um but just a as a As an example to us, um to be perfect. Pray to our Father. Um yeah, it would be great to have a sermon on here with the have that prayer written down as an example, right? Uh an all-night prayer. But um Totally in in agreement. There's never any disagreement there. Yeah. But I would love to hear what that prayer was. And we see this, you know, throughout the life of Christ. He's always a prayer, always praying. Um and that should be a a piece of our life too. And I unfortunately am not um it's an area that I need uh improvement as is prior. Again, Luke indicates many disciples, we don't know how many, um, but he does choose twelve of the specific office of apostle. And Mar uh uh yeah, Mark uh talks a little bit more about two of the actual um activities that the apostles are going to do in addition to s in addition to setting the foundation of the church sending them out to preach and also to cast out demons. What might be the reason to do something about casting out demons Why might, you know, out of all the things identified to do, to preach I understand, why the cast out demons? Yep, I mean I think that's right, because here in in in in fifteen it says and to have authority to cast out demons. So again a way of identifying them as yes they have a special office. Now Paul at this time is not identified as apostle, but we know him to be an apostle. And um one of the um requirements for an apostle is that they were also an eyewitness of Christ Um so Paul did most likely uh have direct probably knew Christ, saw Christ. He was a zealous attacker of the church against Christ. Um and there are There are some who would question that, but I wanted to give you three references that confirm that Paul is later identified as an apostle And so I'll just give you those if you want to jot them down you can read them later. Um Romans 1 1 Galatians 1, 1, 15 to 17, and then 1 Corinthians 15, 9, all confirming and identifying Paul as an apostle. So some might question, oh well, Paul wasn't there when the twelve was there. Why would he later be identified as an apostle? Because he did He did have uh direct um I himself the rest you know the crucifixion of Christ. Um in addition to his experience on uh his own experience with Christ And then the other apostles also confirming and identifying him as an apostle. But there are no other apostles Let's look at section forty seven on page eighty. This is going to be the longest section. And rightfully so. Well, one of the longest sections. So I'm going to dig in a little bit on some of these, but in order to keep us within the time frame, I'm going to skim on some of the other points. Again, this is a three-part lesson, and so this is just the beginning of a sermon of amounts The Sermon on the Mount includes Matthew chapters 5 to 7, and then it's Luke 6, 20 to 49. So it's a big chunk of of of of sermon. I can't imagine what it would be like sitting through one of these sermons and trying to take notes on topic. Some interesting things I wanted to point out. I really wanted to gather as much material as possible before going in here. And I came across, I don't know if he had a class But Pastor Leek had um I found a bunch of handouts from Pastor Leek from I don't know twenty eighteen or something maybe even earlier, um, on the server amount. So I'm going to be taking some quotes and I'll identify where he uh where he is in my notes. Um but just some really great insights I suspect it's probably online. I wonder if even Sermon Audio might have some of his um lessons on Sermon of the Month. Fantastic stuff. I've incorporated some of that into these notes, so um In just this section, if I we looked at Matthew three, three to twelve, talking about the attitudes. Um This could be probably a class on its own. So um it really breaks my heart to skim over this and not do it justice. But we will um We'll go through it. It's rich and it's one worth um if you're thinking about New Year's resolutions, this might be a good easy spot to jump on. So let's look at what the Beatitudes. So we're gonna look at both Matthew five three to twelve and we're gonna look at Luke six twenty, kind of the middle of the verse there, through twenty-six. Um and I'll just kind of throw out some bullet points uh before we get into it This is if this is considered one sermon, it is packed with rich truths. Um again, worthy of a class of its own. Um So again, I'm using some lessons from Pastor Leek. Um Both of these um both of these uh gospels begin with the Beatitudes and they both end With a parable of two builders who have either built the foundation either on the rock or on the sand. And so it makes sense to blend both of these together. Um Luke's version is much more abbreviated. Um he does omit portions um that are more directed towards the Jewish law, which we find in Matthew, which makes sense. Um because Matthew is is primarily speaking to the to the Jews in in many cases. Um Matthew is also um um The theme, if you had to kind of bring it all together in a in a simple one-sentence uh statement. The theme um would be the righteousness of the kingdom of heaven. So the righteousness of the kingdom of heaven. And I went to a uh John MacArthur reference, and he breaks down this whole Sermon on the Mound. into eight different sections. And I'll probably maybe next time I will I'll write it on the board or something. Um if you actually if you have a MacArthur study bible It should be in the um I think it I believe it's in like his intro, either in Matthew or Luke. Uh so if you're so instead of trying to scramble and write everything down, I believe it's there. If not, I'll um I'll write it up here for next week. But John breaks it down into uh an eight part outline. And so what we're going to see today He he he puts out as an outline bullet point righteousness and happiness. That's gonna be I'm just gonna look at Matthew right now. That's gonna be Matthew 1 to 12 That's going to be what we're going to look at today. Righteousness and happiness. The second part of the outline would be righteousness and discipleship. That's going to be Matthew 5, 13-16. And then righteousness and the scriptures, five to seven five, seventeen to twenty. So that's really what we're going to cover today. But I'll just kind of give you as kind of a preview of what we're going to be looking at in the coming weeks. The next one will be Righteousness and Morality, Righteousness and Practical Religion. Righteousness and mundane things, righteousness and human relations, righteousness and salvation. So you see, it really does make sense that if you had a theme to cover this whole sermon, it's going to be righteousness of the kingdom of heaven. So that's where we're going to go with this today. Matthew 5, 1 to 12. So the the scriptures we're going to look at today are commonly referred to as the Beatitudes. Anybody have thoughts on what that term means to be attitudes? And I have a kind of catchy Tom Leak phrase. I don't know if it's an original Tom Leak phrase, but I pulled it out of his notes. A be attitude is an attitude that ought to be in us. The be attitude is an attitude that ought to be in us. That's the time we Um thoughts on what beatitudes? So I think it has to do with blessing. You know, a lot of people you know try to trivialize to say. And um you know he kinda goes through all the different ways, you know, that that would bring blessing to you. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So um a spiritual truth and definitely which follows um is a blessing. The person is blessed. And we'll talk a little bit about what what the what does bless mean? Kind of an interesting pattern uh comes out of these verses. Um Notice that if you if you kind of um it might be a little bit hard to see here But if you put these these verses kind of on top of one another, you'll see it starts with a blessing. Or describes uh identifies and describes a blessed person which has a following result. And you'll see this throughout this whole section, particularly Matthew if you're looking at just Matthew five, one to twelve. Um The session begins and ends with the same promise. If you look at uh verse one and um particularly verse ten and twelve You're going to see that it begins with a what a blessed person is, and it follows with a promise, which is theirs will be the kingdom of heaven. So this is what a blessed person is, and the result is um Entering the kingdom of heaven. So we're going to look a little deeper into each one of these blessings. And then kind of my final general but obvious and critical note is each of the beatitudes begins with this word, blessed. And um The Greek word refers to um fortunate, prosperous, or happy. But um as Steve kind of pulled out, uh it goes much deeper than just what we think of as being like Happy. Oh I got an A plus in my exams today, I'm happy. Um it goes much deeper. Um Is a person who has received God's favor and one who has entered in the fullness of life and can per and can anticipate a future reward. And that future reward is The kingdom of heaven, right? Um Okay, indulge me. One last observation. I promise we'll get into the verses. Um these beatitudes are kind of paradoxical, right? They seem to be opposite of what the world would say. Right? So I mean if you looked at the first one, um, blessed are the poor Verse three is Matthew. Verse four, blessed are those who mourn. Verse five, blessed are those who are gentle. Blessed are those who are hungry and thirsty. Blessed are those who are merciful. Blessed are those who are peacemakers. Bless are those who are then persecuted. These are, from a worldly perspective, diametrically opposed, right? So why would I be happy if I'm poor, if I'm mourning? Being gentle is not gonna get me anywhere Um being persecuted doesn't sound like it's gonna make me very happy. Um bless uh are you when you are insulted and people persecute you. This does not seem very happy to me. So it's really a very different concept from what the world is in. A very different concept from what um the people he's talking to. I also forgot to mention, which I think is a very important point that I suppose. I want to make sure I before I said I think it's something else. Um in the very beginning of the venue and the audience that we talked at on section 47 The crowd includes both Jews and Gentiles, but on this Sermon on the Mount, he's particularly speaking to his disciples. Right? And so you can see why disciples are going to understand this. Those who are his followers are going to understand this. Whereas there's going to be others in the crowd who are going to wonder, what in the world is he talking about? So There's a crowd of people, but this is particularly addressed to his disciples, right? His followers. They're gonna be able to understand this. Someone from the world, um, this just does not make sense. So why don't we go ahead and why don't we read the whole blended passage and then um as time permits I think it's really worth going through each of these points. And we'll just kind of see how time takes us. Would someone like to read through that whole blended account for us? Listen to the gentle for they shall inherit you Well through you who hunger and thirst for righteousness now, you shall be satisfied. What are you who eat now, for you shall have Blessed are the merciful for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure and heart who they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers. Was there those who've been persecuted for the state of my question? But thread you and then hate you and monstrous you Insult you, persecute. False would say all kinds of evil against you, your name is evil for the sake of the Son of Man. Rejoice and be glad in that day. For joy. Behold, your reward is great. For in the same way their fathers persecuted the prophets were before you. But woe to you who are rich, for you are receiving comfort of me. Woe to you for a well fed now, but you shall be woe to you flat now that you shall be ready. Would you when all men speak well of you, for their fathers used to treat false prophets like this in profit. So again again and again we're seeing some repetition repetition of words, blessed, righteousness, kingdom of heaven. Um throughout this whole section. Again, I'm not doing it justice, um with only about thirty five minutes or so together. Um but it is a rich section of scripture and I I Well worth going home and and um diving deeper into this material. And again, if you're looking for some something to do for the Twenty twenty-five. These are some fantastic attitudes that we ourselves can work upon. Um This version is speaking to the heart. because I noticed that in we have a tendency to engage upon this script as master Say off. Some is being weak when it's showing in a person. And I can understand my how Favor Made sure that all of this is put in so we can search out hard for people who are not this or who may have these qualities. But Jesus Christ protected because we look upon people in because they kind and unite And it's you know the just like they ever didn't say the next person's clean. Or they let people run over them. So I would think you're and and that's right, yeah, this does go to the heart. And I would say that um If this sermon is directed at disciples, we consider ourselves disciples. So let us see that these reflect our heart Now we're we're not gonna be perfect. Uh by the end of this section, you're gonna be kinda like, woe is me. I say I woe is me, for I fall short in all these things. Um but uh thanks be to God for his mercy, right? He and that um he will sanctify us as we continue to walk. Yes, it continues. I have the parts, but never paid attention to the first 24 that has rolls. Um, can you tell me more? How should I exactly have slides? All of those that have the comfort now, all of those who are leaving now, those of those who laugh now. Oh, it's a fantastic question. We're gonna get there. I hope. Yes, we are gonna get there. But yes, I'm not gonna gloss over that for sure. Um let's start at the beginning Um and just kind of um I love having two pieces, three pieces, or multiple pieces of scripture side by side when looking at uh an event, uh the sermon, uh narrative, um because they both bring a clearer picture to the text and to what um Christ wants us to pull out of this room. So for example, if you looked at Luke, if you go back up to the the the uh scripture portion And you look at Luke on the rut on the right side. Verse 20, Blessed are you who are poor. So I'm pretty poor. I don't yeah. I've got an empty wallet. Do I get to go in the kingdom of heaven? It says it's right there. So the reason I bring it up is rule of interpretation. We interpret a passage that may not seem clear with other scriptures. that make it clearer. So if we look at the accompanying text from Matthew, verse 3, blessed are the poor in spirit. So it's not a monetary thing. It's what's here in your heart, your spirit. That's what a blessed person should have. Not that they have no money in their wallet, but they they recognize their spiritual poorness. in front of the holy God. So if this whole again, if this whole theme talks about righteousness If I have a high and mighty spirit, what does I'm already righteous, right? That's not the case. Christ is righteous. It's his righteousness that is on us. We have no we are bankrupt when it comes to our when it comes to our our spiritual uh position before Christ. Yeah. Um so I see what you mean about Spirit. Um could there be truth in you being blessed here for literally because Jesus makes an element reference that about being low of low cover span. Easter curve. And then down here it says low So it's almost like he kind can make case at multiple levels Sure, sure. Yep, correct. But there is a component of Could there be an advantage to being proud? Yeah, yeah. Could there be an advantage? Possibly. Okay. Um so I'm looking at the address is on the bond kind of I I'm I think that Jesus did play out a role that for us to be like him. He wants us to be like him for the problem And and we spoke to my scroll stuff. But I I I can tell you from personal experience, and I I've had several opportunities in my life to have none of them And if my mind is of Christ, then that nothing that I have in this house. Because it opens my eyes and my heart. My prayer life is focused on him. He becomes my everything. I'm the sparrow and he's eating. And this is it's so simple to me personally because the rich man does not have the opportunity to rely on He has everything he needs. He woke into suicide. And he does all kinds of other things that you wouldn't think. Um but if you're poor and you have a relationship with with Christ, well then you're just poor. And so I think you have to put the two together. So a a man or a woman who is a believer And and you lack, you discover that you have so much. You do. Um I just want to hammer this for a second. I don't want to take too much time. But for goodness and I, everything's turned upside down. Everybody knows about exact posts. All right. We are richer now than we work for all the time. Okay. So it it's not just something that's written down. There's a reality to it. If you're seeking God, and so we've seen each other grow in ways that we couldn't have grown except that God put us this position. So when I post things like, thank you for, you know, I'm satisfied for the power of people, I would put that Thank you for the cancer. I would put that in there because God uses that and it fits right in with these. I wanted to put that out there because we're living that out together. I've lived it out separately And and and and the and the stuff that Mendis saw in me that says she wanted to marry me was because I went through stuff earlier where God allowed me to draw exposure Well well said. It it it's kind of a it's kind of a tension, right? You know, I really don't want to go through these trials and tribulations, but yet you know that when you do go through them, there's The benefits are unbelievable. I mean there is when when I lost my job and I was just like watching that bank account go zero, zero and then negative, negative If I weren't a believer, I would be panicking and losing my mind. But there was a rest knowing that God was in control. And it really was like, wow, maybe I really am a believer because I'm not reacting um as like some for the world. Um same thing like when having money The tendency would be to just lavish, yeah, the world would say, you know, lavish upon yourselves. Go buy new expensive cars and and go out and party all night. And that was never a um a draw to me. Um and so um yes you're right. So these trials and tribulations do strength strengthen our assurance and also strengthen that um bond or that relationship with Christ and amongst those who are alongside us right and we'll talk about um Not in this section, but the next section of when we're to be salt and white. So um someone's gonna look at your situation and go like why are you content? That's hard that's hard for the world to understand So yes. Good point. Um but yeah, and you're also right with in terms of maybe there is some advantages being kind of poor. I mean I know my my my tendency in most cases probably wouldn't be to um be more self reliant than I really ought to Um follow question. It makes me wonder what words he actually spoke. Because you can draw a lot of meaning out of less than words. And you can draw a lot out of closer reports here. So do we think he said one or the other of these? Maybe both. Say both, which is Focused on that uh we focused on one aspect. Yeah, why didn't well I I think it would be more problematic if all the gospels were written exactly the same. 'Cause then people would kinda say, Well, just like one person wrote it just put someone else's name on the other three customers, right? Um and again it's um it's not that one person is telling the truth and one is not. It's kind of like, you know, uh An accident happens and you have five witnesses, they all saw the accident, but they may emphasize some things that the other person didn't or Um and that's what an investigation does. They go through and they get um all the information from witnesses and put it all together for a clearer picture, which is why when we look at scripture for things that maybe aren't so clear, we go to similar parallel passages in order to get that fuller picture. Again, just kind of like um why do we take communion? And you hear, you know, hear my blood or he uh the the the blood in my body Are we really cannibals eating the the blood and flesh of Christ? Or is it do this in remembrance of me, right? So without those parallel passages, we can easily go off in the right direction. So bring it all together, get a clear picture of what is actually being written. Yes. Sometimes you can say the same thing three different ways. Yes. Using different words and and phrases and really what it just comes down to what we often try and communicate in that moment and apart from being transitioned like a survival, it is an experience giving students and I don't I mean that's uh yeah phenomenal and absolutely interesting online how they translated And rather than it. And it really brings in a richer um when you put these all together, it really enriches the whole message. And again, that's why what's really nice about how this is laid out, these lessons, taking two Gospels and blending them together to get that more complete picture. This is actually something we're going to be encountering all the way through. And it's helpful to remember that all four of the gospel accounts are inspired by God. Yes. Um a and as with any book that's inspired by God, it's not dictated. Uh the authors have their own, like you say, eyewitness or they're relying on eyewitness testimonies. Um they have their own perspective. They actually have maybe a theme that they're trying to get at in their writing And so rather than pick and choose, knowing that all of them are inspired by God, we can take all of them. And there's much more richness in there. We can take all of them. Uh then it would be just fire spitting on yeah, we would see I was um thinking in front of all the passages uh first print Paul talks about there's not many wise, not many mighty, not many noble, you know, that are chosen by God. And you know, I I think a lot of what we're reading in in in these beatitudes is kind of recalibrating our thinking. You know, we tend to think earthbound, you know, I I work, I get back paycheck, you know, and and I I can buy boot or whatever. But a lot of these are point pointing us toward an internal perspective. You know, people are coming after they're persecuting you you know, just recognize this is how they treated Christ. And uh and I I I like the the part in Corinth where it says that God has chosen the weak things of the world, you know, and and a lot of times it helps us to think that, you know, that somebody who, as you mentioned, you know, is poor, you know, they're gonna be more reliant on God. They're gonna recognize, you know, give us our daily bread as a real thing to them. As opposed to, you know, my portfolio is doing well this week or or whatever, you know. And but thankfully it says not many. It doesn't say not any. are incredibly wealthy and they use their wealth for the glory of God. Right, right. Yep. Yep. Absolutely. And also if we're kind of sticking with the theme of righteousness of the kingdom of heaven What would having a couple extra dollar bills in my wallet be? Wouldn't it be more important to have that poorness of spirit rather than just being poor materially. So it it really makes sense in the context of this whole beatitude. But the theme is the kingdom of heaven and righteousness. So again, materialism had brings no value to the kingdom of heaven, right? Really a poorness in spirit is what God looks for first. And that is what pleases God. That's what God gets hurt to work. Yeah, so some other other points are as soon as we are spiritually poor banker, which I mentioned, um while Jesus is spiritually rich, we cannot be made worthy till we recognize our unworthiness. Um And we cannot enter his kingdom until we have surrendered our pride and recognize our indebtedness to God, right? So um There are a lot of believers who are wealthy and yet they still have that foorness in spirit. Whereas unbelievers tend to be prideful, I owe no one to anybody. I'm self-sufficient Um it's a very different um heart, different position uh relative to righteousness and the kingdom of heaven. Yes. Another thing that seems to be speaking into a culture that um completely or seemingly completely uh associates wealth, happiness, other things to blessing that if you don't have those things then you don't You're not blessed. The rich young ruler. Yeah. And um not of life or any culture, probably human things. Yeah, you know, the rich young ruler who, you know, said, Oh, I've done all these things. I'm righteous. What else is left of me? Um Yeah, so maybe there's something to your point of where you know that love of of money um kind of prevents us from recognize our poorness and indebtedness to God. Which is so critical. Um It it was a mix, a mix of unbelievers, uh believers, those just looking to get healed, maybe for looking for a free meal. Um But there are probably those out there um seeking after him. And so again, that's why he's turning to his disciples. And then that's where this whole sermon of the mount begins. Um because there are probably many out there who Didn't understand what what do you mean by by poor? Blessed are those who mourn. They wouldn't understand. They're probably not even there for that, but there are some in the crowd who are um seeking that Or where this message would enlighten them. So yes, Jesus is preaching to the crowd But the message really is directed towards uh followers of Christ. Apparently we will follow their ears and you know, just because they changed it, you have the your own agenda. It was a writing of pieces there and didn't have to explain something. Right, right, right. Let's go into the next verse. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Um what does mourning mean? Other than eight AM Grieving. Yep. Yeah, any other terms that might describe mourning? And why would this be significant? Why why Out of all the things, why bless are those who mourn? And what are we mourning over? Yep. Yeah, makes me so uh you just lost her husband. You just lost her husband and and interesting There's this theme. I think more than two things were bad for this other class. And this is this this deep emptiness and despair. You know it's no where to go. This person is missing. I can't think of anything And it won't point one place in the other. And then those who don't have uh they never I guess you're also leaving back into the axe. is absolutely fantastic. We've got some settings we better do for Alpha More than it is out. Yep, yep, good point, good point, yep. Uh you know, Joe, um and I would also um If we stay in the context, if you notice that the verse 3 talks about poor in spirit, if I realize my bankruptcy before a holy God If my spirit is in my face and it's everywhere and I'm continually doing it, isn't there some sadness there? It kind of makes sense that the next verse would be blessed those who mourn. If I'm recognizing my sin and my how you know my inept it my ineptude and just I'm before God I deserve nothing but wrath As a result of all my sin, it naturally flows that the next verse would be sadness over my sin, over my spiritual poverty. And so our sadness of sin, our acknowledging of our bankrupt state produces that repentance which leads to salvation, right? Now he also mentions in that same verse, comfort. Are we walking around? Is everyone comfortable in their current state of being? So I don't think so. I I think the comfort is really Because we know that our weaving for our sin, weaving for just Because we live in a fallen growing world and we're going to experience things that are going to grieve us. I know, I think a lot of comfort knowing that this is not my movie. This life is not all there is. after that, and that there's something better. And so I see that as for me as part of his comfort. You know, as Paul says, well it may not feel like like temporary intervention He says all of these things are like contemporary. Yeah, sorry. Yep. Yep, good point. what you're referring to is which is a complete comfort where one day that complete comfort will be when we are before the Lord, right? Definitely. We'll look forward to that. That brings us comfort There's also comfort today in terms of I do see victory over sin, over things that grip to me. I do see that broken I do see sanctification. Um I do find comfort in understanding the scriptures, that my eyes have been opened, that his words are revealed, that he does change mean not completely, not yet. Um but there are victory of sin today. But again yes, when we're in when we when we are before the Lord, that final complete comfort will be made for us. Um just like what is the what would be the purpose of the morning, uh the purpose of the purpose of of of all these difficulties, I suppose if we look at them and um I wanted to show you first. Isaiah sixty one where it talks about you know these these things are um granted the Lord for the display of his splendor. Um and that there's a key process. And it reminds me of the was the man born blind. But um you know what was it It's his center is parents' center. Why was he more minded? So I can heal him and display the splendor, the glory of God So the real joy that can be found in suffering when you realize that there's there's a there's a glory to the Lord and He is at work. And And shaping one's spirit, shaping one's reliance on Him and His glory. And so to be part of glorifying God in that way Totally agree. There is comfort, isn't there, knowing that the trials, tribulations, the sorrows that we experience, that we go through Again, that kind of comes back to the end of the chapter where we're gonna talk about being salt and white, right? How can you be sorrowful? You have all these tragedies, yet you have a comfort and ease that I'm I don't understand. So um yeah, God uses your si our situations wherever we are. um to shine light and hope and to direct that to God. So again that theme of righteousness, kingdom of heaven, bringing glory to God. God uses us. Um if we're you know rich celebrities, why would someone more in spirit look to them for guidance? Okay. Another personal story. But decades ago I I would pray and I say were uh willing to to to serve this way and that way. But it was always a comma bust. But I don't like pain stuff. So you know who does? And and then it it it took it after a while I realized I'm being selfish. Because if you want me to suffer for you good, I need to uh I I need to be a true follower to be willing. So I started to change my mind. And the reason I say that is because when If when it comes to difficulty, and we're not prepared for the difficulty, then it will still be hard. God showed me that I I needed to follow him now so that whenever he had a task for me I would be ready for it. So when when post and and again, I I I don't like to be in the middle, I really don't, but the examples are per are too good. So when we're post You talk about my faith. My faith didn't start here. It started way back here. When I was saying yes for Yeah. So so I I'm I'm putting it out there because I'm imploring folks to say, look, you know, start to agree with Jesus now. Don't don't wait until you know it feels like a hammer coming down on you because it's it's not feel like a hammer if you don't agree with them now. So the beatitude is not something we should say, oh yeah, I'm not really following that. I'm not really there. We should be staying, I gotta get there right now because he is my lord. And how do you tell your Lord I'm not instinct with you. Okay, if you had an earthly Lord, you better be instinctive. Because you're off of the pond. Okay. And and and so I have a very real desire to see people, to see us follow him Because that's what the call is. It's not to have this little title, I'm a Christian. It's to follow him. If we're not following him, then do we really belong to him? And again, um we need to r kind of re rework our the way our minds think. Notice that there's all always with these with these things that m seem to be you know things I don't like. The sourness, the poor in spirit, the mourning Attached to that always is the word blessed. And so let's rearrange our thinking towards God. These are actually situations of being blessed. Don't take them as, you know, I want to avoid this at all cost. There's actually blessings on the other side of these things. Just real quick, Jeff, just as we go through this, just something that occurred to me, just one sentence, is that all these things and these beatitudes and everything characterize Christ's life on Earth If you walk through the progression of all of this and just kind of a thought as we work through this, thinking in terms of this is what prestigs of fighting is like, um he mourned for his people, he was meek He hungered and thirst for rice fierceness throughout this walk on and surround. So another way we can look at this is Be like Christ. Yep, yep, yep. That should probably be the thing. Yeah. How are we like Christ? Or how are we not like Christ? So yeah, these all describe, again, and that's part of the life of Christ we're studying is um this is how Christ walked. And unbelievable, and this is God Himself in our presence, who at any moment can can Tell everyone I am the greatest person on this planet. And he would be correct, but he doesn't. I have the power to destroy everything here, but he does it, yes. Um he is the richest. He has no poverty. Um and yet he doesn't um he doesn't go out and show that. Um He's always, you know, and just like from that passage back in Isaiah talking about meekness, um, those things are characteristic of our Messiah, Jesus Christ. We have three minutes to get through the rest of it. I want to at least get through this piece, this part. Let's get through twelve Um I know I hate to do I hate to do this. There's so much in here. Um Okay, so bless are the meat uh we did not talk about blessed are the meekness. Blessed are the gentle for they shall inherit the earth. What do we try to get through this one? Um your Bible might say gentle or meekness. Um this word uh the basic meaning of being mild or soft, someone easy to get along with Um meekness does not equal weakness, right? Um Meekness does not compromise, especially on God's truth, right? This meekness is really more of a describing an attitude as to how we approach one another. Um right. I kind of came across an interesting uh picture. Do you come to others as a bottle of medicine or as a bottle of poison? Um so How we approach others, um how we approach others um is care as you know uh this micus is a character that is not of the world. The world wants you to come be aggressive, take charge, take control, dominate This is quite the opposite. Um I said I was looking at some what are some um What are some words that that kind of describe the sometimes I when I don't really quite fully understand a word, I will actually look at well what's the exact opposite of this word? So the opposite would be some terms like arrogant, prideful, superior, rash, aggressive, egotistical, obnoxious. Don't you just love those folks? Um it really brings out the difference between what should be reflective of a believer versus what is reflective in the heart of an unbeliever. So we want to come with meekness, gentleness. Um do you like having to deal with obnoxious, prideful, arrogant people? Yeah. It doesn't help very much if we want to be light and soft uh to the world, right? Yes. One of the terms I've written down, teach of links to Peaceably submissive, I saw that, yeah. Good also. Yep. Yep. And next one's gonna be hunger and thirst for righteousness, I think We probably have enough time to do just this one last one. I'm sorry forgetting. If you have to run out, please feel free. It looks like it's about ten forty eight. I wanna hold your feet if you Gotta get ready for worship. Um let's try this last one. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. So um What does righteous mean righteousness mean? In this context is simply just living righteous righteously. Um I did want to note why use these two descriptive terms of hunger and thirst? Why does he link the two together? Why being hungry and thirsty blessed? Again, and I would kind of bring it back to thinking of our attitude. When you're hungry, when you're thirsty, and you could ask my wife I am totally fixated on lunch. If you don't get me food, I will pass out and fall on the floor. I must have food and must have it now. I love you, but I'm gonna die. So when you see me at the end of service around 1230, I'm out of mission for free. Give them something to eat, you get something else. Yes. That intensity, that drive, that focus, rather than being on food, in this case it's directed towards living righteously. So when you get hungry and thirsty, this will be my lesson for today. Switch that off of food and put it towards righteousness. And that's what we should be doing on a daily basis. But the idea of You know, not only did uh the audience back then understand, but we also understand today that that that drive will have that same drive that you have for food and water, have that for living righteous as well I hate to do this but we have ten minutes. So I'm gonna close this in prayer