All right. So we are on lesson thirty-five. Um if You remember the last several weeks, as Jesus has been in the Passion Week in Jerusalem, he's had multiple interactions with uh particularly Jewish leaders And uh some of that's been contentious, uh trying to trap him, and we're seeing more of that today. So we're on page 210 in the notes. Uh some of the Sadducees try to trap Jesus about the resurrection. Um why would they do that? Because what one of the distinctive characteristics of their theology, these Sadducees was that there was no resurrection. Once you die, that's it. Not sure how they came to that conclusion out of the scriptures, but uh that was one of their distinct uh doctrines. All right, so anyway, I'm going to be reading from the the um blended account, which starts on the bottom of page two ten. Um Maria, do you need a copy of the notes? You're on set. Okay Now on that day, what day was this? Best we can tell from the events, this is Tuesday of Passion. week after the triumphal entry and so on. Now on that day, there came to Jesus some of the Sadducees who say there is no resurrection. And they began questioning him, saying, Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies, having a wife whom he leaves behind, and he is childless, his brother as next akin shall marry the wife and raise up children for his brother. Now, there were seven brothers with us, and I'm thinking this is all hypothetical. They weren't speaking of a particular family. They were speaking in general to pose this problem to Jesus, which they thought would be a gotcha. Well it was, but the other way around. Uh anyway, now there were seven brothers with us, and the first took a wife and died, and leaving no children left his wife to his brother. The second one married her and died, leaving behind no children. And the third, down to the seventh, likewise, married her, and in the same way all seven died, leaving no children Finally, the woman died also. So in the resurrection, therefore, when they rise again, as you believe, in other words, this is what they're saying, which one's wife of the seven will she be? For all seven married her. And so they figured out this this is gonna catch him. Right? We're correct. He's wrong. And uh turns out they're pretty naive. Verse twenty-nine. But Jesus answered and said to them, Is this not the reason you are mistaken that you do not understand the scriptures or the power of God? The sons of this age marry and are given in marriage, but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age And the resurrection from the dead, when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, for they cannot even die anymore because they are like angels in heaven. and are sons of God being sons of the resurrection. But regarding the fact that the dead are raised, have you not even read what was spoken to you by God in the book of Moses? Where Moses showed in the passage about the burning bush how the Lord Spoke to him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Now He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. How do we know that? He says, I am the God of not I was the God, right? Or I have been, but I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are greatly mistaken, for all live to him. Some of the scribes answered and said, Teacher, you have spoken well. Now these scribes were probably not Sadducees. Um teacher you have spoken well, for they did not have enough courage to question him any longer about anything. Well, they they learned something, didn't they? When the crowds heard this, they were astonished at his teaching You know, we've we've seen that that commentary uh frequently in the life of Christ, where as people have heard his his uh speaking, his responses, his message, um It was just remarkable. And uh this was no this was no different. Okay. So um you know sometimes we um encounter uh the idea that, you know, when when I die, my spouse has already died, let's say, when I die I'll be able to rejoin my spouse in heaven. Well Uh technically I guess that's true. We'll both be in heaven, but um scripture is clear that marriage lasts until one or the other dies, right? Until death to us part is is the covenant, right? Um it's not just separating temporarily, it's actually ending the marriage. Um Which is why after one spouse dies it's okay for the remaining spouse to remarry because it's not already married that marriage ended. Um and so while I assume we'll be able to recognize people in heaven and we'll rejoice together and so on, the relationship is different. The marriage uh was here on earth, not in heaven Any thoughts, questions on the Sadducees here and their their question? No, the answer's not Jesus. Um you mean all of the saves will have that relationship with each other and so on. Uh particularly being the bride of Christ. Uh that's the the marriage supper in in heaven is going to be with Christ and his bride, the church. So yeah, yeah, relationships are going to be the way God designed them originally, except Uh God designed marriage before the fall to have the the right kind of uh relationship. Um and of course that was uh uh muddled up because of sin and lots of consequences because of sin. Um and then once we uh uh are are uh rescued, if you will, from the presence of sin and we're in heaven, um we'll definitely have strong relationships and and sin less relationships, um but there's no marrying or giving in marriage because the ma only marriage that counts in heaven is between Christ and his bride. And we're already married, yeah. Yeah, in that sense. And he refers specifically to scripture. Yes, yes. Yeah, indeed. You know, at the end of the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew at the end of Matthew seven, uh Matthew's transitional statement there was everyone was um amazed at his teaching because he taught with such authority unlike the other teachers. who were quoting other people, but he's he was telling them, you know, you have heard it said, but I tell you right And the people here noticed not only his authority but also his wisdom, that he wasn't caught up in uh tradition But uh he rightly understood scripture and applied it to other people's confusion. Um so uh The the trap that the Sadducees thought pretty confident, I'm sure, was going to corner him ended up boomeranging, right? And um catching them. Makes you wonder whether any of them reconsidered their doctrine after encountering Jesus. I don't know that we have any evidence of that. Um we've seen lots of evidence of the Pharisees kind of getting hardened and uh stronger in their opposition and wanting to kill him because he was such a threat to their position. Um the Sadducees, they're another sect of the Jews, were the ones who were primarily uh in charge of the temple. Um whereas the Pharisees, their domain was mostly through the synagogues where they were teaching and so on, out spread out throughout the country Um and of course, yeah, people have quipped the yeah, the Sadducees didn't believe in the resurrection, so that's why they were Sadducees. You can remember that, right? Okay. Any other thoughts, questions about this question of yes. Well I'm not sure. That's a good question. Maybe it's a question they should have asked themselves. But um I'm guessing that they wanted to appear as being polite and respectful. He was clearly teaching people and so addressing him as teacher sort of fit. You notice they didn't refer to him as Lord, yeah, um, but teacher. Any other thoughts, questions here? Yeah, whatever the however the tradition and the doctrine started, uh I I have no idea. Um it is, however, pretty uh common that um people interpret the scriptures and it's clear that that's at least superficially what they're trying to do is to interpret the scriptures And they're referring to an actual provision of the law. But it's common that, unfortunately common, that people interpret the scriptures with Um some people say, you know, certain lenses or a an interpretive grid, whatever your whatever your metaphor is. The idea is you're going to take to scripture a certain set of presumptions that are purely assumed, but those are controlling how you interpret the scriptures. Which means that these assumptions, in their view, are a higher authority than the scripture itself. And you can imagine that can lead to lots of trouble, right? If if something that's not inspired by God is used to filter out and make meaning of what is inspired by God, the likelihood of coming with the r real meaning is pretty low. And the Sadducees are just one example of that. I mean the Pharisees did the same thing but with a different Differently their their emphasis was very much on tradition. They assumed that basically it was a law of works, right? Um and so they missed it. But if we're honest, we have the same problem of the same potential to interpret Scripture through assumptions that either we have made or that some tradition has made or whatever um some favorite teacher. And if we impose those assumptions on Scripture, we're treating Scripture as subject to these external facts, rather than the other way around. Scripture being subject to man's logic and preconceived ideas rather than man's logic and preconceived ideas being subject to scripture. Backwards. And the Sadducees did that, the Pharisees did that. A lot of people have done that. We've probably done that. Um we need to be careful not to. We need to let the scriptures speak for itself. And You know, as as many people have commented, the best commentary on scripture is scripture, right? Um and and so if we come up with a conclusion that doesn't seem to fit well with other places in the In Scripture, we've got two choices. Either we ignore or just kind of sweep under the rug those other passages, or we say there must be something wrong in my interpretation here, which is the more humble thing to do. Let Scripture reign rather than our presumptions, right? That's the problem. Pride, right? Um so this is a good lesson, a good a good warning to us. That um Uh I don't think any of us is exempt from this. We need to be very careful that we're interpreting scripture um without preconceived notion. And ensuring that the entire context of Scripture comes to bear on any given passage as Whatever is relevant. And that that adding extra, the theological term for that is eegesis. It's reading into something that's not there. And the opposite of that is exegesis, which is what drawing out what is there, right? So um You see examples of that quite apart from the Scripture. Um Supreme Court justices read into the Constitution. something that's not there. And that's what this is, right? To meet the conditions of your assumption rather than let the text speak for itself, right? Execution, drawing out what's already there. And for what it's worth, we do it in relationships all the time. Someone says something and you read into it, a meaning that wasn't intended, and you treat your assumptions as fact And what's going on in your heart? And that's not what they meant at all. Right? Um So we need to be careful how we approach scripture that we don't read into it a favored meaning or a quick knee jerk um impression about what it must mean, not realizing that the breadth of Scripture would say, no, that doesn't make any sense. That's not what Scripture is teaching us. And so drawing out what is in Scripture, not only in the very verse that we're looking at, but the immediate context, the broader context of all scripture. And that's what Jesus was trying to do with the Sadducees, kind of quickly, but enough to give them that zinger. Um and He actually challenged them, right? Uh is this not the reason you're mistaken that you don't understand the scriptures or the power of God? Um and that's often the the uh the the conviction that needs to be said to us. when we insert things into scripture that aren't there. Isegesis. By the way, that's the Jesus there is not Jesus, J-E-S-U-S. It's the Greek word. Yeah. Okay, good. Good thoughts. Any other thoughts here? Yeah. Yeah. Kind of read through it. Uh must mean that move on. You develop this impression and then later you're looking at a passage and you have that impression in mind, you impose it on that and it snowballs. That's lazy. Yeah. So we need to be alert. And be willing to do the work of understanding context. Often just see media context is all you need to see, to see what it's saying and what it's not saying. But certainly the broader context of all the scripture is important as well. Yeah. Okay. Wouldn't it have been nice if Jesus' response to the Sadducees would have covered that ground um more explicitly? But we see it in action, in his interaction with them. Okay. Uh then um on page two twelve we have another interaction. This is now with just Matthew and Mark. I'll begin reading the blended account. But when the Pharisees heard that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, and you can see them grinning, right? They gather themselves together. One of them, why do you think they gather themselves together? What's that? Because It was for different reasons, but the Pharisees didn't have any use for Jesus either. Right? And so they're saying, Well the Sadducees didn't bring him down. Let's see what we can do. One of them, a lawyer. Now this doesn't mean an attorney, right? The law is it's it's an interpreter of the Mosaic Law And how it applies to life. Someone who's specialized in understanding it, teaching it, and so on. One of them, a lawyer, came and heard them arguing and recognizing that he had answered them well, asked him a question Testing him. Teacher, again, referring to him as teacher. Which commandment in the law is foremost of all? And of course, this would be a question that this lawyer would would know And Jesus answered him, the foremost is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul. with all your mind, with all your strength. This is the great and foremost commandment. And then he didn't stop there. He says The second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend the whole law and the prophets. There is no other commandment greater than these. The scribes said to him Right, teacher, you have truly stated that he is one, there is no one beside him, and to love him with all the heart With all the understanding, with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as himself, is much more than all burnt offerings and sacrifices So he agreed with Jesus. When Jesus saw that he had answered intelligently, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. After that, no one would venture to ask him any more questions. Um you would have thought they would have learned sooner, but uh yeah. So yes. Well yeah, w I wanna get to the the content here. Um you might remember that And this came up earlier in Christ's ministry where he asked someone else, which is the greatest commandment, and he gave the correct answer. But then he asks, uh, okay, love my neighbor as myself, who was my neighbor? And that led Jesus into what? The parable of the Good Samaritan. Uh, which is not what this guy was looking for. Anyway, now Jesus gets answered that question. Jesus gets asked that question. Um And he summarized correctly that the two greatest laws are are to love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and the second to love your neighbor as yourself. And so your your Maybe natural question is, well, what about the Ten Commandments? Well the Ten Commandments really are covered by those two things. The first four are all about loving God, and the remaining six are all about loving your neighbor as yourself. And so that's a good example of how everything just falls into those categories. Loving God wholeheartedly, loving other people as yourself. Now He's quoting here uh from Deuteronomy six where where he says, um, Hero Israel Lord our God is one, you shall love the Lord with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Um that is what the Jews call the Shema. Um and later in that passage it says to put it on your door frames. to remind you. And so a devout Jewish family would have on their door to the house this little container that has presumably a scroll in it. I'm not sure if it does these days or not, that has these words Because they're literally putting it on the door frame. So the Jews understood that that was just very central to their relationship with God. And what was the point of putting it on the door frame? It was a command in in Deuteronomy 6 It's a reminder. You're going by it all the time, right? It's like putting a little sticky note on your mirror. So you don't forget. So don't forget. Um And one way w w w what's one of the challenges of of having something out there, like a string around your finger or a sticky note on your mirror? What's the You get accustomed to it and then what? You forget all about it. Yeah. So the Jews developed the custom of when they enter the door putting their hand on the the mezuzah. Yeah. Mezuzah? Yeah. Okay. Um as a reminder. Let's not forget. Well you can even go through emotions like that just out of ritual and forget the underlying meaning, right? Um that's the problem with our memories. We get too accustomed to the uh um the the normal. Anyway, um that was well recognized as the primary uh uh focus of the law, our relationship with God. Now the question has often come up, uh love the Lord your God with all your heart And with all your soul, and with all your mind and all your strength. Actually, Deuteronomy 6 only has three of those, not four Um are those different things? Is your heart different from your soul? Different from your mind? No. They're all the same thing. Then why repeat it? Emphasis. That was a a Hebrew um uh I'm sorry, what was that? Literary. A literary technique, I guess is the right word. Yeah, a literary technique. To emphasize. Very similar to holy, holy, holy, emphasis Right? And so our soul in Scripture, that's the immaterial part of us, right? The material part of us is what we can touch and feel. The immaterial part is the real us on the inside. Scripture refers to that as our soul, our spirit, our heart. They're all the same thing. And when it says heart, it's not talking about the pump, right? It's talking about the real us on the inside, the heart of us, right? And when it speaks of when scripture speaks of the mind, usually, it's not speaking of the brain, the organ, but the real us on the inside, the thinking, the the conscience, the the mind. And so this is just a way to say love God completely with everything you have, with everything that's you. And um the all your strength part, I think, um I'm just guessing Jesus added on to emphasize that that point, that it's it's to love God completely, um without any reservation, with everything you've got, right? Um And to love your neighbor as yourself. What does that presume? You love yourself. I don't think most of us have a problem with that. What we have a problem with is loving our neighbors as much as we love ourselves. Um but that's God's God's um thumbnail sketch of what it takes to live rightly. To understand our position before God and and to love Him To lo not only love him, but what does that suggest? To serve him, to understand who he is and and what he requires of us. Um And to do that out of love and then to love our neighbors as ourselves. Yeah, most of us are very comfortable with the approach, what's in it for me? Right? Looking out for number one and all that. Uh and that's the product of what? Sin. That is what sin is. Right? It's it's selfishness. It's the focus on us. Certainly not focused on God, but one of the ramifications of that is we're therefore not focused on other people as well. And of course Philippians tells us to be um um um concerned about others even more than ourselves. not just equal to ourselves. Okay, so at the end of that, Jesus said to him after he saw that he he agreed answered intelligently. He said, You are not far from the kingdom of God. What did he mean by that? You're on the right track? Okay. That's good. Yeah, and and unlike um the the rich young ruler, I guess it was, who came to Jesus and asked him, What shall I do to inherit eternal life? He's all about works. Right, what can I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus turns the question around to him, Well, you know the law, what does it say? And he's he he recited some of those I think it that was the way it worked. Anyway, they they covered the some of the basics of the law of the Ten Commandments. And um you know, do this and you shall live and it's the same thing, right? Well we the the point is we can't well no he he said um I've done all those things from my youth. What more should I do? And so Jesus challenges them. Go sell all you have and give to the poor, knowing that he was rich. And he went away with his tail between his legs because I can't do that. And that was the point. You can't do it in your own strength. You can't do it uh in your own sinful heart. Uh I'm pretty sure that was the message Jesus was trying to give this lawyer, and he may have perceived that he already understood. Maybe he was expecting says, okay, um the lawyer may have been expecting Jesus to say, um, yeah, you're good to go. You're in the kingdom. But he says, no, you're not far from you you're you're you're close, but do you really measure up is the point And if he were honest, he would say, No, I really haven't loved God as he deserved, and I haven't loved my neighbor as I should. Uh I stand convicted. Um Maybe Jesus understood that those wheels were turning in this guy's mind, I don't know. But um I think it's the same kind of thing. help them to see that they're falling far short of that standard. Was there another Yes. And so how is it um you know all of our righteousness is like filthy rags, right? Um not only because of the quality of our good deeds, but more importantly I think the heart with which we do them is still corrupt. And being transformed so on as Christians, but um what what measure of righteousness does God require? What's the passing grade? Perfection, a hundred percent, because God is holy, and anything short of complete perfection, holiness, is an affront to God, disqualifying us from God Do we have any hope of attaining that 100%? Not here and what? Not in our own strength, in our own power. So how is it that we become righteous enough to stand before a holy God Christ. Yeah, we have the righteousness of Christ. Um it's not our righteousness, but it's the righteousness of of Christ, it's not just our sins being taken over by Him, imputed to Him, but His righteousness being imputed to us. That's a a transfer that's amazing. It's not just that he took our sins, but that we have his righteousness. He lived a perfect life. A hundred percent. The only one who has ever lived who can stand before the Father completely righteous. And that righteousness is ours in Christ. That is amazing. Right? I don't think this guy understood that. The other interesting thing about this, I think I commented a time or two before, was some of these encounters that Jesus had with people who seemed pretty close. I would have probably jumped on it and tried to explain things in more detail and and help him to to Move across the finish line, if you will. You know, not just close to the kingdom of God, but um actually to understand it. And for whatever reason, I'm sure partly due to Christ's omniscience. Um He didn't expect um that even his words were going to um change everyone's hearts instantaneously. Um and that even he was sowing seeds that later would perhaps uh in God's sovereign timing bear fruit. Whether this guy did or not, we don't know. But uh Um the advantage Jesus had was omniscience. We don't have that. But what we can do is merely proclaim the truth, uh answer questions from Scripture, and let the Holy Spirit do the convicting and the Father do the drawing. to himself. Nicodem Nicodemus is another one like that, where I would have I would have gone in for the the kill, yeah. Or whatever, the the final shot. Yeah, I think that I think that's definitely true. They didn't fully get it. Um I think mostly what they didn't get up through the time, up until the resurrection and even a little bit after, they didn't get that he was coming the first time as a sacrifice and would be coming yet again as the triumphant king. They were looking forward to the triumphant king. And so that's one of the reasons they were so misunderstanding of things, about the timing of of all this. But one of the important things that Peter got was when he answered the question, who do you say that I am? And he says, you are the Son of the Living God. And Jesus said, You're right. But people didn't reveal that to you. My Father in heaven revealed it to you. And then in uh John six, Peter uh Jesus asked the disciples after many of his peop the followers left because they couldn't handle his hard teaching. Jesus asked the disciples, Are you leaving too? And Jesus and Peter said what? Yeah, where else can we go? You're the ones with the words of eternal life. Right. So there are times, these glimpses that you're talking about, where he caught the main things, but I think they were all confused about the timing and the difference. Between his suffering and and uh eventual victory. And so that that clouded their their understanding, for sure. However, having said that, in Matthew 28, right leading up to the Great Commission, verses uh eighteen to twenty, right before that It says that as Jesus instructed them, they gathered together in Galilee, expecting to see another of his appearances. But it says, but many doubt it. And here he is, he's going to be commissioning them to go out into all the world and there are a lot of doubters still. Um was no longer doubting Thomas. But many, not just them it wasn't clear in Matthew 28 whether it's um among the eleven disciples or whether it was a larger it's a larger group that's meeting with them, so it's probably mostly others. But uh some doubted. Maybe they doubted because Unlike those who saw Jesus in his resurrected state and power, many of these heard about that but hadn't yet seen him. And they doubted, really? Just like Thomas did Um but I think after he appeared and he gave them the Great Commission and if they're still around in Acts two when the Holy Spirit came Uh there's no longer any doubt. Okay. Any other thoughts on this one? Yeah. So he's guilty of his own um his own thing. Yeah, interesting. However, the Pharisees were just renowned for their presumption that um to have a a right relationship with God you had to obey all the law, right? It was uh it was a a religion of works Um and they added to the law with lots of traditions to try to make specific how how it is we're going to show that we've kept the law. Any other thoughts? Questions? That last verse. After that, no one wanted to venture asking any more questions. There we are. Yeah, so the golden rule is a good way to summarize that, right? Do unto others as you would have them do unto you, because that's that's a demonstration of your love for them. So it's possible to do the right things But not do it out of love. Right? Because if Jesus is right, that proves them wrong. And he's doing it publicly. That doesn't bode well for their position, their standing, their reputation, right Jesus said um uh beware of the blind leading the blind and that's what they would have been. So they had from a from a um kind of a natural perspective, they had every incentive to undermine his teaching, his um You know, everything he said if he could if they could get him to say anything that would convict him of error or uh treason or whatever it would take. Um that would preserve their position, their power, um, yeah, all in their pride. Yeah. Maybe. Um yeah, I I've thought about that too, and I'm wondering if um he asked that question because the stakes are so high that if he got this one wrong, then he's obviously a false teacher. Um it had more to do with the stakes and the the um um presumption that Christ couldn't answer it correctly for some reason, I don't know. But um Yeah. Uh all we know is what I think in keeping with those kind of passages like from the Sermon on the Mount where he said, you know, you have heard it said that Whoever commits adultery, you know, you shall not commit adultery, but I tell you that if you even look at a woman and lust for her, you commit adultery in your heart So he's getting at the heart, which is his constant theme, doing the right thing, yes, but doing the right thing for the right reason. This would have been an opportune time to say that. You know, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. That's not just checking the box. It's it's gotta be doing the right things for the right reason, from the heart. Um In fact, in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, um, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and the Pharisees, you'll not enter the kingdom of heaven Mm-hmm. And who could be more righteous than them? Right? They're keeping all the checking all the boxes. But it's because they didn't do it from the right heart. It was external, not internal. Um anyway. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for um sending Christ to not only speak your truth, to speak wisdom, to apply your law and your wisdom correctly to emphasize that we need to do the right thing, yes, but for the right reasons. And thank you that um we see in his interactions with others uh the importance of that. Pray that we would not fall into the um the tendency to interpret your word according to our impressions, our desires, our presumptions, but that we would uh love you with all our heart, soul, mind and strength and apply your word uh consistently and without the the trappings of our own assumptions. Lord help us to do that consistently because we want to honor you and glorify you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.