Today we're doing lesson eighteen and it's entitled Sewing Broadly, covers two sections, seventy-seven and seventy-eight, and the two main themes are Jesus is sending out his disciples and parents and Herod's fear. And so we'll run through we're gonna we'll read the sections as usual. Um but this time I'm gonna come back at the end and I'm gonna share some comments that it hit me in particular, and I'm looking forward to hearing what um what your thoughts are as well. Um some interesting verses, kind of wrestle with some. Um but I think it's a great it's a good good good study. So let's begin. The majority of this section, section 77, where Jesus is sending out his disciples in pairs Uh the majority comes from Matthew nine, nine thirty-five to uh the beginning of ch of uh chapter eleven. Um and again we could Why don't we do the blended account? Let's read through it and then I'll probably jump back a little bit and kind of highlight uh some verses I thought were interesting, um worth highlighting a little bit. Um Thanks. That's a it's a giant passage of scripture. Um there's a lot in there. And again, the purpose of our study is really to know the life of Christ. Um And by knowing him, the the hope is that our lives will be transformed and changed, right? So, um just some interesting notes that I came across and I know there's a lot to throw at you. Um so that's why I encourage everyone to um read a little bit uh before coming because um there is a lot that's that's in here Um but just some notes that I that I kind of uh thought were worth looking at. Um in um in the very beginning uh of this section, um in fact the second verse uh thirty six. Seeing the people have you ever heard People say how hateful Jesus is, how Christianity is so cruel, ruthless. And yet right here in verse 36, seeing the people, he felt compassion for them. um because they were distressed. He saw their distressfulness. He saw how dispirited they were and references refers references them as sheep. So if you've ever seen like If you ever have a free moment in time, you should see Australian shepherds uh herding sheep. They are so fragmented and scatter-minded. They don't know what they're doing, they don't know where they're going, they're always nervous, they always think everyone's gonna come and eat them. Um and so it's kind of an interesting picture looking at us as sheep, frail dispirited, traumas, trials of all sorts, um, and really in need of a shepherd. And so you really see the You really see the compassion that this shepherd has for us frail scatter ha scatter-brained sheep. Um And so I think it's important to bring out when we see verses like this to remind ourselves as well as others who um don't really know who Christ is, that Christ is a compassionate shepherd. He desires to bring us into his fold. Um to the point of lying down in his own life, right? So um I really wanted to to bring that point out that he is a compassionate shepherd and he sees our trials and s and and distress. This section in is entitled Jesus Sending Out Disciples and Sending Them Out in Pairs. Not only does he do that, but he's selecting them out in verses uh If you go down to to verse two, I know that the numbering is a little bit jumbled because we've combined those passages, Matthew, Mark, and Luke together. Um so that's why when you see the blended section um picking from all three of these gospels and putting them together. But we see in verse two, the names of the twelve apostles are the anyone know what an apostle is So we've been talking about disciples, disciples, disciples. All of a sudden, here pops up this word apostles. Yeah, yeah. And it's very specific of what he's sending them out to do Um and even more so, um, not just that they're sends, but they are authorized representatives of Christ. So it's um It's really an office above an office. Um I was kind of looking at what qualifications would be for a apostle. Um I have three very basic qualifications for this Um first off they were chosen directly by Christ. All of them are identified here. He's naming them as apostles. And there's only twelve These are the only ones. Um so chosen directly by Christ. Um they performed and they were authenticated or authorized, I'm sorry, performed and authenticated through performing Miraculous signs and wonders. You see that at the very end. They're doing signs, wonders, healings. And the third qualification for an apostle uh is that they witnessed the resurrection of Christ. And so um do I just pull that out of this? Let me give these give us some cross references to to read Um could somebody read uh 1 Corinthians 9, 1 for me and also 1 Corinthians 15, 7? And then I'll ask you what do you think about Paul? Because I don't see Paul in this list. Someone can read First Corinthians nine one and first Corinthians fifteen seven. I lot left my Bible in my car, so I can I know they're great for it. Um could someone read Galatians one eighteen Now we're gonna also look at Galatians two, seven and nine. Sure, sure. Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter and remained with him fifteen days. Okay, so that's Paul. He's going to see Peter. So even though we don't have Paul in this initial list, we do have confirmation that he witnessed the resurrected Christ. There is uh authenticating apostleship from the other apostles Um and Paul clearly um had a to initial um meeting with Christ himself on the road to Damascus. Anyone have any thoughts, concerns, comments on either the apostles, how they've been identified as apostles, or Paul himself. Um it's always interesting when the list that's given talks about Judas being one who created an environment that when he when he died that he replaced down somebody else who had those problems Yep. Yep. Yeah. So there's some definite qualifications um on what an apostle is and what an apostle does. Any other questions? Correct, right, yeah. By those qualifications, yeah. Um unless they witness the resurrection of Christ so that's a good idea. It's a difficult difficult jump to jump through. The purpose. What is the purpose of the apostles? Again, I'm just pulling these out of this passage, right? When we make statements we always want to have them backed up with scripture. Um but the purpose uh is to proclaim the message of God. The kingdom is at hand. That's here and there's some uh cross references uh also about what the purpose of the apostle is Build up the church, establish the church, early to go out and preach that the kingdom is at hand. And then in verse seven there, they did healing. They raised the dead. They cast out demons. But again, you're gonna see this demonstration um at least from from Christ particularly, although not totally devoid, a diminishing of these healings, cast raising the dead, casting out demons. They do happen, but they're going to become less frequent as we go through the gospel What do you think about in verses seven eight? And it it's kind of backwards, right? It's actually in order seven nine eight. uh we see that Christ is comp or uh that the apostles are completely dependent upon God for livelihood. I thought that was particularly interesting. Oh I'm sorry, before I get there. Uh in seven, what do you think the freely you received freely give versus five? Talks about sending his apostles to heal the sick, raise the dead, cast out demons, proclaim that the kingdom is at hand. Freely you receive, freely you give Christ has given these apostles this incredible authority freely. And so thus what should you be doing in return? Giving it to the sheep freely. And what follows is um a pretty austere lifestyle, right? Do not acquire gold or silver for your money belt belt. Um Or even two coats, or sandals, or a staff, for the worker is worthy of his support. He instructed them that they should take nothing for their journey except A mere sack. Could you imagine being told, okay, you've been in a Hope Bible for a couple years, you're well equipped. Just go. Weave all your stuff here and just go and be dependent upon God. That's a big calling Um that's a hard card. Yeah. No bread, no bag, no money. Um do not put on two tunics. Um But he doesn't mention that when they do come into a city that the the the uh people who hear the message uh would support that Not to get rich, just as to support. Oh, um okay, you wanna you wanna look at the sep you wanna separate out the I th I think the point here is um A couple things. One is look at what the uh religious the current religious um Pharisees, Sadducees are. They're they're fancy, they have gold, they're they're royal, they have a Sleet of people become is it's more of a contrast to what the current religious system is. Um not necessarily oh I got an extra pair of sandals in my backpack. The idea is um you're coming to be a servant of the sheep uh rather than I'm coming and now you need to serve me. It's really the other way around. I think that's the the takeaway piece is it's not you are all serving me, it's I'm serving you. And it's also an aspect of relying on God Absolutely. And I and I would say even when you look at the next section, which I think is kind of apro to put right after this, we look at Herod, and we're gonna see uh John the Baptist uh gets his head cut off This is what you signed up for. And you only get get a sandal and a staff. There's a reward, right? So it's a it's a very it contrast very much so the current religious But it's it's a good point to uh bring out. So yeah, that's why I I do kinda like the blended and it's it's good to have it's good to have the actual full scriptures, um but it's also nice to be able to kind of blend them together so um It's a it's a it's a it flows very well and they complement the one another. But yeah. You'll find that throughout scripture, right? I mean when you when you've got four different narratives and they're all looking at the same event but maybe just a little bit differently. You'll get some descriptions from one that maybe aren't in the other. But the take-home message is it's a position of austerity and, like you had mentioned, dependence on God for everything. Um some other points I kinda wanted to bring up. Yeah, and I think if you read maybe a little bit further I'm just gonna kinda read like let's just get a little extra context Yeah, verse 14, whoever any place that does not receive you nor heed your words, as you go out of that house and you shake the dust off your feet. Um Yep, and so you can see like why I wouldn't why why would you bless someone who's opposed to Christ? Uh Again, even in in next, if you go another verse down, behold I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Um this is not a friendly environment to go into at all. And so um blessing those who would be, you know, opposed to Christ to the point of murder. Um I don't know if if the one of the apostles would go into a house and say, I'm blessing you and then like come back a day later and say, Oh no, I'm not taking your blessing back. I'm not sure if that was the kind of I think it's just giving them the authority to either bless them based on if They're accepting the message, they're welcoming the apostles. Um I mean you bless people who do righteous things. Right, right, right, right. With that, I think I had that Did I not put that in here yet? I didn't put it in my notes, surprisingly. But if you look, um I mean it might be in the next section make sure before I get ahead of myself a little bit Uh it was kind of an interesting point. I didn't want to bring it up. Someone can help me. There is a sac there is a verse in here where it says essentially go to the house of Israel before you Good uh speak to the Gentiles. I'm trying to think where that is. That in this section or the next section? Five six clips of Yes, instructing them, do not go in the way of the Gentiles, and do not any do not enter the house of the city of the Samaritans, but rather go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. You think he's going to want Gentiles or Samaritans to hear the message? Here it is. Directed them to firstly go to the covenant people of Israel. Um and this if someone could read Romans 1. 16. So um Yeah. Jesus is not forbidding the preaching to the Gentiles, right? I mean in fact we have the Great Commission, Matthew 28, right? Uh go proclaim the uh message to the whole world. So there's no um Um and there's there's no like inconsistency here. Um there is the here he's directing them as he does in Rome is one, to go first to the company of the people of Israel. But again, still gonna share with everyone is who who he comes out and contacts with. But this is kind of like this is your directive. I want you to do this Doesn't mean like but don't ever say anything to anyone else. And Matthew twenty eight bloc um backs that up. But Romans one sixteen, if you're interested, that talks about this imperative to go first to the covenant people Which I think is also interesting 'cause my my background is Jewish and I love telling them, my my family, that, you know, I am a good Jew. I'm preaching this message right here. Go to the house of Israel. Israel is not has not been, you know, casted out at all. There is a promise to Israel. Um and this talks about you know go first To the house of Israel. So they are not casted out. Uh some might say otherwise. Um as some kind of uh I also wanted to mention three kind of final uh points and they're in your they're in the the end of that section there uh but worth uh highlighting. Um in summary Jesus is preparing these apostles to do three things. Um they're going to be supported by those who are benef who benefit from the message. Um He also prepares them for the persecution that's about to come. And it's probably already occurring at this time. Um and and more importantly, or equally as important, um And I would say applicable applicable to us is that we put our trust in him. So if these apostles are leaving everything behind Having nothing but a staff, a coat, and sandals, um, and trusting that God will provide. Shouldn't we do the same I don't think we have to like you know just sell everything we have and hang out in the Columbia Mall and just preach the gospel. I don't think that's the message. Um but it but we can take from this that we are to trust him as well. And if you go to the beginning where he sa or he identify or where the uh passage um identifies Christ as being compassionate, um we should have a sense of assurance that He's gonna be compassionate and concerned about us as well Right. That's about all I have for this stuff. So there's um again twenty th twenty three? Oh yeah, twenty three. I see what you said. Yeah. Um that whole set d I in fact actually um I think I started up in uh twenty one. Uh there looks like there's some prophetic looking forward in time a little bit in that section. Uh we So there's some looking forward and uh almost kinda like this is what's about to happen to you. So that in verse twenty one, brothers will portray brothers, uh father and his child, children will raise up, um, and cause them to be put to death. You will be hated by all because of my name. Don't think he is projecting forward as to what they're going to experience. Um But as the one who endures to the end that will be saved and then but whenever the they persecute you in one city flee to the next, you will not finish going through the cities of Is Israel until the Son of Man comes. So the Son of Man doesn't come until the second comes. So this has to be more of a prophetic looking forward in time reference? Um So what are some possible things that that could mean? And Dr. Punk can kind of correct me on this. Um you will not finish going through the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes. I'm thinking there there's always going to be unsafe people I'm looking at it as um there will always be places to go. There will always be people to give the message. Um believe those. Yep. Mm-hmm. Yep. Um could that first um that always that finished always be the same And it also referred to the fact that the fact that Paul, I think it was Paul who basically said Israel had to be hardened so that the Gentiles couldn't be grafted in two family and die. But he also says at the end Israel will be saved. So there's this whole swath of time where, you know, everyone else is going to get saved because of the hardening of Israel. Yeah. Who were the chosen. But yet at the very end, God's gonna save all he's gonna save, and that is the residence. So maybe those are what these uh cities are referring to You will not be able to go through all the cities, but at some point in time in the future you will be able to. guiding the apostles and guiding them how to be. And we can see it almost rude of Jesus to say, wipe the dust off your feet. Aren't you supposed to focus on those sheet But we kind of forget that they're not accepting the gospel at all. And you see a lot of people that it's we should always be loving and be the best witness, but people might waste a lot of time on people who are just continuously being hardened instead of looking at all the literally millions of other people who are receptive and are willing to accept the gospel of Christ. And I've seen really godly people like very focused on a certain amount of like a certain person and I get it, but they could be using their gifts and power especially to help so many thousands who are more recep receptive rather than just kind of I don't want to say wasting time, I don't want to be rude. Right, right, right. But they could be using their giving everything more effectively. Yeah. I mean at some point we have to realize that we don't do the saving. It's God that's So our purpose is to spread the message, right? Go out, go out and spread the message. Um during this time period it wasn't like they could just like hop on the you know, hop on the freeway and zip up to Yeah, Pennsylvania. They were walking and so their time was limited, their time was valuable, and their purpose was to spread the message. Well If I'm just gonna stay at this, you know, the house up the street for the next five years, well that's not what I've been commanded to do. I've been commanded to go out and preach the gospel. So get out and talk to the many people as we have. There's there's yeah, there probably is that aspect of that. At least they were known, they understood the culture, they understood the scriptures, um who better to go in and preach to Jews than those who already understand. the scriptures and the prophecy. Um so but even then, um, they'll be rejected. Um it's funny when um I haven't seen them in a million years. Um but we have some relatives back in Jerusalem and they purposely do not read Isaiah fifteen. Who better who better to send than someone like that chapter does really exist? Very much a works-based uh religion, uh, unfortunately. Uh and so um Yeah, that's why you have the apostles who have like nothing, nothing to show. They would be regarded as um uh less than kind of peoples Yeah. What could you possibly do? God uses the weak versus the showy, flashy religious one who doesn't know how to speak. Um But I think it was also interesting how um in that same section that you're talking about Went about uh uh for it is not you who speak, but it is the spirit of your father who speaks in you. I mean not only is physical um they don't have the uh physical means they have to bring yeah they they have to uh depend upon god for physical means but they're also depending on god for what to speak Um so it really is a real total dependence on God. Whereas the current system is everything depends on me. Right. The rich you know you know, the rich young ruler, what else can I do? Yeah, what else do I need to do to get that? Um and so this message uh just bounced off of me. that four that four souls. I think we need to move to the next section. Why don't we move to the next section, which is the Herod section? And it's gonna be on page it's gonna be on page one seventeen. And I only have one or two comments on this section. So um would someone like to why don't we read it? And I can um I think it's very apropos again I mentioned it earlier. Apropos that this section comes right after identifying the apostles and kind of giving them a little bit of a warning of what they're about to uh come into. This is a very sobering account. Someone likes to read that selection Jesus. It's almost too creepy to believe that this is a real story. And and Harry, wrong No, you can make another choice. That can shop someone's head off for you, which you obviously don't really want. Um but it is a f it is a uh a um a message, especially to the apostles, of how um of what is about what you're about to enter. Uh and us too to a degree. I don't think we're gonna you know worry about our heads chopped off, at least not yet. But um there is persecution. We gotta worry about that. Not yet. Not yet. But um um it is what we're called to, right? To um were called to no matter what, uh stand for the name of Christ. Yeah, I I I mean if you look at Revelations, I mean obviously we have you know God's hands of protection will be lifted and you know, the evilness that man can be will be. Um but at this point, at least in this country, I could freely yeah talk about Christ, but there will be a day when that will we will be persecuted. More so than we are today. Right. It's um I mean I'm I kind of um I don't think wires is the right word, but uh we have missionaries that go out to very dangerous lands. Um that's hard. It's easy to be a Christian here it's difficult to be one in Sudan or or Jordan or uh where something like this, you know, is possible, right? So um uh you really see I mean that's where you really see um the strength of faith when you're under severe persecution like that. Um But this is a a a a good reminder uh to us that um to be grateful for the peace that we that we that we can be here and that we can worship freely. Um uh that we can learn about Christ essentially um without fearing for our lives. Like you know in China where they have little sub churches, underground churches, um you know we can drive here and we can study God's word and um and and some places it's not the case and extreme persecutions such as this. Um but you really see those who have strong If you ever really want to really test your faith, go be a missionary, Jordan. That will that will test your faith for sure. That was really only I mean there's a lot here, but that was kind of one thing I did want to draw out was the fact that um uh this was a very sobering example. Um for the apostles and for us, but but particularly for the apostles that they are going to um move into a very different lifestyle. uh complete dependence on God and they would be hated for it, persecuted, even killed for the f and I think that's something that we could take. Even though we don't today necessarily feel that's the same kind of person. Yeah, we haven't quite seen the total depravity of Magna, but um to be that to have your daughter do your bidding, yeah, it's it's pretty wicked. Okay, we have about ten minutes left. Any last minute thoughts for our requests? Um then I think we just have for this section uh Uh the Galilean ministry we have nineteen and twenty and then we go into the uh uh training of the twelve. And that's like a six month now when I say six months it's just the time not the six months in the class, but it's six month window of time. And uh we talk about the training of the twelve. That'll be an exciting time too Any last minute comments? Prayer request before we go to the go to prayer. Alright, I'll pray for us and then um Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for a sobering message and yet a message that encourages us. Knowing that you are compassionate for us. You see our distresses, our trials. Lord, hold us, keep us, to endure to the end. uh whether it is um in times of freedom or times of deep persecution. Um may we keep our eye on the prize. uh draw us closer to you. May this be a uh time to um we take advantage of the freedoms of learning deeply as to who you are. Speak to our hearts again, draw us closer. Uh we thank you for the say that we can um worship uh in this environment. Uh and so may our worship in the next hour uh Be one worthy of you. May we sing loudly. May we uh intently um draw into the sermon today. Um And we look forward to the next uh next year. May our um our hearts be driven to uh pick up where maybe we faltered this year in terms of our readings and our studies uh our prayer life. Um it's such a wonderful place to be that we can still approach you, Lord. Um and that you continue to to draw us nearer to you Uh we look forward to uh again today's sermon as well as worshiping and looking forward to the next year um a new page. May we uh uh embrace it and um uh persevere uh uh um run after you uh with greater excitement, uh desire to become uh uh sorry not the desire to become but uh the desire to follow in the steps of the apostles and the uh disciples who preceded us um to embrace you uh daily. It's in your name we give you great thanks. Amen.