Okay, so we're on page um oh I flipped to the wrong tab. We're on page one oh uh one oh two Lesson sixteen. Does anybody else need a copy of the notes? We're all set? Okay. Um So st Steve tells me there were a couple of questions last week that um he wasn't sure um necessarily how to answer. Um and we can start with those if you want. I guess the main one was um well the easy one I think was about John the Baptist Um where um I guess it's the Gospel of Luke says that he was filled with the Holy Spirit in his mother's womb. And the question I guess was, does that mean he was saved from his mother's womb And my take on that is that's not what that means. What it means is that is it's like um that period of time really is part of the Old Testament uh pre-Christ uh part of the whole chronology. And uh the Holy Spirit indwelt and empowered people at God's discretion and for specific purposes, like the prophets, right? Um and A good example also of that, sort of a counterexample, is King Saul. God uh indwelt him with the Holy Spirit for a purpose, to to lead his people. But um He withdrew that spirit when he disobeyed, right? And then later, David, um, in Psalm fifty-one, I guess his prayer of confession, asked that God not take his spirit away from him like he did took took him from Saul. Um the Holy Spirit's indwelling people there was at God's discretion uh for his purposes to enable people to do specific things like be a prophet or a king Um and even when John the Baptist was born, he was under that sort of um that Old Testament um What's the word? Paradigm. Is that the right word, Mandy? Um and so why would God be filling John the Baptist At God's discretion, obviously, um, even before he was born. Well he was being he was being set apart for being the forerunner of Christ and a prophet Right? He was sort of the last of the prophets before Christ. And um we we see from King Saul that In that in that uh paradigm, if you will, in the Old Testament, that being filled with the Holy Spirit didn't mean that you're necessarily saved. Um Most of the ones whom God anointed filled with the Spirit in those times uh were faithful. Um not perfect. I mean look at David Right. Um, any more than we were per are perfect. But um uh it was just a different paradigm. And now Ephesians five eighteen tells us that we are to it God commands us to be filled with the Spirit. He's speaking here of Christians in Ephesians. He says, be filled with the Holy Spirit. Do not be drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. And what's interesting about that is it's a command, but we can't fill ourselves with the Holy Spirit. God's the one who does the filling. And so in what na what kind of a command is it? It's a it's a command to passively, sort of, but what is our role? To submit, to yield. Allow the Holy Spirit to take control, to fill you. And um uh we have a role there to uh cooperate with his working in us and through us and so on. Um that's different from what happened to John the Baptist. He wasn't at all a part of that. Any more than some of the Old Testament prophets and so on. God just singled them out. I'm anointing you filling you with the Holy Spirit for this specific purpose and it's temporary and that's our our being filled you could say is also temporary. Being filled with Spirit is not the same as being indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Every Christian is indwelt by the Holy Spirit, if Romans eight tells us that if we don't have the Spirit of God in us, we're not safe. Um but not everyone is continually filled. with the Holy Spirit. In fact that command to be filled with the Spirit is more literally saying be being filled, be continually filled. It's a command to be yielded to Christ, submitted to uh Scripture. and um allow him to work in us freely. And that's something that sometimes we uh set aside and put our own interests ahead, right? In sin. Um to be continually filled is to be continually um submitted to the Lordship of Christ and obedient and and allowing him to work in us and through us. Uh and that's not what happened to John the Baptist in his mother's womb. Uh it it may have happened later. We don't have much insight um about his to walk with God and and so on, but um you made the answer to that one really easy b the way you said it. Um if if they're elect, then obviously they're saved. And we know their destination, but we don't know whether they are left, right? Yeah. Um yeah, that's another interesting tangent. Uh real quick, my take on that about children, um is that their salvation is the same as ours, same as anybody's. It's by grace through faith. Uh with God's sovereign um election. And he chooses and we don't know Uh uh as humans, we don't know people's hearts, we don't know um uh who who is saved really. Except the fruit that comes from that. Uh or who will be saved, we don't know. Um and it's the same with babies Um my my take on it is that some are elect and some aren't and we'll never know until we get to heaven. Um I know there a a very Um Tom MacArthur, for example, is very strongly believing that every infant um is who is who dies in infancy or even stillbirth or whatever, that they all go to heaven. Um I I just don't see it in scripture. Anyway, um the main point is God's sovereign and He's good. Yeah. How do we get that out of this lesson? And that was the easy one. The other question was Uh where is it? On page ninety-six, um where Matthew eleven, verse twelve Jesus says, from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and violent men take it by force. And the question was, what's that talking about? Is that right? Mm-hmm. Uh it's talking about violent men. And um what is the context here? Talking about uh John the Baptist because John from prison uh had a couple of his friends go and ask Jesus Uh are you really the one? Maybe it's because he didn't foresee that he would be in prison and maybe things aren't going the way he was expecting. I don't know. Um but for whatever reason He wanted some assurance and what was Jesus' answer? Look at the all the the signs I've been doing. Um they should convince you that uh I am the Messiah Right? And so go back and report to John. But in verse 24, when the messengers of John left, he began to speak to the crowds about John And um that he was the uh the messenger who would come ahead of you and prepare the way And he said, Truly I say to you, among those born of women there is not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptist, yet he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. I s I assume he talked about that, sort of. Um And then he says, from the days of John the Baptist until now. Well, from the days of John the Baptist John the Baptist is still alive when he said this. In fact, he's in prison. From the days of John the Baptist until now The kingdom of heaven suffers violence and violent men take it by force. Um he seems to be making reference to the fact that there's opposition to the gospel, opposition to the kingdom of God. And exhibit A of that is John the Baptist is in prison. Um standing for righteousness and um Christ presumably knew where this was headed. In fact a lot of people probably suspected. But um it was before John was beheaded when this all happened. But um I think we saw earlier a couple of weeks ago that um when Jesus heard that John had been imprisoned, he um left Judea to go back to Galilee where things were a little bit calmer, safer, uh because Jesus' time wasn't yet here. Um and so the the the threat and the mounting opposition, even not just with Herod, but political opposition but also the Jewish religious opposition, it was mounting. Right? And I think what he's referring here to is um that there's uh increasing and serious opposition to the truth. And John is a good example of that. And just talking about John, it was natural for Jesus to say, Yeah, this is happening folks kind of thing. So so I get that point, I get the opposition, definitely. But I guess where I'm stuck on are the words that the violence didn't change They're seeking to destroy and and prevent and um take matters into their own violent hands to put an end to it. I think that's that's what he's referring to. Yeah, and but in fact the way I I often put it is you know there's several references to Satan kind of uh working the circumstances, entering Judas and kind of playing all those cards and Satan at the crucifixion of Christ is probably thinking gotcha but in reality what was happening Right? It's the other way around. Yeah. Um uh I don't know if it came up last week, but there's an interesting thing about this statement from Jesus, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence and violent men take it by force. Um there's another statement that Jesus made much later in his ministry, and it's In um Luke sixteen, sixteen, which if you've got the the notes, it's um page one hundred seventy-four Uh section 127. Verse 14. Now the Pharisees, who were lovers of money, were listening to all these things and were scoffing at him. And he said to them, You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men. But God knows your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is detestable in the sight of God. The law and the prophets were com proclaimed until John since that time the gospel of the kingdom of God has been preached and everyone is forcing his way into it. That's not the same statement. It's a different statement. It's a different time. It's a different context and it's different people he's talking to. Here he's he's addressing the Pharisees, and back in our lesson he's addressing uh the crowd about John. Uh here in Luke sixteen, that whole section, as you kind of saw a flavor of it when I read from verse fourteen, that whole section, Jesus is contrasting um various things to give illustration of how far off the Pharisees are. Um And uh when he says everyone is forcing his way into it, what he's doing is he's contrasting the way the crowds are um accepting him and and uh um following him and and he can't get away from the crowds and yet the religious leaders are increasing in opposition. Now it doesn't mean that all the crowds were saved or that they had the right motives for following Christ, but he's seeing that contrast between people who want more of him and those who want less of him basically. And he gives several examples of that in in Luke sixteen. And so um people are taking it well, how's it taking it by force? Um everyone is forcing his way into it. They're in other words, they're they're trying the crowds are trying forcibly to get on the spanwagon. They most of them don't understand. salvation by faith, but they're they're uh wanting more of Jesus, wanting to get on that bandwagon, in contrast with the Pharisees who want less of him. And in fact, zero of him So those are two different events, two very different time periods, two different crowds, two different messages. So maybe we'll we'll circle back on that when we get to Luke 16. Okay Um today's lesson, if we ever get there, is about more parables. And last week you sort of began that the whole parable thing with the parable of the sower or the four foils, right? Um and what's helpful for that and um I hope you remember, but what's helpful there is that particularly in Matthew Um the disciples asked Jesus, why do you teach him parables? And do you remember what his answer was? Comes away. Yeah, yeah. So if you go to um Page ninety-nine. This is blended between um Matthew, Mark, and Luke. But Luke is the only one who actually records their question to him Why do you speak in parables? And so I'm about a third of the way down in the blended account. Um and verse ten in Luke So as he says, To you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest who are outside, everything is in parables for whatever or for whoever has to him More shall be given, and he will have an abundance, but whoever does not have, even what he does have, will be taken away from him. Therefore I speak to them in parables, because while seeing they do not see In other words, their eyes are okay, but they don't perceive spiritual truth. And while hearing, they do not hear. So they can hear the words, but it's like in one ear and out the other. It it doesn't connect Right? Nor do they understand. In their case, the prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled, which says While seeing they may see and not perceive, and while hearing they may hear and not understand, for the heart of this people has become dull. With their ears they scarcely hear, and they have closed their eyes. Otherwise they would see with their eyes, hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and return, and I would heal them But blessed are your eyes because they do see, and your ears because they do hear. Um so um He answered that question in the context of explaining the parable of the four soils And I I believe that the parable of the four soils illustrates what he's trying to say here. That there are some people who are hardened or who like the hard soil, and there are others who uh may give an appearance of um following the the Lord and and and uh responding well, but they fall away because of either uh thorns or rocky soil, no root. Uh they appear to be religiously inclined, but really they're not saved. There's no fruit there. They're not actually saved. Um and so Who is saved in that parable? The good soil. How do I put this? When you think of the difference between those four soils, what you think about is the response to the gospel And that's good. That is a difference. But what's the other main difference between those soils? Only one of those four types of soil was prepared for the seed. Right? The hard path, uh that wasn't a place for seed. The rocky soil, it wasn't prepared seed. The thorny soil wasn't prepared for seed. The good soil was prepared by who? The farmer, the owner, right? Um why did some seed go on the road? Why did some go on the thorny places and and the rocky places? Because they scattered widely Right? And yet it was intended for the good soil. Um God does scatter broadly, and um and parables is a part of that. But Um the hearts he has prepared are the ones he's primarily teaching, right? What would be the problem of Um an unprepared soil getting some of the word. Well it's not necessarily a problem, it's just not going to be fruitful Um but in terms of people, um the more someone is exposed to um the truth If God knows they're not going to respond, that just brings more condemnation because they didn't respond. And so speaking in parables is um kind of an act of mercy that there's spreading broadly but um not holding these unsafe people to a higher um or some more severe uh punishment because they weren't exposed to um full depth of the truth of their sin. It's hard to put our minds around But um it's an act of mercy. The Pharisees, on the other hand, he was very strict with, right, and very forthright, and uh it's because of the judgment being given them and the the responsibility that they had as uh leaders, religious leaders and teachers and so on, that they're gonna come under stricter judgment. Um Do you think that's I think it's related to it's not exactly the same, but I think it's it's in the same general ballpark. Yeah. Yeah. Um well anyway, so he continues with parables. Um and you probably talked about this last week. What is a parable in general? So it's a story. Typically, if not always, gets kind of made up But it has a point, uh a a a purpose, a a lesson that um it's intended to teach, right? As opposed to an allegory. What's an allegory? You speak English? Sort of. When you think of allegory, what's the greatest example you can think of? Tilgrim's progress. Yeah. Tilgrim's progress. Lots of al in fact even the names are are very explicit, aren't they? Um and so with an allegory it it's probably going to be more detailed. It's not just a uh a short little story for uh an object lesson. It's probably going to be more uh more one-to-one correspondence between the the the characters and uh the real counterpart or the events and you know the reality that it's trying to portray. Uh a much more detailed uh point-by-point comparison. A parable is Typically not that detailed, not that long. Its main purpose is to get across a main point. Um and so uh the parables we're gonna see here now are are much shorter than the Four soils, much less detailed. Um Parable of Four Soils is closer to an allegory, except it's still a pretty short story. It gets long in the passage because he had to explain it. But um these other ones are pretty pretty short and pretty clear what the message is. Okay? So I'm on page one oh two. Um Jesus teaches parables from a boat. And reading the from the blended account here, that day Jesus went out of the house and was sitting by the sea. Now that house was where he was earlier. Um uh in presumably in Capernaum, um his um his sort of headquarters um for most of his ministry. And he began to teach again by the sea, the Sea of Galilee And such a very large crowd gathered to him that he got into a boat in the sea and sat down. And the whole crowd was by the sea, on the land And he was teaching them many things in parables and was saying to them his teaching I'm gonna interrupt in mid-sentence here, um, that's all intro He um got into a boat partly because people were pressing in around him, but he also wanted the larger group that was assembling to hear, right? Um One of the advantages of being out on the water is that sound carries pretty well across water. Now he wasn't out very far, but it was still helpful. Um and it turns out As you can see in the picture there, there's there's a place not too far from Caprinium, a little bit south, that's being and adopted the name Cove of the Sower. I I I don't think Israelis call it that. Um this is this is uh what outside people have called it. But it has that interesting um characteristic that you could be sort of in the center of that cove out in the water a little bit, and you've got this sort of natural amphitheater around you in the land where people could uh be sitting down and yet could hear pretty clearly. In fact people have tested it and it's it's remarkable. You can actually hear very well. So there could be a large crowd there hearing much better than if he were um enclosed by them on the land and and hard for people to hear. Um Okay, so section 64, beginning these parables here. Uh the parable of the seed. Now this one's only from Mark And he was saying, the kingdom of God is like a man who casts seed upon the soil. And he goes to bed at night and gets up by day, and the seed sprouts and grows. How it does that, he himself does not know. The soil produces crops by itself, first the blade, then the head, then the mature grain in the head, but when the crop permits, he immediately puts in the sickle Because the harvest has come. So he's using pretty much all these parables in this section from last week and this week are all sort of agrarian contexts, right? uh something very familiar with people. They understand uh casting seeds and and uh uh harvesting and so on. But what is it about this parable that he wants us to see Um the typical farmer um has a lot of work to do, both to prepare the soil uh cast the seed, uh perhaps get involved in some watering, um and certainly harvesting. But what power does he have to grow that seed? It just happens. Why does it just happen? That's how God designed it and God's sort of even in control of it while it's happening. Even in control of how much moisture it gets from the rain, right? Uh we can supplement that sometimes, but when it really comes down to it, farmers do a lot of work but they do it on faith that God's gonna continue growing those seeds. And um um and so that seems like a pretty good parallel to what What's that? Salvation. Yeah, yeah, so um in this case the soil would be like people, I guess. And um even uh it's hard to draw, you know, make make a um um too too detailed a connection, I guess. Like a um Well anyway. But um who is the farmer like here, if that's the way to put it. Exactly. And so the point here is the farmer is just like that. He doesn't know how that seed grows Um so I don't think the farmer himself in this one is God. Yeah, I think it's it's believers, you know, we can be a part of the ministry of sowing the seed and watering and whatever But we have no control over the fruit. Right? God does. And that's basically the point he's making. Um that yes there's work to do. God has designed it so that he's enlisted us to be a part of that work. But ultimately the fruit of that is up to him. So the kingdom of God is like that, he says. But then he says back to Matthew in the parable of the tares Jesus presented another parable to them saying, The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field, but while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat. What are tares? Basically wheat. Right, useless. Uh and went away. But when the wheat sprouted and bore grain, then the tears became evident also. The slaves of the landowner came and said to him, Sir, do you want us to sow did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have tares? And he said to them, An enemy has done this The slave said to him, Do you want us then to uh go and gather them up? But he said, No, for while you are gathering up the tares, you may uproot the wheat with them Allow both both to grow together until the harvest. And in the time of the harvest, I will say to the reapers, First gather up the tares, and bind them in bundles, and burn them up but gather the wheat into my barn. So in what way is that like the kingdom of God? At the very least the wheat will have fruit, the the the wheat Right, whereas the tares uh won't or they'll probably have some kind of um like grass weeds, you know, if you don't cut it it it comes goes to seed, but it's a whole lot different looking from wheat, right? And so how is that again like the kingdom of God? Yeah. So um I'm not sure he was anticipating it the the extension of this so that tares would become wheat, but the point is We don't know necessarily who's a wheat and who's a tear um until there's fruit and you can tell, right? Um Um so yeah, the the kingdom of God is growing in the midst of um unbelievers who are in the domain of Satan. And um they're growing together, but in the final judgment at the end times, um the reapers, God's angels, will gather up the right people for the right destination. Yeah. And I think just like a really practical application as well is when he's talking to his disciples about it, it's like they're gonna be preaching the same gospel and they'll preach it to one person and it'll become like a solid to Paul and they'll be like, look, that's the power of the gospel And then they'll be teaching them preaching the same exact gospel to someone else and they grow it to be more of a tear and more destructive. And it could be a thing like that doesn't make sense. They preach the same gospel to both. Why is this one producing wrong through? Why is this And it's something to give a little bit of realism and like especially them being disciples and preaching the word, they being fishes of men, not to be so surprised when people will go off and become a tear. Yeah. And not to get, you know, somehow I see like Some people might get disheartened from the gospel message, like why didn't he become a Tan? And that's just the reality. What happens with some people? So he's preparing them. Exactly. Right? Yeah. Don't don't be surprised that Um this this uh message may fall on deaf ears, uh this message may not bear fruit in some cases. Yep Okay. Um parable of mustard seed and leaven. Bottom of page 103. He presented another parable to them saying How shall we picture the kingdom of God, or by what parable shall we present it? The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed, which a man took and sowed upon the soil in his field And this, though it is smaller than all the seeds that are upon the soil, yet, when it is full grown, becomes larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree and forms large branches so that the birds of the air can come and nest in its branches under its shade. He spoke another parable to them, the kingdom of heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three pecks of flour until it was all leaven. All all these things And with such with many such parables Jesus spoke the word to the crowds in parables, so far as they were able to hear it You know, he would often say, He who has ears to hear, let him hear, right? And he did not speak to them without a parable, but he was explaining everything privately to his own disciples. This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet. I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter things hidden since the foundation of the world. Okay, two parables. Um basically the same message, which is what? What what did Jesus want his disciples to get from this? See? Tremendous growth. Yeah. Start small and we'll have tremendous growth. That's that's basically the lesson. Not just tremendous growth, but like very physical. And very visible. Yeah. Good. So um he was preparing them that even though this large crowds It's going to start relatively small, actually from our perspective. Um Day of Pentecost when 5,000 people were saved. Now that was pretty big from our perspective But so in the overall scheme of things started small and was building, building, building over time, and that's what you see in the book of Acts and of course church history. Um Um people have often thought that there's some symbolism here about the birds of the air and and so on. Um like sort of the wheat and the tares, the birds maybe are a symbol of of uh But I uh I I I think the main message is it's gonna start small and it's gonna grow. Yeah. Okay. Um so then in section sixty-seven on page uh one oh four he explains that Then he left the crowds and went into the house. This is back where they came from. And his disciples came to him and said, Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field. And he said, The one who sows the good seed is the son of man, and the field is the world. And as for the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom, and the tares are the sons of the evil one And the enemy who sowed them is the devil, and the harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are angels. So Just as the tares are gathered up and burned with fire, so it shall be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send forth his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all stumbling blocks and those who commit lawlessness, and will throw them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun. in the kingdom of their father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. Um so we basically covered that ground when we talked about the the wheat and the tares. What's interesting here is he makes reference to the uh the tares being thrown into the furnace. But here he's he adds to all that and says, in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. What does weeping hear suggest. Sadness. Sadness. They're not tears of joy. Right? So there's there's um regret, probably. Sadness. What does gnashing of teeth suggest? Anger. So it's an interesting combination of regret and yet still shaking your fist at God. Right? Um what does weeping and gnashing of teeth not suggest? Happiness for happiness. Correct. Yes. It it doesn't suggest that it's just burned up in the fire and all it's gone. Right. There's some continual weeping and gnashing of teeth, even in the fire Right. Um now there are those who teach um offshoots of Christianity, not not biblical Christianity, but they teach that um annihilationism is what they call it that uh when unsafe people die, they just disappear. They're they are no longer they're destroyed just like wheat would burn up and it's all gone. Whereas if you look at places like this and and multiple times when Jesus refers to the destination of the lost, it talks about continual agony. Um and it's not it's not the absence of life, it's I mean Um it's not the absence of existence, it's an existence that is continually in torment Uh anyway, the main point of this is the with the wheat and the tares is like we discussed, um uh Both are happening simultaneously and God will sort it all out in the end with the help of a few angels. Okay. Uh sixty-eight. The parable of the hidden treasure. The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field. which a man found and hid again, and from joy over it he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field Now that seems like a kind of a weird scenario. Um he finds a hidden treasure in the field. He kind of stumbles on it, I guess. And he quickly covers it up so no one else will see that it's there. He buys the field so that he buys the treasure, but he doesn't let the owner know that he knows there's a treasure there. None of that is the point Jesus is trying to make. What is the point Jesus is trying to make here? Yeah. Yes, it's sub supreme value, right? Beyond measure. And um It's not like you can buy salvation, but the point is you you're you're valuing um that salvation More than anything else. That actually is true, right? He had eyes to see and ears to hear, right? He understood the value. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Uh another one that's very similar here, the parable of the costly pearl. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking fine pearls. And upon finding one pearl of great value, he went and sold all that he had and bought it. Yeah, yeah. Um Yeah, it's it's not you know, there's nothing for us to purchase. Right? The the point of the parable is about the value of the kingdom, the value of being in the kingdom Um and the lesson to us would be to understand its value and live accordingly, basically. Right. I I mean the attitude itself really speaks the fact that that um what a person whose believership value is in is is antithential to what the world tells us. Yes. That we should Yeah. Right, right. And that's definitely um what he's getting at here. Yeah, we're so um so surrounded by and influenced by the values of the world That um we often don't think about and um live our lives as if we understood the value of our relationship with God So um if we c correctly understand the value of our relationship with God, it's gonna be um it's gonna have a huge impact on our lives, right? Uh decisions we make, uh the things we say, why we say them, why we do them, um, and how we respond to the the values, the logic, the um the nonsense in the world out there. It's gonna be completely different because of our Um valuing our relationship with God told him that specifically because he knew that would be the response. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Parable of the net Uh again, the kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet cast into the sea and gathering fish of every kind, and when it is filled They drew it up on the beach. They sat down and gathered the good fish into containers and the bad fish they threw away. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come forth and take out the wicked from among the righteous and will show them uh throw them into the furnace of fire, in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So he's giving the parable but also the the takeaway uh in all of two sentences. And so that's very similar to what we've already seen. Right. Very similar. And of course the agricultural context and the fishing context are scenarios people are used to, his hearers, right? They can connect. Okay, I see what you're saying. Uh have the the takeaway. If Christ were to come today in our culture he might use parables that had different context to them. Um yeah, something about cell phone very very wisely used scenarios in his parables that people could connect to And they could see the point, right? Okay, and the parable of the householder. And now he asked them, have you understood these things? And they said to him Yes, that that I'm guessing that was kind of a wobbly yes. And Jesus said to them Therefore, every scribe who has become a disciple of the kingdom of heaven is like a head of a household. What's a household? Family. Right? Who brings out his treasure brings out of his treasure things new and old. Um and his disciples are probably saying, it's good he asked us to understand these things before he told us that because I don't know what he meant when he said that. Uh the kingdom of heaven is like a household who brings out of his treasure things new and old, and when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed from there. Not clear what? Uh um rings out for things new and old. Yes. Yeah, I think uh I think the consensus among um uh biblical commentators is the only the very simple thing Jesus is talking about here is that his Uh teaching uh the kingdom of God itself is a combination of everything they're used to in what we now call the Old Testament as well as new things Jesus has revealed and of course his his um death for us and everything we understand from the New Testament. Uh so God's God's Plan of salvation hasn't changed. It's still by grace through faith. Uh his moral uh absolutes are still moral absolutes Um but there are some new things that now that well, as Paul says, now that faith has come uh we're no longer under a tutor. Yes, so those things have been prophesied um are are happening, beginning to happen? Um and that's from of old, but it's ushering in a new um uh uh paradigm, if you will, about our um walk with Christ and our our knowing God. Um I think it's also referring to one of the prophecies. It's not just about the coming of Christ and so on, but more about the people where God says in Jeremiah that um I will replace your heart of stone with the heart of flesh. And um he talks about the relationship people will have with God. Checking off the box, yes, no, keeping the law. Um and so it's ushering in that that uh broad scale um regeneration of people, right? Ushering in a new age. And just to go on it like especially the key word for me is scribe and it's like how does the old and these he's be able to be able to bring out treasure from the old and new. And probably like the best example I can think of in the Bible is still up as a eunuch And the eunuch's reading the Old Testament and he doesn't understand about Isaiah fifty three. And he's like, What is this all about? And here comes the scribe, or Philip in this example, and he comes and explains to that eunuch, that's what this This is actually referring to the Messiah and that you can see that his knowledge of the Old Testament, which a scribe would have, knowing it's Gentile barbarian He would be able to explain the treasures not just the new, but also the old. And then the eunuch was able to get an understanding of that prophecy. Whereas obviously uh Philip didn't understand the Old Testament It wouldn't have had impact and they would have both been scratching their heads confused like what does that even mean? Right. Yeah, yeah. So you can kind of s see it unfolding. Yeah. In in the early church history. Yeah, no, I think that's good insight because were there saved people in the Old Testament? You bet. How were they saved? By grace through faith? Um and uh that's not changing, but um the fulfillment of of all that is now coming in Christ and And it's more broadly accessible to everyone. It's a good news. Let's pray. Father, do we do thank you that um you have um Given us your word with Christ giving many parables that teach spiritual truth about the kingdom, your plan of salvation. And uh just pray that we would uh correctly value our relationship with you and that that would have um uh many, many implications and applications in our lives that we would uh treat it as more important than anything else to be had. And this would be for your glory, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.