So we are on lesson twenty-nine. If you have the notes, that is page one seventy-eight. And we're starting with section 139. Jesus warns James and John not to seek or use authority selfishly. So this is from Matthew 20 and Mark 10. So I'll go ahead and read the blended account, and before I do, I just point out here that Matthew says it was um the mother. It's interesting the way she's introduced, the mother of the sons of Zebedee. Um came to Jesus with her sons, and in Mark it says James and John, the two sons of Zebedee, came to Jesus. So apparently all three of them came to Jesus. And um so I'll go ahead and read the blended account here. Then the mother of James and John, the two sons of Zebedee, came up to Jesus with her sons. Bowing down and making a request of him, saying, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. Can you imagine the audacity? And he said to them, What do you want me to do for you? And she said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit one on your right and one on your left in your kingdom glory. Now, um, remember the context here. Jesus is um making his way to Jerusalem for the final time. They're down in the Jordan River Valley. As we'll see next, they're they're probably at this point pretty close to Jericho. And from Jericho up to Jerusalem, it's quite a uphill trek. But um they're getting close here. And they're probably expecting that when he gets to Jerusalem, that would be the logical time to defeat his foes and to set up the the kingdom here on earth. They're probably thinking along those lines. And so they say, you know, we want to sit on one on your right, one on your left, and your kingdom glory. But Jesus said to them, You don't know what you're asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink or to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? And they said, sure. Yeah, bring it on. Right? We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink you shall drink, and you shall be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized, but to sit on my right or on my left is not mine to give. Calling to himself, um, I'm sorry, uh, but it is for those to whom it has been prepared by my father. A little side note here, this is one of several, maybe many places where we see Jesus acknowledging the hierarchy within the Godhead Father, Son, Holy Spirit, completely equal, all uh identically, God, and yet there's there's submission of the Son to the Father. And Jesus Um alerts them that this isn't his decision to make. And so hearing this The ten, ten who? Disciples. The other disciples, other than these two, right, began to feel indignant with James and John. Calling them to himself, Jesus said to them, You know that those who are recognized as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them And their great men exercise authority over them, but it is not that way among you. But whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant, and whoever wishes to be first among you shall be slave of all. Just as even the Son of Man did not come to be served, But to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. So um This is not the first time his disciples were tripping up over being greatest and a hierarchy among themselves. And it's not going to be the last time either. I mean even even um in the upper room they had a similar conversation. But it's the first time Yes. Yes, yes. So I made a note here um that there's some possibility that the mother of James and John, who in which case he's referring to it's his his own mother. Well actually no, no, this is uh Matthew saying this. Uh but John, of course, was one of the two in question. Um it's possible that she was Her their mother was related to Mary in some way. We don't know for sure. But I I There's reference to several people in section 202 at the cross, and there are lots of Marys, you know, and trying to sort out who's who and and how they fit, uh there's a little bit of comment there, but Uh it's possible, given the f I guess three accounts that describe who was at the cross, that she may have been one of them, and her name actually may be Salome. But we don't know for sure. But if she were related and they were actually cousins, that might explain a little bit of their audacity. But they were sons of thunder anyway, right? So does Jesus mean when he says you shall be baptized with No, and in fact I don't think he's referring to specifically the baptism of the Spirit either, although it may be. Um I I think the biggest clue is Um just preceding that, are you able to drink the cup that I drink? So he's using that word cup figuratively, right? What what do we understand him to mean when he says, are you able to drink the cup that I'm drinking? Suffering? Suffering. And I th of it's like a baptism of martyrdom. Yeah. So baptism um Means to be submerged into, immersed into, completely identified with. And so I think he's using those two illustrations to mean the exact same thing. Um uh uh two ways of saying the same thing. Are you able to endure the things that um that um I'm going to endure. Are you able to drink from that cup and be baptized with that baptism? And he says, in fact they will at one point. And to be totally immersed as far as her Willing to fully commit even to the end of having a good idea. Yeah. Pastor Allen, is the Gospel of Mark written from the perspective of Jesus as a suffering servant? Um what one of them is Yes. Yes. Yes. Yeah, that would be Mark. And so but um he makes that same Well the the the use of the analogy of baptized happens only a mark, but the cup appears in both of them, right? And the the the the meaning is is pretty clear that he's using that that uh picture to drive home the point of his suffering and the need for their full commitment and and so on So he gives this this teaching again that those who would wish to be greatest should be Servants. And do you think that's logical, easy to hear? It's it just runs counter to everything the world would have us believe, right? And even our own selfish um motivations and and desires are to um If we have authority, then we control rather than serve. But he's even going to give them an illustration later at the what we call that. Supper where he washes their feet to serve his job. Yep. And they still don't get it. And they still don't get it. But they will, with the help of the Holy Spirit. Um but I I may have mentioned this before, but um every example in Scripture of God, you know, all authority comes uh ultimately from God, right? And so every Context in which God delegates authority, whether it's civil authority, authority in the church, authority in the home, it's always to be exercised this way: servant leadership. And um that's just so not natural. You know? It's rare. Um and um and yet that's clearly God's God's pattern. But he's the ultimate one in authority, and so these people who are delegated some of that authority are accountable to him for their exercise of it, and his standard is the extent to which they're servants. And so, you know, Romans thirteen talks about the civil people, uh well, civil authorities who have some of that delegated authority in that sphere, that they are ministers of God for our good. Yeah, Willie. I think that that's uh very one of the very uh distinguishing things of the church and the world in how we deal with our authority. Because like I said, the it's foreign to unbelievers to to to serve in that way, but in the church it's what it's it's what actually It's it's a linchpin for king a part of who and what beyond as believers. And and one of the things that kind of distinguish us from the rest of the world. Right. We still hang on to terminology like civil servant. But um it's a hollow shell, I think, for the most part of what God intended. In other countries their their cabinet officials are called ministers for a reason. Right? Um okay. Uh let's go to section one forty. Hey Alan. Because yes. Before we do that. So we kinda the the passage that we were just looking at and thinking about, is that for us the command for us or the thing to take away and apply to us is to um These servants in authority or not are do you think this is telling us to not strive for authority like the world does? That's the primary thing. Well, not to strive for it for the purpose of lording it over people, for sure. It doesn't mean not to not to aspire to positions of authority if you're willing and able to exercise it in a God-honoring way, like a servant, right? So yeah, I think the takeaway is not whether to be in positions of authority, but when you are, to do it right. Yeah. So so it's um obviously someone in our church family they wouldn't raise their hand and say, I want to be great. But you you're you're saying that it uh if you have the right heart, I would actually be I'm willing to be delegated authority and I want to be faithful with it And so I I would like I would like to be given authority uh within the church for to serve So that's I guess that's the God honoring heart to have and not say okay I want to be great. Yeah, well God's way of doing that of course is not just to randomly pick people and give them authority But those who have been faithful with little will be entrusted with more. Right? So um being faithful in other areas where God is entrusted things to us to as good stewards. If we're good stewards there and uh are approaching it with with uh pleasing God in mind rather than a selfish motive God's going to expand that because that person is developing the right kind of mindset. And sometimes that delegation is going to be given by an elder, and then other times the person in the congregation is going to ask for that delegation. Or or just as simple as how can I serve? So interestingly didn't seek any positional reporting, we saw the haggard's decisional reporting. So seeing God's current worldly values. um here the desire that we have to be in positions of the story and not to be in positions of s to be in a position of public. Yeah, and that raises an interesting point that you see often in scriptures that We, pretty much everybody, tend to have an exalted view of ourselves when we judge ourselves against other people or against You know, some human standard or whatever. Um and what's God looking for? Humility. Right. So Greg, was that a hand? Yeah, so it seems like you know the the biblical view of authority is completely opposite that of the world view of authority. authority. I mean because when they ask for authority, Jesus says, Are you willing to drink the cup that I you know that I'm will drink in? And so it indicates that it's It's a sacrificial position. You know, there's sacrifice and there's great cost to it. It's not that you're gonna lord it over people and your life is gonna be easy, you know. telling people to do this and that and you know everyone obey your every whim. It it's more of a sacrificial position And again following Christ's example. Yep. Okay. So you ready for Jericho? Mm-hmm. Section one hundred forty, page one hundred seventy-nine. Now we've got Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And um we have another interesting thing in the comparison here. In the blending of the accounts, Matthew indicates that there are two blind men here, while Mark and Luke refer to only one. whom Mark names. So that is probably fairly common, although the the the um Example here is very clear that not all of the accounts provide all of the details. When you bring them together, you get a fuller picture of everything that was there. And so in blending it here, um I'm operating from the assumption that all three of those are inspired. And so I'm trying to work through the details that each of them provides in a in a sentence that makes sense. And so I've got a f several places here, particularly between singular and plural, where I've added the plural to make it clear that the combined accounts make it clear that there was two men even though w one is featured more so than the other. Wha why do you suppose Bartimaeus would be featured more than this nameless counterpart? Because what? Because he had a name. He had a name. This other guy didn't have a name. Well both of them were. I think, yeah. Spoke? Yeah, I'm I I don't know that we know for sure, but there could be lots of reasons. I'm presuming that um Bartimaeus became more well known among the disciples after the resurrection. He may have been very faithful and very um active in the church. Uh we don't hear anything more about him, but he's named possibly because his readers would under Oh, yeah, I remember him. And this is some of his story. I don't know if that's the case, but it's possible. Things like that that uh might explain the reason. Or The Holy Spirit in inspiring these three just decided, well, among the three I've got the what I want to communicate here. And um In this case, he was named by uh Mark. But maybe only Mark was the only one of the three that he was named. Perhaps. Perhaps. Speaking of his name, Bartimaeus Bar means son. Bar means son. Yeah. Timaeus was his father's name, apparently. Timaeus. When you see um Simon Bar Jonah, Simon was the son of John. Or I I just had a quick question. So there's a chance that his father is also there with him as blind as well? It's a possibility, but you'd think that would be n that would be mentioned maybe. I don't know. Yeah, uh lots of possibilities. Yeah. Ah, good question. Yes. I didn't put it there. It was there in the Nasby. And the the convention in the NASB is to convey a tense in the Greek that we don't have in English. Well we do, but we don't think of it as a tense. So literally It's it's present tense. But it's referring to a past event. So you could read it literally. Then they come to Jericho. Sometimes we talk that way. Right? And he comes here and he goes there. But we're speaking of it in the um In um as if it's present. And so NASVI just puts an asterisk on those verbs that are treated that way. They routinely, exclusively, I guess um translate them in English to a past tense, put the asterisk on saying literally it's it's a present this present tense structure. Um it's usually the narration of a story. Exactly. We do that. To get the listeners more into the story, I think. Yeah. Okay. So in uh the blended account there on page 179, then they came. Oh and by the way, in brackets, anything in brackets is my commentary here? And maybe I should stop here because there's another interesting thing. Look at the top of the page. In Matthew it says after they were leaving Jericho, and in Luke it says as Jesus was approaching Jericho. What's up with that? Well actually there are two Jerichos. They're side by side, developed at at different times. They became sort of the Jericho um What? Megaplex. Jericho Megaplex. Megaplex. Region. Whatever. Um Jericho. But one was the um Uh the residential district to the east, which is what they would have come to first. And the other was the municipal Jericho to the west. And that would have been right at the foot of the ascent to go up to Jerusalem. So they would have gone Uh whether they had to go through the residential district first, I don't know if it was necessary, but it looks like from the text that's what they did. Um then you kind of flow right into the Today it's all It's all one big thing. And in addition to all this, the original site of the Jericho whose walls fell down is neither of those two. So that site is still an archaeo archaeological dig in its entirety separate from the rest of Jericho. Is it close? Yeah, it's right there. Well that would be part of the Well actually someone did try to rebuild it and lost his son. Okay, so with that sort of diversions, let's go ahead and read again. Then they came to Jericho and The new Jericho. And as he was leaving with his disciples, and a large crowd followed him, Jesus was approaching the old Jericho, the municipal Jericho. A two blind men, now this word including I added. Just to make sense of all the data we have from the three texts. Sort of like the Nasby when they insert a word that's not in the original, they put it in italics, that's what I'm doing here. But that's my inclusion, not theirs. Uh Jesus was approaching the old Jericho, two blind men, including a man named Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus. were sitting by the road begging. Now, hearing a crowd going by, he began to acquire what this was. And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by. And they called out, saying, Lord, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on us. And so apparently both of them were falling out. And those who led the way were sternly telling him to be quiet, but he kept crying out all the more. Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stopped and commanded that they br they be brought to him. So they called the blind man, blind men, saying to them, Take courage, stand up. He is calling for you. Throwing aside their clothes, they jumped up and came to Jesus, and when they came near, he questioned them. What do you want me to do for you? And they said, Lord, Raboni, we want to regain our sight. Moved with compassion, Jesus touched their eyes and said to them, Go, receive your sight. Your faith has made you well. Immediately they regained their sight and began following him on the road, glorifying God, and when all the people saw it, they gave praise to God. So um it is interesting that Jesus healed in various different ways, including of blindness. You remember sometimes he used um uh mud that he created and um sometimes he would touch their eyes. In this case I guess he did. Um But what's consistent here with most, maybe not all, of his healings, is that he was commending their faith. And that certainly is a good thing. So um it's also somewhat normal or a natural sort of It's typical that the disciples try to dissuade this distraction from Jesus. Um and sternly telling him to be quiet. And I think this may be somewhat connected with this this desire to for for desire um authority and power control, but um for whatever reason. Uh they also wanted the children to not come near him to distract him, right? And those that earlier account. Um But in all these cases, Jesus said, no, you don't get it. And he um he welcomed these blind men. Okay. Um I guess I um I was son of David, they were identifying him as king And they're feathered and no one had to sit there and explain to us anything. They just said Jesus and Nazareth is coming. And then you're exactly who it was, which is Yeah. So they they uh they were told, according to the text Um that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by. That's all they heard. So I'm assuming that They had heard a lot about his ministry and um were convinced this must be the Messiah, the son of David. And um Then he shows up in Jericho and this is their opportunity. Oh next to the five. So is this faith that you committed is saving faith or faith that recognizes Uh it doesn't explicitly say, but he was responding he was commending them for their faith. And so he he healed some people who there was no indication of of faith on their part. Um but it when he saw faith that was commendable, he commended it. Yeah, a little hard. I'm guessing that Bartimaeus became a faithful follower. Probably both of them, but we don't know. Yes. made another deal. Yeah. So there is a distinction. Yep. But did that each other? He was the son of David. Son of David. Right. They were recognizing him as the Messiah. I wonder if that's why the disciples were trying to to quiet tell them to be quiet because they were using that title of you know Messiah King. It would be too provocative for the Jews, maybe? Exactly. Maybe. Maybe. Because then they saying must go up to Jerusalem and die with him. Yeah. They knew there was a God against him. Right. Because that but I love the the fact, the compassion of Jesus, you know, take courage stand end up he is calling for you like I love that. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. I find that interesting coming off the the heels of the message of authority that it's that same kind of mindset like don't bother him he's he's the authority but he's exemplifying what Right. Even the children previously. Right on the heels of it's a good example of it. To seek and to save the loss. That could be a a point of application for us. is you you could say that the disciples during their quiet time that morning they were not praying for divine appointment or to be sensitive to when God has this divine appointment. So when the divine appointment came, Jesus recognized it, but the disciples didn't because they weren't They weren't looking for it. We we can do the same every day where we don't really we're not sensitive to these appointments that God has for us. Yeah. And we we brush them away. So you you make a good point that we need the right mindset, right? Um From the outset. And what do you suppose their mindset was? There was probably some some confusion or or um hesitation about going up to Jerusalem with him because they understood the the risk and the threats and so on. But apart from that Um the thing that has been building for now a couple of years at least is that crowds go wherever Jesus is. Right. And he he can't even um in in many places can't Sit down and eat and have a normal conversation. And he was looking for p ways to get his disciples aside so that he could he could uh instruct them and and direct them and so on. Um and if you're one of his disciples in that context, you're thinking, hey, I'm an insider with this phenomenon that's going on. Right? And um they probably have an o I mean just human nature. They would have had an over inflated view of them their role at this point, probably. Um mentality. Probably. Yeah. Yeah, for better or for worse. And so they tried to make sure the shoe away the children, shoe away the blind people, and that's actually counterproductive. Yeah. At least two men recognized at least two things about him. By politics by his title, they recognize his authority. And but even even knowing that he was speaking, right? Even in the simplest understanding, that would be a very thin call out We especially expect them. And yet they recognize his ability to heal them. He has power. Yeah. Yeah and um they were also a a great example of the need for humility in coming before Christ. They were absolutely in need. They didn't come to him with any kind of pride. They had none left. Yeah. Yeah. Didn't we say then you mentioned the crowd that would follow Jesus uh that would just kind of pop up. But uh it it it it seems clear kind of back in Acts when he talked about replacing Judas that there was probably people around other than the disciples all the time. Because they talked about selecting someone that was with them from baptism until now to replace to replace Judas. So there was probably other people other than a disciple that was there often. Other disciples just not the apostles. Exactly. Exactly. Right. Yeah in fact 1 Corinthians 15 Paul says Jesus appeared in more than five hundred at a single time. Yeah. Sorry. the the son of David um titled that Jesus is um just thinking about how he's going into Jerusalem to trying out this entry is about to happen and the fact that James and John were asking, Oh, can we see that in your right hand, your left hand in your kingdom? It seems like uh people are recognizing that he is the Messiah, but since we're coming from a Jewish perspective, you're thinking he's going to restore the kingdom to Israel, which is why you're super excited when he comes into Jerusalem at that point. So um I don't know I don't know if he's asking off what he said. It's just making you think about like, oh okay. It seems like the disciples were thinking of like this is the time that you're gonna restore the kingdom and everyone's getting excited Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and um of course they're gonna get even more excited about it um on Palm Sunday, which is coming right up. Yep. Alright. Well that's Oh by the way, on uh page 180 there's a photo there taken from the ruins of the original Jericho. I did. No. Just the yeah, the hillside. Okay. And you're probably right in the background here. But I wanted to show all the palm trees. Jericho is referred to in scripture as the city of palms. I was just explaining to her, which is neither here nor there, but if you bear with me, this house there to the right is not finished And the Arabs build it and as they need the next floor, s according to the sons, the parents have the first floor. And every son brings a wife and they build and live away. Same footprint. Same footprint, the land belongs to them but they only go up. But uh Israelis would do that too. Um not necessarily. Not so much. Mm-hmm. Okay. You know I'm an authority, so for a when the parents die Okay, she's a mat that's true. Now you tell me she's a matter of that. You mean you're you're verifying what more exactly? I love it. Oh rag when the parents die then everybody has to move down Well the program. I wasn't here at that one. Okay. Um but actually in that photo, I don't know if you've got the color version of it, right just above the tree line or whatever is the northern end of the Dead Sea. Yeah. Yeah. Jericho is just a little bit north of the tip, the northern tip of Dead Sea. Okay. We're on section one hundred forty one. Jesus did it Zacchaeus. I guess so. Sycamore, not palm. He entered Jericho. So you remember the the the healing took place between the the residential Jericho and the the Um business. Business municipal, that's the one. There you go. Okay. And so he he entered that at Jericho and was passing through. And there was a man called by the name of Zacchaeus, and he was a chief tax collector, and he was rich. And that wasn't strange for a tax collector. I mean it was just redundant here to be saying that. Zacchaeus was trying to see who Jesus was and was unable because of the crowd, for he was small in stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed into a sycamore tree in order to see him, for he was about to pass through that way. When Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, calling him by name, of course, Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for today I must stay at your house. And he hurried and came down and received him gladly. When uh and here I'm parenthetically saying presumably many of those who were traveling with him also, some of whom maybe are from Jericho, but anyway, when they saw that They all began to grumble, saying, He has gone to be a guest of a man who is a sinner. Zacchaeus stopped And said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, half of my possessions I will give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I will give back four times as much. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house because he too is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save. What was lost. And I want to pause there and go down to the next page when he said salvation has come here because he too is a son of Abraham. um meaning a descendant of Abraham, but also more more um pointedly, um someone with the faith of Abraham. And so it reminded me of Galatians three, six through nine, which I've extracted here on page one eighty-one. Even so Abraham believed God and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. Therefore Be sure that it is those who are of faith who are sons of Abraham. The scripture foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith. Preach the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, All the nations will be blessed in you. So then, those who are of faith are blessed with Abraham, the believer. And so I'm pretty sure it's in that sense that Jesus was commending him for his faith. And how did he know the faith? He saw the fruit of repentance. Right? The commitment to um to give much of his money to the poor to uh What's the what's the the the the verb for restitution? Restitute to give back to people four times what he what he uh Restore, that's a good one. Yes. Yes, that's a good good observation. Yep. Yep. Um it may be that the difference between the two men is that Zacchaeus knew in his heart and now is being convicted of it. that he defrauded people. The rich young ruler may have thought, I earned this, what are you talking about? He probably inherited it. He could have, hard to say. But clearly Zacchaeus came to the point where he realized and maybe he already knew all along and he was being convicted by it, we don't know. But um He immediately repented and um knew that he had to make restitution and so on. Isn't he following the Mosaic law? And restoring four fold um because of being defrauding people, that's isn't that the could be. I didn't check that, but could very well be. Yeah. So the word it, it is it is it Should it be sort of a little bit of a question? Yes. Yeah, often that word if has the sense of since. Yeah. So he's he at this point he's making a commitment. The peanut gallery, huh? So uh in in this context, Zacchaeus is committing himself to making restitution. And he isn't thinking of specific people here because they're probably numerous at this point. And um he's committing himself to figuring that all out and and yeah. Right. Oh no, that's the same thing. So you can you can defraud people of money, but if you if you can't build it then you don't have enough to get back in your store. Exactly. So he must have been a sure businessman as well as a As well as a tax collector that's brought on people because he wouldn't have enough to resource. When I hear you say businessman, I'm not sure it's the business um activity but yeah the investment the the the money management kind of yeah. Yeah. So I mean I know it's well enough but he publicly it missed and control makes restitution for something that is incredibly short and does it without hesitation. And not only that, but before he does that, he gives up what is obviously precious to him and just is what he's willing to give up. And not as a prerequisite to salvation, but the fruit of is repentance. Yeah, good point. Sure. Yeah, um that's savory, that's not great. Um I think that I'm convinced that um God in his mercy doesn't convict us of every sinful thing in our hearts all at once. We couldn't handle it. You know, look at Isaiah before the throne of glory. Uh he falls down like a dead man. Look at look at the Apostle John who was closest to Jesus Revelation 1, he sees the resurrected, glorify Christ, and he falls down like a dead man. Peter in the boat says, Depart from me, Lord, for I'm a sinful man. So um God in his sovereign PACE and and Plan. He convicts us of things that we need to deal with. Maybe more than one at a time, but he doesn't um It would overwhelm us. It would overwhelm it would we would be devastated. But we need to be cooperating with him so that if he does convict us We're we're forsaking the sin. Um that's why sanctification is such a process. I'm not right about I know I'm wrong about something, I just don't know what it is. But that's a good prayer. But it's a kind of prayer that God is probably going to answer. If you're ready to be told what in your life is not pleasing to him, he'll find a way to let you know. Yeah. For better or for worse, they'll be humbling. Yeah. That's for better. Okay, so we're returning now to the account here, verse 11. And they were listening to these things, or as they were listening. Jesus went on to tell a parable because he was near Jerusalem. Jericho is down here below sea level. Jerusalem is not far away as you know, horizontally, but it's much higher up in the mountains. And they supposed that the kingdom of God was going to appear immediately. This is what we've been observing all along, right? That was pretty much the prevailing um misconception that he was going to establish his kingdom on earth in Jerusalem now, if not at this festival, certainly as part of his ministry sometime. So he said, A nobleman went to a distant country to receive a kingdom for himself, and then returned. And he called ten of his slaves and gave them ten minas and said to them, Do business with this until I come back. But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him saying, we do not want this man to reign over us. When he returned after receiving the kingdom, he ordered that these slaves to whom he had given the money be called to him so that he would know what business they had done. The first appeared saying, Master, your minor has made ten minas more. How could the mina make ten minas more? Wise investments. Right? And he said to him, Well done, good slave, because you have been faithful in a very little thing, you are to be in authority over ten cities. You see that principle, right? That as as their faithfulness in small things is is uh evident that God will give them even more responsibility. The second one came saying, Mina, your master has made five minors. No, master Uh I get my merge wicked up. Yeah. Your minor master has made five miners. And he said to him also, and you are to be over five cities. So somewhat proportional to their faithfulness, I guess. Another came saying, Master, here is your minor, which I put away in a handkerchief, nice and clean. For I was afraid of you, because you are an exacting man. You take up what you did not lay down, and reap what you did not sow. And he said to him, By your own words I will judge you, you worthless slave. Did you know that I am an exacting man, taking up what I did not lay down and reaping what I did not sow? Then why did you not put my money in the bank? And having come, I would have collected it with interest. Then he said to the bystanders, Take the minor away from him and give it to the one who has the ten minas And they said to him, Master, you already have ten minus. And I tell you that to everyone who has More shall be given. But from the one who does not have, even what he does have shall be taken away. But these enemies of mine who do not want me to reign over them Bring them here and slay them in my presence. And after he had said these things, he was going on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. And the up is more sensitive than one. So um In what sense does that illustrate the kingdom of God? It's about stewardship. And are being slaves really of the master. And what is the role, the responsibility of a slave to advance his master's interests? It's not about the slave, it's about the master. And slaves who Um are selfish and not wanting to advance the interests of their master are not very welcome slaves. Right? So in the kingdom, what's the lesson for us? Be faithful in what you have, and you'll be rewarded. according to your faithfulness. And how is faithfulness measured? Results. Results are working. So what is it that we're investing in the kingdom. Advan uh advancing the kingdom, not our Selfish gain. So okay, being ambassador then what are the the best way for events. Yeah. Well winning so winner. Oh dear. Yeah. Well, when it really comes down to it, we're not the ones who saves anybody, but we're to be faithful in pro proclaiming and and so on. But what you've done to the least of these you've done unto me. So we've done it. Yeah, yeah. So the th there's not really any one right thing to do to advance the kingdom and he's given us each gifts that um um he wants us to to be good stewards of for the advancing of the kingdom. There are also lots of things that apply to us generally, but we We may well be applying that same principle in slightly different ways, but all in very good ways, you know. Which would you say more uh doctors? She when they they say look what she did for me. Oh no, they accused me. Dog ties. St. I don't understand. And I think we've been given the gift of arrest me. Yes. And you're vague hot. Yeah. Um twenty-seven. These enemies of mine, he did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slay them in my presence. So I'm not understanding the system for that. Well at the very least, this this king in the parable Wasn't pleased with those who were rebelling against him. I think. And they were his slaves and he could do with them as he wished. So even though they were faithful in doing and and those were not. You're confused because the there's a break. I say so he gave ten slaves one line. Three of them did anything at all with it. The rest of them just I think that one referring to the one that's not a good one. But but verse fourteen says it was his citizens that hated him, not his place. It was much broader than the ones that said we don't not wanting to then one other quick question. The guy that was afraid like, you know, I hit it 'cause I, you know, I wanted to make sure I had it when you came back So can we can we figure out the application there? I mean, wasn't invested in the kingdom. So he was was was it then that he was too afraid to invest or or that he didn't he he was saying the word you're so exacting, you know, I thought, you know, what was his problem? We're not told exactly what's going on in his heart, but it's gotta be connected with um An unwillingness to serve the master. Whether that carries with it some fear, um some maybe fear of failure, uh but um not doing what you Yeah. The expectation is he's supposed to be a good steward of that to advance the master's, the owner's interests. And the master has said, do business with this until I come back. And he didn't say bury it right. That's some kind of business, right? Yeah, yeah. And so it's you know um the point of parable is not to draw too many parallels here. But the point is that he was away, he was he was entrusting with them responsibilities. And he had to come back and and uh hold them accountable for their slaves that wouldn't Oh yeah, I don't know. Um I'm not sure. Anyway, um we're gonna have to wrap up here. Let me just check to see how long next week is. Alright, we're gonna pick up there next week Um one forty two. You guys are gonna have to listen faster, that's the problem. Let's try it.