I remember. Today we're on lesson twenty-seven. In the notes, it's page one hundred sixty-eight. We're beginning in Luke 17, verse 11. But before we begin that, I wanted to go back to last week Following in in the previous lesson, following the uh raising of Lazarus from the dead In John eleven fifty-four, after it talked about uh the opposition that the Pharisees were in the in the uh ruling council were plotting against Jesus. Verse 54 of John 11 says, Therefore Jesus no longer continued to walk publicly among the Jews. And of course that took place where? The raising of Lazarus? In Bethany, just a couple of miles east of Jerusalem, right in the thick of things. It says Jesus no longer continued to walk publicly among the Jews, but went away from there to the country near the wilderness. into a city called Ephraim. And there he stayed with the disciples. And this of course was actually very uh very near the coming Passover when he would be um crucified. But he was very n knowledgeable of the timing and he was in control of the timing even, knowing that his his uh sacrifice on the cross would have to be at the Passover. Right? And so he didn't want to um provoke those religious leaders who were after him uh prematurely. That time will come. But he went from um Bethany in Judea to north to Samaria near the near the um The wilderness there. And there's actually a map, the next to the last map, if you've got those available, on page 288. It's map 9 slash 8. That helps to s get the setting for today's lesson. And if you haven't downloaded those notes and maps, I would encourage you to do that. The link is Eight. The Hope Book Group. But anyway, and map nine dash eight You see toward the bottom there, uh near Jerusalem is where Bethany is to the right, uh uh site number five there is where Lazarus was raised, Bethany. And then he follows that red arrow north up to Ephraim, which is in Samaria, just on sort of on the border of uh the wilderness to the east. And then we pick up today further north at the top of the map, a point seven. Because it says it specifically was between Samaria and Galilee. Now, why would he have gone all the way up there just to turn around and come back to get the timing right for his triumphal entry. Well, um there are a couple of reasons. The one as I've already mentioned, um not to walk publicly among the um uh the Jews and to provoke, particularly in Judea, to provoke the religious leaders prematurely. But At the time he arrived up at point seven, which is the cleansing of the ten lepers we're going to get to in just a moment. The crowds were beginning to make their trek from Galilee down through the Jordan River Valley. up past Jericho and up to Jerusalem for the Passover. And that would have taken some time to make that. And they would typically go in in um uh groups, uh families, clans, uh be a caravan uh going together. And so making that trek back to Jerusalem in the presence of a pretty large crowd would have made him a harder target for the the Jewish leaders at that point. And it actually um um led to at least some of the crowd that was present at the triumphal entry when he actually did make it to Jerusalem. So anyway, today we're following that dot up to the dotted lines up to the top of your map to the boundary between uh Samaria and Galilee when uh and and uh somewhat we're not told the interval of time between the the raising of Lazarus and and uh where we are today but um uh it wasn't terribly long. Couldn't have been. Okay, so we're back on page 168, section 132. Jesus Heals Ten Levers. And this one is taken only from Luke, Luke 17, 11. While he was on the way to Jerusalem. Of course, he was on the way to Jerusalem by way of Samaria going north and out of his way, right? But while he was on the way to Jerusalem, he was passing between Samaria and Galilee. As he entered a village, ten leprous men who stood at a distance met him, and they raised their voices, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. When he saw them, he said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests. Now that probably wasn't exactly what they were expecting and he didn't say, you know, okay, you're healed. He just said go show yourself to the priest. Why? Well that was the requirement, right? If there was a healing of leprosy, they had to be certified by the priest. But if they knew the scriptures they would have known that they would have got a healed though. And so what's he doing here? He's testing the fate. Right? Um and fortunately it says, as they were going. So they were obeying him. As they were going, they were cleansed. So here's a case where Jesus was responding to or building on their faith. so that their healing would be um connected to their faith. Now that wasn't always the case, right? Sometimes he healed and wasn't explicitly in the scriptures anyway, connected to the faith of the person being healed. In this case I think it was. And then verse 15. Now one of them, when he saw that he had been healed, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice, and he fell on his feet. giving thanks to him and he was a Samaritan And this guy was not just thankful, but what? Workshipful. Worshipful. He put two and two together here, if they hadn't already, um that the reason he could heal them is because he's God, and because he's God, we should worship him. So he was thanking him, he was worshiping him. Verse 17, Jesus answered and said, Were there not ten cleansed? But the nine, where are they? They're probably, strictly speaking, obeying him by going to see the priest. But um Jesus marvels here. He says, was no one found who returned to give glory to God except this foreigner, this Samaritan? And he said to him, Stand up and go, your faith has made you well. Was the Samaritan really to supposed to go to the priest? That was something the Jews were supposed to Yeah, well the Samaritans, um, I don't know exactly what z they were derived from Judaism. They were kind of mixed with half and half ish, right I don't know how much of their own rituals would have paralleled some of the ones from I just wondered if they would have been ex accepted in the chapter. Um he wouldn't have gone to a Jewish priest, that's for sure. Whether he would have gone to a Samaritan leader or not, I don't know. Um but because of those differences that may have um contributed to his um Choosing to see Jesus and thank him and worship him first. But uh regardless, the main point seems to be that um He understood who Jesus was and responded appropriately. And again, this is one of several times when when Jesus marvels at the faith of Foreigners. You know, there's a centurion, there's a Syrophoenician woman. Often it's non-Jews who would have the greater faith. And um in fact Jesus marveled at the unbelief of the Nazarenes. Yes. Yeah, the other way around, isn't it? Yeah. So I think partly what Jesus is getting at here and his intent is as an object lesson to his disciples. of the importance of faith and genuine worship. And that um even in the presence of or in the aftermath of being healed, you would think there would be greater um a greater faith response. Now it's it's it's interesting. He doesn't say, was there no one why didn't the nine come back to thank me? What does he say? Was there no one who returned to give glory to God except this foreigner? Right? It's it's the worship that comes from the faith that ought to be accompanied by thanksgiving, sure, that's natural. But uh he was looking for um the worship that was due to him. Because the the healing ought to have convinced them all that this is God. Right. worships him and Christ is saying no one who came back to worship God, almost including incorrectly that by by worshiping him Exactly. Well who else should be worshipped other than God? Right. For sure. Right. Pastor Allen this man was a double outcast because he had leprosy which made a an outcast and then he was a Samaritan. So there was even he was even on a lower rung of the of the ladder. I I remember Pastor Leaf said that if anyone has an advantage of being sane It's the poor, it's the weak, and it's the foolish that God has a propensity to uh to give special favor to. So this guy was in a pretty low category. Yeah, it's it's uh there may be some special favor, but there's also the lack of um pride, things that would um uh in our heart that would keep us from from um Surrendering to God. You know, when we when we're proud we think we can handle ourselves. These lepers understood that They were outcasts, they had no choices, and they were already humbled. Um in fact they were so humbled that the the nine Jews um had nothing to lose by accepting in their group a Samaritan who was in a similar situation. Yeah. Okay, so let's go to section 133. Jesus illustrates the imminence, that is the closeness of the kingdom of God. Again, we're in Luke 17, verse 20. Now, having been questioned by the Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God was coming, He answered them and said, and so he's responding in parables again, partly so that um Only those who have ears to hear would hear. So these Pharisees are with him on this long walk. Apparently, um or at least uh realized that he was there and kind of took this opportunity to test him and and so on. Whether they followed the entire I don't know. It's not clear. But they intersected at this point anyway. And so he answered and said to them, The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be observed, nor will they say, Look, here it is, or there it is. For behold, the kingdom of God is in your midst. And how in what sense was the kingdom of God in their midst right then? The king was there. Yeah. And he said to the disciples, The days will come when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it. They will say to you, Look there, look here. Do not go away and do not run after them. For just as the lightning, when it flashes out of one part of the sky, shines to the other part of the sky So it will be when the Son of Man in his day. But first, he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. So again, uh we've already seen multiple times when Jesus was preparing his disciples for the fact that he would be um crucified. He was very explicit about the crucifixion. Here, in the presence of these Pharisees, he also admitted, first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. It's interesting. Uh the Pharisees were going to be part of that. Anyway, verse 26. And just as it happened in the days of Noah So it will be in the days of the Son of Man. They, that is back in the time of Noah, were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, they were being given in marriage until the day But Noah entered the Ark. And the flood came and destroyed them all. So um judgment was looming and they were oblivious. Right. Verse twenty-eight. And it was the same as happened in the days of Lot. They were eating and drinking and buying and selling, they were planting, they were building. But on the day that Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. Again, judgment was looming, and they were oblivious. It was what? All again. All were displayed. All. That's right. Yeah. All except the few whom the Lord saved out of it. Um Thirty. And thirty. It will be just the same on the day that the Son of Man is revealed. On that day, the one who is on the housetop and whose goods are in the house must not go down to take them out, and likewise Uh the one who is in the field must not turn back. Remember Las White, Laswife. What did she do? She looked back, uh specifically disobeying God's Yeah. saves learn and I apologize. No, that's right. Yeah. And it's not that people are, you know, somehow intrinsically better. God is saved. It's God saves by grace for sure. Yep. Verse 33. Whoever seeks to keep his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life We'll preserve it. I gotta think he was actually looking at the Pharisees when he said that. Um I tell you, on that night There will be two in one bed, one will be taken and the other left. There will be two women grinding at the same place, one will be taken and the other left. Um Two men will be in the field, one will be taken and the other left. That's in brackets because it's not in the earliest manuscripts. And answering, they said to him, Where, Lord? And he said to them, Where the body is, there also the vulture will be gathered. In other words, um there will be signs for sure um after this point But um there may not be a lot of warning up until the time it happens. Um So the main point Jesus has here is don't be oblivious to the coming judgment. Right, like they were in the times of Noah and and uh in the time of Lot Uh even Lot himself was pretty oblivious and almost had to be dragged out by force by those angels, right? Which day, which future day is Jesus Pointing to in in reference to the immediate context of the Pharisees question? Um they asked about the coming of the kingdom. Right? If uh um if this is the king of the Jews, you know, tell us more about the timetable here. When is your kingdom coming? And of course many of them were thinking Overthrowing Rome and and establishing a kingdom here on earth uh now. And um The so you know he's he's talking about the the future, not now. Right? The the the the um The kingdom is here because the king is right before your eyes, but there's there's much to happen before he um um carries out all of the the plan of redemption and and so on. But the message to them is to be ready. So ready for what day? Ultimately it's being ready for their own judgment. If people are are um oblivious to and ignoring the the coming judgment Uh even as we we're um uh no I guess you weren't. Um I heard this morning that there was a a um midshipman from the Naval Academy who was, I guess, on a on a break, they're uh kind of a summer break and leave or something. And he was at home I think in Florida and went to sleep and didn't wake up. Yeah, we don't know when that day of judgment's gonna be. Right. But so I I think what he's referring to here, and I think um uh most commentators agree that This is not a specific uh one day of judgment like judgment day kind of a thing. It's more Uh each person needs to be ready because we don't know how many days we have, we need to respond now. And um He must have sensed that when they're asking about when the kingdom of God was coming, that um they were way off in their presumptions. And he wanted to turn it so that they would be seeing the need for uh repentance, faithfulness. um alertness to uh what God really wants us to do. Um yeah, and you have to I was just noticing at your bottom note you said this does not refer to the rapture. And yet I have heard many stubborns on this passage where they specifically say, you know, it is the rapture when some are taken away. Yeah, I think I think that's a presumption, but I think the context here is more um personal readiness because you don't know how many days are numbered. You know, like that that um um apartment building in Florida. Right? Were they prepared? Some may have been. But um they didn't know it was coming. And I think those are the examples Jesus is giving here. He's sovereign over all that You need to be prepared because your day is coming. It's not necessarily um um The overall judgment day because uh he's got other teaching on that. Yeah. Right. Think about the illustration fest. We used about uh two people lying down, we can indicate nighttime and then another set of people uh daytime harvesting I think that is a in my mind a s sort of an indication that it's not often about just one day. Yeah. Perhaps the day of uh the rapture, you know the earth it's it's it's like this, it's round and at one point instant on the earth it's daytime and yet at the other side of the earth it's night. So when he does return there will be people sleeping and other people away Uh you using the phrase taken. Isn't that uh thing that is removed from whatever position Yeah, essentially um um um It's it's like like this midshipman who went to sleep but didn't wake up. He was taken. Right? God God uh said your days are up. And the people who were in that uh apartment building in Florida, God said, Your day is up and they were taken. Or the rich man and Lazarus. Rich man Lazarus? Or the one who had built these barns and bigger barns. Uh he has lots of plans, lots of earthly plans, which aren't inherently evil, but he wasn't prepared for the ultimate reality. So anyway, that's that's my understanding and um the point for us is to be ready, right? So, uh section 134. Jesus illustrates the characteristics of righteous prayer by means of an unrighteous example. So we're in Luke 18, verse 1. Now he was telling them a parable to show that at all times they ought to pray and not lose heart, saying In a certain city, there was a judge who did not fear God and did not respect man. There was a widow in that city, and she kept coming to him saying, Give me legal protection from my opponent. For a while he was unwilling. But afterward he said to himself, even though I do not fear God nor respect man, at least he's honest about that, right? Yet because of this widow, uh this widow bothers me, I will give her legal protection. Otherwise, by continually coming she will wear me out Um I would have loved to have heard how Jesus kind of put the right inflection on that. And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge Now he wasn't commending the judge, right? Hear what the unrighteous judge said. Now Will not God, who is obviously righteous, he always does the right thing, will not God bring about justice for his elect who cry to him day and night? And will he delay long over them? I tell you that he will bring about justice for them quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes, and this now is referring to it as Second coming, will he find faith on earth? And he also told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and the other a tax collector. And immediately he know everyone knows that he's talking about the two extremes, right? The Pharisee obviously was the righteous one and the tax collector was lower than low. Verse 11. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself. In other words, he he was quiet, uh he was he was not um um praying this out loud to be heard by others, that's between him and God. Um, God I thank you that I'm not like other people. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I now he's convincing God of this, right? I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing some distance away, was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven. But was beating his breast and saying, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. I tell you, this man went to his house justified rather than the other. Justified meaning what? Right with God. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and that won't be pleasant, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. So Jesus is drilling here on the need for faith, the need for readiness, the need for uh humbling ourselves. Right. Um Well yeah, prepared, but even more generally being in submission to God rather than ourselves. And So kind of parable after parable, uh teaching after teaching, he's getting it. were still with him. Possibly. Um they were the the brunt of a number of his lessons for sure. We don't know exactly where along this trek he was, but he was presumably with a growing number of people on their way to Jerusalem, down the Jordan River Valley. Um and then we get to section 135. Yeah. Whenever the the Bible or Jesus talks about humility And we as Christians know that that God favors hu humility. We we could take try to take advantage of that and say, well I'm gonna take Yeah. And well that that humility External humility without the corresponding internal heart isn't really humility. Yeah, like this um person, the tax collector, he He really sees himself as uh un unworthy and he knows his status. So it's like, okay, do we really acknowledge our own status before God? Or do we um just kind of use this subterfuge and Try humility when it's not. Yeah, I think that's that's Jesus' point. That um um Humility is not something the uh and and um what's a broader word here? Um Piousness, you know, the the the uh Pharisee would have been acting very piously. Externally, but in his heart he's revealing here his pride, right? And his lack of dependence on the Lord. He's trying to prove to God that I'm acceptable. Um And he completely misses the point. Yeah. Is is this where the Catholics get the idea of being repetitious in prayer to a woman Possibly, but what do they do with um Matthew six? Vain repetition. Um, okay. One hundred thirty five. Here we're in Matthew nineteen and Mark ten. And the blended account on page 170. When Jesus had finished these words, getting up, he departed from Galilee. and came into the region of Judea beyond the Jordan, and large crowds were following him. Now they were following him in part because lots of people were following him anyway, but uh everybody with a flow of people was down through the Jordan River Valley toward uh on on their way to uh Jerusalem. And uh gathered around him again, and according to his custom, he once more began to teach them, and he healed them there. Verse three. Uh I guess that's uh Matthew. Some Pharisees came to Jesus. Here we go again. Asking, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason at all? And Some background here. That was a point of great debate among different Jewish camps. Uh the Pharisees being um most of the Pharisees anyway, being uh sticklers about the law Believed that there was only one um um legitimate reason in scripture for divorce. And another camp, I forget the names here, um said, well, no, no, there's there's there's breadth in that to allow um uh divorce for pretty much any reason and And so that's the point. He was asking, is it possible for any reason at all? And Jesus answered and said, What did Moses command you? Which I think was a trick question because it wasn't a command. Have you not read what he that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? And said, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God is joined together, let no man separate And they said to him, why then did God why then did Moses command to give her a certificate of divorce and send her away? And he said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses wrote you this commandment and permitted you to divorce your wives. It wasn't a command, it there was uh one exception that was allowed because of the hardness of their heart. But from the beginning of creation it has not been this way. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for immorality, and that word immorality in the Greek is pornea Which um includes any kind of sexual sin. It's not just um um Adultery. Anyway, uh whoever divorces his wife, except for immorality, and marries another woman, commits adultery against her. And if she divorces if she herself divorces her husband and marries another man, she is committing adultery. Why is it adultery? Because the the existing marriage was not um uh ended for a legitimate reason. And so um any subsequent relationship became adultery. Verse uh ten, I guess in Mark In the house, the disciples began questioning him about this again and said to him, If the relationship of the man with his wife is like this, it is better not to marry Well, they they were understanding what he was talking about, the importance of the seriousness of it. But he says then, not all men can accept this statement, but only those to whom it has been given. For there are eunuchs What are Unix? Yeah, they've been uh castrated, they've been made unable to reproduce. Well, no, let's read here. For there are eunuchs who were born that way from their mother's womb, so there there could be some genetic um malfunction or whatever, and they're never were able to reproduce. And there are eunuchs who are made that way by men. Uh y uh and why would they be made that way by men? Well, like the Ethiopian eunuch, he was wanted them around them and their harems Yeah. So they would they would be able to manage a harem without being a threat to the to all the all the concubines and everything. Uh and there are also eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. So that's sort of a voluntary abstinence thing. He was able to accept this, let him accept it. So um His answer to the question was, no, divorce is not acceptable for any reason at all. In fact, the provision in the uh in the law that they were mentioning, you know, Moses said such and such Um first of all isn't a command, but second of all it had only one exception, one uh qualification to be legitimate, and that was the case of sexual sin. So yes. Uh what was the punishment for Stony. Yes. Something that's much more stony. No, the the um the exception was i is there a Is there a legitimate basis for divorce? And that legitimate basis, the exception to the rule is no divorce The exception to the rule is, well, in this one case where the um the other spouse is involved in uh sexual sin, the most common one being adultery. then the innocent spouse, in this case, presumably the husband, may isn't required to, but may um divorce his wife because she has already broken the the marriage covenant. Um so It it's not dealt with in that context, but yes, the punishment to her, if if she's the one who's unfaithful, the punishment to her would have been stoning. And that stoning would have made him a widower anyway, even if they he hadn't divorced her. So um did that answer the question? Uh okay. Now um you might be thinking, well, okay Isn't there a second reason that Paul gives us in 1 Corinthians 7? And that second reason is what? The desertion of an unbelieving spouse. So if that's the case, why would Jesus say that there's only one exception? The reason I believe is The way Jesus put it is who's taking the initiative? It's not permissible for you to desert to to divorce your wife. That is, don't take the initiative to divorce your wife, which is what the context they were talking about. You know, is is it okay just to give a certificate of divorce and you're done and and whatever? In the case of deser desertion The believing spouse is not taking the initiative. The unbelieving spouse is. And um So that's pretty much the only two scenarios. In what circumstances is it okay for a believing spouse to take the initiative to divorce his wife? Only this one. In what circumstances would a believing spouse be uh the um What? The the victim, if you will, of of a divorce if the unbelieving spouse takes the initiative And Paul's advice in 1 Corinthians 7 is to let them go. It's more important to be true to the Lord than to um protest. Now that doesn't mean that we shouldn't uh believing spouses in that case shouldn't pursue reconciliation and forgiveness and and that sort of thing. That would be the most God honoring thing to do. But Paul is saying that often or at least won't always be the case. And um So if the unbelieving spouse insists on leaving, don't um don't um Don't persist in that or don't don't persist uh in dissuading them or or uh protesting it indefinitely. Um So those are the only two that are actually addressed in Scripture. Okay, that brings us to section 136 Uh Jesus illustrates? You're forgiven. So if you have um Um two Mary presumably believers and one of them being a believer decided to decide to preserve the other They're they're a believer, but they've chosen to preserve the the other spot. Well, this rule or will this In other words, the spouse who decides the dessert is a believer called the best to be a believer, but deserts the other day the other Will the other spouse having been um deserted either consider the spouse of the left as an unbeliever or will they stick to the law Yeah. Yeah. So you're you're asking um How important is it that the one who's deserting be an unbeliever? What if the that deserting person is actually a believer? Well, um There are lots of scenarios and it's hard to to have a one-size-fits-all prescription for all those scenarios. But Clearly the um the intent here is that believers would never divorce. Right. Um and yet believers also sin. And so my understanding is that uh while The example that Paul gives is about an unbelieving spouse who deserts. And that would have been pretty common back then as people come to Christ as it is today, really. People come to Christ um uh after being married and then one spouse is safe, the other's not and that can be uh um a source of tension or or whatever. Clearly the the uh most God honoring thing would be that the Uh believing spouse is a good example, like 1 Peter 3. Um praying for it's it's even har it's hardest when the believer is the wife. And she's to submit to her husband and and if he's not a believer, um it's possible God can use her her um uh godly character and submission to him to open his eyes to the truth. And so to work at that. But if if the one who deserts claims to be a believer It's kind of like church discipline. uh one, then two or more, and then it's brought to the church if they're not repentant. How are we t to treat those who have been removed from the church through church discipline? As if they're an unbeliever. So um if they really were a believer They wouldn't have left. Well, no, it's not necessarily that they wouldn't necessarily have left, but if they're genuinely a believer and the Holy Spirit is resident in them He's not gonna let them go. Uh there g there is gonna be greater conviction. Um he may have to use a two by four to get that attention, but um Uh if they're genuinely saved, God's not going to um let them get off so easy. So in those cases it would be better for the believing spouse to um remain, as Paul actually um advises in 1 Corinthians 7, to remain separate. Because it's possible the um the spouse who initiated the divorce um get saved or repent and um they can be reconciled So there are all sorts of weird um scenarios. A lot of them, of course, happened before anybody put Christian. Right? And and um after both of them get saved, they they get married. Or they get married as unbelievers and they both get saved together after they've been married. But in all those cases, what's past is past, and um there's complete forgiveness in Christ. Uh but as believers we have very strict instructions about how to conduct ourselves. I I was interested in what you said uh about The so-called unbelieving spouse who they said they were a believer, you said God wouldn't let them go and Meet them with a board or something like that, you know, to get their attention. But there's also the scripture that says to these believers, and I believe it's true, they are um it says in the case of if they take Communion unworthily, but still and they're taken sooner. Yeah, one way or another he's going to deal with it in his in his sovereign judgment. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Uh he may well um um uh r bring them to repentance Which would be a God honor honoring thing. He may uh just zap them because they're they're um Um not that they remarked. Yeah, because of the hardness of the heart, that's a good way to put it. Right. But God's in charge of that. If they're genuinely saved, he's committed to them. Right. That's the point. He'll never let them go. Right. Yeah. Right. Okay, section 136. Jesus illustrates receiving the kingdom of God as a child. I'll read here from the blended account. And they were bringing even their babies to him so that he would touch them and pray. I wonder what they asked him to pray about. Probably for their for their protection, their discernment and so on. But when the disciples saw it They began rebuking these people. But when Jesus saw this, he was indignant and called for them, saying, Permit the children to come to me, and let them alone. Do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. True as say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child will not enter it at all. So, what does it mean to receive the kingdom of God like a child? Total faith. Simple faith, unquestioning. Yeah. And so again, he's he's driving home at um Uh the the need for faith, the character of of trusting in him, the character of faith. to the children immediately after this talking on divorce because the children are the ones who suffer in in a divorce. They suffer the most. Interesting. Yeah. And maybe some of these actually were um were victims that yeah, perhaps. Interesting point. Indignant is a strong word. It is. Jesus. Indignant. He said, you guys are missing the point. Right? And after laying hands on them, the children, he departed from there. So we see here this mixture of his tenderness, his compassion toward those who have faith, even if these children didn't have you know saving faith, they were good examples of of uh simple trust and and so on. Um But he he used these various scenarios and these these opportunities that came along to drive home these these uh same points about faith and trust and obedience and whatever it is. Gospel accounts. Doesn't that come right after James and John want to sit at his right and left hand? Or am I getting am I getting that confused? Um I th I'll have to look at at that I I'm not sure I think that may be actually coming up. But let's let's let's look at and see where that is and where it fits in with this chronology. Um Okay. So uh we're we're not exactly here in Passion Week yet, but the the timetable has begun, essentially. They're on their way to Jerusalem. Well, we should probably uh close at this point. Let's uh go ahead and close in prayer.