Christ um the challenge is going to be on Christ's teaching, his temple cleansing and miracles. Primarily looking at the teaching, but they're really primarily saying, what do you have the authority to do any of that? 'Cause they've been witnessing Christ and his ministry. Again, that is included not just teaching, but miracles, uh the temple cleansing, in fact the second time the temple was cleansing. Um and so now the question is by what authority do you do So why don't we go ahead and read it? Would someone like to start on page two oh six and just kind of the first paragraph there? Throughout the entire Gospels Um we know Christ has been very, very straightforward in terms of where his authority comes from. And he you know you know the Father and I are one, right? Uh we you know he has made it very clear where his authority comes from And what's interesting is uh in previous sections, we've seen that the Jewish leaders have said that his authority comes from Satan So why are they not all of a sudden why are they so afraid to uh challenge his authority? Instead, they say, we just do not know. Because they really weren't concerned with it was irrelevant of where his authority came from. It was really just a trick to get him to corner himself. And it's it's clever that Christ turns this around and throws it back at them. Right? He says, Well what do you think of me? Um and you can see they they reasoned, they were looking for a way, you know, oh how could we answer this such that we can condemn Christ while at the same time holding on to the people. And they realized they w wouldn't be able to do that. Um now it's not to say that Jesus was afraid of saying where his authority came from. He has clearly already acknowledged that his authority is from God and and He is following the will of God. So very clearly Christ understands that his authority comes from God. And it's surprisingly the the Jewish leaders here are very afraid of of saying that And Nicas like you mentioned, Nicodemus had said, you know, we know you're our God. So there's probably not just Nicodemus in that cover. There were probably other leaders who acknowledged that or at least understood that but were afraid to Any other thoughts on the authority? Wouldn't it be awesome to have that? to know where the per where a person's heart is and to know the answers before you even mid Yeah, it's it's masterful how Jesus approaches different people and but really knows what's on their heart and what's on their heart Like I had mentioned, um the authority of Christ comes from God the Father, and yes, it's been seen, so I just want to throw some other verses out there. John 5, 19 to 23, and John 10, 18 clearly state um that the authority given to Christ comes from God the Father. Uh and again just a little bit more on why Jesus references John the Baptist. He was John was revered as a prophet by the people. Um you can see the fear of the Jewish people feared the people if they you know, said something about John that was you know, that John was not of God. Um okay. Uh let's go to the the first parable then. Um and it's kind of that's that next paragraph. Um it's a parable of two sons, where one says no, but then he does, and then the other says yes, but he doesn't. Um so let's read that second. So are all tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God? No. Yeah. But it it's a it's an interesting transition how it goes from this story um into tax collectors and prostitutes. I did want to do a little bit of kind of some um definitions here And the first thing I want to say actually was fruit is the evidence of belief, and we talked a little bit about that in the last one or two uh section. So the one who said I'm not gonna go, but then later on realizes that he He should go and he does. Whereas the first one says, I will go, but then you know what? The fruit doesn't follow. So there's the example of fruit as being the evidence of truth belief. And you see that the believers will persevere to the end. You're right, for the one example where someone's like, you know, fantastic if you're doing all those great things and they have great and then they just fall away, right? You know, even think about the the I also thought um interesting tax collectors, harlots who he talks about believing, and then the sentence right before is looking at the leaders Jewish leadership, you did not believe. So contrasting the Jewish leaders who are very happy with themselves and look fantastic and know all the right answers versus these tax collectors and harlots who the Jewish leadership totally abhorred, probably shunned, um the Jewish leadership would say that, well, we are far better than these tax collectors and harlots. And yet it's the tax collectors and harlots who believe, but not only believe, But are welcomed into the kingdom, right? Um I say to you that the tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you. That's a pretty big challenging statement to make. But again, he is poking and poking and poking um and really attacking all parts of what they feel is righteous solid rock they stand on. And And he is time and time we'll see as we continue just breaking that apart. That is not the solid rock. Christ is the solid rock. Belief and fruit of evidence of the fruit is the evidence of truth. Any other thoughts on that parable? How about the next parable, which is the parable of the landowner? And there's a lot of different definitions in here. Uh not definitions, just maybe some I I'd like to kind of tease out some uh Thoughts on some of the terminology that's used here. Again, this is a parable, so we need to know so what do these figures mean? Someone would like to why don't we read the whole section, then we can go back and identify some of these some of these terms and think about how it uh how it applies to us and um what is the message in this parable. It's kind of interesting. It's a parable and typically it kind of veils for only believers to believe, but all of a sudden that the the religious leaders They know they're talk he's talking about that. So there is, I don't know, a little bit of little bit of light, or truth I should say, not light, seep thing in there. So they they're very aware that Christ is pointing to them. Now there's a lot of different terms there. Um and the first one is the vineyard. Um and the vineyard represents or is a symbol for the Jewish nation. And so they would have understood that. There's an interesting reference here, Isaiah 5, which uses similar terminology. I thought it was interesting to read. Okay. Let me sing for my beloved, my love song concerning his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard on a very fur fertile hill. He dug it and cleared it of stones, planted it with choice vines He built a watchtower in the midst of it and hewed out a wine vat in it and he looked for it to yield grapes, but to yield wild grapes. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard. What more was there to do for my vineyard that I have not done in it? When I looked for it to yield grapes, why did it yield wild grapes? And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will remove its hedge and it shall be devoured. I will break down its wall and it shall be trampled down. And kind of skipping down the seven. The vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are his pleasant are his pleasant plantings. And he looked for justice, but behold bloodshed. For righteousness But behold an outcry. So um the vineyard um represents the Jewish nation. And so um There's also I have vine dressers. I think in here it's the vine growers uh represent the Jewish leaders. And the landowner represents God. And then at the very end Other vine dressers. He speaks of other vine dressers or other vine growers. Uh missing that section. He will come and destroy these vine growers and bring these wretches to a wretched end, and will rent out the vineyard to other vine growers. Who will pay him the proceeds at the proper seasons? These other vine growers are symbolizing the church, right? So you have God the owner, you have the vineyard representing the Jewish nation. You have the vine growers or vine dressers representing the Jewish, and then you have these new vine growers, the church And I did want to also mention there was one other interesting uh Old Testament reference, uh Psalm one eighteen, verse 22 Would someone like to read that one? The son who was killed and thrown out of the vineyard is the chief cornerstone in God's redemption. Oh okay, yeah. So the son who was killed and thrown out of the vineyard is the chief cornerstone in God's redemptive form land. So um what I thought was interesting was the stone um broken it speaks of broken to pieces or shattered to dust, both pointing to the rejection or to the Jewish rejection of Jesus And their ultimate judgment. And then I also wanted to point out another interesting verse. In verse forty-five, when the scribes, the chief priests, and the Pharisees heard his parables, they understood that he was speaking about them. Why would they think that they were speaking about him. And I have a whole list of interesting uh messianic prophets that are used to reference um and I'll just kind of put some out there. Um Um I think I wanted to at least read Isaiah five. So we went back up to Isaiah five two. Um sorry. Um actually I think it's 1 Kings 22, 24. I just have a list of messianic prophecies that um I found interesting in in referencing this parable. So I'll just give you a few and we can kind of maybe look at them at a later time. One was Isaiah 5. 2, 1 Kings 22-24, 2 Chronicles 24 20 to 21 and also 2 Chronicles 36, 15 to 16. So it's going to give you two more here. Nehemiah 9, 26, and Jeremiah 2, 30, for those who want to go back and look at those. All messianic prophecies that perhaps the Pharisees and the priests would understand, or they were the source of this understanding that they were being taught they were being talked about in this parable 2 Chronicles 24, 20 to 21, and also 2 Chronicles 36, 15 to 16. So 2420. So in that 2 Chronicles 24, 20 to 21. Then the Spirit of God clothed Zechariah, the son of Jehoadah. The priests, and he stood above the people and said to them, Thus says God, why do you break the commandments of the Lord so that you cannot prosper? Because you have forsaken the Lord, he has forsaken you But they conspired against him, and by command of the king they stoned him with stones in the court of the house of the Lord. So it's a shame And tragic when we fight against the Lord our God. They conspired against him and commanded the king that they stone him with stones. It is a just continual drawing to the religious leaders and they continue to reject him. And then finally, like you mentioned, sending his own son, and yet they still were playing to kill him. And tragic to think that even if that were to happen, how would they think that they could actually take what is rightfully caught and then harden more so And they actually kinda are they kinda already answered therefore they already answered the first uh challenge which was by what authority do you have this? Well if you know that Christ is the air, well clearly you know what the authority is coming Because you've kind of answered your question in this, right? And just so much energy in fighting against the truth. So much energy. Any other thoughts on this parable? We have one more parable, and then we talk about paying taxes, which I just thought was interesting how it falls Very close to April fifteenth. Someone would like to read the last parable there on two oh six. Kind of interesting. Having a wedding Come on, everything's ready, just come, enjoy, celebrate and it's the most bizarre rejection. Just no, no. It's kind of like have you ever tried to help someone who's obviously in need of help and they just said, No, no, I'm I can do this on my own like But I can help I can just help you. It's like this free gift. And it's kinda surreal that you just reject, but that's clearly what's being what's happening here. Um and it's clearly being pointed at uh the religious leaders. And again we have another analogy of his son here. And there's also this idea of um the king representing God is just gonna destroy everything and then he's gonna bring in uh I just want to get it right. They paid no attention. So now it's just gonna go and look for new people. Look for people who just out in the streets These are not even the original they're not even on the original guest list. So we have a whole new opening of people who are going to be brought in to this wedding. Um Evil and good. Yes, which is also kind of interesting, right? Not just those who look good, but evil. Evil, that's that's that that that would run counter uh to what the religious leaders would think. Think. And again, the parable is directed at these religious leaders who think who all think they're very good. And Christ is going to say good and evil. So um which really would run counter to their beliefs of having to What they would I what they would describe as good, or if not really good, um so it would run it would run counter that you would why would you let these tax collectors and harlots these are obviously bad people Well that's what God is gonna fish up because uh you're all all all bad. Um in your mind you might be good, but in God's you're not. Mm-hmm. Yeah, the garment section was was an interesting I think took me a little while to you know what Why? What's the garment all about? So yeah, a man without the wedding garment. Um ultimately it's God who provides the correct garments, right? So those who are come in who you know are true believers, they have that righteousness of of Christ on them, right? And that is because of what of Christ. But you know there's a lot out there who claim to be of Christ, but they're not. And they don't have that it it is a little confusing what these governments are and um and if and if you if you know we understand that we are clothed in the righteousness of of Christ, right? Two saving believers are clothed in the righteousness of Christ. So they would have this garment of Christ. But there are going to be those who profess belief but but are not true believers. believers. So um I mean you can look at the disciples, right? Judas, he was there amongst he was one of the twelve. Um he looked good, but he obviously did not have you know the righteousness of Christ upon him He would not be you know in this example, I mean I'm I'm going beyond the parable, I would think Jesus would be an example, correct me if I'm right. Judas might be might be an example of someone who snuck in and yet really was not a truth. Yeah, I I think um it sounds a little weird to us, but I think actually it was speaking very good audience because of their cultural expectation of what's involved in going to a wedding of right, you wouldn't go and cut off some t-shirts and say well you might in California Probably was. But um there's some expectation that because of the nature of the celebration, it had to be dressed appropriately. And that's probably all that they were thinking. There wasn't s some parallel meaning necessarily Um his point though was that the invitation was very broad. Many were um called, but only a few were chosen, and that's his main point. That um even These religious leaders are um actually represented by the people who initially couldn't be bothered to go to Joe King's wedding because they were so busy on their own So you had to go out and and find other people to come. Many are called. So yeah, they can stay with the audience and then um Knowing that yeah, mayor calls in pure. What he means by that is the reference to the general call for salvation that goes out to everybody. But that doesn't mean that everybody's saved. I was kind of judged too, like um because like you guys is verbal to guide the display. Um well yeah, if we look at um think about who the audience is. Um yeah, everyone looked up at these righteous leaders, you know just like um you look nice on the outside but inside you're a dead man's bone um because they had the nice, beautiful, elegant garments, so to say Um but they clearly were not um chosen. Um so you I guess you you could kind of there's probably a similar approval, but yeah, I would say that this probably is more so directed at the those um at those uh priests and pharisees that you're speaking to but but same concept. You know, um at the end there will be those who will you know Christ will say, well, away, I I never knew you, right? So kind of similar similar concept. We want to be a little bit careful about what we read into scripture. We really want the scripture to read to us. You know, like Dr. Plumley says, you know, California. Yeah, we'd come with sandals and t-shirts to a web Um actually it was kind of a funny story. Once at Grace Community Church there was this group of bikers that came in. And I thought they were gonna try to like take over. They were like the most godly people I've ever seen like couldn't believe it was gonna get killed. They're so you know, yeah, don't don't don't judge a believer by their clothes, right? Um it's really the righteous it's really the righteous garment of Christ that Yeah, I like that. Yeah, if uh if there was an application to draw out of this, um yeah, perhaps it's be aligned with Christ who looks at the heart, not the outside. Whereas the religious leaders, they were more looking at the outside rather than what's up. Let's look at our last section. We still have uh ten minutes or so. Well about fifteen minutes. Um and this is talking about paying taxes these and now you have in this section You have two groups. You have not only the Pharisees are here. You have the Pharisees, but you also have the Herodians. And um They were more of a political party and typically they were not in agreement with most of what the Fer with the Pharisees. So it was kind of a strange alignment to see. Um and down in that uh first bullet point that note um why don't we read that the Herodians were a political party that supported Rome's rule through the Herods, not a religious group. So already it's it's this is a very twisted a lot you know you know alignment here Um because clearly the Pharisees wanted to overthrow Rome. So why are the Herodians and the Pharisees ganging up together in this uh story. Um okay. But they were probably mostly S Sedducees who ruled the temple under appointments by Herod. The Pharisees were normally fierce opponents of the Her of the Herodians, so the fact that they plotted together The trap Jesus indicates how much each group despised Jesus as a threat to their position. It's interesting that they probably didn't ag didn't agree even amongst of themselves about the answer to their questions. Would the Pharisees more likely to oppose paying taxes, Caesar? Um The last full point there. This coalition tried to trick him into saying something publicly against Rome, which would have allowed them to marshal the power of Rome against him as well. Instead, Jesus again amazed everyone, even his accusers, by his wisdom. He rebuked the Pharisees for thinking it was wrong to pay taxes as well. either and he rebuked the Herodians for not giving to God what he deserved. So why don't we read that section? So they tried to trap him again, Christ being the ultimate lawyer, debater quickly knew what was in their hearts and was able to quickly turn it around on them. Um now if you don't know what a poll tax is, um it was levied on everyone once per year and it was used to finance the occupying armies. So again Really strange that the Pharisees would would want um to get together with Herodians. Um build on that. The word poll had Latin words, but um Um so it's a pay tax. That means every person is the same amount. It's not just that everybody's subject to pay tax, everybody's subject to amount. And that's something of a parallel because what Jesus is talking about is every person needs to pay that tax, but every person's also got people. There's no need to get more parallel I guess it would also be interesting to note that um yeah, whether you were rich or poor, it was always that one denarius. So um it would have been much greater burden on those who had essentially nothing versus uh someone very risk who maybe a denaris would not be big of an issue. So yes, it's uh lawful to pay taxes. Pharisees accuse him of disloyalty to the Jewish nation and he would therefore lose support So there were two um conclusions out of this. No, it's not lawful. It's not lawful to pay taxes for Rodin's would charge him with treason. against Rome. And if he said, yes, it's lawful to pay taxes. The Pharisees would then accuse him of disloyalty to the Jewish nation and he would therefore lose support of the people. Um and what's interesting is they were both both groups were silent and they left him and went away. Again, just uh This entire section really highlights Jesus is really pointing the finger and really attacking those who are trying to attack him. And this is going to build and build to the point of they're going to want to crucify. him. So he's really focusing on the religious leaders. Um and we're going to see more of this as we continue. The heat is going to be put on the Jewish league. Any thoughts? Any applications? Questions? Yeah, he um he masterfully prevents himself from being taken down to into a rabbit hole. Um yeah, for example with you know political, social, and justice. And he's more uh focused on exposing the self-righteousness which won't get you into the kingdom. More focused on opening the kingdom to those who are not clothed in their own righteousness, but the righteousness of Christ Any final thoughts? Got about four minutes left. Our next section is going to be more challenges for the Jews. So again, we're going to see how um Jesus is really gonna start ratcheting up the heat here as we as we continue in. I'll uh I'll close us in prayer and then we'll get ready for main ordering. Dear Heavenly Father, it is um it is revealing how you um expose those who are against you um and at the same time um sharing the free gifts of of salvation through belief in you as we uh show our fruits all the way to the end. Lord we thank you for uh that we can worship you on this day um celebrating uh the victory over sin and your uh rising from the grave. Um uh bring us into worship today with a a celebratory heart, um knowing that you have cleansed us completely, that you have a final victory over sin. Um clot us in your righteousness and may we worship appropriately. Father, we uh do all these things um for the glory of your kingdom, pray in your name, amen