All right. So we are on Lesson 28 in the notes, that's page 174. If you're following along on paper or digitally. Today it's going to be a little hard if you don't have the notes because we're dealing with the blending of the synoptic gospels in two sections, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Um that's one paper we did. Because we're blending the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And so I would encourage people to download the the PDF if you haven't done so already. And we are on section 137. Jesus challenges the rich young ruler and explains the danger of riches. So well Peter Young. Oh, one seventy four. So it's Matthew nineteen. If anybody would like a a set of the whole notes, the whole book, all you have to do is call Colleen And just say Ann told me to really in everything there. Yeah, but But it's a lovely resource to have all in one book and then So we're in Matthew 19, 16, Mark 10, 17, and Luke 18, 18 And in the notes we have the blended account, which I'll go ahead and read. Now remember, we are approaching Passion Week. Not quite there yet. Jesus is on his way to Jerusalem, though, for the final time. And he's come from the um the border between Samaria and Galilee. And he's gone east and is working his way south down the the uh Jordan River Valley. And I think by next week he will have made his way to Jericho before making the long climb up to Jerusalem. But we're not quite there yet. We're somewhere down in the Jordan Valley and beginning the blended account here on page 175. And as he was setting out on a journey, a ruler ran up to him and knelt before him and questioned him, saying, Good teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may obtain or inherit eternal life? And he, Jesus, said to him, Why do you call me good? Why are you asking me about what is good? No one is good except God alone. We want to come back to that. No one is good except God alone. Why why why was this guy asking him this? He wanted to know what things he could do to have right standing before God. How good do I need to be Jesus answered his question right here. No one is good except God alone. Which ought to cause him to think, well, if it's not my good works that give me right standing before God, what's the solution? Well, we're getting there. But Jesus answered the question right at the beginning. But if you wish to enter into life, he says, keep the commandments. As if anyone could do that completely, right? Then he said to him, Well, which ones? Like doesn't God great on the curve or something here? And Jesus said, Well, you shall not commit murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, honor your father and mother, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On the surface of it, those aren't terribly hard to fulfill. And so the guy says to him, All these things I have kept. What am I still lacking? When Jesus heard this, he felt a love for him. He he was obviously seeing this man's sincerity to want to please God, it's just that his mindset was he had to do things to please God. Right And he felt in love for him, and looking at him, Jesus said, One thing you still lack. If you wish to be complete, go and sell all your possessions and distribute it to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me. Jesus knew where his heart was. Right? But when the young man heard this statement, he became very sad, and he went away grieving. For he was one who owned much property. Now I think most of us, our tendency, if if we'd have had somebody come to us, what do I need to do to earn eternal life? And even if we were to tell him Um trust in Christ alone, you know, it's not a matter of works, it's a matter of faith. Um but We would view that guy as being ripe fruit. Right? And we would want to pursue that guy. to usher him into the kingdom because he's he's ready ready, he's genuine in he's misunderstanding things, but We wouldn't challenge him the way Jesus did and send them away essentially. Jesus didn't Didn't pull any punches. He wanted this guy to understand in a very practical way what his hang up is. His hang up was works And Jesus already said, no one is good except God alone. It's amazing how many people Jesus Nicodemus is another one of them who you would think, man, this guy's right fruit. Let's persevere with him until he understands everything. But Jesus typically challenges these people with something that is hard for them to swallow. And Jesus is intentional about that. Purposeful. And that puts the light in this easy believism that's so rampant today. God is love. Yeah. Oh I'm a I'm saved. Right, yeah. And he Jesus wanted to make sure that if there's a genuine repentance going on, it's genuine Yes. Oh yes. Uh Victoria. Okay. Um so I I'm reading this and I'm thinking about the dark contrast what Jesus did here and what Recomfort does in afterly. Because this was if Ray Ray were God this was so right couldn't he'd get up and say He doesn't go that route and so it got me thinking about that whole ministry that um ready to give people, you know, to understand that they've spoken just about everything that Jesus doesn't do that and I'm wondering is it because He knew exactly where what button what the hot button was. Yeah. He did it. He went to the commandments with him. He didn't private command And he failed. Well being commanded that love Lord you got with all your heart, he passed that commandment off the season right there. He sort of saying that pass that commandment and then lying But he doesn't confront amongst them. But when you got the speaker misdippers, they don't want to hear the truth, they don't want to hear the communism. Yeah, I I don't think necessarily this guy was lying about his keeping the commandments. I think he was genuinely blind to his falling short. Well Alan Um in some ways yes, but in some ways no, because at least in one of the gospel things Uh one of the gospels he says, What do I still lack? He knows that something's wrong and something's missing. In the other gospel, Jesus says one thing you still lack. lag. Um and and so in some ways he's lying to himself, but in the other thing he also kinda knows that there's he's not It's not satisfied or settled. He's not Yeah, so he's he's by his own admission, he's looking for what else there is to do to have right standing before God. And um there is no more one more thing or list of things for him to do. Um but Jesus nonetheless gives him something that he knows is going to be Uh beyond his willingness to obey. So it's kinda like well, okay, if you want to go with work. Well and that's what it says, keep the law. As if everybody could do that, right? So there's something I've noticed about um I think he may have been getting to um the heart of the issue with them on is how he deals with people because um even the commandments that he told him to obey those are all the commandments that have to do with loving others and not necessarily loving God. Exactly. Those things like he probably will be, oh my voice should be following Yeah. Yeah, I think his first answer was kind of softball. It's kind of easy things, all right. I haven't murdered anybody, I haven't committed adultery. Um stable can say that's the same. But um but you're right. He didn't touch on um where his love for God was relative to all these other things. But I think Jesus he uh to some extent he probably didn't need to use his omniscience to realize this guy was attached to his riches. I mean we're going to see a little bit more in the discussion. And that that would be a way for him to challenge where his heart was it's a funny thing, Alan. We look at the requirement or the the commandment that Jesus gives him and we say like you say, these are easy, right? He hasn't murdered anybody. And even the guy goes, Yeah, I've done all those things. But like you said, this is a commandment to talk about loving others and the reality is is he loved his wealth more than he loved others. Because he wasn't willing to part with his wealth to Take care of the poor. And so what Jesus is Jesus isn't even touching about how much you love God at this point. He's like, How much do you love people? Really? You think You love people. Let's let's make sure that you understand what this where the standard is. This guy was apparently not present on the Sermon of the Mount either when he says it's not just enough to commit adultery to be a sinner, right? Just looking. can give you uh could it's it's the same thing. It all starts from the heart. Same thing with um um Stealing. Do you covet? Right. Hate comfort. Yeah. Jesus could have very easily here in this context told him um like he did in the Sermon on the Mount Where's your heart? Is your heart given to adultery? Is your heart given to uh anger? Uh are you really um in the right place concerning your relationship with other people. Are you loving people the way you should be? He could have easily gone that route. But he didn't. This particular case. He could have. chose, at least in this particular case, to challenge him to come to the realization himself that his heart was not wholly devoted to God. It was it was his presumption was There's got to be enough for me to do that would satisfy God, and I'll be done with it. And Jesus is saying, no, you're you can't be good enough. Only God is good. And he could have said, let me prove it to you. Go sell all you have and give it to the poor. So at that point, even though the word is not used, he showed him that he was a sinner. Um and he couldn't give up his he wouldn't give up his possession. And so the walking away the the fact that he's never repent of what held his heart. At least not at that moment. We don't know if maybe later at that moment he walked away. Right And I know we don't feel like getting into that, but how God doesn't let him walk away and get to say God felt in love for him. And because he loved him, he wanted him to grapple with the core issues So let me ask you so is not is not love then the uh try to grab on somebody and hold them and let you know get it get it get it that's not necessarily love even though you want them to be true. Yeah. Love is enough to let somebody just It doesn't mean you don't love them, but it's hard to watch somebody walk away that you do love. Because they still want to keep their sin. So it's kind of a tough love here. Yeah. Right. Greg had his hand up there. I I was just I mean it's just amazing the very first word out of his mouth good teacher to Jesus challenges the the very first word. The premise. He's a good person. And we don't even think about, you know, well what does scripture say, you know, about people? You know, they're none good, none of people are righteous. No not one. It's just you know, God's standard is so far above you know what what what we think of as as good. You know, and and so he's coming to the Messiah, to the Lord, and instantly Jesus corrects his you know thinking on what good actually is. But it's interesting that he corrected his thinking about uh works-based salvation being good enough. He didn't correct him about being called good himself. Only God is good. What are you saying? I think you're on the overcast because that that why do you call me good could be read to mean why are you saying that I'm good Only God is good. And so if if it is true that I am good and only God is good, guess what? Yeah. I was thinking that the key word here is all. No matter how much we have if we had to sell all our possessions in order to come to the Lord. Right. And uh no matter how how much those possessions amounted to, it highlights it highlights the the that the issue is not uh doing good works and and um the outward display of things but rather the heart. Where is our devotion? Where is our um our love? Our It ends up being commitment. Sorry? It ends up being idolatry. Sure. That's right. Something i is more important to us than God. Right. And ultimately a form of worship. Pastor Rowland, one other point of application that I see is um felt a love for him and it make it challenges us as Christians to identify someone who we cannot love because of their behavior. And their lifestyle. River a few days ago just for a date time and it was the kind of the last couple days of Pride Month. And it's like okay, can you you see some of these couples, can you can I actually love them? and have a the compassion of Christ. Or it could be other other groups of people that it's just so challenging for us as Christians to have a a type of love in order to to minister to them and care about them and not be angry with them. Right. Yeah, and the point is that um uh The the love he calls us to is is a love that we can't generate ourselves anyway. It's a God given God um empowered love. It's God's character of love, which is loving in spite of, not because of. Yeah. Why do you think Helen, and this might not be an easy question to answer, but next question. Why do you think partly into this person Jesus looks at him and he says that he loves him Uh yeah I want to just double check whether that was only one of the gospels. Looks like it was Mark. Yeah, he he had love and compassion for this guy because he knew he was on the right track. His heart genuinely, I think, he's genuinely wanted to please God. It's just that he had their own mindset, right? So why does it mention that he has a love for this guy? Because I think more often what we've been reading in the Gospels is he's been marveling at the unbelief of people and uh particularly the Jews he would encounter. Um but this guy He's genuine. He's he's misguided, but he's genuine and um um That was the compassion part of it. Um but the word actually used here is love. Um So before we move on, so the genuine aspect of being genuine and wrong about what he believes in that thoughts in life is still genuine. He wants to join That's what this guy is wrestling with, I'm sure when he hears it. Yes, go on to do following. But not even that would have happened to the kingdom. So it's almost like, okay. And he walked away believing that that was the price for the kingdom. So he still wanted to have it this way. He didn't even negotiate with anymore. But he walked away believing the problem Apparently so. I think that's a common thing that we that happens is people want salvation. but they want it on their terms. That's exactly right. Right. And terms, but also understanding. It's so natural for us to think that we need to make ourselves acceptable to God. I mean every religion in the world except biblical Christianity is based on works. Um it's just what's natural to us, I think, because of our pride. Um So yeah. Good observations. But we're right in the middle here somewhere. You know, we talk about the idea that you can't come unless he trolls you. Right. I mean clearly he had the power to fill him with the Holy Spirit and And boom, like right there, I see your interest is genuine or you're trying and you know I just wonder if in that circumstance we see man's responsibility clearly for hey you've got to work out your salvation with fear and trembling and you know. Uh I'm just wondering why why you didn't or maybe we never know or You'll have to ask him when we get to have it. Uh let's uh Verse twenty-three, I think. So he's he's challenged this guy who left grieving And Jesus, looking around at him, said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, how hard it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. And the disciples were amazed at his words. I mean, what's the what's the general presumption that those in the upper echelons of society have got it all together. God's clearly going to be impressed with them, right? And Jesus is saying, no, it's actually the opposite. It's hard for them to enter the kingdom of heaven The disciples were amazed at his words, but Jesus answered again and said to them, Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God. Now it's hard in one sense, it's very easy in another sense. In what sense is it hard? Pride. Pride. Pride. To humble ourselves, right? We're not the solution. For again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Why is that? Because like this guy, they're attached to their uh material things, but also the it's not just the material things, it's the status that comes from them. And it all gets back to pride And when the disciples heard this, they were even more astonished and said to him, Then who can be saved? Because clearly these guys are closer than us or anybody, right? Who can be saved? And looking at them, Jesus said to them, With people, this is impossible. Why is it impossible? Jesus answered the question right up front. Only God is good. We can't be good enough. Right? With people, this is impossible, but not with God. For with God all things are possible. Then Peter, you've got to love Peter, began to say to him, Behold, we have left our own homes. We've left everything and followed you. And what then will there be for us? Jesus is just saying how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God and the and j Peter saying, well this guy was grieved, but we've already given up everything. And so Peter wanted to set the record straight here with Jesus about their standing, and it's natural. But Jesus said to them True assays you, that you have who have followed me in the regeneration when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne. You also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So how do you think Peter was thinking at this point? Wow. I can deal with that. Yeah. And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or farms for my name's sake for the sake of the kingdom of God and for the gospel, will receive a hundred times as much now and in the uh now in the present age. uh houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children's and farms, along with persecutions. He would have to add that, wouldn't he? And in the age to come, we'll inherit eternal life But many who are first will be last. In in this context, who is the first Probably the rich people, right? Uh will be last, and the last will be first. For the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. When he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius for the day, that's key, by the way. He set the terms for their employment right at the outset. And they agreed. And they agreed. Okay? They knew how much they were going to get, they knew how much they were going to give. Plain. He sent them into his vineyard. And he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace, and said to those, You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you. What does that require on their part? Not in any phase. Phase. that he's going to be fair and um they'll do their work not knowing what that whatever is right it will be. They're assuming probably proportional or something like that. And he's going to be fair enough to keep his word. And they also knew they wouldn't wouldn't work the whole day like the others. Right. Right. And so they went. This is fair enough. Again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour and did the same thing. And about the eleventh hour, he went out and found others standing around, and he said to them, Why have you been standing here idle all day long? And they said to him, Because no one has hired us. And he said to them, You go into the vineyard too. So of all these people, the only ones he apparently gave the the terms of employment to was the very first crop. When evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last group to the first. Now, apparently he told them more than that, because verse 9 says, when those hired about the eleventh hour, each received a denarius. A denarius was the price he had set for the full day's work, right? Um And then when those hired first came, they thought they would receive more, but each of them also received a denarius. When they received it, they grumbled at the landowner, saying, These men have worked only for one hour, and you have made them equal with us who have borne the burden and the scorching heat of the day. But he answered and said to them, or to one of them, Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for Athenarius? Take what is yours and go. But I wish to give to this last man the same as you. Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what is my own? Or is your eye envious because I am generous? So the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. So remember our context. It's right after Jesus is having this conversation with the rich young ruler. Whose issue was um earning his way to eternal life And Jesus is trying to show him in rather concrete terms that there's nothing he can do to earn eternal life. It's got to be By grace through faith. And he tells this parable where the the first uh uh set of people were given the terms. They fulfilled their thing and and um they were envious But the others went into their work by faith and received um a full day's wages because of the grace of the owner, not because of their effort. Um and Jesus is saying, you know, it's hard to enter the kingdom of heaven in the sense that you can't be good enough. But it's actually Easy in the sense that it's not as a basis of our works, it's by God's grace, we don't deserve it, but we respond in faith and walk accordingly. Yeah. This parable it's it's very childish because Because children are almost obsessed with what they call fairness. If he got one denarius, then I should get eight. That's fair. It's it's all it's such a childish mindset and he's saying, no, that's that's right. It it is it's grace, and that's foreign to the concept of fairness on human terms. Right. And What's uh kind of following up on uh I forget who it was who mentioned it, you know, why Jesus didn't um um Discuss these things a little bit more clearly for the rich young ruler. Several have kind of alluded to it. You sort of wish that he would have heard this parable and could discuss it with him. Right? Maybe he didn't. Maybe he did, who knows? Or at some later date. But the point he's making here is that salvation is not by works, no matter how good you think you are. It's by God's grace, because none of us is good enough, none of us could ever be good enough to match His holiness. Um we respond to that by faith. Does it also see to um you know when people say I haven't saved for a thousand years I'm like so what? You know, when somebody just gets saved, it's almost it's it's the same. If you do need to do what God has the role God has made in you. It's not um it's not how much you do, but how well And whether it's from the right heart. Yeah. Right. Yeah. You know, it's uh it's kind of amazing how the prosperity gospel has been around even since those times the disciples are amazed that you would say you you know it It's not by your your wealth. I mean that they they took prosperity as a sign of God's blessing. And I mean if you go back to the book of Job, you see the same thing in that You know, God God is going to punish you if you're too wicked and He's going to reward you for your good works, you know. Or the man warm wine, you know, is like Well he he must have said it or his parents and so we see that theme over and over again. It's it's it's just a natural thing in our hearts to to um assume that uh uh success can lead to salvation. And we see uh consciousness being all over the place, you know, and and that's what what Jesus is talking about, you know, cover what someone else has. And and I mean that's all over our society and you see it all the time on the news, you know. uh sowing the seeds of of coveting what someone else has and you know take from the red script before you know and covet what they what someone else has, you know, rather than just Trusting in the in the in the Lord and his provisions. Yep, for sure. Thomas. Um the lack of thankfulness to almost for getting anybody a job since all the laborers were in the same vote. whether they were the first or the last and he was gracious enough to give them all work. Um and he even took the initiative to go out and find them. So I've uh I've noticed that when people receive grace, they think they should get more. And the even I built that sometimes I would more. Even though that's been very gracious to me. It's ought to be thankful for the grace when you want something more. Or you don't like your current circumstances. You focus on what you lack and that what God has provided. And be thankful for the grace that you and mercy that you do have instead of performing without what you don't have. Yeah. That is not necessarily easy. Yeah. Yeah, and a a related um mindset I think that he didn't dwell on here, but I think is associated with it. And that is if if you've earned something, you've met all the obligations, you've earned something, you've got a bit of pride in that. Right. And that's just counter completely counter to the gospel, that pride. Yeah, it's by grace. And uh Um it's humility. And um Jesus' point here is that people who are um Successful in the world's terms, wealthy, perhaps not even wealth, but position, status, prestige. Those things in the heart are a real stumbling block to the humility necessary to, as Jesus said, approach him as a young child. So practically what is some guard, guard, things that would guard the heart? From being well enough in pride and forgetting God's grace even in um uh impractical matters. It's literally. Eating God's words and praise. There's nothing above it. Yeah. Yeah and and um whether it was nothing, whether it was Sure. Um I think tribulation is more effective. Yes, let's all pray for that. That was on the list, wasn't it? But remember he said all these things you will get in the earth you know a hundred times along with persecution. But you have to get length to everything for him. Along with persecution. So we we I think it's just thinking how the launch is that we bring it to the first time. Great questions, but they weren't really comprehending the answers, the significance. is kind of an analogy of God's dealing with man's time, you know, first reviews and and and then and then of course And if there could be or would be a time, you know, once everything kind of wraps up, would the Jews be kind of upset. Well wait a minute, we've borne the the the bait the the weight of this through all of our sufferings with uh you know in the old testament and and and being removed from the land and being walked back to the land and all of the different uh governments that kind of reigned over them. I just kind of wondered if this if this passes could be kind of an analysis of of that as well. Yeah, I've never actually thought about that, but um they're on thought though. Persecution was their own fault, they actually delayed. Um but some of a lot of the persecution just came just because they were God's people and because they were God's people Satan had it out against us. Satan was actually kind of going for them because it was God's people. I just wanted it to be a good thing. Right. Anyround them then to say that well um God didn't really change the the um process, let's say, of salvation going from the Old Testament to the New Testament. It's always been by grace through faith. Uh and there are a lot of in fact most Jews in the Old Testament time and after missed that point. Some got it. Um but it's always been by grace through faith. Um but for example God always always been eternity. And and that's what I'm saying basically, you know. So when you know at the end of the age when the Jews are are given you know life with Christ, you know in in in in and in heaven and then and then all of a sudden these Gentiles that was that was not really part of the plane in the beginning given the same life with with in heaven and and maybe even some even could there be kind of the Yeah. He's gonna bless them to bless other people And then no that part of it but it failed it's why the whole world could achieve. Yeah. Yeah I think I I think there is some parallel perhaps but the context I think isn't talking about so much Life under the law in Judaism versus uh the new covenant. Um but there are some parallels there for sure, and probably maybe even some lessons we can apply But interesting thought. Yeah. Well, I want to get through our last one here. We've got a few minutes. 138. We're on page 176. Jesus again foretells his death and resurrection. Now he's done this I've forgotten how many times already, uh at least four or five times. And so we're in Matthew 20, Mark 10, and Luke 18. As they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, they were not yet They were not even yet to Jericho, but they're on their way to Jerusalem. Jesus was walking on ahead of them, and they were amazed, and those who followed were fearful. Why? Why were they amazed and some fearful? Yeah, there's al been already been threats on his life. And they uh they they understood uh in general that this was an unsafe time for Jesus. And in fact, after the racing of Lazarus, he went north out of the Judean, or out of the Jerusalem uh suburbs. to not be a provocation to the Jewish leaders and so on, knowing that his sacrifice had to happen at the time of the Passover. Right. So he's circling back now. He's with a group of people who are making their way to Jerusalem. He took the twelve disciples aside by themselves and began to tell them what was going to happen to him very explicitly. And he said, Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem And all the things which are written through the prophets about the Son of Man will be accomplished. For he will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes. And they will condemn him to death and will hand him over to the Gentiles, and we'll be Gentiles in what sense? The Romans, yeah. And will be mocked and mistreated and spit upon. And after they have scourged him, they will crucify him. And on the third day he will be raised up again. But the disciples understood none of these things. Over the head, right? Again. And the meaning of the statement was hidden from them, and they did not c comprehend the things that were said. So he's on his way up to Jerusalem to the final time and he's being much more explicit now and comprehensive than he has been in those earlier times. And they're still Not getting it, partly because they didn't understand the reason for his first appearance. They were looking for him to lead them into well opposition to Rome and establishing the uh the kingdom here and now. Um You can't blame them a whole lot given their context and their lack of you know, we can look back on it and say, you dummies. But you know, if we were in their situation, we probably would have had the same presuppositions. Um and because of those presuppositions, this was just not computing to them. But it's fortunate that Jesus on numerous occasions kind of belabored the point about what was going to happen and more explicitly here, because when it all came into being They were initially afraid and and uh confused and so on, but after the resurrection and after his explaining all these things all over again and opening up the prophets to them and showing how it had to be it gave them much more confidence. In fact, with the coming of the Holy Spirit, then they were emboldened to proclaim that broadly. So um Interesting that that he would on multiple occasions, even while it they were on their way to Jerusalem, um You remember Thomas, even in their going back to Judea to raise Lazarus, although he didn't know it was for the raising, he says, okay, let's go with him so we can die with him. They already had their mindset that that There was trouble afoot. It wasn't because of what Jesus said, it was because they could see the opposition that was building. And Jesus was not um a popular guy with the Jewish leaders at that point. So um Very interesting. And so if you're one of his disciples at this point, and this is not compute, but you know that going to Jerusalem is a dangerous thing to do right now. Um you gotta it's gotta be wondering, you know, what's going on in their heart. You know, they're following? Okay. We trust you, Lord. We don't understand how it's all gonna fit together, but um Even with all that explicit teaching, they're still they're still sort of enshackled by that mindset with all their presuppositions about the role of the Messiah here and now. And um we often get trapped in our presuppositions as well. And um gotta be careful. Let scripture uh guide us and not our presuppositions. Okay. Any I got maybe five minutes, if that clock is right. Any other questions, thoughts? Didn't you tell three fashions? I think it was more than three. We've already been through several already. You know, after the transfiguration and several other occasions. Yeah. Why does Jesus talk about himself in the third verse As the Son of Man? No. He doesn't say they will crucify me on the third day, I will be raised off to Yeah, he's been using that that title Son of Man and they they would have known by this point exactly what he was talking about. Um kind of maybe yeah he was making it in the third person so it's not as personal but But his use of the title son of man was definitely a claim to messiahship because of the Old Testament. Yeah. Mommy has to go to the store to do them. He does call them children, doesn't he? But uh what's interesting is is he also uses that title before Pilate, who might not make the connection quite so readily But that was in the legal setting. It was. Yeah. Yeah, even even on John three sixteen. It's being quoted by Jesus in third person about itself. It's so baffling that um that' the like the crucial verse on salvation in third person by Jesus. Well Jesus does show himself as God and say exactly what's gonna happen. And so it happened exactly the way he said it was. So it was uh that would be a little thing that he would declare to them exactly what's going to happen. But it says God hid it from him. So he explained it to him, but he said it was hidden from him Until after the Yeah, so I I'm not sure exactly what that means, whether God was intervening to block their uh comprehension at this point. Or they were locked into that because of their mindset. Um What was it that was preventing their understanding? But anyway, uh by the way, that title, The Son of Man, it this probably doesn't have any weight to it, but this is something I've kind of molled over over the years. And that is um From our perspective, we refer to the second person of the Trinity as the Son of God. If you're in the Trinity, um he's referred to as the Sun. But it seems like they would more readily refer to him as the son of man because uh uh within the Trinity he's the one who actually became a man. I don't know if that uh I you don't see that anywhere in scripture. I'm just from my human logical perspective, I'm just wondering if there's something to that, and I have no idea. But clearly uh the Godhead has a different perspective on the role of Jesus than than we do uh to some extent. But um Pastor Allen, I I'm wondering how the disciples felt about being called children. Whether they uh took that as a term in the endearment. I think they did. I mean and John the Apostle was one of them and he uses that term when he's writing his epistles. Um yeah little children. Yeah. So they knew that they were followers, that he was the rabbi, they were uh yeah It probably wasn't unique to to Christie, or probably we weren't as touchy as our society. Alright, let's close the prayer.