We're ready. So we are on uh lesson three. Last week we We had the birth of Christ taken almost entirely, I think, from Luke. Today we're switching over to Matthew, looking at some early events in the childhood of Christ. And so we begin with chapter 2 of Matthew. And could someone read that for us this morning? Okay, I'll just now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, Magi from the east arrived saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. Excuse me, I I'm missing part of the side here. Okay, I'll continue. When the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him And to get with together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them whether the Messiah was to be born. They said to him, in Bethlehem of Judea, For that is what has been written by the prophets. And you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, are by no means least among the the lands of Judah, for out of you shall come forth a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod I'm still missing part of that secretly called the Magi. I see. Um then oh and the magi and determined from them the exact time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child. When you have found him, report to me, so that I too may come and worship him After hearing the king, they went their way, and the star went before them in the east, until it came Went on before them until it came and stood over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. After coming into the house They saw the child with Mary's mother, and they fell to the ground and worshipped him. Then Opening their treasures, they presented to him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. And having been warned by God in a dream not to return to Herod, they went to their own country by another way Right. Um I apologize, Bill. I as you've seen here, I uh have inserted a few comments in the text and it may make it harder to read. You don't have to read those comments. Well, I I did my Mm my presentation has shifted slightly to the right, so I missed the far right Two or three two three words. You'd have to scroll to the right, I think, or s you'd have to scroll left and right Uh uh but I uh somehow okay. I'll I'll work on it while we're going through here. Sorry to be such a disturbance. So um uh One of the problems with passages like this is we're so familiar with them that um we lose sight sometimes of the significance, impact And perhaps even details. But if you step back and you think about what's going on here, you've got Gentiles Coming from far away to come worship the King of the Jews. And They knew some things, but they didn't know all the details. They didn't know exactly where to look. They were following this star. Um but They were genuinely worshiping him as a child and the we don't know that there were three of them, we we know that they brought three gifts. And the the Carol of We Three Kings I think accurately describes the significance of those three gifts uh gold being something you would present to a king, and so they viewed him as as a ruler. They actually referred to him as king of the Jews, right? And frankincense was uh a a um an incense that was used in in uh prayer, worship, uh even the Jews would use incense as the as symbolic of their prayers going up to God. And so um And that myrrh was a spice that was commonly used for preparing dead bodies for burial. In fact, we see reference to that even in the burial of Christ. And so you put those three gifts together and they understood that he was a king who was God and who was born to die, which is amazing. Now, where do they get that information? Well, uh we don't know for sure. Um best guess that uh various commentators have is that uh they were coming from the area that had been Babylon, probably were were um affected uh by the teaching and example of Daniel uh many years earlier, who was really one of that kind. Um uh um he was looked to in in um Babylon as um Because he could interpret dreams, and he did interpret dreams, and writings on the wall, and all sorts of things like that. um that he was a servant of the most high God and um even during Daniel's time there was a team of of um uh they were called, you know, uh magicians and uh uh wise men and so on who would come and give counsel to the king. And so it's possible that the faith, the teaching, the example of Daniel might have lasted for hundreds of years down the road And um they might have been um affected by that. Uh I I don't know that we know much more than that, but the fact that they were following a star Which doesn't seem to be acting like a typical star. Uh it was some kind of supernatural uh guide to them that God provided um it would uh provide direction and so on, particularly at night. So there is there's this combination here of God supernaturally working, but even through Gentiles. Which is fascinating at the birth of Christ, the King of the Jews. And emphasizing that his coming in fulfillment of prophecy was not just for the Jews, it was for the whole world. And um we see it even from the time of his birth. So that's that's encouraging. Um now uh there are some details here that In the overall scheme of things, don't matter a whole lot, but there is an important lesson here, I think. Inverse um 11. When they finally make it to Bethlehem, they find him. After coming into the house, they saw the child. with Mary's mother, and they fell to the ground and worshipped him. Um That word for house means a house. It doesn't mean a stable. It's where people live, not where animals live. And our traditional um you know, Christmas cards and even songs and pictures and so on, we tend to link together the shepherds and the wise men as all coming and gathering around the manger But Luke makes no mention of the wise man. Matthew makes no reference to the shepherds or a manger or a stable, but rather to a house. And if you remember from last week when we looked at um their um Observing the traditional dedication of the child at the temple 40 days after he was born, and a sacrifice of turtle doves and so on. What it said after they were done, and they talked with Simeon and Anna, is that they returned home to Nazareth Of course, Luke began the narrative with them in Nazareth. But here we find them in Bethlehem in a house Apparently significantly later, because it would have taken quite a while for these magi to have come all the way from the um presumably the Babylon kind of area up and around the through the Fertile Crescent and then come down south into Israel. And so there's some possibility, particularly since uh we know from Luke that the context for Mary and Joseph having the birth in Bethlehem was the um the census. They were required to go to the location of their ancestral home And so they had to make the move down uh the the the trip down there. Um And because they had presumably had to travel much more slowly, uh, given Mary's condition, the place was already filled up by the time they got there. But it seems rather natural to assume that they weren't planning to make a permanent move to Bethlehem at that point. Um they had to get down there and get registered for the survey or for the census and then um Luke says that after the required number of days and the dedication of the temple, they went back to Nazareth. So it seems plausible that at having gone through all that and the interaction with the shepherds who had this Miraculous revelation from God about the birth of the Messiah. They were marveling and all that. And interaction with Anna and Simeon, how God had prepared them as well. that Joseph may have uh concluded that maybe it would be better to actually relocate to Bethlehem. That would have been closer to Jerusalem, very close, and would have been fitting for this one who is to assume the throne of David. And um but for whatever reason and uh in whatever manner and whatever timing they were back in Bethlehem um by God's providence at the time that the the Magi arrived. And We'll get a little bit more insight on that as we continue here today. Pastor, can I ask a question? Yes, ma'am. Um, where in scripture does it say that that house was in Bethlehem? And the reason I ask this week because, as you say They only came there for the census. They had a house, a home, and he had a business back in Nazareth. And when they returned from Egypt, they returned to Nazareth And I'm wondering w why we think that this house had to be in Bethlehem. I think it could just as well have been in Nazareth Well as far as I know, the scriptures don't say where the house was. Because the king asked um where the Messiah was to be born And that was, of course, Bethlehem. But this had to have been a year or so later. That doesn't mean that the Messiah was still there. Right Well, look at verses uh six through eight where um the um The scribes and the priests and so on informed him that he would be born, the king of the Jews would be born in Bethlehem. And then eight it says he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go search for a child And um we know But that doesn't mean it was in Bethlehem. No it doesn't. It doesn't. Um but we'll we'll get back to that when we get to the next passage Oh, okay. Thank you. Um so they obviously went to Bethlehem. Whether that's where they found the house or not is not explicitly said here, but let's go to the um the next passage here. And if I gave someone to read that, verses 13 to 23. I can read it. Now when they had gone, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, Get up, take the child and his mother and flee to Egypt Egypt and remain there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to destroy him. He remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what had been spoken by the Lord through the prophet, out of Egypt I called my My son. Then when Herod saw that he had been tricked by the Magi, he became very enraged, and sent and slew all the male children. Then what it has then what had been spoken to Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled. A voice was heard in Rama, weeping and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children. And she refused to be comforted because they were no more. But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph and Eden. came into the land of Israel. But when he had heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Then after being warned by God in a dream He left for the regions of Galilee and came and lived in a city called Nazareth. This was to fulfill what was spoken to the prophets he shall be called A Nazarene. Right. So uh following up on Ann's question there, if in fact um the house that the the Magi went to was in Nazareth, there would have been no need for uh Joseph and Mary to take the child to Egypt because there's no way Herod would have found him unless the same people who might have tipped off the Magi would have um also tipped off Herod's people Um but even apart from that, where did Joseph um initially Return after or at least seek to return when leaving Egypt. He took the child and his mother in verse 21, came into the land of Israel, but when Archelaus was reigning over Judea, in the place of his father Herod. He was afraid to go there. So he he uh probably heard about the the slaughter of the innocents that Herod the Great did and now his His son is reigning, uh, who wasn't any better that Judea, which is where Bethlehem and Jerusalem are didn't seem like a safe place. And they were actually warned by God not to stay there, but rather go back up to Nazareth So um it would have been natural for Joseph to return back to either the same house, which they had to leave very quickly, uh, or someplace there if that was their original conclusion that this would have been a place to raise um the Messiah. We're not told all those details and like I was saying, the the details themselves aren't all that important and even the conclusion you come to isn't all that important. In terms of doctrine and that sort of thing. However, I wanted to dwell on this a little bit because there's some lessons here. When we approach Scripture, we all have a tendency to um take things like tradition and even our own preconceived ideas and impose those things on the text And tradition is really strong, right? Uh you know, when we have pictures and songs and all sorts of things that that give us a picture of what it must have been like. You know, the the magi and the shepherds all gathering around worshiping the Son of God and the manger But that's not exactly what Scripture would lead us to conclude. And so We ought not to rely on traditional thoughts, traditional characterizations and and so on. Rather we should just study the text. Let the text speak for itself. We won't know all the details. God in his wisdom didn't provide all the details, and so let's not assume that the details we're inserting are are um as accurate and inerrant as the text itself. And this is a good example of it because there's so much tradition and and mental image of what it must have looked like and so on that we kind of gloss over details of what the text is actually saying very often And I raise that because we're likely to find a number of things as we go through the Gospels and the life of Christ where we're going to be confronting our traditional understanding of things, that when you put the entire text together, and if you really do believe that all four of the Gospels are inspired by God and inerrant then that ought to lead us to some conclusions that might challenge some of our presuppositions or traditions. Doesn't mean we'll always always get it right, but we ought to depend on the text more than those traditions. That's the main point. Thank you, Pastor. Um that helped clarify that verse uh twenty-two and twenty-three. Thank you. Now sir, I wanted to ask you, uh good morning. Um I w I wanted to ask you, because I see in this passage And the previous one that God spoke to or used sent angels to speak to to Joseph and to many others and dreams. So could we say that, you know, like God does that now, in these times? Um We could certainly say that God could, whether he actually does. Um I Um I don't know. Um I I I hear stories that seem pretty credible. uh w where in areas that are countries that are close to the gospel, like maybe a lot of Muslim countries, God is doing some supernatural things to draw people to Christ That um um uh wouldn't surprise me, God actually does that sort of thing. Um but We also need to be very careful that we don't um We don't well, I don't know, believe everything we hear because there are a lot of people who are s um um superstitious and uh you know, all the There are a lot of stories about y in in Catholic uh tradition of you know, statues of Mary that are crying and all sorts of things. And um you gotta be very careful not to just believe everything that people say. But Not to preclude the possibility that God works supernaturally today to suit his purposes And also uh l like the stars when the the magicians were going or the wise w and men were going to visit to get to know Jesus. Um and they were following these stars and it says that the stars uh like they appeared and then they disappeared and then they appeared again. It was and God they think that God was guiding them uh towards a the place where Jesus was. Do you think that you could do an analogy today also and think that God guides us also that way, you know, like he puts he gives us signals and things that can guide us and sometimes he doesn't do it, you know, like it's not continuous and it's not like like the line that you're looking at. it's not continuous and then he tell like leaves us by ourself to pray so we, you know I don't know. I think I think the the the Better way to think about this is that this particular event was very unique in all of human history. And God was orchestrating even the Gentiles and people who would travel from a long distance. orchestrating that whole thing to uh accomplish his his uh purposes in this unique event of the incarnation of Christ. Um that is a whole lot different from our seeking to follow um God's guidance and and so on. God has given us His word, the scriptures, to give us an understanding of what is true, what is uh important for us to be uh obeying. And we have all that revelation given to us very objectively in Scripture for the purpose of um knowing how to live. And scripture um indicates that it's sufficient, it's it's good, it it's all that we need for life and godliness and so on. And so there's another whole study that we can do on how to know God's will, but the bottom line is scripture. And if there's something that we need to choose that Scripture is completely silent about then it's not really a a moral decision that God's going to hold us accountable for m uh morally. And we can apply good wisdom to make wise choices. But um if it's not a moral issue you wouldn't expect scripture to um provide a lot of detail there. Other than s maybe some background principles of wise living and decision making. Thank you. So yeah, for us, we have the great advantage that we have that full revelation of Scripture. And I would just add to that, you know, as we seek to apply scripture. I mean scripture is our source that we go to, but as we seek to apply it, you know, we we pray as the apostle Paul talked about, you know, uh open doors or closed doors, you know, that God would guide us. in that. And it's often through, you know, opportunities that are open or opportunities that are closed. Yeah. And God is sovereign over those things. Right. We're just submitting to his is sovereignty and with a willing heart. Yes, that would come under the the category category of providence, the Lord's providence. Exactly. Like most of us uh met our wives through providence. Or better husbands. Yeah, and we can look back and see God's hand in that, probably more clearly now than in real time at at the time, right? Um as part of walking by faith as well. Pastor Allen, I had another question. Yeah. Um something that's always puzzled me and I'm I'm guessing that maybe it was just because God wanted God was going to draw people by faith and not just through experience. But I'm I confused as to why when Christ came you had these shepherds who came. And it says that they were quite vocal after they left about the Messiah being born and then all these things happen in Bethlehem with the slaughtering of the two year olds and under and then by the time Jesus comes it's kind of like, What do you mean there's Messiah who's here? Who do you think you are? And I'm just wondering Why did people think about what had happened some thirty years ago or did they just completely disconnect it or or what happened there Are are we is there anything in scripture that explains what happened besides the fact that God brought a partial blinding over the people? Yeah, uh uh that may have been part of it. I think a large part of it was the passage of time, where c clearly Christ as he's going through childhood and even up to around the age of thirty, was very much laying low in terms of public ministry, right? And um Um there's pretty much there a generation going by with um um the news, the any conclusions people were drawing at that time kind of fading, you know, just time having its taking its toll. It's possible that some could have um um drawn the right conclusions at the birth of Christ around that time with the news and so on, and held on to that and and seen the fulfillment of it when he finally comes into public ministry We're not I don't think we're given any evidence of that. Maybe we can be looking for that as we go through, but um I so I I think the the silence even in scripture of that time definitely indicates that he was laying low by God's design. Um and Certainly there wasn't the the spread of news in quite the way we have it now instantaneously, anyway, right? So, I don't know. Um, we're not really told, so I'm just assuming the passage of time takes its toll on tickles And I thought about that too. Oh, I'm sorry. No, go ahead. I thought about that too and and they went to the shepherds, the lowliest class of employees that you can go to and a word for them about what got what the angel spoke to them really didn't carry much weight and they were taught to look for a messiah to be a ruling king to to deliver them from pressure the Roms to bring in a certain rule and he didn't meet none of those uh requirements 'cause he was coming in to deal with uh the sin issue first. So I think because God chose to go to these people, their words really didn't carry much weight in that society. Yeah, that's probably a strong point. I'm also remembering that uh there are times when the the skeptical Jewish leaders would say, well Yeah he can't be the Messiah. We know the Messiah is supposed to come from Bethlehem, but this guy we don't even know where he came from. It would have been opportunity for Jesus have um corrected people like that uh because he was born in Bethlehem but he didn't mean to press that point Is that Greg, do you have a thought there? Yeah, I just heard something interesting this week that uh you know Bethlehem's close to Jerusalem and the shepherds they they in that area they could be tending the the lambs, the the sheep that were meant for the temple sacrifice Yeah, interesting. Yeah. I said blindly. Yes. Um also I've I've heard that um around that time or even way before Jesus came that There were a lot of people who claimed that they were Messiah. So um that uh that creates some skepticism to the people even in the time of Jesus. It's like, well, we've heard it before. Um and so a lot of people didn't believe because there have been a lot of people who claimed that before beforehand. Possibly. Um, I suppose if anybody believed the shepherds as to what they saw and heard That would have been a little bit more compelling than some of the stories of people who claimed to be the Messiah. But um Thomas may be right that um they would have been the least to be believed, maybe. So this is a good example of how you know we can just think about what may have happened, what could have happened, but we're not provided details. And also wasn't wasn't this very different because all those others claiming to be Messiah at that time were adults. Here was a newborn baby. I don't think any other newborn baby had ever been claimed to be Messiah Yeah it's interesting that uh Simeon um I guess by revelation but also by putting by connecting the dots he understood that this was Messiah who was They'd bite a baby who was born. Um so yeah, it's interesting to kind of think through the the context there. And people's responses, why didn't they respond in various ways? Good kind of questions to be asking. But um uh let's get our clues from the text itself. Well, I want to wrap up this um last page here before we run out of time. And so section 13 is really just one verse, one sentence. The child continued to grow and become strong, increasing in wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. Again Uh emphasizing that Jesus, while fully God, was also fully human. And as a human, he was growing. And increasing not just in stature, but in favor with God and with men And the grace of God was upon him, it says. And so there's a bit of silence there for around 12 years. And in uh section 14 we get that um that encounter when he was around 12. Could someone read that for us? Okay. Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover. And when he became twelve, they went up there according to the custom of the feast. And as they were returning, after spending the full number of days, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. But his parents were unaware of it, but supposed him to be in the caravan and went a day's journey, and they began looking for him among their relatives and acquaintances. When they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem looking for him. Then, after three days, they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them and asking them questions, and all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers When they saw him, they were astonished. And his mother said to him, Son, why have you treated us this way? Behold, your father and I have been anxiously looking for you. And he said to them, Why is it that you were looking for me Did you not know that I had to be in my father's house? But they did not understand the statement which had been made to them, which he had made to them. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth, and continued, and he continued in subjection to them, and his mother treasured all these things in her heart. And Jesus kept increasing in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men. Thank you, Mark. So don't you wish we had more in Scripture about the childhood of Christ? We do have a very interesting glimpse here, of course, and he seems quite um aware of who he is and what his mission is and he has apparently absorbed Uh even in his humanity, um a lot of scripture. Um You can only sort of imagine how can we really imagine you know, the eternal creator of the universe, growing in understanding as a human being. Um but by the age of twelve, he was astounding the uh the teachers of the law and so on. And um I I think that may be partly due to his deity, but I think it was largely due to his um unstained, unsinful humanity, where he applied himself and he was serious about the things that were right and good and being about his father's business, as he says I don't think he was drawing only on his divinity here, but also on his perfect humanity. to um um carry out the mission that he was sent to to perform Ask her funly? Yeah. Can I ask a question? Sure. Um what do you say about the offense that Mary and Joseph took at his behavior, I guess? Like how do we um process that? Well, y that's a good question. So they were obviously uh I think obviously, uh scared uh for his safety, uh right, when they realized they got separated and and um they knew they were responsible for him in a human sense. Um they knew that he was still under their care, even though he had a mission. He wasn't yet embarking officially on that mission, and so they were responsible. Um they didn't want to disappoint God for, you know, dropping the ball. Um and there may be a little bit of sense of frustration on their part. Look at the impact this has on us. We've got to double back now and leave our caravan that's going back to Yeah, they would travel in groups, right? Um it was a a big imposition on them and so y as a human being you can imagine them being frustrated by that, maybe a little sore and However, I'm reminded of the story or the conjecture. How would you like to be one of the siblings of Jesus? Right? Um not only because he's the oldest, but did he need any correction in life? He never sinned And yet his siblings, I'm sure, needed constant correction and uh chastisement for their sin and so on. And they probably grew up I'm guessing, jealous of this guy who never needed any correction. Um and if that's true, which it kind of has to be, um An episode like this might have been the first time ever that Mary and Joseph had to seriously contemplate the possibility of correcting it And so I think their reaction is pretty much what you might expect as a parent in the context. So why have you treated us this way? That seems like they took it sort of personal that it was a huge inconvenience to them at the very least, right? And I out of character? I mean, if what they were thinking was true, then this would have been certainly out of character of Christ. It says later here in verse 51, he continued in subjection to them when they went back to Nazareth Which indicates that he had already been in subjection to them, as he was supposed to be. And so This would have appeared in Mary's mind as a departure from that subjec subjection. So anyway, it it it seems rather natural that she should have had a response like that. Understandable, anyway. And I love how she said, Behold, your father and I have been anxiously And then he said, Did you not know that I had to be in my father's house? You see how he put his authority under his father and she made, you know, your father know my father, my father, I had to be in his house your father had and have the ancient is looking for you. He understood the authority that he was under, but even though he submitted to a lesser authority, he understood his greater authority was his father and he had to be about his father's business. So he's still teaching them No, about his ultimate design and purpose and Joseph is not you know, even Joseph is not his father, uh in that sense. So it's just amazing how he understood who he was and what his purpose was. Yeah. Even at the age of twelve. Verse verse forty three makes it sound where it says the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. That that makes it sound like it was a constant choice. It wasn't an accident that he was left behind. Yeah, I think it was an accident that his parents weren't aware of it, perhaps. Right. Right Yeah. But he intentionally stayed behind. He it's like he wanted to be in his father's house. Yeah. Um After uh yes I I have a question. Um so could we say because you know those first twelve years there was an and there's like there's no information about how his life was. It was kind of like could we think that maybe it was God allowing him to live um like a a a human being right without any divinity or anything related to his other part or his mission so he could really become like a human. You know? Not because if he started living like that with divinity and all that, then he wouldn't have fulfilled his part as a human So maybe that's why he stayed there and and in that process I think that Mary and Joseph when they start looking for him it's like it's kind of like they really for had forgotten who he was. You know, like I think it's uh like a turning point in in his life. That's what the Bible is showing at that moment. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely a turning point However, this is not the beginning of his public ministry, but it's a turning point in his relationship with his parents, I think. Yeah. And it is the last reference we hear of uh his father Joseph being alive Later, we hear of Mary, of course, but uh Joseph probably being significantly older than her. for whatever reason passed away before Jesus began his public ministry So I wanted, before we wrap up here in a minute or two, to focus on the last page, page 29, in your notes, where um starting this pattern after every lesson to think about the characters who are introduced in the lesson and see what we can learn about what they did that was good, what was not so good. and maybe learn some lessons from them and just to get specific about what we're observing in the text And then also we'll have a series of questions. We'll have more questions as we get deeper into the life and ministry of Christ. But starting with the question, what do we learn about the humanity of Christ in this lesson? And what do we learn about his divine attributes or some aspect of his divinity? And we won't necessarily have answers to those questions in every single lesson that we go through. But they're good questions to uh to ask ourselves as we look at the text and um understand the text from the perspective of what does God want us to take away from this, to understand and to apply. So clearly in this lesson we saw very specific evidence of his humanity in terms of his growth and so on. But also uh particularly when uh he was twelve, we see that he he really did understand his his mission that he was on here. Um We don't know anything about how that uh how early he had that understanding, uh whether Mary and Joseph relayed to him the events around his birth. Uh that would have been interesting conversation, right? But clearly he was very much focused by even by the age of twelve. But continued for another 18 years or so. Before beginning his public ministry. And as we'll see, being the oldest in that family, he had a bit of a responsibility after Joseph died to be head of the hassle. So that must have occupied him until his younger brothers got old enough to uh to care for their mom. Okay. I think we can we can uh wrap up here at this point. So just again, an encouragement for each lesson to think through the application of things that we're seeing in the character of the people. Maybe lessons we need to learn of things that people did that were um wrong or a lack of faith As well as learning lessons of people who were actually walking in faith and obedience. So let's pray.