So I was reminded yet again last week how often it seems that something that we cover in the first hour gets highlighted in the sermon Did anybody catch that last week? Um that wasn't planned well, not planned by us, but um But isn't it isn't it interesting how God sometimes just reinforces points in slightly different context, but still the same point. Um well anyway, today we're on lesson twenty-five, devotion. We're almost halfway through. Um And what's interesting is we're about to start the Passion Week. And the Passion Week is going to take us uh months to go through because scripture takes that much time to go through Um but we're leading up to that here. We're in um Matthew and Luke initially in section one ten. So I'm gonna go ahead and read the the blended account and and uh pause along the way to make some comments and Now after this the Lord appointed seventy others and sent them in pairs ahead of him. to every city and place where he himself was going to come. What does that suggest where he was going to come? He had a plan, right? And he was paving the way there, this strategy. Verse 2. And he was saying to them by way of giving them instructions. So uh the first part of this section is the instructions he's giving them And then later we're going to see him interacting with them after they return, as well as interacting with other people. Anyway, um and he was saying to them, the harvest is plentiful But the laborers are few. Therefore bes beseeched the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. And so that's what he was doing Right, sending out seventy others. Go. Behold, I send you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. Now how's that for a recruiting um strategy? He was clearly trying to make things um um clear to them that they would not be unprepared, that they would expect that they would meet um not only some a positive response, but most likely negative response as well. Send you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. Carry no money belt, no bag, no shoes. I think what that means is no extra shoes. And greet no one on the way. His point here is be focused, right? Whatever house you enter, first say peace be to this house. And if a man of peace is there, your peace will rest on him. But if not, it will return to you. Stay in that house, eating and drinking what they give you, for the laborer is worthy of his wages. That term is uh um that that phrase labor is worthy of its wages is used several times in scriptures. It uh stuff foundational principle and it applies here. Do not keep moving from house to house. Whatever city you enter and they receive you, eat instead of what is before you And heal those who are sick. So he's sending out seventy. It's not just Jesus who's healing, but he's giving them authority and And uh the the charge actually to heal those who are sick and say to them, the kingdom of God has come near to you. So what's the connection between conducting miracles like that and a message about the kingdom of God? The miracles um attest to the the um authenticity of the message. Right? And that's that's consistent throughout scripture. You see it in the life of Jesus and the apostles and so on, that uh people are put in the position of concluding, um, God must be working through this person, therefore I should listen to him. That's the that's the connecting the dots. Right. Yeah, so obviously some things like you said, um, like the healing, are things that were appropriate for that setting, Jesus bringing a new message to them, um, that wouldn't have um a a direct com um application. But the principles are still the same of having a strategy to reach out, right? And back then they people we would see consistently here in the gospels that particularly the religious religious leaders were asking Christ and his followers, what author by what authority do you do these things? Of course they were missing it. D the miracles and so on that Jesus was doing was attesting to the fact that the authority is coming from God alone, right? In our case, if someone asks that question, by what authority do you do these things, what what's our answer? Scripture. Right? He's already provided the scripture. It's the life of Christ, the teaching of Christ, and his apostles. Uh it's it's not us, it's God's Word. Uh fortunately we've got the complete word now and we don't have to validate it. It it is self-validating. But yeah. Okay. Uh now I've lost my place. Yeah. Heal those in it who are sick and say to them, The kingdom of God has come near to you. But whatever city you enter and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say, Even the dust of your city, which clings to our feet We wipe off in protest against you. Yet be sure of this that the kingdom of God has come near. So there's the expectation that there would be some who receive the message well and others who don't. He's uh giving them realistic expectations right at the right at the beginning. And verse twelve, I say to you, it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that protest against you. Yet be sure of this that the kingdom of I'm sorry. I say to you that it would be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that city. Then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his miracles were done because they did not repent. Now this is an interesting point. Not it not so much that he was denouncing cities for their lack of repentance and lack of faith and so on. Um we s we've seen Jesus marvel at the faith of even Gentiles, right And uh rebuke even the disciples about lack of faith or little faith, right And so it's not it's not surprising here that he's denouncing entire cities that did not repent. But what is interesting is which cities he singled out here where most of his miracles were done. He says, starting verse 13, Woe to you, Korazim. Which miracles were done in Korazim? Turns out we don't know That was a trick question. Corzine is um actually look in the maps if you've got them. Map 9. 6 Just north of the Sea of Galilee, um on nine point six Corzine is is just north of Capernaum. You see that? So it's not far away from the Sea of Galilee. But none of the miracles that Jesus that are recorded of Jesus in Scripture Um say that they were in Corzine. Other places are unmentioned, but never corusine Furthermore, his next woe, where am I at here? 13. Woe to you, Corazine. Woe to you, Besseida. Now you're probably a little bit more familiar with Besseida What miracles are recorded that were done in Beseda? That's a different. The pool of Beth Bethesda is in is in Jerusalem. Thesseda, if you look at the map, there is again right at the northern tip of of the Sea of Galilee. Turns out that there is one miracle, and we had it uh recently uh section ninety-one. It was the man who was blind and it was kind of a two-stage healing where first he saw men as trees walking. Remember that one? That specifically says it was in Besseda. But as far as I know, that's the only one that specifically said it was in uh best seda. And he says, Woe to you, Besseda, for if the miracles had been if the miracles had been performed in Tyrant Sidon which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. Nevertheless, I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. But then he says in verse 15, and you, Capernaum. will not be exalted to heaven, will you? You will be brought down to descend to Hades, for if the miracles uh had occurred in Sidon which occurred in you, it would have remained to this day. Nevertheless I say to you that it would be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you, Capernaum. Um that's strong language. Now There are a lot of miracles that were done in Capernaum. That was a sort of headquarters and so on. We we understand that. Um What's the significance of Capernaum, Best Seta, and Corizine? They're actually not far from each other. The significance, apparently, is that they're all very near that major trade route that comes through Israel. Um and so there's a lot of travelers. A lot of um that's one reason there is a a tax office in Capernaum to tax that that traffic, like a toll booth. Um um but why would Jesus do a lot of his miracles along that major trade route? To get the word out. Yeah. So w by word of mouth, these miracles would have been um as we've seen, draw quite a crowd. Some of that crowd would just be passed through through and would carry the news of of that elsewhere, right? Um and so even though he was um somewhat strategic in not wanting to unnecessarily draw a l large crowds because when he um when the large crowds were there he couldn't train his disciples and spend a lot of good time with them. So he he needed a mix of those things. Um but people passing through who would bear that testimony elsewhere would be very strategic And uh very similar in fact to the expectation God had for the nation of Israel. God didn't command the nation of Israel to go out and evangelize the world. He put them in a place where the world was coming through them. So that they would be like a city on a hill. shining and bearing testimony of God's God's goodness, God's um plan of redemption, and that um the the the testimony of a a people of God who were actually obedient to him and the way he blesses them um would have had and to some extent it some of the good points in their history did have an impact quite widely to other nations. Um And so, I guess tying up that loose thread, the coming of the gospel then changed the strategy. The strategy had been come and see what the Lord is doing in Israel. and observe his character and his laws and his goodness, whereas now with the gospel we're commanded to go out. Right? It's dispersed and um but it's still um a world focus either way. He's not working through the nation of Israel at the moment. He's working through the church and it's dispersed and and sent out. And s but during this time, Israel was to be put on display and now the Messiah is put on display and people could be Not only recognizing his miracles, but make the logical connection between his miracles and what he's saying and connect him and so on. Um but because the people themselves, particularly in these three cities, were primarily unbelieving, he's denouncing them here But people outside these cities who understood the miracles, uh, many of them, well, um two things come to my mind. One is that in the ministry of Jesus and even the book of Acts to some extent, what we see is a transition. A transition from the focus on the nation of Israel and then now working through the church. Um but Jesus not only laid out the um uh the the doctrine and the gospel and provided his his uh payment for our sins and all that. But he also provided a ministry strategy for his disciples and for us. And so that involves going out, but also, as we see from the Great Commission in Matthew 28, um, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, right? And of course baptizing and so on. Um so our strategy, like him, is to um disciple What first to to evangelize, to disciple, and to involve in the life and ministry of the church which um which is new. Jesus didn't have the church during his ministry, but the church is his you know, starting with the book of Acts, the church now is the vehicle through which he's accomplishing his his work on earth. And so he's he's doing that evangelism, that discipleship, that sending out, the fellowship and prayer, all that, um, through church And and yet each and every individual can be involved in that going out and discipling and bringing people into the church and um yeah. And so it's a job for all of us, not just for a few, right? And you might say, well wait a minute, I don't have the gift of evangelism. I should leave that to other people, right? No. You may not have the gift of giving, but does that mean you're not commanded to give? No. What's the role of the people who have the gift to be a good role model, trainer, encourager? uh example, right, for the rest of us. Pretty much all of the spiritual gifts that are operative today, we're all commanded to do anyway, right? to be um uh there's a gift of encouragement. Should we leave all the encouragement to those who are gifted? No, we're all encouraged. We're all commanded to be encouraging, right? Yeah. No. Um but certainly evangelism is that way. And we may have a tendency to say, oh, I'm not gifted in that, I'll let someone else do it. But no, we're all commanded to do it. Let's go to those who are gifted in it to be encouraged to be trained, to be see an example, so that we can improve in that area. Right? God's designed it so that we need each other. And that's one of the beauties of the church in this design. I'm sure, I'm sure that um there are a lot more opportunities that we're not picking up on, that we should be picking up on And uh so our mindset is important, right? And that's one thing that people with the gift of evangelism can help us understand and apply Um because that's that applies to all of us. Yeah. How did you put it? That w we need to be prepared for opportunities like that. I would go one step further and say we should expect opportunities like that. Right. Not be surprised by them. Say Lord what are you gonna do with me today? Excellent. Excellent. Okay, well um I think we're on verse 16 here. Uh so the one who listens to me and the one who rejects I'm sorry, the one who listens to you listens to me. Yeah. And the one who rejects you rejects me. And so Jesus is telling them, um, it ought not to be about you It ought to be about me, Jesus, and my message. Don't you be the um obstacle to their coming. Let the gospel itself be the obstacle if that's what's going to happen Um but let the gospel also do the convicting. Right. Um and he who rejects me rejects the one who sent me, that is the Father. Okay, then we're making a transition here So now verse seventeen. Now the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. So there's healing, there's uh casting out demons Um uh now if put yourself in that situation and you know they came back with joy, you they they're excited. I mean you would have been excited if if the Lord had been working through you that way, right? What's the temptation at that point? Pride to think it's about me, right? Um and he was saying to them, I was watching Satan fall from heaven like lightning. Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions and over the power of the enemy, and nothing will injure you. Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this that the spirits are subject to you But rejoice that your names are recorded in heaven. Now at that very time, he rejoiced greatly in the Holy Spirit and said So here Jesus is actually uh praying, I think, in their hearing. He just spontaneously rejoices. So I praise you, O Father. Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and revealed them to infants. Who are the wise and intelligent? Mostly the religious leaders and so on, but really it could apply to anybody who in their pride thinks they've got it all figured out. And have revealed them to infants, meaning the opposite, people who are not known for their um intellect or wisdom, God is using just regular folk, uh to among the among whom are these seventy who he just sent out, right? Who were n not of any particular great status or fame or anything like that, just regular folk. Um yes, Father, in this way, for this way is well pleasing in your sight. So there are lots of examples of God throughout history uh using the the most um unexpected people. So you remember how he selected David, you know, and and so um Samuel goes and says oh this oldest one, man, he's got it together. He's you know and God said, No, nope. Well maybe the next one. No Get all the way down and is there anything anybody else? Oh, there's this David. He's out in the field with and so the youngest gets chosen. Right? Um and there are multiple examples of God using uh the least expected person to show what It's not about them. It's about what God can do through anybody. Right? Including the likes of us. Yeah. Okay. Um and then here in verse twenty two, I'm not exactly sure whether he's continuing this prayer or if he's beginning this transition to um uh speaking to people more generally. But he says, All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son, and anyone whom the Son wills to reveal him. Then he says, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy. And my burden is light. Turning to his disciples, he said privately, Blessed are the eyes which you see uh which see the things you see. For I say to you that many prophets and kings wished to see the things which you see, and did not see them And to hear the things which you hear and did not hear them. Why didn't they see and hear them? Because Jesus hadn't arrived yet. Right? Now the Messiah was actually here interacting with actual people and how blessed they were to see and to hear him. I made a note here at the bottom that um it's interesting that this section in Matthew and Luke um seems clearly to be about the same uh events. and and so on. But Matthew includes a few things that Luke doesn't, which is not out of the ordinary. Um you'll notice that Um Matthew here, we're taking from starting with Matthew eleven. Um most people would have placed that uh right after Matthew eleven, nineteen, which was some time ago. Um but Matthew doesn't have any particular um intent to be chronological in his account. Whereas Luke is. And so we're basically following Luke here. There undoubtedly was more that was said and done in this event, but this is all we have and trying to piece it together this is kind of what it looks like. Okay. Anything else on this? Okay. So section one eleven, the parable of the good Samaritan. And this is only in Luke. And a lawyer, now don't thank uh attorney here. This is someone whose job was to to um understand and expound the law, the old testament law. And a lawyer stood up and put him, Jesus, to the test, saying, Teacher, what shall we do to inherit eternal life? Now What do you get from his question? What's significance? Yeah, yeah. What shall I do? So the presumption is that salvation Uh eternal life is based on our works. And he wasn't alone in that assumption. Everybody was assuming that. Pretty much everybody in the world has always assumed that, apart from the gospel. Right? What shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he, Jesus, said to him, trying to get him to think this through, what is written in the law You're a lawyer, tell me. How does it read to you? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. Was that true? Yeah, I mean that's right from scripture, right? And the two greatest commandments in the Old Testament. And Jesus said to him, You have answered correctly. Do this and you will live. What do you how do you take that? How should he have taken that? Yeah, and so Jesus is um challenging this expert in the law. Is he rightly understanding the purpose of the law? And the message of the law. The message of the law is God is holy, we are not. That puts us in a the we have a division between us. And any approach to God has to be with very careful attention to the fact that He is holy and we are not. And so witness all the the um uh commands about worship in the Old Testament and you know very prescribed methods and timings and and so on to emphasize that God is holy and we are not, you need to be careful and do it in God's way. And that there has to be provision, payment for our sins. So all these animal sacrifices are are um evidence of the fact that there's a consequence to sin. There needs to be a substitute for sin. Otherwise we're going to pay for our own sin. And we're not going to inherit eternal life, eternal life. Um so they should have been understanding, and some did, but this guy apparently didn't. He was all about works. What am I going to do to inherit eternal life? And the law should have taught him already can't do that. You're without hope. And so That ought to lead to the very next conclusion. If if I can't do it and there's no hope that I'm going to inherit eternal life, what hope can I have? And that should have, in the law and in all the prophecies, he should have understood that God was already preparing for the substitute, the Messiah. Um but this guy was so caught up in the the the rituals and the the details of the law that he was missing the big picture Just like with the woman with the well, matter where she's at, understanding her context. His context was he's caught up in works. That he thought the purpose of the law was to stipulate um works that we should do, but he apparently I'm it says he was trying to put Jesus to the test, but he may, we don't know, he may have already come to the conclusion that I don't see the end game here. I don't have any confidence that keeping the whole law is going to allow me to inherit eternal life Maybe he was already questioning that. I don't know. How perfect, yeah. Anyway, it's clear that he was expecting the answer is all about works. Um and so his answer to the question was, okay, the top of the list are love God and love others. That's right. Do this and you will live. But then it says, but wishing to justify himself, what's that mean? Self-righteous um seeking to he he he he wasn't asking so that he could learn and change. He was asking to sort of make a point and to test Jesus and to uh um quibble. His heart wasn't re his heart wasn't in it, right? Challenge is good. Yeah. Uh but wishing to justify himself, he said to Jesus, all right Who is my neighbor? Why is he asked that? Because the command is love your neighbor as yourself. So let's get practically says, who is my neighbor? He shouldn't have asked. Jesus replied and said, A man was going down to Jerusalem, from Jerusalem to Jericho. Now when it says down You realize that Jerusalem is up high, Jericho is below sea level. Alright, it's really steep. And he fell among robbers, and they stripped him and beat him. And went away leaving him half dead. And by chance a priest was going down on that road, and we saw him, he passed on Um he passed by on the other side. Likewise a Levite also, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. Now Um, I thought priests were Levites. What's the distinction? No, they're all Jews. Yeah, well basically right. One's a priest and one's not. They're all Levites. They're all descended from the tribe of Levi Um the priests were um uh descendants of Aaron and had the role of doing the official things around the tabernacle and then the temple, right? So they had chief priests and you had other priests who had these various roles. Other Levites who were not descendants of Aaron. Had other responsibilities in the nation of Israel, uh primarily before the time of Christ, but maybe even uh during the time of Christ, uh, that weren't so much centered on the worship but centered on other responsibilities. And so why do you suppose he gave in his his example here, his parable, a a s a priest and a Levite Given the question this guy's asking. So the ones you would expect to have it all together to be spiritual would be those in leadership, right? Uh and so it made sense to use them in his example. But they pass by on the other side. Verse 33. But a Samaritan now what do we know about Samaritans? Just the exact opposite. Right? So They're only half Jews. They're in their descendants or their ancestors um intermarried with with uh Gentiles and they started their own sort of twist on religion and and the law and it was it was a mess. Um and so they were naturally, I think, from a human perspective, naturally hated by the Jews, um, for being basically um outcasts They turn their back on real religion from the Jewish perspective. And uh to even be um in fellowship with them would have been detestable to the regular Jew. And so complete contrast here. But a Samaritan who was on a journey came upon him and when he saw him felt compassion. And he came to him and bandaged up his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them And he uh and he put him on his own beast and brought him to an inn and took care of him. Uh on the next day he took out uh two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper and said Take care of him and whatever more you need, whatever more you spend, when I return I will repay you. And then Jesus, of course, gets to the punchline Which of these three do you think proves to be a neighbor to the man who fell into the robbers' hands? Now, I think you can call that a rhetorical question because you know the answer to it And he said, Well, the one who had who showed mercy toward him. So he got it. And then Jesus said to him, Go and do the same. Now it's interesting that this is doing Which is what that guy was asking. But what Jesus is saying is it's not the doing, it's the doing with the right heart. And It's not about position, it's not about training, it's not about knowledge, it's about where's your heart? And if you're treating even the mo i if you're treating even your enemy as a neighbor from your heart Now you're getting close. But that doesn't come natural. It's a supernatural thing that happens in our hearts. Yeah, he's saying that uh in fact he was kind of pointing his finger at this guy. He's saying don't don't count on your position to give you any extra merit before God. What's important is what's going on in your heart and that's going to show itself in your actions. Yeah, and in Matthew seven, you remember where people said uh Um, Lord, Lord, look at all these things we did in your name. And he says, I never knew you. Depart from me. It's not it's not what we do as if we're checking off the list, right it's what we do with the right heart. Uh and we're doing it in obedience to Christ and out of a heart of service to him and to others not uh it we're putting into practice what it means to love God with all your heart and to love neighbors as yourself, basically. Yeah. I I had a similar experience when I was at a missions conference at a church in I think it was Pennsylvania and um one of the missionaries' testimony wa and as it turns out he was also Methodist, um one of his his testimony was that he was on the mission field for quite a number of years before he got saved. So yeah it's not our doing, it's not our position, it's all about do you really love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and are you treating other people like yourself? That's coming from the heart, because it's a heart that's been transformed By God. Yeah, I um people often put it this way, um speak to God about men before you speak to men about God. Anyway, let's quickly uh great examples, great discussion Um, I'm at one twelve here on page one fifty six. Now as they were traveling along he entered a village which turns out to be um Bethany and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her home. She had a sister called Mary, who was seated at the Lord's feet listening to his word. But Martha was distracted with all her preparations. And she came up to him and said, Lord Do you not care that my sister has left me to do all the serving alone? Tell her to help me. But the Lord answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and bothered about so many things, but only one thing is necessary. For Mary has chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from her. So even his rebukes are tender But it's all about priorities, right? Uh it's not that Martha was doing anything wrong or evil, but it's about priorities. What's more important in this context? And of course that's a famous uh example that we can all refer to. Um I think I'm gonna have to hold off on this last section because um otherwise we'll be here. Um and it's uh unfortunate because it is about prayer And we were just talking about prayer. But um let's hold that to next week. Let's close in prayer. Father, we do thank you that you have given us your word. You have given us the example of Christ, the the ministry of Christ, and we see in this lesson his heart and his wisdom. Pray that we would always be in tune with uh your will, your uh sound doctrine, and that we're applying it, that we're not just stuffing it in our heads. But that we're uh taking to heart what we're learning about why you have left us here in this earth. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.