And they record three three instances. So each gospel, you know, they don't have four Bible Or six, they have three. So I think that's a lot to me that gives a lot of weight to each gospel saying there's three, and here are the three that we've recorded for you. So now the the problem I think that you're trying to address is how do we reconcile each of those accounts. And like I don't see a problem in the the second denial with uh the accuser, either the man or the slave girl. Just like you said, I think they're in a crowd, multiple people are probably a accusing him he's he's probably just you know addressing all of them you know all the accusations and I don't see a problem with the location there either. You know it just says a little while later and just you know I just there there there may be it may be difficult but I think each each gospel is recorded three a three specific specific denials and I think their agreement just some of the details and you know how all that was working out is maybe difficult for us, but I I don't see the pro you know that that it's Irresolvable. Then you need to come up with a solution. This is a solution that reconciles them without ignoring what was actually said by Jesus Right. Um and what he said was, you're gonna deny me three times before rooster grows. Yeah, and I think you know, well, what is our inter I mean when Mark says, you know, and and he requotes there in Mark was 14, Jesus said to him, Assuely I say to you That today even this night before the rooster froze twice you will deny me three times. And so so I I don't see how we can stretch that into six times You know, when he says it's going to be three times, it's a specific number. And uh and here it's recorded as at least requiring twice, and and Mark makes um sure that he records both instances of the rooster crowing. So I think you know he's given us detail there. And the three instances and the rooster colling twice and the other counts with the rooster crowing, you know, does does that mean um when the rooster crows Is is that you know in sig signaling the the beginning of the day the daytime? Is it you know what is what is our and what is the understanding of that? Is is it Uh does it have to be the initial the very first time or is it you know after two or three times the rooster crows and and then crows no know more because the day has started No. Yeah, but Jesus specifically says, I say to you, a rooster will not crow until you deny me three times And according to this traditional view, the rooster crowed after the first. That's not three times. He says there in Mark fourteen that the rooster will crow twice and you'll deny me three. Three times. And a rooster, according to this view, crowed after the first denial So um uh I'm not trying to make any converts here. Um but I do want to emphasize it for the purpose of hermeneutics How do we approach the interpretation of God's Word? And the key here is that we Take God's word for what it says and not um uh uh read into it things that it doesn't say It's good to draw conclusions from what Scripture said, but those conclusions need to be subject to the rest of what Scripture says Right? Even our conclusions that are based on a portion of Scripture can be uh slightly off center if they violate something else that Scripture has said. Right, that's just good hermeneutics. We have to take all of the accounts. Now in this case, we've got uh four accounts where they're all providing information And it would behoove us to make use of all of those. Did I see another hand? Yeah, Larry. As long as we're coming at a presupposition that this is a God's infallible word. Because when we ask the hard question that forces us To think at a deeper level. And we have to see truth and treasure there that we would not have seen had we not asked the hard questions. Right Right. And again, I want to emphasize in this particular case, it doesn't really matter in terms of our salvation, any theology, whether he denied him three times or six times. That's not the issue. The issue is what you're saying. How do we approach Scripture And if if we get to a passage that has a lot of application to it, and we don't take into account what it actually says and what the rest of the scriptures say in that context. We're likely to come out with the wrong conclusion. And this is just a simple example of that possibility. Yeah, Sharnae, did you have a question? Yeah, you know so it's two different little I don't think it really matters. What it is is two different crowings It could be the same rooster, it could be it could be a chorus of roosters. I don't know. Yeah, and I'm like I I'm with um I guess I don't know if it was Anne or um the other guy before Yeah, that that shirts me up as well. I'm like, well, there are different locations that that meeting it has to be Well the point is the people there heard a rooster crow. And they weren't really concerned whether whether it was the same rooster the second time or a different rooster. Um core like Peter heard it. Well clearly Peter heard it. Yeah. I'm putting on a big blow. Um with the Whoopsot queries and all three times one crime. What am I supposed to be given? from this exactly. I just want to be clear because we are talking about the lack of price. What should I be getting from this account? Yes. Right. Denise before it goes several times all kinds of times, what should I be thinking about in the first case? Right. What we should all be getting from this is only how do I study scripture It's not so much the this event. I mean this has lots of application to it in terms of our being faithful with Christ, but I'm focusing on this for the purpose of emphasizing a correct approach to interpreting Scripture. And um Alerting us to the likelihood that we could be approaching any passage of Scripture, one which would maybe have a lot of application to us In a way that we overlook what the passage is actually saying or what the the the expanse of scripture entirely is saying on that subject, come away with a conclusion from our study that might not be 100% correct. It could be substantially correct, but not Completely, and it may have and that incompleteness of our interpretation may have a direct impact on our application. That's why it's important to study the scripture correctly so that we get the right application out of it. Now in this particular case, um Whether it was three, whether it was six, how many how many roosters there were, that has no bearing on our application directly. Right? But the principles of interpretation do Yeah, that's the point. It's also important because we want to know what scripture says. Like we're going to learn and preach it. What does the Bible say here? Not what we've been taught since a child. And a lot of And we've all been taught, oh, because when um Jesus returned after being resurrected and he was on the seashore cooking the fish and he says Peter, do you love me? He did it three times because he had denied him three times. It's not what the scripture says, and that's not I have an interesting story That's not what that means at all. But it's stuff that we've been taught since childhood, traditions, and we believe those over what does the Bible really say? And this is what we're trying to dig out here. What does it really say? Right. It's all about interpretation. Yeah. Okay, well Having said that, let's go to page 250 and begin this exciting drama, actually. You can picture this What you've got is uh primarily Peter. We don't see much reference, I don't think, to to John at this point, but Peter is it's The focus is on Peter and on Christ. And so these things are happening simultaneously. Jesus is being interrogated at various stages, and uh during that same time Peter is is um uh in the courtyard or thereabouts and these various things are happening And so in e most of the accounts, I think in all of the four gospel accounts, you've got this back and forth. And it's not that they were happening, one was happening then the other so much as they're happening simultaneously. And uh a great period of time is happening, actually. The the wee hours of the morning, one o'clock or two o'clock, are making their way into like five o'clock in the morning And um and ultimately a rooster's scrolling because it is morning, right? So uh there's some passage of time here and we've got these accounts going back and forth. Okay, so section 181, uh John says, so the other disciple, meaning himself, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the doorkeeper and brought Peter in. Then the slave girl who kept the door said to Peter, You are not also one of this man's disciples, are you? Now why would you put it that way? Because she knew John was, right? You are not also one of this man's disciples, are you? And he said, I am not. And apparently said that in John's hearing. John would have been right there. And so that's his his first denial And um then in section one hundred eighty two you've got now all four of the Gospels Peter entered right into the courtyard of the high priest. Now the slaves and the officers were standing there, having kindled a charcoal fire in the middle of the courtyard, for it was cold and they were warming themselves. And Peter also was with them standing and warming himself. And then I inserted the word then they because it says particularly in uh I guess it's Luke, sat down together. Peter was sitting among the officers, warming himself at the fire. And uh to see the outcome. The outcome of what? Jesus' interrogation, right? So Um he kind of makes his way in there kind of a little bit incognito, except that the slave girl knows that or um was thinking he must also be a uh Disciple of Christ. So he's he's while he's there and kind of taking this all in Jesus is examined by Annas. And remember, Annas had been high priest, and I'm not sure maybe he would be again if there's still a rotation, but Anyway, he he won the first crack at Jesus. I think this may have been mostly out of his curiosity. Um possibly strategically he wanted to get Jesus to incriminate himself a little bit here. But this is from the Gospel of John, John 18. The high priest, this is Anna, so he's even referred to as the high priest. It's like when when um When a president retires, he's still called Mr. President. I think that's sort of what's happening here. The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and about his teaching. And Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world. I always taught in the synagogues and in the temple where all the Jews come together, and I spoke nothing in secret. And we've seen this, right? It often said he was at in the temple area teaching. Why do you question me? Question those who have heard what I spoke to them. They know what I said Now why would he say that? He has witnesses. Witnesses. Exactly. They're supposed to be having witnesses whose testimonies agree and not to get the you know, it's it's it's like when these days when somebody's arrested you have the right to remain silent. know anything you say uh can be used against you in a court of law and all that sort of stuff, right? Um the same principle was applied here and they should have, and they knew, and we're gonna see a little bit later they knew That they should have witnesses so that this guy didn't have to incriminate himself. And so he's saying, you know, do your job. I've spoken openly Um question those who have heard what I've spoken to them, and who know what I said. And when he had said this, one of the officers standing nearby struck Jesus, saying, Is that the way you answer the high priest? And Jesus answered him, if I've spoken wrongly, testify what of the wrong. Right? But if rightly, why do you strike me? So um one would hope there would be a little bit of conviction going on here in the part of the of the um Both the high priest and his uh officers. But this wasn't the actual trial. This is just a warm-up. And it's very early. the the the whole council was I guess still assembling um and a lot of them had to get out of bed in order to come to this kangaroo court But uh Anis wanted to first crack at him. And so we did. Okay. So section 184. Uh yeah. Can you um pause just for a minute to talk about the the religious environment And the terminology here because it's using terms that are a part of the Christian church and if whether priest or high priest. And I I think earlier, maybe it was last year in this class, you were saying that the someone of the order of priests, they are a part of the um Jerusalem Temple. So that class that religious class is kind of geographically centered around Jerusalem. Jerusalem and the temple and sacrifices and so forth. Where a Pharisee would be associated with the various satellite of synagogues throughout all of Israel. And I was just reading in in the book of Leviticus about these various um laws and going through the system of making a a judgment of someone's behavior and whether they broke the law and what the the penalty is. So is it is it the Levites with every priest and especially Well uh uh yes. So there are Levites who are all descended from Levi Right? Um but there were also priests who were Levites, but descended from Aaron. And so the high priest particularly had to be a descendant of Aaron, also which makes him a Levite, right? There are lots of Levites uh apart from Aaron and Moses and so on. Um but yes, they would have been devoted to the um uh the the um priestly duties around the temple. Initially the tabernacle, but then now the temple. Including making a judgment on legal matters. If there's a there's a legal dispute that's brought it's would it be the Levites in particular or the priests in particular who would make a decisive judgment on a legal matter. Well it at this point in time, the council, the Sanhedrin, which was seventy of the um it may not have always been seventy, I'm not sure But um the the the the council is often referred to in in the Gospels and I think Acts It sort of jointly had that, and I g I guess you could say the the high priest sort of presided over that body. So And any Pharisees that were um a part of this kangaroo court, they they may have been wanting a certain outcome, but they were not Um part of the legal um authority to to carry it out. Yeah, the the the the council, the Sanhedrin, uh was composed of both um Levites, well both um Sadducees and Pharisees. Uh it's not com I mean Pharisees I think yeah I'm sure Pharisees came from all the tribes. Pharisees were lay people, they weren't necessarily Right. But Paul was from Benjamin, right? Yeah. Paul was apparently. Yeah. And from the tribe of Benjamin. Right. But the the Sadducees, um, I'm not sure if they were all Levites, but they were the ones who were focused on the operation of the temple. And the Pharisees, like you said, were more the teachers of the of the law and the application of the law. They were the ones who were word-centered. Misunderstood it, but they were word-centered, whereas the Sad the Sadducees, the the chief priests and and so on, um had long since abandoned uh reliance on the Word of God. Well that that helps me to understand that the the body who was actually making a judgment here is um collectively the those Sanhedrin. And the Sanhedrin was had a diversity of backgrounds and tribes that cost you. Right. Right. And agendas. Different agendas. Yeah. Now it turns out at this point they all had one primary agenda, that is to get rid of Christ. For different reasons. Weren't they weren't they concerned that the Romans were gonna crack down on them? Yeah, the the um the chief priests, the the priests, the Sadducees, for sure. I don't think the Pharisees were as concerned about Rome. They wanted release from that Roman bondage. They wanted to practice Judaism as God had given it. And to the extent that Rome was in the way of that, that's a bad thing. But um the Sadducees were okay sort of with Rome because Rome was protecting their standing, their position, their power. And um That's just anathema to the Pharisees. Yeah. Okay. So where are we at here? 184. So Jesus is sent to appear before the high priest and the Sanhedrin. So this now begins the the the more formal court proceedings. So Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest. Those who had seized Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, where all the chief priests and the scribes and the elders were gathered together. So um it's hard to say exactly what time this was, but it was the wee hours of Friday morning for sure I say while that's happening, while he's making that way over, or they're beginning that process, uh we then turn to Peter in John 18. Where it says, now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they said to him, You are not also one of his disciples, are you? And he denied it and said, I am not. Again, a very direct denial. Um and he's just trying to sort out what's going on, and he's He's um you you kinda you gotta kinda wonder here if Christ's warning to him is still ringing in his ears. Probably is to some extent. extent, but the pressure of the moment. Um and we've probably been in a situation similar to this where we had this prime opportunity to um stand up for Christ and to proclaim his name and the gospel. And all of a sudden our tongue is tied, we can't say a thing. And we know at the time that, man, I really ought to take advantage of this opportunity, but we don't. It's probably similar to what's going on in Peter's life here. And um today uh our talk group we spoke about denying crime. I wanted to came out and many of us deny crime every day, not just by standing up but in our behaviors. Sometimes we have an opportunity to tell the truth, but we just don't and that's the name quite. Sometimes we have an opportunity to act in the character that people to our life in Christ, and we don't. And those are little ways where every day we deny Christ. Yep, definitely. And so uh section one hundred eighty six Focus here now is on this the beginning of this interrogation by uh the Sanhedrin. And so the blended account I'll read from is on page 252. Now, the chief priests and the whole council kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus. So that they might put him to death. And they did not find any, even though many false witnesses came forward. So they understood the need for witnesses, right? But their testimony was not consistent. And so it's not going to forward their their agenda. If we've got two witnesses but they disagree with one another, obviously those aren't reliable uh substantiatable um testimonies. But later on, two stood up and came forward And began to give false testimony against him, saying, We heard this man say, I am able to and will destroy this temple of God made with hands and will build another made without hands in three days. Now why do you suppose they would say that? They were paid. They were paid. Yeah. Well, um I I don't I don't know very much about biblical archaeology, but I learned that in seventy AD the temple was the destroyed. Um and the there was a group called the Zelists who were rebelling. So it was probably their big preoccupation. Um oh my gosh, these one of the the zealots and then in Acts you know um there's a discussion in the Jewish council and Gamaliel says remember that guy who came along a few years ago But he got slaughtered and his movement disbanded. Um so it kind of shows that it was like a very volatile time. And probably that accusation that oh crap Right. Yeah, they're trying to pin on him the accusation of insurrectionist for sure. Yeah. Um but did did Jesus say anything like this? Yeah, the beginning of John. Yeah, the beginning of John What was the context? It was after he cleansed the temple the first time, right? And he says, uh destroy this temple. He didn't say I will destroy. He says, destroy this temple and I will rebuild it in three days. And John, of course, adds the commentary at that point, he was re they understood later he was referring to the temple of his body, right? Not that temple. Jesus kept it fairly obtuse, I guess, to the average listener there, and they were just scratching their heads for sure. What's this guy saying? But it it's clear that he was referring, he was challenging them about his own purpose for being here, his death and resurrection. And so on. So what they said, they may have actually heard him say that. But they've embellished it, haven't they? Their quote was, we heard this man say, I am able to and will destroy this temple of God made with hand. And we'll build another that is made without hands in three days. They're adding all this other stuff to um uh uh put some meat on uh yeah meat on the bones of their basic uh accusation that he's an insurrection. Yeah. Yeah. I want to ask you a question. Um just like a little man. You know, at that time was cleaned a temple and He said, destroy it in three days. I mean destroy it and I'll bring you back in three days. What is it like people that the normal late man like myself will say okay You know, playing into the temple who's actually referring to the temple and not thinking about it. Yeah, you you can't really fault them for for scratching their head Right. And and for assuming that he meant that physical temple. You can't fault them for thinking that. You can fault them for embellishing what he said. He didn't say he was going to do it. Um and um that's the main thing. They're they're pinning that intent on him, and therefore he's an insurrectionist. Yeah. So in verse uh sixty two, the high priest stood up and came forward and questioned Jesus, saying Do you not answer? What is it that these men are testifying against you? But Jesus kept silent and did not answer. And again the high priest was questioning him, saying to him, I adjure you by the living God, which means, you know, this is This is um um very serious and it's incumbent on you to answer in this setting. That you tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God, the Blessed One. And Jesus said to him, I am. You have said it yourself. Nevertheless, I tell you hereafter that you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest tore his robes. Why? Blasphemy. That was the Old Testament uh requirement in the In response to obvious blasphemy, tore his robes and said, He has blasphemed. What further need do we have of witnesses? We're all witnesses, essentially, right? Behold, you have now heard the blasphemy. What do you think? How does it seem to you? And they answered, He deserves death. And they all condemned him to be deserving of death. So um they already kn knew that's the conclusion they were going to come to And they well they did know better. But they went anyway. They did. Yeah. Yeah. Um What's interesting here is Jesus was silent about the the um the accusation of insurrection Because the facts speak for themselves. But when asked whether he was in fact the Son of God, he answered correctly. Okay. 187. Again, this is all four of the Gospels. And again, you've got the trial going on, and then you've got Peter out in the courtyard. Peter is also a false witness. Uh this is an interesting contrast in false witnesses, isn't it? Yeah. As Peter was sitting outside below the courtyard, in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest, being a relative of the one whose ear Peter cut off. came to him, and seeing Peter, as he sat in the firelight, warming himself, she looked intently at him and said, This man was with him too. Did I not see you in the garden with him? Um why would she be so alert? It was her her relative whose ear got cut off and she was right there in the midst of them. Why would she be in the garden for such a Well that that description of the crowd who came does describe uh all the soldiers and everything, including Romans, but also slaves. That's why Nauchus was there. Um they were being sent by the high priest, they were servants of the high priest. Um Maybe they were holding lanterns, who knows? But um, You also were with Jesus the Galilean, the Nazarene, but and that was derogatory But he denied it again before them all, saying, Woman, I do not know him. I neither know nor understand what you're talking about. And he went out onto the porch and immediately a rooster crowed. Um We did it. That's the end of this class, this this uh section. Um but Kind of tip the scales a little bit. Next week's lesson is pretty extensive, so I want to pick up just a couple of um uh sections in the next lesson. Can I just add one more question? Oh yes, yeah. Just one other comment on the denials. Um you know, and and the the biggest problem I think from your the way it's laid out is Trying to reconcile uh the rooster crowing versus not crowing and with it denial happened. But I think uh a good point, Julie thought uh Was um you know the rooster crowing can just be an idiom for the next watch. Whereas when the rooster crows crows twice, that's a literal description of the rooster That may be the only thing that was used as an idiom though. I'm sorry? I see that. If that is true it's an idiom, I think that's the only thing that's used as Yeah. I think the crowing twice is literal, but I wouldn't have any problem thinking that a rooster curling is Okay. Oh sorry. I I just had a question. Um Jesus he reveals he's the Messiah very few times to people. So directly anyway. Is this the first time he explicitly reveals his identity? Um he did it because Um I don't know. I don't think so. He told pilot, didn't he? That's that's coming up. Oh it's coming up. He hasn't gotten it. Oh sorry. I mean he but Yeah, that was actually John 6, the bread of life. Pretty sure. And that's in the middle. Um I mean so in the tab that said that I'm Jesus wasn't enemy. How many times have you, you know, tried to look at the cycle so Yeah. I am the father of one. Yeah, I think that I think this is the process. I I think the question is in terms of a direct statement. Yeah. Um, earlier well no, earlier in John ten Or John eight. They took up stones to throw at him because he made himself equal with God. Yeah, but I don't think it makes a make clear declaration like they did here. Well, I and the father are one. Yeah, I know, but he's saying look at what he's saying. Yeah. That's because they adjure him, tell us point blank. Right. Yeah. So the the point blank direct yes and no, probably the first time. Yeah. Should they have gotten the message earlier? I think yes. Very much so. And also at their rest, he says, I am. Who are you seeking? Jesus of Nazareth, right? I am. But this is the most point blank for sure. I asked because in the beginning of John they go to John the Baptist and ask, are you the Messiah? He says, no, I'm not. But now we get an actual confession from Jesus saying, I am the Messiah, but they don't believe him. Right. Right. Well that was my question. Yeah I think that's right. Uh but yeah, th those are all um metaphors. I am the door, I am the the light of the world, you know, those kind of metaphors which are not quite the direct answer to the question are you the Messiah, the Son of God? Well you did see in John before Abraham was I and if you're ready to I answer Yeah, and just America's only set. It all gets back to uh per minuti, right? Also also All right. Well hey, um I'm gonna real quickly here, just because of the the substance of next week, go to section 188. Where it says when he had he, Peter, had gone out to the gateway, the servant girl saw him and asked once more to the bystanders who were there, this man was with Jesus of Nazareth. This is one of them. And again he denied it with an oath. I do not know the man. And then finally, Luke has finally, at least for today. Luke has in verse 58 of chapter 22, a little later, another saw him and said, You are one of them too. But Peter said, Man, I am not. So next week we're going to continue with the um uh the trial of Christ, and again it's back and forth with uh both the Sanhedrin and then with um uh pilot and so on. So um yeah. Let's pray.