All right. Well, we are uh a little bit behind. We didn't finish last week's lesson So we are on page 239. And I'm going to see if it's possible to finish last week's lesson and this week's lesson. We'll see how that goes All right, so if you remember, we uh left off with Jesus and the disciples leaving from the upper room They're heading toward uh or maybe at this point are in um uh Gethsemane, the Mount of Olives, but um John seventeen is usually referred to as Christ's high priestly prayer. Interestingly, he may have been praying this while walking toward the Mount of Olives or uh maybe shortly after arriving there, but probably in the full hearing of his disciples. It wasn't like he got off a alone necessarily. So um I'll pick up reading. The blended account is easy, right? John 17. So Jesus spoke these things. And lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, Father, the hour has come. So he knew very much the timetable. um what he was currently in. Glorify your son, that the Son may glorify you. Even as you gave him authority over all flesh, that to all whom you have given him He may give eternal life. This is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I glorified you on the earth, having accomplished the work which you have given me to do. Now, Father, glorify me together with yourself. With the glory with which I had with you before the world was. I manifested your name to the man whom you gave me out of the world They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they have come to know that everything you have given me is from you. For the words which you gave me, I have given to them, and they received them and truly understood that I came forth from you. And they believed that you sent me. I ask on their behalf. I do not ask on behalf of the world, but of those whom you have given me, for they are yours And all things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I have been glorified in them. I am no longer in the world, and yet they themselves are in the world. in the world, and I come to you, Holy Father, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, the name which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are. While I was with them, I was keeping them in your name, which you have given me. I guarded them, and not one of them perished but the son of perdition, so that the scriptures would be fulfilled. But now I come to you, and these things I speak in the world, so that they may have my joy made full in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. For they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. world. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. I do not ask on behalf of these alone, but also for those who believe in me through their word. See, he was praying for us as well. That they may all be one, even as you, Father, are in me and I in you. That they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you sent me The glory which you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one, just as we are one. In them, I in them, and you in me, that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world may know that you sent me. And love them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, Be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory which you have given me. For you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, although the world has not known you, yet I have known you, and these have known that you have sent me. And I have made your name known to them, and will make it known, so that the love with which you loved me may be in them, and I in them. So Jesus here um uh was praying on a number of themes. One was uh as he was approaching his sacrificial death on our behalf, he was praying for uh God the Father to be glorified. That's a major theme here. Also praying for the unity of his disciples and others who would uh come to Christ. And that unity would be through Scripture, adherence to the Word. And uh that that faithfulness to the Word uh uh builds the unity he was praying for. Also that the testimony of the uh the life and ministry of his disciples and those who have come to Christ through them uh would penetrate the world so that the world would know that Christ was the Messiah. Come from God the Father to Yeah. Can you imagine listening in on that and being um I don't know. Reassured? Uh awed. Yeah After Allen, kind of a fundamental question, but w what do you say priest? What did we mean for priest? And since Hebrews says that Jesus still has that priesthood hole of what what might be some of his responsibilities. Well um given that this is called Christ's High Priestly Prayer, uh Um he didn't actually call it that. I don't think the word does, but um it's fitting in many respects because the role of a priest is to be an intermediary between man and God And scripture reminds us that we have one mediator between us and God Jesus Christ. And so in that role, He's interceding for us, even as He was in this passage here. And uh hi his ultimate role as our high priest was to not only make the sacrifice, but to be the sacrifice That would satisfy the wrath of God, allowing us to have that relationship with God. So he uh was was and is the ultimate mediator between man and God. So if we if we have sinned or maybe we're tempted to sin, does Jesus have an involvement in in that today to help us to get away from it or I guess to be restored to God. Sure. Yeah, I'm reminded of just um earlier that evening Jesus told Peter that Satan has desired to sift him like wheat, but he prayed for him. That um he he would be able to withstand and once he does to um uh minister to his brothers So he he um he's our advocate with the father. And um We often fall short, and clearly he's tender in his compassion and forgiveness as we repent. Okay. And so on. Jesus in this prayer um mentioned the name of the father a number of times when he said, um, I've kept it in your name. Yes, keep them in your name. What do you think uh that expression is Your name they were referring to. Was it referring to a specific designation of the father? Or was it referring to the power of the father? Exactly what do you think that um the use of that um be your speech variable? Yeah. So he says specifically uh keep them in your name. The name which you gave have given me, that they may be one even as we are. So um To be in the name of, in this case, God the Father, uh is to um Be in relationship with him and under his authority. And so um You know, we can we're also told to pray in the name of Christ And we can do that if we're in Christ and we're submitted to his authority. And so it's it's not our own authority that that we bring any request to God. It's because we're in Christ we can pray under His authority in His name. Um You know, you can kind of think of it a little bit like um uh Um yeah, it mostly has to do with um knowing him, coming under his authority, not being uh rebellious toward him. It's um Uh being in relationship with him. Yeah. If they were truly born again, they're in Christ. And kids know about these balloons. Often they're used at babies showers where there's toys inside. They couldn't say there are something inside a balloon. And I said it's just as if we're inside a red balloon. The red being the blood of Christ that saves us. And when God looks at us or looks at me, He doesn't see me. He sees me through the blood of Christ. And that's where we are safe inside. Okay. Okay. Yes. In in Jeremiah, the New Covenant, God says, I will give them one heart and one way. is what Jesus has promised. Yeah, yeah, that unity that comes from the the um the uh sacrifice of Christ and his um uh building the the the family of God out of all the world, yeah, that would be part of the I was just gonna say um in the world today a lot they always say truth is relative. I mean that's always you know thing for it And if you witness to some people like, well, oh that's nice for you, you know, but that's not my you know, for me, that kind of thing. And then Ponti Pilate does the same thing, but it is true. So verse seventeen is pretty clear. Thanks, but thank you for the truth. Your word is true. That's not relative. That's not relative, it's not a program This is what God says. Right. Yep. Uh I was uh sorry, was there another one I was just saying you could have Yeah, I was talking with um a colleague at work today, uh not today, uh this week, this past week, who um Made some comments that kind of opened the door to some discussions about what is ultimate truth. And that led to an interesting discussion. Um and that um either there is no ultimate truth or we're created by God and He has revealed to us what we need to know about ultimate truth. truth. And it's a whole mo a whole lot more rational to believe the latter. It was an interesting discussion. I don't know if it um if uh the Lord was planting any seeds there. But yeah. Ultimate truth And he says, sanctify them in truth. What is sanctify? Set apart is to make more and more holy, right? To be dedicated to the truth, to be built on the truth, rather than our philosophies, waywardness, and so on Okay. So I find it interesting that here he has This somewhat extended open prayer with the Father, perhaps as they're walking along, we're not exactly told. Except in Matthew 26, it says then Jesus came Although Matthew didn't have John seventeen built into it, so it's a little hard to say when he actually arrived at Gethsemane, but presumably after he had prayed that. And what does he do as soon as he gets to Gethsemane? He prays. This time more alone. And um so here we're gonna see an increasing number of uh sections here that are covered in all four of the Gospels. It's very mu it's much more common in this last uh week of the Lord and uh even more so perhaps now here in the last uh few days. of this earthly ministry. But anyway, uh I'm going to read from the blended account here on page two forty-one When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the ravine of the Kidron. So even John. Yeah, I'd forgotten that. Even John mentions that he was praying this prayer on their way, not having already gotten to the Mount of Olives. And so the river Cadrone is what separates Jerusalem proper from the Mount of Olives. And so he crosses the ravine of the Kedron, where there is a garden called Gethsemane, in which he entered with his disciples. Then Jesus said to his disciples, sit here while I go over there and pray. And we might have been tempted if we were there to say, we you're just praying. You're gonna do some more praying? Anyway, this was probably Either very late at night Thursday or maybe early, very early wee hours of Friday morning. So sit here while I go over there and pray. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, James and John, and began to be grieved and very distressed. Then he came, then he said to them, My soul is deeply grieved to the point of death. Remain here and keep watch with me. And they're thinking, yeah, right, keep watch. It's one AM. Um But it must have been very clear to them that Jesus was indeed deeply grieved to the point of death. And it must have left a mark on them. uh to see the seriousness with which he said, uh, remain here and keep watch with me. And he went about a stone's throw beyond them and knelt down and fell to the ground on his face and prayed that if it were possible the hour might pass by pass him by, saying, Abba what's Abba mean? Daddy, my father, all things are possible for you. That's Aramaic. All things are possible for you. If it is possible and if you are willing Remove this cup from me. What cup? The cross. The sacrifice he was about to need to make Yet not as I will, but as you will. You see the submission of the Son to the Father. Now, an angel from heaven appeared to him, strengthening him. And being in agony, he was praying very fervently. And his sweat became like drops of blood. Does it mean that he s sweated blood? No, it just says became like drops of blood. Thicker than usual probably. Probably not red. Um why wouldn't it have been? Because it says like. Uh it didn't have to be red you need to. That's what I said it didn't need to be red. Uh okay. We don't know. It says it was like drops of blood, right? We don't know in what ways it was like. Yeah. There must have been something to distinguish it from one square. So say function was different. And when you think drops of blood, what do you think? You think red. Well blood doesn't usually come in drops, it usually flows. So it could be drops of blood just little Whatever it was, it was like drops of blood. We don't know in what ways it was like. We have no idea. Maybe someday we will, right? So uh my question is um you you submission the copyright, you know, when it's got a password. Uh you said that was the cross. Uh my question would be Would that be the cost of the ramplicing? Yeah, we're good that's the point. We're gonna get there. Yep. Yep, that's definitely the point. Let's read the account here first, though. Falling down upon the ground, these whatever they were, like drops of blood. And when he arose from prayer, he came to the disciples and found them sleeping from sorrow. And said to Peter, Simon, are you asleep? So you men could not keep watch with me for one hour? Why are you sleeping? Get up and keep watching and praying that you may not enter into temptation. The Spirit is willing. But the flesh is weak. He went away again a second time, and prayed the same words, saying, My Father, if this cannot pass away unless I drink it, your will be done. And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they did not know what to answer him. And he left them again, and went away and prayed a third time, saying the same thing Then he came to the disciples and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough. Behold, the hour has come, and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands. of sinners. Get up, let us be going. Behold, the one who betrays me is at hand. So um Yes. The question is what is the cup here? And so my first bullet under the the blended account there says that the agony that Jesus experienced Was less so in anticipation of the physical torture that he was about to endure, but more so in anticipation of the spiritual separation From God the Father. God the Son, who from eternity past had always enjoyed fellowship with the Father, would soon come to the point where by All the sins of mankind that he would bear on the cross would make he became sin on our behalf. And therefore God the Father turned his back on God the Son during those key hours when he was on the cross. Um I think it's pretty pretty clear that he was more concerned about that than he was the first time. physical. Now this is that's not to to diminish the extent of the physical pain and torture and so on that he endured, but um That separation from the father was, I'm pretty sure, the main thing causing him to be deeply grieved to the point of death. Yeah well when we're talking all our city class present creatures, the most wild things you can think of, death, murder, hate, you know, anger blood all that stuff. Um did he have to physically experience that? I mean we know that he died and suffered physically and we know that the separation was unprecedented. But in that separation, do we have any idea of what he experienced like did he actually have experiences Or do we then know? He experienced the wrath of God directed toward those things. And the um the good news is that he propitiated Which is what? He satisfied the wrath of God against our sin. Yeah. That's what he did. He satisfied God's wrath. Taking on himself. And on the cross he said to telesti, paid in full. So wouldn't you say that spiritual separation tries a physical Manifestation because it's the spiritual separation from God that causes the wrath. Mm-hmm. I think it's essentially causes the wrath and not the I mean I'm not calling anything. So when we're spiritually separated from God, so we encourage his wrath. And I'm saying that that has a physical component to it. Um am I reading too much back? Well agony of the soul is far greater than the agony in the body Right, but if if we're not in Christ, anyone who is not in Christ will experience that separation from God for eternity and it will include torment. Right. Weeping and gnashing of teeth and all that sort of stuff, right? Um that's a a consequence of being um um under the wrath of God. But the physical aspects of Christ's crucifixion and the uh you know the crown of thorns and the um stored in the side. Of course that was after he died. But the physical aspects of that torture um were um I guess that that's separate, but I when I think about the rap that he incurs, is that just the soul or was that the physical component as well? Or am I just leaving too much into that Yeah, I think think of it mostly as uh separation, spiritual separation from the Father. You know, when we sin, we feel that same separation because Father Arson does the same thing. So we have a little modern idea of what that separation does. Immediately during Christ and And you then you you don't feel physically so much bad, it's more like in your heart. Which can cause physical problems, too. Yeah. Right. I think yeah, I think I So it is as That interests because he knew what it would be like and said what to backtrack a little, how do we know that that is what Rather than the physical aspects of it? Uh-huh. Um people die all the time. Yeah and and here um I'm trying to think of of any passages that might help us get into his frame of mind at that point. But um He wasn't afraid to die like, oh no. You see his his boldness during this week, knowing what was coming. You see his prayer to the Father, knowing that the time has now come. He wasn't afraid to die in the sense of having accomplished his ministry and leaving and so on. uh or even the manner of death, he doesn't really make any re reference to it. But he's had eternal uh fellowship with the Father. Uh And as he was saying in his prayer, sharing in the glory of the Father and having that That intimate fellowship continually from eternity past, that um it seems likely anyway That uh the prospect of God the Father turning his back on God the Son um would weigh very heavily on him. But he he knew it would be necessary. I think Larry had a hand up. and looking for physical suffering and emotional suffering that's very mingled together. Uh there'd be an issue But the what the first that uh I thought it was interesting was uh verse eleven that says um The anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make me to be accountable. Righteous the the anguish of his soul was what caused him to be sad. satisfied with the sacrifice. There's just a lot there. Yeah. But in Isaiah fifty two it would be looks like seven. It would be a physical good reference. More ag you had a thought there? The the stripes that he would bear. So there's this physical physical suffering. You've got a little answer to it in just a few hours to think, my God, my God. Why did you first I think Yeah. And of course that was a fulfillment of scripture too. Yeah. Yep. Um so in Hebrews twelve It says, For consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself lest ye become weary and discouraged in your souls, you have not yet resisted to bloodshed, striving against sin. And I've heard that verse applied to here in the garden where he's he's the the bloodshed, you know, sweating like drops of blood, striving against sin Then we see his prayer that his will is for there to be some other way so that he doesn't have to suffer to the cross and the separation from God. Um so he's he's striving, you know, and we're told in Hebrews that in all points he was tempted like uh like us. And it seems like without sin And so so here in the garden it seems like he's striving against sin, you know, he's he's praying for the pot he he says his will, you know, is for the cup to pass from him But not his will. You know, he's gonna submit to the father's will. And so so striving against bloodshed, it seems like that ties in with the sweating like drops of blood You know, here that it begins here in the garden. Possibly. Yeah. He's clearly understanding the significance of that whole thing. And he's he's um preparing his heart for what he knows is coming. Yeah, time. Oh, you know just a bit of a nuanced question, I guess. And and he was dead for those three days of the fairies say that the Trinity was no more. Right? There's one member of the Trinity who no longer had fellowship. No. No. Um Before he actually died on the cross, he said it is finished. And the sun was darkened for those three hours. I think the three hours in which the Father was um um separated from the sun. Um yeah, so I don't I don't think I would Say that the Trinity ceased to exist. Yeah. There's some complex things going on in the relationship of the Trinity, particularly on the cross. But But it wasn't, because isn't that he said it wasn't too much? One of the things also I don't think an argument would be followed. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Um sorry to go back to the point. Um what does it mean the spiritual separation from the Father? How does that relate to the wrath of God? One is like I'm not gonna be around you, but then the wrath is like I am angry at you. So how is that related here? Well the same is true for for anyone Um you know, if if we were not in Christ, we would have to bear God's wrath ourselves. Um we're already, if that's our condition, we're already separated from God and we'll remain separated from Him forever. Um but then the culmination or the um fulfillment or the full expression of that wrath against our sin, we see a down payment of that here in our wretched lives if we're unsaved But we see it big time after we face God in the great white throne and he sentences us to eternal separation from him in the lake of fire. um eternal torment. Um so there's it's all because of the wrath of God against sin So you're saying the radical is passive? Passive? Yes, it's just separation. No, no. Just like Adam and Eve out of the garden, but um it's it's um Payment for the sin. Right? And so that's in the case of unbelievers, it's eternal torment in the lake of fire. In the case of Christ on our behalf, it was um Both uh being separate from God the Father because of Him bearing our sins And God unleashing his wrath on him even in his body. Um so i it's hard to separate the two. I'm just glad you're asking you all these questions. Victoria. Uh God says, you know, his children I will never leave out the statement that wife has existed. Obviously I'm thinking he's not lying, but he's really why he's taken by God. Um so I think that would answer the question, how do we know what he's thinking? Because He's saying God forgot us and that's the worst that could ever happen. And God promised us never even when we're dying. Even if we were like the the thief on the cross, he died makes kind of death, but he was taken the cross. But it sounds like your question was how can God be doing two things at one time? How can he be separate from Christ and yet pouring out his wrath at the same time? Is that What you were asking? No. I guess I'm asking if those two things are synonymous separation from God and also bearing the anger of God Yeah, so I I think a good analogy not analogy, but a good picture of that is what God required of Adam and Eve So there was separation required immediately, but also a judgment against them for their sin. That there was A uh you know the God didn't change the basic instruction for them to be um um stewards over creation, but he's m he made it a lot harder. Um and Uh by the sweat of your brow you will do the things that I've already commanded you to do. And by the way, you're going to go eventually into the ground from whence you came. Sorry? There was also a sacrifice pay. Yes, God made the first sacrifice by killing one or more animals to cover their shame, picturing that uh the the the punishment that they're bearing now uh is not the ultimate restoration of their relationship with with the end is ultimately going to be fulfilled by a substitute And they didn't have a lot of details, I presume, but they saw God graciously providing a substitute for their substance. Because he had told them, in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Who died? A substitute. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe in him is condemned already. The verdict is in. Right. Of course the full measure of that wrath comes at the end of their you know, after the judgment and so on. But they're seeing the the consequences of it now. And the very confused it's it's done. Yeah. No appeal. No appeal. Right. Okay. Well No, we gotta get into the next lesson here. Um And here in lesson 40, I'm now on page 244, or actually the blended account is on 245. His Betrayal, arrest, and forsaking him. Immediately, while he was still speaking, That is to the disciples about, arise, let's go, our betrayer has come. Behold, the one called Judas, one of the twelve, came up, accompanied by and preceding a large crowd with swords and clubs, who came from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders of the people. Now Judas also, who was betraying him, knew the place, that is Gethsemane For Jesus had often met there with his disciples. Judas, then, having received the Roman cohort and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees Quite a crowd, came there with lanterns and torches and weapons. Now, he who was betraying him Gave them a sign saying, Whomever I kiss, he is the one, seize him, and lead him away under guard. Now why would he have to say that This was happening at night. They had lanterns and stuff, but they're not going to be able to necessarily see in in a crowd. And so Judas knowing him and knowing his patterns, he would know how to find him. And there would be no mistaking who they should be getting. So after coming, immediately Judas went to Jesus and said, Hail Rabbi, and kissed him. And Jesus said to him, Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss? How ironic, in other words, right? Friend, Notice he says, friend here. Do what you have come for. So Jesus, knowing all things that were coming upon him, went forth and said to them, Whom do you seek? So he's he's um not backing down. He's he's he's uh in charge here essentially. And they answered him, Jesus the Nazarene. And he said to them, I am. The word he is not in the original Greek manuscripts. He said, I am. And Judas also, who was betraying him, was standing with them. And so when he said to them, I am, they drew back and fell to the ground. Wouldn't you have loved to have been there right then? Why do you suppose they drew back and fell to the ground? Yeah, I don't I don't think that they were voluntarily bending the knee to Jesus as the God. God I think was forcing them down here. Therefore, he again asked them, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus the Nazarene. And Jesus answered, I told you that I am He. So if you seek me, let these go their way. And then John's commentary here, to fulfill the word which he spoke, of those whom you have given me, I lost not one. Except the son of perdition. When those who were around him saw what was going to happen, they said, Lord, shall we strike with a sword? Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and seized him. And behold, Simon Peter, then, one of those who stood by with Jesus, reached and drew out his sword, and struck the slave of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. And the slave's name was Malchus. Then Jesus said to Peter, Stop, no more of this. Put your sword back into its sheath. For all those who take up the sword shall perish by the sword. The cup which the Father has given me, shall not I drink it? Or do you not think that I can appeal to my father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? A legion is six thousand soldiers How then will the scriptures be fulfilled which say that it must happen this way? And he touched his ear, that is, the ear of Nauchus, and healed him. At that time, Jesus said to the chief priests and the officers of the temple and the elders and the crowd who had come up against him: Have you come out with swords and clubs to arrest me as you would against a robber? Every day I used to sit with you in the temple teaching you, and you did not lay hands on me to seize me. But this hour and the power of darkness are yours. And all this has taken place to fulfill the scriptures of the prophets. So the Roman cohort and the commander and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him. Then all the disciples left him and fled. A young man was following him, wearing nothing but a linen sheet over his naked body. And they seized him, but he pulled free of the linen sheet and escaped naked. Well, a lot of interesting things happening here. Um this is a large crowd. It's a mixture of of Jewish leaders and uh temple guards and administrators probably and uh Roman uh soldiers as well. And they didn't want any anything to mess up their plan here. And it's interesting that Apparently all of them drew back and fell down to the ground. And here they're arresting a guy Who was demonstrating to his followers that no, the sword is not the answer, by healing, restoring the ear of the guy whose ear had been uh cut off. And so here they are arresting somebody who healed somebody in that way on the spot Can you imagine the guilt that that they must have been wrestling with at that point, but probably subduing because of their heart and hearts? Right. Here's one last opportunity for them to realize that this is God Himself who they're trying to corner. Was it earlier in this evening that Jesus said Carry the sword? Yes. He said we have two swords and he said that's enough. That's right. What do you get in there with the sword? He probably wasn't as impulsive as Peter. Um So Jesus very clearly here Was not being tricked. He was anticipating this. He was um uh um, and then we're not going to be able to do that. Um and he very clearly could have called on uh seventy-two thousand angels to make light work of these guys. But that was not God's will. Yeah. Um so yeah, there there is a point to uh uh you know the the cohort are a member of Six thousand. Oh six thousand. So so definitely a large crowd crowd, but Oh a cohort, a cohort, no, a legion of six thousand. I'm not sure what a cohort here, but it's it's it's a good good sized crowd of people. back when he said I am um where we're told why why that happens you know is that he's protecting the disciples. You have this large crowd, the tendency is to gonna be together up the entire group, you know, and take them all into custody. And so so what he's doing is focusing their attention on what their purpose is, you know, is not to together everyone's of his of the disciples It's it's to focus them, you know, I'm the one that you're after, I'm the one that you seek. Let these go. So it's Yeah, but it says they drew back and fell to the ground. Yeah, so they were physically pushed, you know, forced to the ground So I'm sure it was like a jolt that hit them. Yeah. And and so it makes them pay attention, you know, and then he repeats that, you know, who Who are you after? So he focuses their attention on him and him specifically so that they let the others go. One of the results of that seems to be clearly that it helped to protect the disciples at that point. Yeah. It's twelve twelve thousand obviously. That's a legion. Twelve lee twelve legions of angels. It's uh seventy-two thousand angels. A single angel killed 185 Assyrians. So do the math. But if the garden is just turning that big Um stacked up in some. Yeah, they they the people in the back rows probably didn't get to see much. Yeah. Um however there's an interesting thing here. Uh several interesting things. Um A theory I've heard that I think bears a lot of weight, given what we know, is that I think I may have alluded to this earlier Judas left them from the upper room. And the theory is that he was expecting to find Jesus there. It would be secluded, it wouldn't be as public, and this kind of thing. And that they actually he actually led them back to the upper room and found it empty. Now that would have been quite an uh caused quite a stir, um, if that's true At the very least among the people of the household, one of whom could have been John Mark. And um he may have been asleep at the time that he uh heard them come and all the rustle hustle and bustle and whatever. And this would have been news to him So he decided to follow them, wearing nothing but a sheet. Um Mark in his gospel is the only one who mentions that very curious thing. How did that fit in? And people have pretty universally understood that he's talking about himself here in kind of a humble way. But it's quite possible that he was led to do that because he was surprised, awakened from his sleep by uh Um Judas and the crowd coming to look for Jesus. Now, having not found him there, Judas knew the only other place he might be would be over at the Mount of Olives. And so sure enough that's where they found him Um and one reason Jesus would have left early before they arrived was uh Um so as not to put others in danger, but also to have more extended time in prayer and time with the disciples. So that's the theory. I think it's a pretty good theory, but it's just kind of piecing together what we know and making up what we don't know. Yeah. So going back to um when he told them to put away their sword, is it fair to say that um the kingdom of God doesn't operate using kind of coercive power and martial Law. Um the I've I've heard this phrase that when Jesus came into town he didn't send in the tanks ahead of him, you know. He came in in a subway But kind of vulnerable way. And that might have implications for the way that we try to influence and wield power. No, it's not a stretch. I mean, even when he was in uh uh interviewed. He was um tried by Pilate. Jesus said, um, you know, he's asking, Are you a king? He says, Yeah, but my kingdom is not of this world And if it were my people would um take up arms, right, to to defend me. And and so he was even making that message not just to Peter, but even to Pilate Um and so yeah, the point is that um uh the the the the gospel itself, the the process of of uh uh uh people coming into fellowship with God, that's that's not a physical thing. It's not like there's a Christian jihad, right? It's all by uh um a work of God in people's hearts rather than a physical struggle kind of thing. And I think he was just he was just um teaching that, uh but demonstrating it as well I think the power of his word, I am, demonstrating that he didn't need a sort of willpower. They fell backward by him saying I am because he's God the power of his word. He didn't he didn't need a sword, a physical sword. They if people didn't realize that that he could have killed them on the clock. Right But the point is that what's needed is God working in people's hearts, not the wielding of physical power. Oh hang on try. No, but I was just gonna um say the ticky back off. No, he will do that at one point, though he comes back to build up his kingdom. There is a time and a place where he will use it, but that's going to be in judgment, not as a point of building his kingdom and forcing people into it. Exactly Yeah. Um someone said I think accurately that uh Islam calls people to go and kill. Christ calls his people to go and die. Huge difference. Yeah. Yep. During during the judgments of violation, all the um the force and power that you've got Some yes. Yep. Yep. Okay. Well So you're saying these parts will be a little bit more Well we did fairly well. We've only got two little short sections here that we'll reserve to next week and they'll be a good transition, I think. However, you've got homework this week. Read through the intro stuff to next week's lesson before we're here next week. Okay, it will save us time. All right, let's pray.