All right, so last week we started with some ketchup. Not catch up, catch up. And got almost finished the previous lesson and then almost through our lesson last week. So today we're beginning On page fifty-two The Woman of the Well, Section twenty-seven in the notes. And this, of course, like much of what we've seen in early going here, has been just from the Gospel of John. Um that won't be the case as we uh proceed. But uh let me go ahead and and read through this. Uh we have the benefit of uh having recently heard um Uh Pastor Gabe preach on this. Um and and so we'll be able to supplement that. Okay. So Jesus uh the context here is that Jesus had gone up to the feast in Jerusalem. He'd um uh been in uh the outskirts of Jerusalem in the Judean area. And now He's going back into Galilee. And it says he had to pass through Samaria. That's that's an interesting subjects. Um most Jews wouldn't have put it that way. They would have gone around Samaria to get back to Galilee because uh They hated the Samaritans, they they they considered them um half breeds, I guess. uh Jewish descent but mixed with Gentile nations and have all sorts of strange uh and wrong uh religious practices, so on. And uh they just didn't want to Jews didn't want to intermle with Samaritans. Um And yet here's Jesus. He has to go through Samaria. Um the normal path would have been, you know how uh Jerusalem is in sort of central east-west wise in in Israel. And uh Samaria is j just to the north And in order to bypass it, they would typically go from Jerusalem back down to Jericho. um uh um near the Jordan River and they would go up and down the banks of the Jordan River going north and south to kind of skirt the whole Sumerian area. But Jesus had to. Not because it was the normal way, not because he was looking for the shortest distance But as we'll read, he had an appointment. Yeah. I was I'm just curious, is that from a religious standpoint for a Jew interacting with a Samaritan would that would that require them to do anything with it Make them unclean in some fashion or I d I don't think it actually made them ceremonial unclean, but it certainly made them uncomfortable. I think that's the point. Yeah. And they certainly didn't want to be um in their words defiled by the the wrong thinking, the religious practices, and accommodate that as if it's acceptable Right. That was sort of the idea. Right. Anyway, he had to pass through Samaria, so he came to a city of Samaria called Sikar. near a parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph, and Jacob's well was there So Jesus, being wearied from his journey, was sitting thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour. And there came a woman of Samaria to draw water And Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. So they're interacting with the Samaritans out of necessity, right? These disciples, to go get food Therefore the Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask me for a drink since I am a Samaritan woman? Not only is she a Samaritan, but she's a woman. For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. And Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. She said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? By the way That well is deep. Uh the well is still there. It's pretty well attested that that is the actual Jacob's well. Um And when you go there, they take some water and they dump it in and wait for it to splash. And it's a long way. It really is. It's deep. Right now it's in the basement of the church. They built a church around it because it was so famous and important. Anyway. Um you have nothing to draw with and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? You are not greater than our father Jacob, are you, who gave us this well and drank from it himself and his sons and his cattle? And Jesus answered and said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall never thirst. But the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life And the woman said to him, Sir, give me this water, so I will not be thirsty, nor come all um come all the way here to draw. She's obviously thinking, regular water, right? And he said to her, Go and call your husband and come here. And the woman answered and said, I have no husband. And Jesus said to her, You have correctly said, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one with whom the one whom you have now is not your husband. This you have said truly The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and you people, that is you Jews, say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. And Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem is the place for men ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, what nor in this uh yeah, neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father You worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know. For salvation is from the Jews. But an hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For such people, the Father seeks to be his worshippers God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship and worship him in spirit and in truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When that one comes, he will declare all things to us. And Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He Can you imagine that? You you get kind of get blown away if if he were to say that to you, right? And of course, at this time, the disciples came. And um they were amazed that he had been speaking with a woman, let alone a Samaritan. Yet no one said, What do you seek or why do you speak with her? So the woman they um so the woman later uh left her water pot Went into the city and said to the men, Come, see a man who told me all the things that I have done. This is not the Christ, is it? They went out of the city and were coming to him. Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples were saying to one another, No one brought him anything to eat, did he? And Jesus said to him, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Do not say uh do you not say, There are yet four months, and then comes the harvest? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, that they are white for harvest. And I'm sure in his thinking and probably their understanding at this point was he's also speaking about the Samaritans. Right. Look at look around. The fields are white for harvest. Already he who weeps is receiving wages and is gathering fruit for eternal life. So that he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. For in this case, the saying is true: one sows and another reaps. I sent you to read that for which you have not labored. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. From that city, many of the Samaritans believed in him. Because of the word of the woman who testified, he told me all the things that I have done. So when the Samaritans came to Jesus, they were asking him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. Many more believed because of his word. And they were saying to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves and know that this one is indeed the Savior of the world. One of the things that two things really that amaze me about this is one um This again, you know, we commented uh when uh we looked at Nicodemus, his interaction with Nicodemus. Number one is I if if I had been planning an evangelistic outreach to the Samaritans, this is not the way I would have done it probably. Right? I mean his interaction with her was Actually more direct and more explanatory than it was even with Nicodemus. A bit more personal. A bit more personal. She says, I am he. And um He was exposing her sins, but didn't talk a lot about the consequences of sins, presumably, because sh he understood that she understood what those consequences were. But she tries to change the subject a little bit, you know, in terms of place of worship and so on, and he kind of uh expands her her thinking uh in that But the other thing that really grips me here, I don't know if you saw it, but the other people who came, all Samaritans, they're coming, they're hearing from him, and their conclusion is um We have heard for ourselves and know that this one is indeed the Savior of the world. That's not the kind of response he's getting from a lot of Jews But he's getting it from the Samaritans. No wonder he had to go through Samaria. You remember when he ascended into heaven in Acts 1, um his command to them was to uh stay in Jerusalem, but once the Holy Spirit comes, uh you're to be my witnesses, both here in Jerusalem and Judea, its province And Samaria, he said. And the remotest part of the earth. And um The disciples should have been getting a a concept here that salvation, yes, salvation is from the Jews. It's through the Jews But it's not exclusively for the Jews. And as the book of Acts opens, that took a little while for the Jewish believers to understand, but they should have seen that progression really all along. Okay. Any thoughts, questions about the other thing. Uh Jesus is having this interaction along with the woman at the well, but John knew about it and write about it, so at some point found out about it, Jesus told him and discussed it. Interacting has sort of something going on there, some obvious communication going on. Um and then also the uh the question that my wife has, which I don't really have, is how does she how does she know that this is you? And not just somebody else in America. I think there was a difference in dress. Um It just it it's sort of obvious. Yeah. By the way, I I think it's also uh informative how Jesus when um a an expert in the Jewish law asks him or I forget who asks who, but the point was that the greatest command was, uh, beloved the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and the second is like it, to love your neighbor as yourself And then this expert in the law checks with Jesus by asking, okay, so who is my neighbor? Who should I be loving like myself And Jesus told them the parable of the good Samaritan. You know, when we think of Samaritan, we think of good. When they thought of Samaritan, they thought of bad. And in that parable the uh the priest goes by and and goes you know around the um I guess it was a Levite and then a priest. Um same kind of thing, but it was the Samaritan who was caring and and hospitable. Um Jesus didn't make a point of that other than this is the kind of neighborly treatment I'm talking about. Uh but he didn't make the point about Samaritans, it was understood Yeah. It's not our it's not our uh the label that people give us, it's what's going on in the heart. Yeah. I just gotta uh because I was kinda curious, you know, how did you recognize N to be a Jew? And I'm wondering, you know, like today you've got highways crisscrossing all over the place. There's probably only like Yeah, a path going north and a path going south. If you're coming from one or the other, then probably pretty much assume where you're coming from And it probably I'm assuming it's not well populated, so probably everyone who lives there knows who everyone is. They see a stranger and they're kinda like, oh, this person's probably Yeah, that could be part of it. Yeah, there were roads that crisscrossed and and so on, but um Yeah, it it was pretty obvious and I think most people could most Jews could spot a Samaritan and most Samaritans could spot a Jew pretty quickly. It could be some of that. I just think it was amazing that uh Jesus knew where he had to go. And um I think the length of the latest re representative stuff And uh and and I thought that it's more about the college the the importance of his speaking to that woman. I I think he spoke like no other and I think Yeah, and he was obviously probing her, knowing what the answers were, but getting her to work through the implications and so on I I was quite that you uh kinda talked about how what Jesus spoke to her and said, you know she said, you know, we know the Messiah is coming and it's like I speak into you the very clear, you know, with no nuance to it, which is the old statement and and so often you see when Jesus kind of spends somebody to their faith. usually Gentiles. It's the centurion, it's the Cyrophonician and you know and then that comes up later if we're speaking to the Jews. Yeah. You know, and and it It's used as a review for them. Right. We're gonna get there later. Right and uh so now we think that's a good thing. Yeah, I think uh Jesus was making a point, but I think John in including this episode, he's the only one who did, is also making the point that um by and large a lot of Jews were drawn to all miracles because of the the spectacle of it all. But when it comes down to faith and faith in him, um it was few. Okay. Well Oh you got a picture there of uh Jacob's well today. You see the bo bottled water there, they use that to dump down. Um Okay, well we need to get to the next today's lesson, but I do want to encourage you to work through the questions at the end of each lesson and think through the applications as well. Okay, so I'm moving to page fifty-six, lesson eight, the move to Capernaum. And uh I'll read from the blended account here in section twenty-eight. After the two days he went forth from there into Galilee. In other words, from Samaria to Galilee, it's not far away. He went from there into Galilee in the power of the Spirit, and the news about him spread through all the surrounding district. For Jesus himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country. So when he came to Galilee, he began teaching in their synagogues. And the Galileans received him, and was praised by all, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast, for they themselves also went to the feast. Uh a couple of interesting things here. It specifically says that he went in the power of the spirit. Uh you would sort of assume that Jesus would always be operating in the power of the Holy Spirit, being God Himself. Um But as a man, he still had to um submit to the leading of the spirit. He didn't just um display his deity willy-nilly, he um he was led by the spirit and he was obedient to the spirit submitted Uh a good example for us. Um Yeah. So well, a couple of things there. One, you know, i he yes, he's the son of God. Um And actually in his divinity, uh Scripture tells us that uh Jesus told us that um when he was about to leave In the upper room he told the disciples that he would send the Holy Spirit. The helper. Yeah, the helper. And so there's an extent to which in the Trinity the Son is certainly subject to the Father, but the Holy Spirit is really subject to both the Father and the Son. Sending is um indicative of um A leadership role, right? An oversight role. Um it's hard to understand even within the Trinity. Forget about this being human at the moment, but within the Trinity there's hierarchy. There's complete unity and yet a hierarchy And the Son always submits to the Father. And the Father sends the Son and the Holy Spirit. Jesus sends the Holy Spirit. So it's already hard enough for us to understand the Trinity, right? But you layer on top of that how difficult it is to understand Jesus was fully God and fully man at the same time. In his uh deity He had all the attributes of God. Right. Fully God. God never tires. Never sleeps. Jesus got tired, Jesus sleeps in his humanity. Right? Um God lives forever. God never dies. Jesus died as a human being. Right? Um But of course, couldn't stay that way for long. Yet you rose from the dead. Um So, in his humanity, as an example to us, and as an example of what Adam should have done He was completely submitted to God in the carrying out of his ministry and and so on and the conduct of his life. And um Included in that is being submissive to the leading of the Holy Spirit. Just as an example to us as well. No, it's just hard to get wrap our minds around. Yeah. That's all. Yep. And we're gonna see lots of evidence of that. Wow. He's God, but yet he's man. And um we'll we'll s wrestle with that lots of times here And you know, Pastor Allen also, uh, in the Bible, all the miracles that he did, he had to ask the Father to intervene with him Yes. You see, um you see that and that's a key thing. You see that Exhibited in in multiple ways. Sometimes he's praying specifically, calling on the Father. Not every miracle he does. I mean, one of them, for example, he didn't even apparently intend were that the woman who was hemorrhaging just touched the hem of his garment and he He perceives that power went out from him and he wasn't initiating it. At least that's our understanding of it. Um but a lot of times the miracles he did were not just I call them willy-nilly. It wasn't just a random this or that. It was at the direction of the Holy Spirit and in the in submission to cooperating with God the Father, often sometimes specifically calling on the Father to intervene. uh just a a little bit of extra glimpses into the Trinity that um we wouldn't otherwise have. Okay Um and the other thing I wanted to point out here is people were gathering around, um, it says, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast. And there's reference to lots of signs that he did earlier in John, uh around that time of the Passover. Um and there apparently were uh miracles. There were signs, not just the cleansing of the temple. But what those signs were, what those miracles were aren't actually recorded And and yet Nicodemus referred to them. You know, no one can do these signs that you have done unless God is with him. He c he got the point. Um but for brevity the Gospels haven't included any of those in that particular event or time period But we're go r word spreads fast, particularly this kind of word. And um People were probably chattering about these things, trying to figure out, you know, is this some kind of prophet and what does it all mean? And and so uh when they hear that um um that he had returned to Galilee. People come and flock to him, right And this is an early example of the problem he was going to have, particularly in Galilee, that his fame spread quickly and it was hard for him to um avoid crowds. People just gathered around him, brought all their sick and everything to him and he had compassion on them, but it it realistically uh limited what he was able to do to train his disciples. Um And we'll see that as we go ahead. So let's go to section twenty-nine. And here is uh just John. Verse 46. Therefore he came again to Cana of Galilee. You remember uh back in chapter two he turned the water into wine at that wedding at Cana in Galilee. where he had made the water wine. And there was a royal official whose son was sick at Capernaum. When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to him and was imploring him to come down and heal his son. It says down because Capernaum is down at the shore of the northwest corner of the Sea of Galilee, which is below sea level. And uh Cana and Nazareth are much higher in elevation. Um Come down to his heal his son, for he was at the point of death. So Jesus said to him, Unless you people see signs and wonders, you see simply will not believe The royal official said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. So he was desperate, right? Jesus said to him, Go, your son lives. The man believed the word that Jesus had spoken to him and started off. So that's That's a good sign. I mean it's it's it's a good thing that he believed and he didn't say, Well, you know, please come with me. I I won't believe until you actually are with me and whatever. He believed just the word, which is commendable. And so he started off. And as he was going down, his slaves met him, saying that his son was living So he inquired of them the hour when he began to get better. Then they said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever left him So the father knew that it was at that hour in which Jesus said to him, Your son lives. And he himself believed in his whole household. So he believed what Jesus said about the healing of his son, so he was willing to to go find out, go back home. And then when he saw it was true, he believed probably in a more comprehensive sense, right? This is an actual uh miracle of Christ In his whole household. So none of them had heard what Jesus had done or said. But from the testimony of the father and the change in him, um uh his whole household believed as well. This is again a second sign that Jesus performed when he had come out of Judea into Galilee. So the first one was Watered wine in Cana. And this was basically done in Cana, but on the benefit of a his son in uh Capernaum. Okay. Any thoughts there? Questions? It's interesting how he just believed. Or as Tom just wouldn't believe until he actually Yeah. And of course the Gospel of John is often called, you know, the the gospel of belief. He uses that term and uses examples like this to highlight the need to believe in Christ. And he actually states that that's his purpose in writing the book. Um and So that's a good lesson for us as well. Okay. And here in uh section 30, I'm on page 57 now. is something we kind of alluded to earlier and the contrast here between that official who ended up believing And the people of Nazareth who didn't is interesting. He came to Nazareth. That's very close to Cana, actually there is a Nazareth and there is a Cana in Israel today. The Cana is most likely not in the same location as the Cana of Jesus' time. But in any case they're not too far from each other. And he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up, and as was his custom, he entered the synagogue on the Sabbath and stood up to read. And the book of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him. And he opened the book and found the place where it was written. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because He has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim Release to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind, to set free those who are oppressed, to proclaim the favorable year of the Lord. He was reading from Isaiah sixty-one, verse one and the first half of verse two. The second half of verse two is about judgment which will be fulfilled at his second coming. But he read the part that was relevant to his first coming and could say As he did, today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. Boom. Boom. So that's kind of like him telling the woman at the well, I who speak to you and he. Right? Because they all understood this was messianic Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your shearing. And catch this. And all were speaking well of him. And wondering at the gracious words which were c falling from his lips, and they were saying, Is this not Joseph's son? And he said to them, No doubt you will quote this proverb to me, physician, heal yourself Whatever we did, whatever we heard was done at Capernaum, do hear in your own hometown as well. And that reference to the what was done at Capernaum may have been the healing of that son that we just read about I don't know. But he said, Truly I say to you, no prophet is welcome in his hometown. But I say to you in truth, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up for three years and six months when a great famine came over all the land. Yet Elijah was sent to none of them, but only to Zarephath in the land of Sidon. That's not Israel, that's north in Lebanon To a woman who was a widow. And there were many lepers in Israel at the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian You remember that account? Go wash in the River Jordan. And so those two examples Jesus gave of God's intervention And actually faith of the recipients, both of them were Gentiles. And they believed. Naaman took a little convincing, but he believed and he obeyed and was healed. And all the people in the synagogue were filled with rage as they heard these things. Which I think was his intent. To uh be very much in their face about the need for faith guys Right? Here are some examples we see from history of even Gentiles having more faith than you guys have. And they got up and drove him out of the city and led him to the brow of the hill which on which the city had been built in order to throw him down the cliff. But passing through their mist, he went his way. Nazareth is indeed on a ledge overlooking the the uh Jezreel Valley. And you got a little photo of it there. But think of the contrast. These Jews? Yeah, okay. They knew him growing up, but they probably knew he had a reputation growing up. He wasn't the one being disciplined. Didn't need to. But more importantly, they they heard the word about the role of the Messiah And yeah, it was a good word. Yeah, I I I'm clued in. I understand that. But when he says today this has been fulfilled in your hearing, that was a challenge. And um when he knew that for the most part none of them um had faith that the Messiah um was gonna have that role And none of them would have entered the possibility that he himself was the Messiah. And so he challenged them. with examples from scripture. And uh they didn't pick that too well. Well it's interesting that they kind of I I get the impression they kind of looked at him as sort of like Uh we come to minus on the test in a sense where it's like uh uh uh uh Hometown Boy hero, you know. Uh hey, it's making us look good. that kind of thing. That's those good feelings that you have because um he's he's making he's you know he sees some here. And they're they're referencing his teaching Right. Which is okay, I'm I'm okay with that. Until it gets personal. Right. Yeah. wanted to stir them up in there in that boy like you said. I think it's also interesting that they ev they declare isn't this Joseph son? And I wonder what what does that mean I mean he's just one of us. He's one of us, but what do they think of Joseph? I mean in other words Just a regular guy. Just a regular guy, right, exactly. So this is just a regular guy. He's just the son of Joseph So they didn't really understand the the you know the incarnation and and all that. So early when he's calling his disciples uh he gets what's probably a fairly common um response, what good can come from Nazareth? And of course, when you're in Nazareth, people can say what good can come from just regular Joe Joseph's house. uh obviously she was preferred to discipline like you said you didn't need to be discipline. So these people grew up with him watching him, observing him, how could you think he's just a regular guy? Well See the prime example of that would be his own brothers, half brothers, who didn't believe in him. At this point anyway. Later they did. Um But how I mean how can you not see I mean it had to be suppressing something because obviously he wasn't like So it really comes down to hard-heartedness, right? And how does a hard heart get softened Only God can do that. And in His time and in His grace He does. But when it's still hardened Then his brothers very easily are jealous, and um these people are offended Um some of them may eventually have come to faith. We don't know. But at this point, um they weren't ready With another hand, yeah. Just proof of the answer Diane's thing a little bit, even today I guess it's man's nature to ascribe evil intent to be obeying God. And while you know there's the blatant evil on the side that's that's obvious, sometimes for one who is truly in obedience to God, we have a tendency just you know, human nature described um self injury for intent to that as well. Um they almost want to be able to walk that middle line where we do what we want what we want the and we qualify um the outcome of that. But Because it it maybe justifies our position, our hard heartedness or whatever. Um Yeah, and it allows us to explain away something that otherwise would be convicting. Page fifty-eight, section thirty-one, Jesus moves to Capernaum. And leaving Nazareth, I'm reading from the blended account here, he came down to and settled in Capernaum a city of Galilee, which is by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali. Of course those are two of the twelve tribes. This was to fulfill what was spoken through the Isaiah the prophet. The land of Zebulun and the land of Nephtali, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, the people who were sitting in darkness saw a great light And those who are sitting in the land and sh um in shadow of death, upon them a light has dawned And so that's from Isaiah 9, verse 1. And of course the light that's being referred to there is the light of Christ, the light of the gospel, right? The light of truth. Um so Capernaum r and a lot of our events are gonna happen in Capernaum. Um It was significant to the Jews for a number of reasons. Commercially it was uh Like many of the towns along the shore of Sea of Galilee, it was um very much a a fishing town. And that's where at this point, uh Peter and Andrew and also James and John uh were headquartered uh before Jesus called them. Uh that's not where they were originally from, but it was it was a logical place to uh run their business Um it was also on the main highway, if you will, the interstate. uh running north and south between um you know the fertile crescent kind of area down to Egypt. And there are two main ways to do that. One was uh through this area, just on the western side of the Sea of Galilee, and get over to the Mediterranean Sea and then straight down to followed the coastline down to Egypt. The other way would have been basically through what is now Jordan, way over on the right side, the east side of the um uh Jordan River. But that was a major route. And because it was a major route, it was an excellent place to put a toll booth It wasn't exactly a toll booth, but um taxes were uh a normal part of Going from one jurisdiction to another. Uh things haven't changed any, have they? Um But anyway that's where we find Matthew. That was one of his duties there in Capernaum. And um Why do you think it would have been strategic for Jesus to locate there? And boss? I'll give you a hint. There are a lot of people passing through. Um In fact, I forget where it is, but one of the uh gospels mentions that there were three cities where Jesus did most of his miracles One of them was Capernaum, another was Best Seta, and the third was Corazine. We have probably one miracle recorded in the Seta. I don't think we have any miracles recorded in Korazine. We had quite a few recorded in Capernaum. And you remember Jesus said, you pronounced woes on those three places because of their unbelief You know, if the if the things that were performed in you were done for Sodom and Gomorrah, they would have believed a long time ago. Talk about gut punch, right? Um but it says the the three cities where he performed most of his miracles and they're right clustered around that major highway What's going to happen when he does a lot of miracles on that major through route? Word is going to travel with the people who are coming through. And it's spreading And um that was not an accident, I'm sure. And so Capernaum is is one of those three. Okay. Um any thoughts, questions there? Yeah. You'll never believe I'll go on vacation and then I saw the thing in Jesus and I'm sure that's that's a lot of what happened. Yeah. Word got out. Okay, section thirty-two. Jesus taught and preached repentance. From that time, Jesus began to preach the gospel of God and say, the time is fulfilled. Repent and believe in the gospel. For the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God, is at hand. So how did that message differ from John the Baptist's message? Do you remember his message? John was was preparing the way, but what did he preach? How do you prepare? Repent. Bring forth fruit in keeping with repentance with his message, right? And so what's Jesus preaching? Repent, believe in the gospel. Now, um I presume And we have some indication perhaps that when he says believe in the gospel, um he also provided some specifics. But for the most part, he was preaching repentance from sin. Um At this point, it would be kind of hard for people to understand his sacrifice for their sin until after it happened. But he's still preaching repentance from sin. What is repentance? What's that? Turning away. Um it has that connotation But the word for repentance is metanoia, which sounds kind of like paranoia. The noia in there is your mind So paranoia would be sort of having a double-minded thing. Metanoia means a change of mind. Really? A change of mind? Yeah. Because like John the Baptist says repent and bring forth fruit in keeping with repentance. So to repent is really to forsake Where's that happening? In the heart, in the mind, right? What's the result of that if it's genuine? If you're going to forsake it, you're going to grab the alternative, right, which is the truth, which is Christ. So it has the connotation of turning But it's it starts, it's not the turning itself that's repentance. That's the fruit of repentance. The repentance is forsaking In this case, forsaking sin. And clinging instead to Christ. And so he was preaching that right from the beginning, just like John the Baptist was He says, repent and believe in the gospel. That repentance and that faith are really two sides of the same coin. You can't genuinely believe unless you forsake sin. And you can't genuinely forsake sin unless you believe that The problem and the answer is in Christ. Someone who says they believe but they haven't forsaken sin hasn't really believed Someone who has forsaken sin but hasn't believed in Christ, placing faith in trist. isn't really saved either. It's not the it's not the the the turning, it's not the actions. It's is it genuine repentance and is it genuine faith Saving faith. Yeah. Highlighting the difference between belief and not as knowledge like the demons believe. They certainly had faith, they did they certainly did not And the the belief that it's trusting, faithful, and and uh giving up and and giving over of Europe. Right. Yeah. And so it's it's um you know it's it's possible and a lot of people are are tripped up by this that um it's it's possible to go to an altar call, for example. You're really touched and and and sorry And you you take those steps to go front to uh and a lot of times that's genuine faith and that's genuine repentance and that's genuine salvation Other times it's not. It's sort of a pressure of the moment. Um it seems like everybody else is going, maybe I should too. Right? That's not genuine salvation. So what's key is genuine forsaking of sin. That's a heart thing. It's not actions. It's heart things. The actions, if you really have repented Then there will be fruit coming from that repentance. And that's what John was calling for. That's what Jesus was calling for. Okay. Any other thoughts, questions? We just gotta ask about that that terminology. Um preaching the gospel of God, they would would they have just maybe interpreted it as being the Messiah's at hand, the coming of the Messiah in his hand, whatever the preparations for the Messiah Yeah, it's hard to know what how people would have interpreted that and whether there was any more Nuance provided that's not recorded. But at the least I think they would have understood that gospel means good news. And Associating that with God, God's provision, um you know when we proclaim the gospel, we want to make sure that people understand the problem of sin. Right, and how that separates us from God and that we have no solution in and of ourselves. That may well have been much the understanding that people were already having as they were being baptized by John and even Jesus and his disciples, that um a change of heart, uh a genuine change of forsaking is is needed here. And then The what's the good news? Well, I don't understand all the details any more than really a lot of Old Testament saints did, but they understand that the solution is something that God would do, not what I am doing. Uh and that's that's good news. It's even more good news to us because we see how we did it, mm-hmm, right? Um Yeah, I don't know what would have been going through their minds. Um probably didn't say the term gospel of God that he was talking about how the process of God's gonna come provide the sacrifice. No more of this, you know, constant sacrificing of animals for sin. I'm the one so probably talking about what the gospel is not necessarily torn out as book of Matthew and Open to page Yeah. Um maybe more of a benefit for us to understand. Yeah, certainly a benefit for us. I'm pretty sure that just like in the Old Testament where there were genuine believers who understood through even through the law that that provision for sin, the sacrifice of animals and so on That's not the full package. That's only a picture of what the Messiah will do. And they were looking ahead at that provision The point is that like Abraham said when he sacrificed Isaac, God will provide the lamb. People understood that the solution to sin is something that God is going to do The m it's all wrapped up in the Messiah. They were sketchy on the details. The New Testament or the Old Testament didn't have a lot of those details, but they understood that The ones who believed understood that it's not about my works, it's about my obedience, but ultimately it's God's provision. God will provide. And I need to rest in that, obey Him, in the meantime. And that may have been all that they needed to know here. That it's God's provision for sin. But we need to get our hearts right. We need to forsake sin and turn to God. Okay. Let's go to thirty-three Page 59. And I'll read this from the blended account here. Now as Jesus was walking by the Sea of Galilee He saw two brothers, Simon, who was called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen So is this our first encounter with Andrew and Peter? No. Right? Um we saw very early even in John that among his first disciples were Andrew and Peter. Andrew called Peter to come see him. I think this is the Messiah guy. This is the real deal. And so what we have here is after the passage of a significant amount of time Yes, they were following Christ. They went with him to the wedding at Cana. They were together. They settled in Capernaum. That's where they were already living. Um but they settled with Christ. Um their following him up until now was um Kind of uh what's the right word for it? A uh a voluntary Interest, curiosity, willing to learn, but it wasn't a formal commitment. Yeah. And so he he and so they're fishing, they're in Capernaum. What else do you do when you're in Capernaum but fish in their mind They were curious, yeah. And so they were casting a net into the sea. They were fishermen, and he said to them, Follow me, and I will be like I will make you become fishers of men. And immediately they left their nets and followed him. And so given that historical that background This is now uh raising the level here. It's it's following him as a commitment, basically a full-time occupation And going a little further there, he saw two other brothers, James, the son of Zebedee, and his brother John, in a boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. And immediately he called them as well. And immediately they left their boat and their father with the hired servants and went away to follow him. So this this is um a very conscious um higher level commitment following of Christ rather than um uh sort of a in your spare time following and listening to and uh being curious about This is a a um a more permanent deal. I don't know. bothered me a little bit, like immediately just got up and they just left. Well obviously there's there's some pretext. They're they already had some interactions. They may have been like struggling like did we just walk away from Yeah. And then boom shows up and like, yeah, let's go. Yeah, and James and John with their father, they've probably had this discussion before and their father's probably quite interested in what they've seen and heard and and so on Um so it makes sense that they would just drift it because it had already been on their house. Yeah. So it it didn't take much for them. Yeah. Except Jesus' invitation kind of uses the context of fishing, right? You know, anybody can catch fish. I'm gonna help you catch men. And that was the challenge they needed. Good any other thoughts there? Questions? Okay. And again, um the questions at the end here are useful to work through in your own study. You can probably add to some of the observations that are already listed for you here. Think about that first application on on question six or page sixty-one. Do you follow Christ even when the cost is high and you don't understand everything about his demands? That's kind of where they were You know, our tendency probably would be, you need to spell it all out to me, I need to read the fine print, make sure it's acceptable to me, and then I'll consider following you. That's Probably not what he's looking for. On the other hand, he's given us this entire word. And we see his his um his love and grace. And uh we have a lot more information than these guys did. And so we ought to be even more willing to drop our nets and go follow him Well, that's um closer time emperor