We're on lesson two, even though it's our third week. You remember we had an intro class that first week. But lesson two in the notes Is on the incarnation. And yes, it did occur to me that the timing here is pretty good. That we're sort of focusing on the birth of Christ anyway So let's get right into it. Would someone, or maybe a couple of people, be willing to read that first account there in Luke 1, Gabriel announcing to Zacharias the birth of John the Baptist. Maybe if I could have one person read up through verse 15 and then the other person the second half. Got a couple of people? Okay, I'll read. Okay, hi Maria. Hi. From fi five to fifteen? Yes. Okay. So in the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zachariaus of the division of Abijah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. They were both righteous in the sight of God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and requirements of the Lord But they had no child, because Elizabeth was raren, and they were both advanced in years. Now it happ and now it happened that while he was performing his priestly service before God in the appointed order of his division, According to the custom of the priestly office, he was chosen by lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And the wa and the whole multitude multitude of the people were in prayer outside of the hour of the incense offering. And an angel an angel, Gabri Gabriel Of the Lord appeared to him, standing to the right of the altar of incense. Zachariaus was troubled when he saw the angel, and fear gripped him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Sagurias, for your petition hath been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you will give him the name John You will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. For he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and he will drink no wine or liquor, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit while yet in his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the sons of Israel back to the Lord their God. It is he who will go as a forerunner before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of Elijah Zacharias said to the angel, How will I know this for certain? For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years. The angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel who stands in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and to bring you the good news. And behold, you shall be silent and unable to speak until the day when these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their proper time. The people were waiting for Zacharias and were wondering at his delay in the temple. But when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple And he kept making signs to them and remained mute. When the days of his priestly service were ended, he went back home After these days, Elizabeth, his wife, became pregnant, and she kept herself in seclusion for five months, saying, This is the way the Lord has dealt with me in the days when he looked with favor upon me to take away my disgrace among men. Thank you So by the way, I thought it might be helpful to note here that One of the reasons I've provided the actual text here, even when there's not a parallel in another of the Gospels. is to provide you the opportunity to jot your own notes, questions, mark up the text with you can see I've added some underline and some bold here. You can circle things, do whatever you need to to help. analyze and and uh understand the text. So um We have here the familiar story of of Gabriel's announcement to Zecharias and how God was beginning to unfold his plan of redemption and the incarnation by announcing the birth of the Forerunner. John the Baptist. And one of the interesting things here is Zacharias's response. Which was initially, as we're told here actually in verse 20, initially unbelief. And Gabriel called him out on that. Um and and yet Mary, as we're about to read, also had some questions for Gabriel when he announced the birth of Christ to her. And so I thought it would be useful to compare those two. So before we do that, let's go ahead and read the next section, which is about Gabriel's announcement to Mary. Maybe if we have a couple people read that as well. Maybe 26 through 41 and then 42 to the end. Someone like to read? Gotta unmute yourself. I can do twenty-six to forty one. Now in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city in Galilee called Nazareth, to a virgin engaged to a man whose name was Joseph of the descendants of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And coming in, he said to her, Greetings, savored one, the Lord is with you. But she was very perplexed at the statement, and kept pondering what kind of salutation this was. The angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, You will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and ye shall name him Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end. Mary said to the angel, How can this be, since I am a virgin The angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you, and for that reason the holy child shall be called the Son of God And behold, even your relative Elizabeth has also conceived a son in her old age, and she who was called barren is now in her sixth month. For nothing will be impossible with God. And Mary said, Behold, the bond slave of the Lord, may it be done according to your word. And the angel departed from her. Now at this time Mary arose and went in a hurry to the hill country, to a city of Judah, and entered the house of Zacharias, and greeted Elizabeth. When Mary heard Mary's greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. Someone else read the rest And she cried out with a loud voice and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. And it And how has it happened to me that the mother of my Lord would come to me? For behold, when the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby leapt in my womb for joy, and blessed is she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what has been spoken to her by the Lord. And Mary said, My soul exalts the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. For he has regarded the um For he has had regard for the humble state of his bond slave. For behold, from from this time on all generations will count me blessed For the mighty one has done great things for me, and holy is his name. And his mercy is upon generation after generation toward those who feared him. He has done mighty deeds with his arm with his arm. He has scattered those who were who were proud in their thoughts and the thoughts of their hearts He has brought down rulers from their thrones and has exalted those who were humble. He has filled the hungry with good things. and sent away the rich empty-handed. He has given help to Israel, his servant, his servant, in remembrance of his mercy as he as he has as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and his descendants forever. And Mary stayed with her about three months, then returned to her home Thank you. Yes. So the response of Mary had some similarities with the response of Zecharias. But the question that she asked was not a question of unbelief, but a question of uh needing an explanation, I guess. How can it be? It doesn't seem it's certainly not normal, right? Um whereas Zacharias asked, How will I know this for certain? He was looking for some kind of immediate sign. Well he got a sign. What was that? He couldn't speak. He couldn't speak until the baby was born. So a full well at least nine months, he was mute. Um and he got the message I'm sure. And uh uh Uh after John was born, uh we'll see that um that uh Zacharias definitely was praising God and and and seeing God's hand in it and and so on. But Mary, uh even from the beg from the get-go, is saying, you know, even so let it be done to me your servant, right? And I still don't understand, but whatever you want, Lord, I'm yours. It's quite a heart of obedience, of submission, and very commendable. Pastor, the um these two reactions to the angel's news puts me in mind of in the Old Testament Abraham and Sarah when the visitor told them, This time next year you'll have a son. Yep. And how how one believed and the other you know. They both laughed but in a different way. Yeah, so Zacharias may have had that in mind. Or he should have maybe had that in mind, right? Because there was some precedent for God intervening when the natural course of things would have made it pretty much impossible. Um but also Zacharaz was making petitions about his wife. to have a child. That's what Gabriel reminded him of. So it wasn't something in ignorance. He was praying about this. And uh I wonder if this is a thing that when we do pray to God, do we actually believe in what we're asking for That God is able to do it because He did remind that uh or remind them that nothing is impossible for God. Amen So we shouldn't be surprised when God does what only God can do, right? Um What what Thomas said there I'm sorry. No go ahead. I was gonna say what what Thomas said there is almost take it almost to get out of my mouth. But the thing that I found interesting there was um Zacharias had been petitioning God And when the angel came, the angel said that your petitions have been answered. So it seems to me, and if you also the context that we're also told that He had been in the temple there longer than usual, which would lead me to believe that there had been something more than just a a passing conversation between he and the angel, which is I I think what that passage said just tells us is just a quick summary of his response as opposed to everything that's transpired between him and the angel. But it seems to me that the problem also was that Zacharias wanted some sort of prescribed way that God would answer his prayer, and when he didn't see that, he now questions whether this can be trusted or not. He may have had Gideon in mind more than Abraham. You know, Gideon asking for a sign, right? Who knows what he had in mind, but um it's clear that I think Thomas's um application here is a good one. that you know, if if we're praying for something, do we really believe it or are we just going through the motions? And um if God answers, we should be overjoyed but not surprised, if you will Right. You know, I just kinda wonder if um he I I kind of wonder if if Zachariz was actually praying for I don't know that he was praying for a child for Elizabeth. than himself. But if he was more praying for the deliverance of Israel, praying for the redemption of Israel, because in when he when at the birth of John the Baptist and and then in Luke I think it's uh well in chapter one verse six sixty eight where he begins talking about the child Yeah, you know, he's talking about the deliverance um of Israel being redeemed from their enemies. And I just kind of think that's what it was on his mind that you know that he wouldn't go into the temple uh praying something for himself. I think he went in there praying for the for the people, for the people of Israel and for the Redeemer. Yeah, um and i it's hard to know, I think, hard to know exactly what might have been on his heart, but a fairly common perception at that point, um, even well into the ministry of Christ, was that the Messiah would be a political savior um with not as much Understanding of the suffering servant aspect of the Messiah. And so but whichever might have been in his mind, um Um Gabriel was coming with the answer. Mm-hmm. Right. And um yeah, good point. Well, let's go to my section five here, the birth of John the Baptist. Can someone read that from Luke 1? Sure, I can read it. Um now the time had come for Elizabeth to give birth, and she gave birth to a son. Her neighbors and her relatives heard that the Lord had displayed his great mercy toward her, and they were rejoicing with her. And it happened that on the eighth day that sh that they came to circumcise the child, and they were going to call him Zacharias, after his father. But his mother answered and said, No, indeed, but he shall be called John. And they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by that name And they made signs to his father as to what he wanted him called. And he asked for a tablet and wrote as follows His name is John. And they were astonished. And at once his mouth was open and his tongue loosed, and he began to speak in praise of God. Fear came upon all living around them, and all these matters were being talked about in all the hill country of Judea All who heard them kept them in mind, saying, What then will this child turn out to be? For the hand of the Lord was certainly with him And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited us and accomplished redemption for his people. and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of David his servant, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us, to show mercy toward our fathers and remember his holy covenant. The oath which he swore to Abraham our father, to grant us that we, being rescued from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear In holiness and righteousness before him all our days. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High, for you will go on before the Lord to prepare his ways. to give to his people the knowledge of salvation by the forgiveness of their sin, because of the tender mercy of our God, which with which the sunrise from on high will visit us. to shine upon those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death, to guide our feet in the way of peace. And the child continued to grow and to become strong in spirit, and he lived in the deserts until the day of his public appearance to Israel. Thank you, Chris. So um Obviously, Zacharias had uh at least nine months to be dwelling on this miracle. And uh the significance of it in the life of Israel. And uh when the Lord finally opens his mouth to be able to speak It's prophecy and praise of the Lord and significant affirmation of God unfolding his fulfillment of long prophesied promises. It's also interesting that not only Zechariah, but also Mary and Elizabeth. were um speaking prophetically at these key moments as well And um so God was just using regular people and um Helping them to fathom at least a little bit of what was going on. They clearly understood the significance, but um Oh um nowhere near as as full as we understand it looking backward at it, right Um I'm sure they had many hopes and ideas of what would happen here, but um There's no record that God revealed to them any more than what we have read. And so at this point, they are very much walking in faith. It's a good example. Um any other thoughts so far Pastor Allen, as I as I read this yesterday, I um envisioned that there would be there was the expectation of more as you stated more rulership and relief of oppression and the relief from enemies. And so I'm uh I guess the reason why I I make this comment, I I was giving the gospel to a Jewish man and he he said, well why should I believe in a so-called Messiah who did not Um there was not a great a significant change that has occurred for the Jewish people in in just in terms of um I guess relief from discrimination or oppression. And so I'm as I read this yesterday, I would I was just thinking were was the nation let down in their expectation, even though there were plenty of good reasons to to believe that Jesus was the fulfillment But I I guess my question is can there is there any pass that can be given After such a announcement of authority that would that was about to happen. Um can I make one quick point about that? Go ahead, Thomas. Um verse 77 he says also his purpose is to give his people knowledge of salvation. by the forgiveness of their sins and they were not repentant of their sins when Christ came. They did uh they rejected him. They they rejected their Messiah. So that is why the um one of the reasons that is the reason why the Jews are still suffering. today. Um and uh it wasn't just to deliver them from their enemies, it was also to deal with their sin issue. Right, in fact, uh primarily to deal with the sin issue. Uh you know, they were looking at the example of the uh deliverance from slavery and in Egypt as a prototype of the kind of deliverance they would need from under the Romans. And yet God was using that deliverance from bondage in Egypt as a picture of their need for deliverance from bondage to sin. And so um it's interesting that the the same problem that that um uh many, not all, but many of the Jews had in uh as these events were unfolding and in the lifetime of Christ um that many people today even have that same hang up but um The solution today is really the same as the solution then, which is look at the entirety of the revelation that God has given to us. Yes, it does refer to um a uh descendant of David who would rule on his throne. In fact, Gabriel reminded Mary of that when he announced the birth of Christ. But uh God had also revealed a a um a second purpose of the Messiah, and if you take them to places like Isaiah 53 and look at the suffering servant and the need to bear the sins and the iniquities of the people. And as we'll see in a few minutes, hopefully, there were others contemporaries here of Jesus. who um who caught that. They understood. And so we'll we'll look at um uh uh Simeon and Anna for example So um it was a natural response and in all of the disciples um were were confused at this point. They were looking for deliverance, uh political and and uh physical deliverance Um and it took them really um until the resurrection to fully grasp the the significance of the first coming of Christ. Um and so y it it was a natural thing, particularly in their context of of oppression and under under Roman rule and and so on. But um God was active in doing what God had planned from the foundation of the world to do And um so yeah, someone else had a question there? Okay. It's Tammy. Was it Tammy? Yeah. Did you have a question, Tammy? Um I'm sorry, I was distracted there. Um I was thinking about the passage. I don't remember where it was, uh 1 Corinthians 15, I thought it was, so I was looking for it, but That talked about how our greatest enemy is death, right? And so I was thinking about Hebrews chapter two where it says Jesus had to partake of flesh and blood like us to deliver us from uh the one who had the power of death, which was the devil. So while we have physical enemies, um, which I guess um the Jewish people like you said, that would be the natural thing that would come to their mind, deliverance from physical enemies, the greatest enemy we have is our adversary the devil who wants to destroy us and um leave us in our have us stay in our sins so that we would suffer the penalty of death and God's wrath. So Right. Yeah, and so um the deliverance from you know that kind of deliverance from sin and death May also be accompanied by the deliverance from physical bondage and so on, but need not. They're not necessarily connected. Okay. Well let's go then down to section 6, the angel announcing to Joseph the birth of Christ. And here we're going to Matthew Someone read that? I'll go ahead. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows, when his mother, Mary, had been betrothed to Joseph. Before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit, and Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, planned to send her away secretly But when he had considered this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife. For the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophets. Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. And Joseph awoke from his sleep and did as the angel of the Lord commanded, and took Mary as his wife, but kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Thank you. Yeah I um I don't know about you, but I I'm real impressed with Joseph. Um It it it says that um before the angel came he was um planning to um quietly remove her from exposure to shame and this kind of thing, kind of protecting her. Uh not so much it I didn't get the sense that um It's because of any selfishness on his part. It says specifically he's a righteous man, not wanting to disgrace her and so on. Um he believed the best for of her, but um the actual explanation never would have occurred to him. Right? So um God in his grace appeared to or the angel, uh whoever it was, it may well have been Gabriel again um appeared to him to give him enough information that he could have confidence going forward and um It it's it reminds me of that song I forget the name of it that Michael Card sings from Joseph's Perspective, Joseph's song or something like that. Just how can a man be father to the son of God? I'm sure his his heart was challenged by that. But what you see here is faith, obedience Um responsibility? It's an excellent example. It's kind of a pity we don't have a lot of um uh episodes here in the life of Joseph to read a whole lot more into his character and so on. But um to me this speaks volumes. Turns of his heart Can I share something uh that it reminds me of? Um it just also reminds me of how Joseph even prophetically showed how God would adopt us into his family because just looking at how he So when we adopted Jesus into his family and how um when you see the lineage of Jesus it's Joseph's family that's listed there. And so it just reminds me of, you know, how God um called us his children. We're co-heirs with Christ and um we've been grafted into the olive tree of Israel and so um again it's just showing me the beauty of adoption and how much God loves us Amen. Pastor, I have a question. Yeah. I understand how a virgin bearing a son fulfilled the prophecy. But I but the prophecy said they shall call his name Emmanuel, God with us, and Yeshua means Jehovah is salvation. So how does that fulfill that that prophecy The second part of the prophecy, the name was different. Well, um They shall call his name Emmanuel is to say not that his his um the name people would the name he goes by is Emmanuel, but rather what does Emmanuel mean? God with us. And so it's a fulfillment of his his role, his his um The name of someone is is the essence of who he is, right? So Is it a title? It's sort of a title, yeah. It captures the significance of who he is. That is, he's God, but he's also man. And um you know Maybe I'm asking why didn't they just name him Emmanuel? Well why did they name him Jesus? I'm not sure What does Isaiah say uh when they give all the titles for who he will be? Do we have to go back to that just to get the context? Uh Actually, this this verse is from um uh chapter seven, I'm pretty sure, and you know um I think you're referring to chapter nine in Isaiah where he r he's called uh wonderful counselor, prince of peace, God. Um That's getting at the nature of what it means to be God with us, the God man. both his his position, his his um essence, the eternal nature, and so on. And so I I think people have been named Emmanuel or Emmanuel, some version of that, since then. I'm not so sure anybody was named this before Christ. Um it wasn't like it was a common name, I don't think. Um but here it's just talking about his um What was true of him being captured in this name, sort of like a title, as Greg said So that's my understanding of it anyway. But they were they were told specifically by Gabriel to call him Yeshua. Right, and I was struck by that because it uses the same words. You shall call his name Jesus, but the prophecy, they shall call his name Emmanuel. It just struck me that it it was an instinct. Well, they're not contradictory though. I mean, God with us is the only means of our salvation. God being the source of our salvation Right? So um That's all I know. Well, let's go to section 7 here, back to Luke, this time chapter 2. Could someone read that? I got it. Okay. Now in those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that a census be taken of all the inhabited earth This was the first census taken while Quirinius was governor of Syria, and everyone was on his way to register for the census, each to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem because he was of the house and family of David, in order to register along with Mary, who was engaged to him and was with child. While they were there, the days were completed for her to give birth, and she gave birth to her firstborn son, and she wrapped him in clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Amen. Well, you know this um this Census or uh uh taxing perhaps involved with it. Um Wasn't just a random event. What was God doing here? He was fulfilling prophecy, putting him where he needed to be. Yeah, moving the chess pieces, right? Um there are multiple layers probably of God's work and and reasoning here, but at a very basic level, um that child needed to be born in Bethlehem. And Joseph was from Bethlehem, from the lineage of David and so on. So if that's the case, why was he up in Nazareth of Galilee? We're not told specifically in Scripture, but I think it seems likely that he was there for economic reasons, probably a job. And we know he was a tradesman, uh Joseph. Um Don't necessarily think carpenter as in wood. The word that's usually translated carpenter just means tradesman It could very easily refer to a stonemason, which would be in much more demand in Israel than a wood carpenter. Um go to Israel and just stones and rocks everywhere. And a lot of the construction is from stone. And so it's possible he was a stonemason. And there's a big building project in Separis, which was not very far from Nazareth, and so it could well be that that's where he was working. Anyway, for whatever reason, they lived in Nazareth. Um maybe one of the reasons God orchestrated Joseph moving to Nazareth at some point in his life was so that he would meet Mary. who God had already um uh prepared, not revealed to her, but um God was again moving the pieces of the puzzle together so that um what God was uh ordaining would happen. Pastor Plumley? Yes, ma'am Um, I can't help but think about the idea of a census. Today when we have census it's like tell me who's living in that village but it seems like this kind of this kind of census had more to do with lineage And it's almost like he's getting the pagans to document Jesus' lineage. Because, you know, a census shouldn't shuffle the whole world around. You go to wherever you came from kind of thing So it's very I think it's very interesting that a census was used to make people move and document themselves Yeah, and and to um as I think you're suggesting document for all posterity that indeed he is a a descendant from the tribe of Judah and particularly of David. So God is definitely in control here. I asked a question on the uh chat, but how is can you explain are you able to explain right now uh God's sovereignty and providence? Uh explain how they both work. His sovereignty and his providence to even use a Roman Caesar uh to bring about this in order for prophecy to be fulfilled. Well, um if I could explain God's sovereignty, I'd be a lot wiser than anybody who's ever lived. No, just in this situation, is it sovereignty uh or providence? What's the difference? Correct. So that's my question. I don't think there is a difference. Providence is God making provision through his sovereignty to accomplish what he wants to do. And if it's for our benefit, we usually think of it as providence. Can you s can you say that one more time? I doubt it. Um Providence is God Through his sovereignty, doing what he has ordained to do, and we usually characterize it as providence because it's a blessing to us. He's providing for us. Pastor Allen, could you put Providence in the category of the effect, whereas sovereignty is the comprehensive cause and plan? Sure. Yeah. He wouldn't be able to demonstrate providence if he were not sovereign. So it's it flows from his sovereignty for sure. Yeah. And we're gonna see a fair amount of that, of course, in the life of Christ. Um how Uh God generally, but even Christ orchestrates things to um But there's testimony of that in um one of the was it Mary? I think said um he has done mighty deeds with his arms, he has scattered those who are proud in the thoughts of their heart. He has brought down rulers from their thrones and has exalted those who are humble. Just acknowledging God's sovereignty over the affairs of men. And we're seeing it lived out even here I was just looking, you have a reference to the map uh between Nazareth and Bethlehem. And I was just looking at the map. And I I was just wondering, do you know like how far or how many days journey that would be for them? Um They couldn't take the bus. Right? Right. Uh it looks like a long way. It's not terribly far. I'm thinking What would you think, Chris? Probably thirty miles, something like that. Um they almost certainly took a few days to do it, particularly in her condition. Um and the the um um movies and so on, pictures you see uh were of her on a a donkey kind of a thing. That's probably Yeah, probably what happened. But it they would have had to go fairly slow. Yeah. Um so a couple of days, okay. Yeah, probably a few days. Okay. And just to add to what you were saying earlier, Pastor Plumley, about Joseph's character, just his submission to the government, just knowing that how long the journey was gonna take, Mary's condition, he could have easily protested, you know quote unquote. Um But here we see his submission to the civil authorities in making his way to Bethlehem in spite of the challenges that they were going to face. Right. That's for sure. Good insight. Um if possible Uh we don't know. It's possible that he may have already at this point put two and two together, knowing um who was about to be born, and the fact that uh he would be sitting on the throne of his ancestor David, that Uh well, maybe Bethlehem would be a good place for him to be born after all. He might have been thinking that we don't know for sure. We are going to get some insight though a little later that may support that theory. But yeah, Bill. Uh when we a little bit later on, don't we have when Jesus went with his parents to Jerusalem um you know, to visit there and they and he when they left to go back to Nazareth to home that they left Jesus there. And didn't they say there somewhere they were about three days' journey away when they realized he was not with them? That's right. So so uh Bethlehem is a little south of Jerusalem Yeah. So we got that time frame right there of uh kind of in a sense how long it would take 'em to get there. Exactly. Good memory. Thanks, Bill. Yeah, so it'd be reasonable to think three, four days, something like that. Okay, well let's uh we're running out of time. Let's go to section number eight. Um the shepherds, who would like to read that? In the same region there were some shepherds staying out in the fields and keeping watch over the flock by night. And an angel of the Lord suddenly stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terribly frightened. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy, which will be for all the people. For today in the city of David there had been born For you, a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. This will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in clothes and lying in a manger. And suddenly there appeared with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among men with whom he is pleased. When the angels had gone away from them into the heaven The shepherds began saying to one another, Let us go straight into Bethlehem, then and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. So they came in a harry and found their way to Mary and Joseph and the baby as he lay in the manger When they had seen this, they made known the statement which had been told them about this child, and all who heard it wondered at the things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary treasured all these things, pondering them in her heart. The shepherds went back, glorifying and praising God, for all that they had heard and seen, just as had been told them. Right. So um another good example of people who um uh were certainly surprised uh and probably scared out of their socks, right? But nonetheless responded in faith and excitement and great joy. Um they clearly were very thankful that the Lord was not only um uh making happen what had been long promised and waited for, but that the likes of them were told directly by an angel Um can you imagine that? You know, being in their situation. But um That was just a very special time, and of course they had a very good time with Mary and Joseph as well, just reflecting on God's announcement, God's goodness, fulfillment of prophecy. And um uh and they knew that it was about salvation. Not just political salvation, but um this is now um Well, in in fact, you know, he's referred to as Christ the Lord. Um and here again it there's a title given to him. You know, they weren't told um a a name of someone to look for, but they were given his title. And this is Another way of saying it's God with us. He's Christ the Lord, the Messiah, the anointed one. For what it's worth, I may as well share with you a couple of my pet peeves about Christmas. or the way we celebrate Christmas. One of them is in the songs that we sort of mindlessly sing. One of my favorites is Hark the Herald, Angels Sing, because it's got a lot of rich theology in it. But there's nothing in here that says they were singing. Moreover, that that song says um Let's see, Heart to Herald, Angel Sing, Glory to the Newborn King, peace on earth and mercy mild, God and sinners reconciled. Well that's bad theology God and sinners are not reconciled. Sinners are reconciled to God. Right? Scripture always, when it speaks of reconciliation, the sinner is being reconciled to God. God isn't changing. He changes us to conform to Him. Um so when I sing that song now, I sing um how's it go again? Um peace on earth and mercy mild, God has sinners reconciled. So it kind of fits with the temper of it tempo, but it's more theologically correct. So don't get your theology from songs. Get them from scripture, right? But that is actually a very good song. It's got lots of rich theology in it Okay. The other little pet peeve we're going to see highlighted next week is where are the wise men here? No wise men. And we're gonna see next week that the wise men came probably around a year later. They didn't find him in a manger, they found him in a house. And so let's continue reading and we'll we'll get the context for that. Anybody want to volunteer? No, I'll go ahead and read it. It's a short one. Luke 2. 21. And when eight days had passed before his circumcision, his name was called Jesus. the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. Okay? And then lastly, from Luke 2 Section 10 here. And when the days for their purification according to the law of Moses were completed, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as is written in the law of the Lord, every firstborn male that opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord, and to offer sacrifice according to what was said in the law of the Lord a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. particularly since they were four. And there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought the child Jesus to carry out for him the custom of the law Then he took him into his arms, and blessed God, and said, Now, Lord, you are releasing your bondservant to depart in peace, according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. Which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light of revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. And his father and his mother were amazed at the things which were being said about him. I don't know why they should have been, but uh it was confirming. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary's mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rise of many in Israel, and for a sign to be opposed. And a sword will pierce even your own soul to the end that the thoughts from many hearts may be revealed. And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Faniel, of the tribe of Asher, and she was advanced in years and had lived with her husband seven years after marriage, then as a widow to the age of eighty-four. She never left the temple, serving night and day with fastings and prayers. At that very moment, she came up and began giving thanks to God. and continued to speak of him to all those who were looking for the redemption of Jerusalem. When they have performed everything according to the law of the Lord, they return to Galilee, to their own city of Nazareth So, uh great examples here of both a man and a woman of great faith, whom God had given understanding of what was happening here and uh just another opportunity for praising God for carrying out his his plan. So more good examples and just imagine Mary and Joseph getting all these sort of inputs and what it's doing in their heart and so on. But notice where they when they did this. This would have been, I guess, he was 40 days old, I think. And where did they go after this? They went back home. And so um uh That's where we end up as we next week look at um Phase two of this, which includes the wise men, by the way. Well, I wish we had time more time to discuss this, but we're really going to have to stop here and if you have any other thoughts or questions we can uh interact by email and next week. Show us goes impress