So today we're going to continue our discussion on the arrest of Jesus and the details around the trial. As Dr. Plumley uh warned us a couple weeks ago, the uh the accounts of Peter um and his denials. Um he found some difficulties in harmonizing all of them. And um so uh we'll we'll certainly look at that as well as the details of um Jesus being questioned by Annas and and later Caiaphas. So uh be lots of interesting conversation today. Um I wanted to start off though, um maybe ask a question Um we have how many gospel accounts? Stepwing. Four? That's that's a good answer. Um Three of them. You can always count on one. Um the uh there's three of the gos three of the four gospels have a particular name that that we uh attribute to them. Anybody know what that is? Synoptic. Synoptic. So there are a a synopsis or or the kind of um the accounts between the three Gospels. Matthew, Mark, and Luke. They have a lot of similarities. And uh John is the uh the gospel that was written the latest, and uh it's the only one that doesn't fit into that category. So um uh I guess I wanted to read this is um John MacArthur's book, One Perfect Life. It's a uh harmony of the gospel. It's a great book if you don't have it, and uh I I drew a couple things from that, but I liked um I kinda highlighted some some sections. I think it's also in the MacArthur Study Bible if you have that, but he has uh in his introduction to this book um kind of uh the purpose maybe some of the the the the various gospel writers had in writing. You'll note as you read them they do have differing details from from uh gospel to gospel and uh this might explain perhaps the purpose as to why they wrote their gospels. So Matthew wrote primarily to a Jewish audience, presenting Jesus as of Nazareth as Israel's long-awaited Messiah and his genealogy in the beginning of Matthew is a uh if you'll notice between Matthew and Luke there's discrepancies and some people think that's a contradiction but it's behind their purpose Matthew wanted to show Jesus' royal descent from Israel's greatest king, David. As you go to Mark, Mark is primarily geared toward a Gentile audience. and especially a Roman one, Jesus appears in Mark as the servant. So in the first, he's in Matthew, he's the Messiah and King. Mark, he's seen as a servant The other thing I like about Mark is you see the word what's a word that's repeated a lot through Mark, see? Immediately. Immediately, yes, you see that all through. He's it's very fast-paced as you read it. And um loot Luke is uh what what was his profession? We talked about that. Position. So a lot of times you see, you know, kind of the human touch, you know, if if somebody's healed, you know, it's It's a big thing to him and and yet um Luke he himself is being a Gentile, he he's addressing a uh broader Gentile audience. He's an educated Greek, uses the most sophisticated literary Greek of any New Testament writer. But Luke portrays Jesus as the Son of Man. And finally, John, I I don't know about you all, but um a lot of times as you read different um authors you find that you d you It it's it's just easier for you to get for it resonates with you and and that's certainly something um when I was first a believer I uh had this chart in the back of my Bible of all the times that it's very clear that Jesus claims to be God. A lot of times people say Jesus never claimed deity and yet there's all kinds of times where he does and um if you just understand what he's saying. Um and John It's the last gospel written and he emphasizes the deity of Christ. And um so if you take them all all of them together and harmonize them, you get a complete portrait of the God man Jesus of Nazareth. So I thought that was a good intro. And um sometimes as you read the Gospels, um it's difficult to kind of bring all the accounts together and make sense of it. And um I th I think it was uh uh Jeff a couple weeks ago. He was saying, you know, he doesn't see any problem harmonizing the the the three denials. Um just kind of uh each gospel writer is writing from their own perspective and then certainly some of that. But I also as I read all this I found There's certain instances where it it it it kind of goes beyond that. And I understand you know why in in in the beginning of our lesson today, which is on page two hundred sixty-two, I'm trusting you guys Correct there. So in your minders, if you go to that page, you'll see Dr. Plumlin has laid out the traditional arrangement of Peter's denials. And that has to the left there you'll see one, two, and three. So those would be denial number one, denial number two, and then three. And then beneath that he has a harmony of Peter's denials, which would be his preferred understanding. which shows as many as six denials. And um very interesting. As I was going through that, you know, kind of reading the different accounts, I'd go to kind of read each gospel account. s section of the denials, you know, in just kind of in their entirety. And um I definitely understand where he has, you know sees that there's there's some uh things that are hard to be reconciled. And yet um I mean I I I can think of a couple examples, maybe you all can think of of more where There's details, um, of course we see in the prior section, Judas denying Christ, sorry, betraying Christ And um and what happens shortly thereafter, after he he betrays him, goes throws the coins back in the temple, and then what happens? He hung himself. Okay. We see that in one account. And yet there's another passage that says that he fell down and He you know, burst himself asunder. Is that a contradiction? Yeah, I I like uh Son McArthur's explanation of that is he hung himself and he couldn't even do that right. You know, the boat broke and he fell down and he burst asunder and It's like, you know, we we believe that that the the Bible is God's word, that it's all from God, it's all inspired, and even though you have these different writers, they have different things that they want to emphasize. There's I guess the burden is on us, being as it's we believe that it's God's word to show someone how it could possibly be explained And and yet when you have different people from different backgrounds and you have the level of concurrency or you know, harmony to me is is just amazing. You know, just the number of different Bible writers that you wouldn't have glaring contradictions or, you know, it it's Most of these apparent contradictions are fairly easy to explain. So let me get some notes here. Okay. So let's see. Anything else I wanted to say here? Okay, so as we finished last week, we saw that Jesus had been arrested and was brought to Annas first. And what did we learn about Annas? He uh he's called the high priest here, interestingly enough, but was he presently the high priest? Yeah, as as I mentioned last week, he he had been removed from being high priest at that point. And who was who was actually the high priest? Typhus? Caiaphas? That's right. And who who was Caiaphas with respect to Annes? Does anybody know that? Son-in-law. Son-in-law. Yeah, I I read uh a number of commentaries and they talk about Annas had five sons, and of those all five of them had been high priest at one point, and now his son-in-law, Caiaphas, was was high priest, and yet first person they bring him to is Anna. So what does that tell you? That he still had a lot of influence. You know, that he um he was kinda getting the ball rolling. They were gonna have this trial late at night. They had to quickly call the Sanhedrin together and while they were doing that they wanted to get started, so they brought him to to Annas. It's interesting. He had set up a system, I don't know how bad it was before he came along, but they had a system where they had money changers in the temple And uh that that was kind of an interesting detail. Money changes. What would be the need for money changes in the temple? That was yes, Clay. My understanding is that um people I guess from different areas, different places would have different in um kinds of money from their place or whatever, and they would need to buy certain things for the sacrifice and so forth or whatever they needed. Yeah. And so there would be people there that would have the exchange so to speak. Yeah. Yeah, I I think uh another detail um that I thought was interesting is their currency that that that uh they had there, the common currency was Roman. And uh whose picture was on the uh the Roman currency? Caesar. Caesar, yes. So bringing that into the temple they would consider it to be blasphemy. And so they would bring it in and they'd have to change this uh this awful idolatrous currency to something that that that they they could use there. Problem is if you all have ever traveled, you have to change your currency And uh there's these things they call exchange rates. And uh they were notorious for for uh charging a lot for these exchange rates. And um I mean we see two examples. That's the interesting thing. A lot of times people they know Jesus went into the temple and flipped over tables. You know, the money changers, you know, they they were selling. things to be sacrificed and all at a great profit. And these things they all really upset God and as we see by Jesus' reaction, I mean he's flipping over tables and and saying, why are you turning you know, my father's house into a uh uh basically then robbers. It's just uh it really he was incensed over the whole thing. And um Annis was behind a lot of setting all of these things up And uh he uh was able to become rather wealthy by by uh cheat cheating people. You know, I mean if he wanted something to sacrifice to God, he would overcharge you know what it would be costing and so uh he uh no doubt feel that he must have heard that Jesus had gone into the temple not once but twice and flipped over these tables which were providing him a lot of uh his uh his income. So uh I'm sure he'd heard of Jesus. And uh in any case um just wanted to kind of lay that out as as a uh uh intro into um his introduction to anis. So as we mentioned the two disciples that are hanging around are John and Peter. As we read, John is someone who was known to the High Priest and he um he was at this point already in the courtyard and um probably because they knew him he just went in no problem and then Peter wanted to come in and we uh we see that that um John was able to gain him entrance into that courtyard. So let's go through some of these uh in section one eighty one. So the other disciple, and this is in the Gospel of John, and we as we discussed John refers to them to himself as the other disciple, who is known to the high priest. He went out and spoke to the doorkeeper. And we find out in other passages that the doorkeeper in this case is is a uh a young lady who's a slave And she uh they brought Peter in, and the s then the slave girl who kept the door said to Peter, You are not also one of this man's disciples, are you? He said, I am not. Okay. So as I I highlighted down here, looking at this in the first bullet um Dr. Ponley has. This also suggests that John must have been well trusted by the high priest's staff, for she didn't accuse him of anything, or perhaps the also suggests that she knew John was a disciple of his, but that didn't matter. The other thing we find out n not long after that is another slave that's in this in in this courtyard is related to Malchus. And so uh do you think that they may have heard what Peter had done, you know, with the ear removal? Um probably so. And uh so we'll we'll discuss that. But See? Yes. I think it's kind of interesting that Peter was there with John and and um i if it's the case that this that the person there kind of knew that John was a disciple And and didn't really care. I mean it was sort of like maybe that's the impetus why she would ask, Are you a disciple as well? Yes Well it just underscores the sort of um the depth of the of the denial. Mm-hmm. I am not, you know, what John's right there, you know, it's like, yeah, sure, I'm one of them too, but uh It's unbelievable in that. Yeah. Atay uh, you know, when you just read through the scriptures, if you don't really pay attention to detail. There's so much detail there that I've picked up, you know, in studying this, it's just like it it never even registered that John was there And then yet yeah, he's the one that kind of got Peter into this uh this courtyard and I've written my notes, that's when the trouble began, you know. He uh he comes into this courtyard to see so You know, l all the other disciples it says they fled, they were gone. But John and and Peter, who were in in Jesus' inner circle They were hanging around to see what was gonna happen and Peter wanted to be in close proximity so he could find out what would happen. Yes, yeah, we can give him credit for that. And yet he uh he finds himself in a in a place where he's surrounded by people who are not friendly toward him. I mean, if they knew who he was, this would be a very bad situation. And um yet, you know, beforehand when when Jesus says to him, you know, you're going to deny me three times and um he can't believe it. He's like, you know, his love for him was so strong and He just couldn't imagine a scenario where he would deny Jesus and yet he's in the situation where, perhaps caught off guard, you know, they're starting to question, wait a minute, you're you're one of his disciples too And as it says one of his disciples and he denies it. So I guess the good news is the first the first denial From all the gospel accounts, it's very clear it's it's the slave girl that handled the the gate that let people in and out. So um no controversy there. Any other questions or comments on this section? Yep. Just that it underscores Jesus knew Peter's emotions. Yeah. Kind of knew how they would swing and how how it would drive them to this denial and so and and also how he using that Jesus knew that that was gonna be a solidifying event for him, uh you know, a core memory could see to drive him towards his faith and drive him towards ministry and so forth. Mm-hmm. And just think of how Jesus does that with us. Yeah. How he uses our emotions, he uses life circumstances, uses even our sin to shape us and mold us and Mm and thank you for it. Um that's a good point. I think a lot of times, you know, maybe when you're a young believer, you know, you're you know, sharing your faith with someone or people at work find out, you know, that you're a professing Christian and, you know, they maybe put you on a spot, you're in the middle of a group like people that are very hostile toward Christianity and have we ever felt the urge to maybe downplay, oh, you know, I'm not one of those religious fanatics or you know, however it might be, you know, we have an opportunity to make a strong statement. for for our Christianity, for you know, based on our faith in Christ and we we don't. You know, in in a sense, you know, it I mean Paul very famous passage in Romans says, I am not ashamed. You know, how often have we felt felt, you know, afterward, I blew it. I had an opportunity to say something. And yet I said something that was, you know, completely misrepresented what I've been trying to get across. And I I think we all feel that and I think God knows, you know our heart and as as we're growing, you know, maybe we'll have an opportunity to go back and correct what was said or, you know, yep. Right. Well to your point, you know, oftentimes I believe we think of the nice Jesus as saying, well, no, I don't know him. I don't really follow him that closely. But I think any time that we are acting Yeah. And I think a lot of times with our family or people we work with one thing they pick up on very quickly is what they consider to be hypocrisy. You know, they're like, wait a minute, you know, y you're supposed to be a Christian and you just said this or you had done such and such Children are great at picking out inconsistence in their parents, aren't they? Yes, at least I that's my observation. they um they will point out and hold you to a very high standard, you know, and and rightfully so. You know, it's it's one of these things that we are responsible for, our responses and, you know if somebody calls that out in us, you know, our d reaction normally is to to feel defensive or whatever, and yet, you know, we need to own it and and recognize if we've been, you know, in any way hypocritical. Okay. Anything else? Alright, that was the short section. That's the thing that's scary. All these are short, but hopefully we'll have lots of good discussion. Section one hundred eighty-two, Peter and John enter the courtyard of the high priest. I'll read the blended section there. And Peter entered right into the courtyard of the high priest. Now the slaves and the officers were standing there Having kindled a charcoal fire in the middle of the courtyard, for it was cold, they were warming themselves, and Peter was also with them, standing and warming himself. Then they sat down together. Peter was sitting among the officers, warming himself at the fire to see the outcome. So he's surrounded by people, as I mentioned earlier. slaves and officers and I mentioned the uh the slaves may have had mixed emotions about if they knew who Peter was, you know, ha him having attacked one of their their fellow slaves, Malchus. Um maybe they recognized that, I don't know. But um but the officers, these were people that would have been hostile to that would have been in favor of Jesus being arrested. And um so he was sitting amongst people that that weren't that would not have been friendly toward him. Yeah, and so in in In various accounts you see G I mean Peter standing and sitting. This blended account kinda covers both situations there. And um any questions about that that section? You know, I think it struck me that sometimes when we're working or you know in different places as Christians we try to blitz you know. You know, it it just kinda struck me that uh Um sometimes that can be our position whenever we're in places that um we might not want to just fully identify ourselves with. I was thinking listening to uh N R C Sprol um podcast a couple months ago and he was talking about when he was a new believer you know, he was very overt about his faith, sharing his faith with everyone, and he had this one teacher who really took it upon herself to uh kind of put the screws to him and and in one class she says, um Mr. Scroll, do you um believe that Jesus is the only way to God? And uh you know, and everybody kind of turned and looked at him. And uh you know, he knew, you know, of course You know, the uh the easy thing would have been to say, uh, oh, you know, I'm sure there's other ways, you know, something along those lines. But he felt like the you know, true to his faith and his and his testimony, he had to say, yes, I believe he's the only way to God and he said that the teacher just blew up. That is the most arrogant thing I've ever heard. So ridiculous. You know and um You know, he just felt like he wanted to kind of melt away at that point and everybody was in enjoying this and and uh on his way out the teacher kind of pulled him aside and said, uh, you know, I'm really sorry I put you on the spot like that, but I just can't understand how you f could believe that Jesus is the only way to God. And he had the opportunity through that to kind of walk her through, you know, that um Yes, if I believe because I believe that Jesus is the only way to God, yes, that would be arrogant. But Jesus himself said, I am the way, the truth, the life. No one comes to the Father but by me, you know, and uh it just was neat how he resolved all that and through all that was was faithful to his testimony. So um but if Jesus is the only way it would be arrogant to say that he's not Right. Right. And um yeah, and I like to also kinda follow up on that. He's like, you know, isn't it gracious of God to have provided a way, you know, considering you know our our sinfulness and So, yep. I didn't want to get too far off topic there. Um in any case, uh let's see if I have anything on my notes here. All right, that's true. Okay. All right, I'll read the next section here. 183. Um Only from John says, the high priest, who we know at that point to be Annas, then questioned Jesus about his disciples and about his teaching Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world. I always taught in synagogues and in the temple, where all the Jews come together, and I spoke nothing in secret. Why do you question me Question those who have heard what I spoke to them. They know what I said. When he said to this sorry, when he said this, one of the officers standing nearby struck Jesus saying Is this the way you answer the high priest? Jesus answered him. I have spoken. If I have spoken wrongly, testify of the wrong, but if rightly, why do you strike me? So there's a lot of things that are interesting here. First of all, we know this is Annas, and yet this officer who was nearby struck Jesus saying, Is this the way you answer the high priest? And I think this is an indication, you know, when somebody is is president after they leave office we still refer to them by that that uh title. We c still call them president so and so even though they aren't presently and I think that's an indication of of what this is this is what's going on with this. And um and it's interesting uh uh what we see in here there there's um you know how trials should be done. And they were breaking every rule, you know, in terms of bringing them in at nighttime and kind of hastily getting things together. And his point is you know, you're asking me about my teaching. Everybody knows what I've taught. It's well known. And, you know, I think there's a part of this too where you know they were trying to get him to say something that would be incriminating. you know, blasphemous if it was if he said something blasphemous then that would appeal to the um the officials and the chief priests I mean the the the s Pharisees and Sadducees. If he said something seditious, well then they they can take him to the Romans and and then they can execute Execute them because they weren't allowed the Jews weren't allowed to uh execute somebody. So um it was all very much a very uh orchestrated setup. So Um but his point was if if I'm saying anything, people know what I've said. Why don't you ask them? You know, it's like the idea of incriminating yourself. We have you know uh structures in our uh legal system to keep you from incriminating yourself and yet, you know, he his point was you're asking things that are well known. So You know, why and and when the guy hauls off and hits him, he you know, he's like, If I've spoken wrongly, then why do you strike me? And uh That always amazes me, you know, when Jesus is facing people that are eminently hostile toward him, he says things like, you know, if I've sinned, you know, just Tell me how I have and they have no answer. You know, uh you would think somebody who wants in debt wants you know to uh to make this trial go through, they would provide some sort of answer, but they don't have any. Any other questions or thoughts? Well that's really interesting because this whole process is supposed to look illegal. Yeah. But in doing this, um and I I And is uh is is doing illegal things. He's not even allowing himself to be bound by the very rules that he's claiming to try to bring against Christ. And Jesus and asking for witnesses is a part of that Jewish process there are supposed to be witnesses that come forth and and back up whatever the the Sabbath the Sanhedrin was claiming So this kind of like informal interrogation wouldn't even have been necessary. And so Jesus by pointing it out like there are witnesses if you You don't believe it because we're these witnesses and it's like this guard knew that Jesus was rebuking and it's so and then hold up and just Yeah, and and it's interesting, you know, this officer is basically saying, Yes, I know this guy held the position of high priest, but how speak to him in such a way? How did you accuse him of doing something unlawful? How dare you call him out? Yep. Yep So uh yeah, there's l all kinds of interesting things and when they finally, as we'll see in the next section, do call witnesses, it's almost comical, you know, just they have all these different accounts and they're trying to All right, we got this guy saying this. Anybody else got anything? You know, and and they can't put any kind of coherent charge. That's what he's looking for, is something to charge him with. And they Call witnesses and these guys are talking about the temple as we'll see. And the Saint Peter is already waiting at Caiaphas's house. Not only is this at the wrong time of day because this kind of trial is supposed to be held in the public eye It's at a complete wrong time day. These guys were already at Kaivas House waiting for Jesus to be there. Yeah. So it's it just sh shows the orchestration from like from the top down completely all the way through. Yep. Sure. uh the same thing that went on with Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior, of the same way underhanded that they are operating Today. And they not they recognize that they're doing wrong, but they're not taking the blame So the same thing that is happening in the biblical days when Jesus Christ won't Is there evil is feeling this other thoughts or comments? All right. So one eighty-four says Jesus is sent to appear before the high priest and the Sanhedrin. So the Sanhedrin they were a collection of seventy-one Um it's kind of a collection of Sadducees and the Pharisees. Um they uh it had added up to seventy-one altogether. Um I forget how the numbers went in exactly I think there was a uh a a chunk of them were the elders and then beyond that they were just officials and So uh and that's where he's going to ultimately appear before so we see s it says so Anna send him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest. So it's interesting the prior guy was upset that he had spoken disrespectfully to the high priest, and yet here it's say it's identifying Caiaphas, his son-in-law, as the high priest, and he actually was And says, those who seized those who had seized Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, where all the chief priests and the scribes and the elders were gathered together. So That that this is for sure we know that the first person interviewing him was Annas, and so he sends them to Caiaphas, the current high priest, and they had the uh the Sanhedrin gathered together. So Um I don't know any questions on this section? So section one hundred eighty-five that is described as the sec Peter's second denial of Christ. Verse twenty five and it says, Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they said to him, so it's interesting here, it says so they said to him, You are not also one of his disciples, are you? And he denied it and said, I am not. So different um gospel accounts on the second denial, they have kind of the crowd altogether speaking. And um I believe it's Luke that um just has the uh the second person being a slave a slave burrow, perhaps the the same one who'd let him in. But um So sometimes, you know, you see details, you know, I was talking fun a couple weeks ago and it's the idea, you see you know the uh the maniac in the gatherings, you know, this guy that came out, you know, he's cutting himself, he's kind of losing his mind and you know it's clear he's filled with all kinds of demons, as many as can possess a herd of s a swine as they run down the hill. And yet one of the other accounts says there's two demoniacs. And is that a contradiction? It's like it's just an indication that one of them was perhaps more, you know uh vocal and um you know so sometimes you see details where one person speaks or the crowd is speaking so I don't have any concerns with that, but just wanted to mention that. So all right, so that's what's described as the second denial. And this is a rather large section. Jesus is interrogated by Caiaphas, the high priest, and the Sanhedrin. Sanhedrin taken from both Matthew and Mark. Abundant account says now the chief priests and the whole council kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus. So that just shows you their intent was to gain testimony and it says here they tried tried to gain false testimony against Jesus. So were they um being honest in their attempts at trying Jesus? Clearly not. And it says they wanted to obtain his false testimony so they might put him to death. They did not find any, even though many false witnesses came forward, but their testimony was not consistent. But later on two stood up and came forward and began to give false testimony against him, saying We heard this man say, I am able to, and will destroy this temple of God made with hands, and will build another made without hands in three days. So there is a passage where he says, destroy this temple. It's not, I will destroy this temple, but if you destroy this temple, what was he talking about there? With his body. That's right. And it's explained in that passage. Um I'm sure they were confused by what he was saying, you know, by their reaction. They're like, it looked like many years to build this temple and you're gonna rebuild it in three days? And so, you know, he uh he made this statement that was Not even close to what these guys are saying, but you know, they uh oh if you destroy I I'll destroy this temple and rebuild it and In any case, um and so then the high priest, I guess he thought this is the best testimony he's heard, so he says the high priest stood up and came forward and questioned Jesus, saying, Do you not answer What is it that these men are testifying against you? But Jesus kept silent and did not answer. Did we see uh uh e as I mentioned, um you see in some of the Old Testament passages prophesying about his death that he was silent before his accusers. And I think this is an example of that. And again, the high priest was questioning him and saying I adjure you by the living God that you tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God, the Blessed One. So the high priest was putting them under oath, saying, Okay, I want you to answer this, and he gives them very specific things. He's saying, You tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God, the Blessed One. And it's very interesting. Jesus, does he remain silent? No, this is a charge that he was like, this is true. I'm going to respond to this. And he thought if he was going to be charged, he wanted to be sure they had the charge right. And Jesus said of him, I am. Remember last week we were talking about the significance of the I am statements. He said, I am. You have said it, you have said it yourself. Nevertheless, I tell you hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest tore his robes and said, He is blasphemed What further need do we have of witnesses? Behold, you have now heard the blasphemy. What do you think? How does it seem to you? They answered, He deserves death. And they all condemned him to be Deserving of death. So I was one of the commentaries I was reading, they were saying that it was actually unlawful for the high priest to tear his robes like that. And yet You know, d they didn't care about any abate lates, it was all a sham. What was that? Slavinicus ten six or in twenty one ten Yeah. Yeah, it's like they just had a purpose in mind and he finally figured out the right question to ask. They got the response they were looking for. And Jesus was perfectly willing to you know he was willing to be arrested, he was willing to be you know charged as long as the charge was right. And and now that I mean this is a very clear statement, like, are you the Messiah? And he's like, I am. And uh, you know, that that was uh that was the truth and of course we see how they reacted to it. So yep. According to John and his commentary, uh he said that or not John that he was sorry. Um he said the the Talmud made an exception for high priests who witnessed a blasphemy, but Caiaphas's supposed grief was a phony was phony, was as phony as the charge of blasphemy blasphemy against Jesus. So he was gloating over found something to base his charges on, just like you were saying. Mm-hmm. Yep. So I had highlighted under this um in Dr. Plummer's notes He hadn't said I will, or I am able to destroy oh that's kind of going back to the prior thing. Um okay. Yeah, that was the prior prior thing. Says one reason Jesus kept silent with regard to the false testimony was presumably to expose the inconsistency and not provide the counsel with something they could use against them, forcing them to produce evidence. And then in the section we just read, um he willingly gave up his life, but he wanted to be sure that the charge against him was correct So another thing that Dr. Poem adds in his notes I thought was was good. In terms of members of this Sanhedrin, there were two members that in all likelihood were not there, and that's Joseph of Arimathea. and probably Nicodemus. Um they might not have been present. Um if they'd all agreed on it, maybe they just did a majority vote. Um so we see after his death that those two came and they they took care of his body. So Um clearly, you know, we see Nicodemus early on having questions for Jesus and and um after his burial that those two were helping to uh to care for his body. So let me see if I have anything That I also have in my notes here. Okay. Yep. Seems like that the um powers that be at that time, it seemed like they didn't even want a messiah or think that they needed a messiah or even thought that someone could possibly be the Messiah. I mean in that situation they would have Okay, well, why do you think you know they would have maybe thrown down that plant or whatever? It's just immediately it's like no one can be You didn't say Jesus was a threat to their power. They were more interested in music and because Jesus didn't fit their idea and wasn't going to keep them in power They were absolutely no I mean it's just like the the parable of the vineyard, when when the owner of the vineyard says, Surely my son, they will respect him and they're like, Ooh, if we killed him, this inheritance is ours, however twisted that logic may be It exposes their sin. Absolutely. Like there's there's just full depravity there. It was a hundred percent like there was no love of God there. You can't even try to claim it. Yeah. Like, oh we're doing this for God. And I think that is so amazing how that they were so desperate for their power, like she said, that they were willing to let no one get in their power. especially someone that had uh influence over the people whom they were cheating and getting money from to make their more oppressive fees. Um But again I say this is going on now and look it's taking place. Yeah. Right now in the world. Very true. Exactly. Yeah. It always amazes me, you know, when we read the account of the resurrection and after the resurrection, you know, they had placed you know this guard there is shield in the tomb, you know, and after they're aware, he's no longer in the tomb. Even then, you're like All right, you know, guards you you can say you fell asleep, which would have been a capital offense, you know, falling asleep at your post. And you know, and we'll tell everybody and you'll be okay. You know, and it's like even then they weren't willing to say, well If he's not in the tomb, where is he? You would think that that would have been something that would occur to them but they themselves didn't even believe it that he was risen. That they're again they're still so worried about their own And actually like I don't know how much people have gone past into like learning about Roman culture and like how Roman centurions were were trained It's not just the Roman centurion that would die. Their family would die with them. Like in a in a in a horrible, horrible way. Like an entire generation would have been wiped out because of their own crime. of not of leaving of abandoning their post, let alone sleeping at their post. Like it's it's actually so much the fact that these these men abandon the stuff rigorous training on the military side that these men went through, they would not have abandoned their post for anything less than God. Right. Like it's just there's there's there's no way. Yeah. About their family, that's pretty amazing. But I guess it shouldn't surprise me, you know, I mean, you know, just Well because they're one of these men when they when they were face to face with death Mm-hmm. To understand that like you need to be more afraid of your home doing something to your family than you are of whatever the enemy is going to do to you. And so these men would stand these are these are like the Marines of the US. You know, like these is that's That's how these centurions were. And so, although yes, we don't want them to murder an entire generation and entire family, this was how they went about making sure that people did not disfact Sure. Sure. Sorry. Or Army Rangers. Yeah. Okay. Insert. In insert most like dedicated. Alright, so we get to uh w w section one eighty seven is described as Peter's third denial of Christ redefunded account. As Peter was sitting outside below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls, the high priest being a relative of one whose ear Peter cut off, came to him, and seeing Peter, as he sat in the firelight warming himself, she looked intently at him and said, This man was with him too. Did I not see you in the garden with him? You also were with Jesus the Galilean, the Nazarene. But he denied it again before them all saying, Woman, I do not know him. I neither know nor understand what you're talking about. And he went out onto the porch, and immediately a rooster crowed So there's a lot of interesting things going on here. First of all, I'll mention you were with Jesus, the Galilean, the Nazarene. And uh what was the the common attitude towards somebody who was from Nazareth? They they didn't think much of it. It was kind of the underside of the uh you know, the community. If you were a Nazarene, oh man. And you even see when Jesus is selecting his disciples, one of his uh one of his people that he selects, he's like, Can anything good come from Nazareth? Yes, that's right. Yeah. And I'm sure it was hard for them in their minds to put it all together. It's like, okay, yeah. But In any case, so that's that's the first one. He's Jesus the Nazarene. Um and uh it's interesting in Mark. Um Mark says there's going to be how many rooster crows? Two times. Before a rooster crows twice. The other account just says before a rooster crows, but I would mention that if a rooster quote crows twice, he certainly is going to crow. Again, a slight difference in the details, but one thing I found very interesting in Mark, right after, I'm not sure if we're there, yeah there it is, and he went out onto the porch So depending on what translation you have, you'll see the words end of rooster crowd at that point. That is actually in very few manuscripts, the end of rooster crowd It doesn't show up in the NASB translation. They just completely left it out. A lot of times, if there's kind of a variant manuscript, they'll put brackets around it, but um you'll see it's not in the NASBI. It is in King James. It is in ESD, but um the the reason there's a difference there is it's in not not many of the manuscripts. But it's interesting, either that Mark says he's before a rooster crows twice You're going to dime me three times. And all we see for sure in Mart is and a rooster crowed twice. So kind of implying I mean I don't have a problem with the fact that the rooster crowed at that point. But it is interesting. You know, you would think if Peter's trying his hardest not to deny him three times and he hears a rooster crow, it would be like Oh, I that's once. But uh in any case, um just a uh just a bit of a puzzle. And you know, uh just to be an encouragement, the uh the number of manuscripts that have variations is very, very small. Um there's uh there's times, in fact I'll talk about one of them, where you'll see in a passage the words are italicized. What does that mean? Anyone know? You see italics, yes, Joe. Right, it's supplied, implied, something along those lines. And uh I'll talk about that. Um there is uh what I think is perhaps a a relevant time where Some words are supplied that perhaps it didn't mean that, but we could talk about that. So um let's see. And as it as we say, as it says, um, and immediately it was recorded again. So um so Dr. Plum has the notes here. The servant girl was a relative of Malchus, and she too had been in the mob that arrested Jesus. I think some of the gospels don't specify that it was a a female that was the relative of Malchus, but um perhaps it was. She too had been in the mob that arrested Jesus So she recognized Peter as having been there with Jesus. No wonder he was the one who cut off Malchus's ear. So, ah, and that is the last section. So let me go back to my notes for further discussion here. All right Yep. Um in verse uh seventy two is in this speech. It doesn't mention output the reason for the which passage this is marked. Um after sixty he says, but he denied it saying, I neither know nor understand what you're talking about and he went out onto the port. Seven girls saw him, I guess, saw him But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders were again saying to Peter, Surely you are the one one of them. You are it's Galilean too. Yeah. But again to curse and swear. I do not know that you have you are talking immediately originally And the second time Peter remembered how Jesus remarked to him before I lose the quote to actually wrote denying two times. And you think it's not in seventy two. Yeah, as I was saying in Mark, most I mean everybody's Bible has the uh rooster crowing twice. It's that passage where it talks about you went out onto the porch In ESV King James it says and a rooster crowd, but in the New American it doesn't have that. It's it's kind of a minor point. But um it's just uh if you're counting rooster crows, that's uh that's why it's a bit confusing. But in any case, all right, let's see. Yeah, and Mark is the uh he's the only one that mentions about the crowing twice So um let's see. Um could I ask you. Yep. Could it be that you need sometimes Uh I didn't get that one. We get confused when Jesus Christ said that he would be nine or three times and that three times stick in our mind when the root of uh crow the first time and I thought about what you said that uh it got throws uh out of his mind when the cruci when the rooster did crow in knowing that Jesus Christ mentioned it beforehand for him that he would deny him Mm-hmm. So I'm thinking that Peter denied him three times, but the roots only proved twice. Right. Yeah. Yeah. That's an interesting thing with um in some of the commentaries I read, you know, as you're going through Mark, you know, it's They they try to explain obviously we see the roaster crow crowing twice. Obviously somewhere in that whole denial process it crowed the first time and they were like, you know, maybe maybe, you know, Peter was so confused and you know, trying to defend himself that it didn't even occur to him that he came to prove but obviously it must have cro if they crowed twice, it had to have occurred once. So The way math works. And like he like better like a fixed stare and like Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, if he didn't hear the rooster, he saw it stair. So he definitely heard the rooster the second time 'cause it it says they can't remember. Yeah, he turned and looked at it. Especially when he yeah, and then they made eye contact and he was just broken. Yeah, and I I think the uh as very difficult as I see harmonizing this all these accounts. I think the fact that Jesus said before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. I think that I think there were three denials and um the other thing that i is interesting that I've heard people kind of bring up is when Jesus restores Peter, he says, Peter, do you love me? He asks him how many times do you love me? He asks him three times. And it's a very nice, you know, point that you denied me three times and I'm going to ask you three times. And uh it's interesting It's one of those things when I study a little bit of Greek, you know, he uses different words, you know, and as he goes on, you know, he's like Do you love me with agape love? And he says, Yes I do, you know I do, Lord. And finally he's like, you know, do you love me philetho as a friend? You know, he's like, Boy, you're even questioning that and that that was part of his restoration, you know, that he needed them to really look at, you know, you didn't think you were gonna deny me, but you did. And yet, you know, I would say to you, you know, I I believe that you that you loved me, but he had to kinda take it through that. Yes. sometimes laugh at Peter because Peter's just like that I that that perfect example of humanity and stuff like that. But if we kind of put this into perspective, like just a few days prior, like they were walking into the city and everybody was shouting the name of Jesus and like you know Hosanna, Hosanna. You know, and and and then now Jesus is arrested. I mean how confused Peter must be. Like he was just walking alongside this man, saw him do all these senses, and now he's being beaten. He's he's seen Christ looks how he looked after he was brought back and I mean like he's gotta be scared at that point. And so of course like there's this this this understandable like this fear that's now instead of him resting in Christ and trusting what he said, there's this fear that's taken over him and this caused him to like again, self-preservation, just like this lashing out this You know, not again doing what Christ had been talking about. see that in the actions of Peter, in this like instinctual just right off the bat. I mean he even invokes the name of God to like Like, may I be strike dead kind of scale. And it's like, you go so far. It's it's the it's this kind of like even someone who is right there next to Christ in the midst of something horrific, in the midst of a trial, in the midst of just it's suffering one of the most shocking things that he's probably ever seen in his life. His default is to even just go so far as to invoke the name of God to strike him down. And you just kind of see this as like a oh. Yeah. That's that's that's far. That's Yep. Yeah, for sure. Yet I think though what we see saw in the last the last passage that we read last week At the end, once Jesus is arrested and they realize, you know, I mean he wax off Malchus's ear, Jesus puts it back on, it's like this isn't happening. They realize Jesus is willingly being arrested they says they fled and they were gone. And yet we find Peter hung around to see and put himself in really a lot of danger you know, kind of wanting to know what's going to happen to to Jesus and and all the other disciples in and all likelihood. John not long after he led Peter into the courtyard probably left himself. And um So they were uh they were a depressed bunch for sure. And uh I'm sure we'll have some some good discussions in the next couple of months, you know, as we're talking about the the burial and the resurrection, all those kind of things. So but um yeah, a lot of times we we're like, I can't believe Peter would deny him, you know. And Yeah, we re we should recognize, you know, given right circumstances, you know, we might do the exact same thing probably would. So um okay Um yeah, so as I as I mentioned, Dr. Plumley um had had talked a couple weeks ago, had the big sections, you know, three denials, possibly as many as six denials. It's a difficult section to harmonize. Um One thing we can say for sure, the first two dials take place. If you look through um the one author, John Uh verses sixteen and seventeen of chapter eighteen, and then eighteen twenty-five, that covers the first two denials. And Jeff, as he mentioned, when you compare one gospel against another Sometimes the the difference in details reflect a difference in point of view or the author's primary focus. So in John eighteen verses twenty-six and twenty-seven In the same context as the uh the first two denials, while still in the courtyard we see another denial. A slave who is related to Malchus questioned Peter, and in this instance it doesn't reveal the slave's gender Um I think the difficulty in harmonizing the accounts are the ones said to be going the questioning in Matthew and Mark. Um is said to be a a servant girl. And um it's interesting uh in either Matthew or Mark um you'll see the word servant girl in italics and I should have written down which one it was. But um If anybody has either of those open, you'll see servant girl is in italics. And it's interesting when I looked at the Greek text, it just had the word another So another servant girl uh is servant girl is supplied, but um but Luke makes it clear in the second denial the accuser is a man. So um I definitely understand I mean Dr. Plumley, I mean, he's wanting to be true to the passage and harmonize all these details. But that it that is definitely a showstopper, you know, when you have somebody You know, it's said to be a servant girl, you know, they're Matthew or Mark, and then Luke says it's a man, and even says, Man, I am not. You know, that's his denial. Um So uh in any case, so if it was only not for Mark, we would I'd be able to resolve it completely. But yeah, I I recognize there's definitely you know some some difficulties in this passage. So Um so with that, are there any other questions or yes, no reason? Mm-hmm. Um and Peter, who he kept close to him, was the first to be mad in. But Jesus knew what he was going to do because he did because Yeah. But death is something else because death is what caused him to say he did it wrong because he knew that death would come if he say he knew him Mm-hmm. And if a lady has definitely play a big role in your life, it's just like when Jesus likes a um when he tells you to talk about laying down your life for a friend How many people would do that, conscious of it? It's the same way Peter would think. I I think if he was not afraid of death, he would have said he knows Jesus Christ Right. But death is something else. Sure. And that's the interesting thing. And I'm not throwing ties at Peter because he's But ironically he had said that he would even lay down his life to Jesus. Yeah, and as we talked about last week, I mean an early going, they were ready to take on this whole cohort, you know, and uh just the just those disciples with two swords, they were somehow gonna take them all along. So the desire was there I think it was when they realized that Jesus was willingly allowing himself to be arrested that that just kind of shattered their their drive and it was like, well, he's gonna allow himself to be arrested And then I'm out of here. But but um one I I thought it was interesting, I heard uh a sermon once comparing Peter and Judas. You know, Peter is told ahead of time, you're going to deny me. Um Judas you know, he he betrays him and that is told ahead of time that one of you is going to betray me. And you know, we might look at those two things and say, you know, they're they're fairly similar. And they they do have a lot of similarities. And yet um what it what's the difference? You know, they both felt terrible about what they had done. One had betrayed Christ, one had denied him, and yet one It went to the point where he realized in this money that I have, I don't even want it anymore. Throws it back and and in despair kills himself. Where Jesus tells Peter very tenderly, you know, you're going to deny me, but when you turn again, strengthen your brothers. So he knows ahead of time, even before he denies him, yes, and You're going to deny me, but when you when you you know turn things around, when you you know come to the point you realize you've done wrong. So if nothing else you could hold on to that, you know. So Anyway. I think it's also a really good lesson for like no matter how it it it reminds us to not be proud in our walk with Christ that like whatever you know, untouchable when it comes to sin or f falling or anything like that. Like you must be vigilant against those kinds of things because although we should boast in Christ, we cannot boast in ourselves. And so when, you know, we we it's easy to be like, Well I would I would you know, someone's going through something, it's like, Well, you know, y you should this is what you should do 'cause I would do this and that Like you you have no idea because you're not there. You're not being faced with whatever the situation is, you're not being faced with the fear, the emotion like all of that. So you cannot truly say, you know I I would never do such a thing like that. Like you may actually do worse. Right. Right. Yeah, and I think a lot of times, you know, it talks about pride goeth before. probably going before a fall, you know, and uh I think if we are ever tempted to feel like, oh I got this, you know, we might want to examine, you know, just the kind of where that comes from. So Um, for sure. You know, I think a lot of times we see these examples in scripture of somebody, I mean, he was always there, you know, thankfully for Peter. You know, he always never let a question pop into his mind that wasn't asked and so we get a lot of answers to his impetuous questions, you know, things that You know, you're always in a class and you know the you got that one guy who's always asking the questions and you know we all are like, well, what a dumb question. I'm glad he's asking that, you know. It's uh yeah. So with that was a good discussion today all. Um thanks. I'm going to go ahead and close this in prayer. Father, we're thankful for this study. We're thankful for again Dr. Plumley and his notes and Just pray you'd um bless their remaining ministry down there in Columbia and get them safe travel on the way home. And just um pray for Pastor Mike as he brings us um the word today. Just pray we'd have hearts that are ready to hear your word. Just pray all these things your name, Amen