Well, we are on uh lesson thirty-four, um making our way through the Passion Week We lead off with section 156. Jesus challenges the Pharisees' notion of the Messiah. So in the last several weeks particularly, but even several times before that, Jesus was confronted by the religious leaders of his day and responding to them. Well this time he's he's on the offense. And um it's kind of interesting how this goes. So I'll uh I'm on page two oh two. I'll read from the blended account here. Uh Matthew twenty-two, forty-one. Mark twelve thirty-five and Luke twenty forty-one. Um so anybody who hasn't yet downloaded the PDF files, this it's on the group website. Make it helpful. Okay, so now while the Pharisees were gathered together as he taught in the temple, remember this is Passion Week, and he's Between Palm Sunday and the resurrection and crucifixion, obviously. See, taught in the temple. Jesus asked them a question. What do you scribes think about the Christ? Whose son is he? He was setting them up, right? And they said to him, Well, the son of David. And he said to them, Then how does David himself, in the Holy Spirit, call him Lord, saying in the book of Psalms, this is Psalm 110, verses 1 and 2. Which says, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool beneath your feet. So Jesus continues, if David then calls him Lord, how, in what sense, is he his son? And the large crowd enjoyed listening to him because they weren't the scribes he was pointing this question at. Um but no one was able to answer him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day on to ask him another question. Which might explain why he was taking the offensive pus posture here. But um So it's it's kind of easy for us in hindsight to see how this all works. that David was referring to the coming Messiah as his Lord, even though he was a descendant of David. Um but that was a head scratcher for them for sure. particularly at that time. And um I guess their idea of the Messiah would be that he would be sort of the the next David, he would be a descendant of David, he would be on the throne of David, he would be carrying on that that whole uh Davidic uh um covenant and kingdom and so on. Um they were looking for an earthly rule. Basically they were looking for an earthly rule. They didn't have as much much um uh understanding of the breadth of the Old Testament prophecies about Christ, that what we're dealing with here is God in the flesh, not just the physical descendant of David. And so Jesus was interestingly kind of uh drawing them out, having them think through scripture. Now he could have just laid it out in very plain terms, right? But he didn't. They obviously were not, they the um Pharisees and scribes and so on, uh, for the most part he could tell from their questioning that um They weren't really open to the truth. Their eyes were still blind and and the heart was hardened. So it wouldn't have done any good to have um Um, laid it all out before them, given their unbelieving hearts. Um similar to what he said before, quoting Isaiah six, you know, um, that hearing they wouldn't understand and and uh seeing they wouldn't uh believe and so on. But anyway, Jesus is making a um an excellent point here about his deity Right. Uh David's referring to the Messiah. And they didn't have any any quibble about this being messianic. Uh they just didn't understand the significance of who the Messiah really was or would be. Okay. Did they uh right here we see the the Trinity in the Old Testament uh you know that speaking of the Holy Spirit and the Lord said to my Lord. So we have the Trinity right here in this passage. Did did they recognize that No, no, they they really didn't have any concept from the Old Testament, although it's there, they didn't really have any concept of The Trinity. So this I mean if they didn't have that concept then this would be a a public Wherever they're head. Like an enigma. And so I think partly what Jesus was trying to accomplish here is to convince them that they weren't know-it-alls. Well that was probably a tall order. What's that? Yeah, right. Um that there were things, you know, they viewed themselves as experts in the law, but there were things in the scriptures that they didn't understand. And they didn't that's the point. They didn't want to know. They were comfortable with their their position, their power, their prestige. Um that was working for them. Yeah. And yeah, we'll we're gonna get into uh that next. Um but he's he's setting them up here with this humbling acknowledgement that they had to acknowledge that They didn't know. It seems like there must have been I mean, because the even that Genesis let it you know make man in our image, there's a plurality There so it seems like there must have been some idea of the God. Yeah, I don't think so. I don't think so. Not in the Semitic mind. Yeah, well it's it's it's clear in scripture, even just the Old Testament, that God is one. There's only one God, but it's also clear and there's evidences like this from from Psalm 110 of the Trinity. The Trinity is still one God, three persons. It's it's not as uh numerous or explicit as we understand it from the New Testament, which has the benefit of the Son of God actually being here, being revealed. Um but yeah there are various views on the um on the plural pronoun in various passages like in Genesis one and and three Um personally I don't think that's reference to the Trinity. Um The Semitic mind isn't really thinking that way. They they use sort of a um the uh what's it called? The royal we the royal we. Yeah. So uh the spirit was hovering over the we Yeah, oh yeah. But the hour the use of the pronoun hour I don't think necessarily My personal opinion doesn't necessarily reflect God's revealing himself as Trinity or plural persons. And a good example of that, it doesn't prove it, but a good example of that very same thing, is you see the same pronoun used for Allah in the Quran. And there's no way they're thinking of Allah being a plurality. Right? It's the Semitic mind and and way of exalting the the the royal we, the royal hour kind of a thing. Where even in English we uh we have a tough time with pronouns. You know, um, and it's getting worse. Yeah, and it's getting worse. But um You know, in in most other languages you have personal and and um formal pronouns, right? Even if it's just you and your and and so on. We don't have that in English. And so we have to understand from context or just be confused or ask, right? So to the extent that Well, it's very similar to, you know, we even in English, when you think of a uh a king or a queen, um w we refer to them to their face in the second person. Right. Your Highness. Right. Your Majesty. Um Jesus we are not Yes, that kind of that's the royal leaf. Right. Right. So it's something to distinguish between the common and the supposed not if not holy, at least exalted, um that um Doesn't really translate well into English. But you know, it it's more than the translation thing. It's it's the Semitic mindset. There are a lot of people, a lot of Bible-fearing, God-fearing evangelicals, very strong Christians, who believe that the hour is a reflection of the Trinity But I think that's a knee-jerk reaction to the word hour, and I don't think it's necessarily warranted. Yeah. And I don't think we would see it either if we had not Exactly. Right. Yeah. So it's not one name, but we're looking at it from a different side. Now Jesus, in the same way, he could have said, instead of quoting Psalm 110, he could have said The scriptures say that God said, Let us make man in our image. So was he making man in the image of God and angels, and he would have left them just as stumped as they were here. But yeah, they they were not as enlightened. They didn't have as much data to go on in having only the Old Testament, and for much of that history, not even the entire of the Old Testament Whereas we have all of that plus the revelation that Christ Himself was and gave in the apostles. So it's a lot easier for but even in the early church, this went on for hundreds of years to figure out the deity of Christ, the Trinity. Um it was not a no-brainer. At all. Yeah. Um, I just was thinking of your comment that these experts in the law meaning the Old Testament, so much of it was over their head, and I was thinking, well, probably so much of the New Testament is over our heads right now and we'll never know until Yeah. Yeah, there there's a large extent to which we've been given more, therefore we're more accountable. Um but yeah we would be very very um presumptuous to think that we've got a handle on everything. But but given that we have been given more and understand more, just like his questions thump them, but we understand you know the answer. It seems like you can apply that to Genesis as well, to the Semitic mind that may have stomped them and may have been a royal wheat, but it seems like we have an understanding of the Godhead that we can understand what the weak honor. Yeah, yeah, I um I I think though the distinction is we can read it with the Trinity in mind and not stumble over it. Right So it doesn't really matter whether it refers to the Trinity or not. We don't stumble over it on that count. And that's why I think there are a lot of very serious godly evangelicals who take it as an indication of the Trinity. I don't have a problem with that. It's just I don't think it's warranted. But it's okay if you believe that because it's consistent with Scripture. Yeah. Greg, I've even heard um sermons on the fact that Old Testament Hebrew had three I don't know which call them. We have in English just singular and plural. That's it. They have singular, dual, and plural. Dual obviously meaning two. like going into Noah's art or whatever, like that. And they expound upon the fact that that was not singular, not dual, but was plural, so it had to be at least three in the in the Hebrew mind. But yeah, everything's just something to think about. It's interesting. Everything's saying like one or two and up. Yeah. My my question is, I don't think the Trinity is something anybody's going to understand because apart from the Holy Spirit because you have okay one God and then you have humanity finding with polytheism. But what is this eternity? It's like what is this? It's not three gods and not one God. Yeah, that's why it took several hundred years, even after Christ, for the church to get their minds around this And God, of course, superintended that process, and it was based on what was revealed in Scripture. But most of the early heresies w were tripping up on this. Was Jesus man or was he God? They weren't thinking he was both, 100% of each. And or some weren't. And that's where a lot of these heresies came, whether they said, oh, he's only man and not God, or he's only God and not man. And uh fortunately, God um provided wisdom through uh uh the breadth of scripture for the church to recognize that he is God in flesh. And um got over those heresies. But those heresies continue because people think logically, put the scriptures in a box, and don't allow the scriptures to speak for themselves. Yeah, several several creeds were were there to affirm truth as opposed to the error that was that was prominent. Yeah. Yeah. Was it something else? I think we did a wrong proof. Yes. If you if you start with limited facts And ignore that we're talking about God's intervention and God's revelation. You can just start with limited facts and draw A conclusion that seems logical, fits all those initial facts, but it doesn't take into account everything, including what God has revealed, and the fact that God Is supernatural. We don't want to ex have to explain these things only on natural terms. Right. The human mind can only comprehend up to a hundred percent So how can this person who's man on earth be a hundred percent man and a hundred percent God at the exact same We can't comprehend that. One of the things we accept by faith and that others in the world don't accept. Given that God has revealed Himself that way in Scripture. We really can't wrap our mind our human mind around that. We have to just accept it The older I get, the more and more faith I see I just have to accept by faith. Bill, do you have a hand up? Oh okay. Pastor Ellen, one one thing, the the expectation that the Jewish nation had about the the lifestyle and the authority and the power and the might of the Messiah That he would exercise. Thankfully, when we see Jesus for the first time, he'll be all of those things. Yeah. David's lifestyle and his possessions and authority and power. Yeah, um what do we fall down if Well, uh d the fulfillment of a lot of this is is begins in the millennium when he actually takes takes up the throne of David in Jerusalem on this earth. I'm hoping to see him before then. So we see him in his resurrected glory, uh, but that's his his having um reign on earth comes a little bit later than that. Okay. understand the Trinity. So there's a cultural issue there too about well how you speak to your father or even your ancestors. that it might be easy for us to miss this. The implication is a child would never, it's unfathomable to think about calling your dad or somebody or your granddaddy or whoever, um my lord. You mean su a grandson or descendant? Yeah, whatever way I was trying to say. Yeah, yeah, and you know there there are still cultures that have around the world that that show a lot of honor to older generations and to older people just in general and and in our society have that as much. And it might make it easy to miss some of what caused them to trouble like the question is. Yeah, and and that coupled with the fact that um you know in in our situation Um if a man's son becomes president, you know, technically he might call him Mr. President. He might be so sarcastic, right? But technically, I mean that's what everybody calls him. And but in this situation, the descendant is of by definition part of the kingly line from from David. And so all of the descendants in between were kings, except for when there wasn't a kingdom. And so even David himself is a king, not just his descendant. So but yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so some what David would have never called Solomon my Lord. Apparently it's right. That's right. Even after he had him anointed it. That's right. And that's what Jesus is saying here. What's going on? There's a difference. Yep. There's also a thing here, I don't know if I missed somebody else say this already, is that this also supports the inspiration of the Psalms. Jesus is is affirming the Holy Spirit's work. Nobody challenged that either. The scribes and Pharisees didn't challenge that Psalms are inspired by the They didn't challenge anything he said. Here anyway. Yes. Yeah. But I mean the there are some Jewish folks today that only accept the Torah. And mighty the water is about what's actually scripture, but back in the day, there wasn't a question that the songs were inspired. Yeah. Modern day Sadducees. Yes. I tried to um actually talk to a Jewish friend about Christ and it's still solving this what and and what we finally got down to, what is your mean of Objection. There's one God. So the Trinity is a real big stumbling block. Christ is a real big stumbling block because it's almost as if they look at that as blasphemy to consider that the Trinity Yep. So for sure. And so passages like this in Psalm one ten and others are helpful to um get them to at least scratch their head. And maybe even take them to this passage in in the Gospels where Jesus puts that point to the Jewish leaders and they're scratching their heads. Yeah. I guess that would be the same for Muslims as well. Since they're monotheist. Yep. Yep. Ardently. Well we we are monotheistic as well. Yeah Very much. But um yeah, no, the Quran is bends over backwards to say and you can see Satan's fingerprints all over it, where it says, um um just d denying the the deity of Christ, denying the uh uh the crucifixion of Christ and and so on. But the point of the matter is because if somebody is insisting and saying, okay, God is one of I would like to ask them if that is one, how come he's everywhere all at the same time? We as humans We we operate in space and time, we can only interact with one moment of time at a time. And yet we know, I think scripture teaches quite clearly Yes. Yes, well he's omnipresent, but he's the omnipresent in one. Yeah, omnipresence doesn't require Trinity. No, no. The one God is omnipresent, omniscient, uh all of those omni Oh yeah, um God the Father is omnipresent, God the Son is omnipresent, God the Spirit is omnipresent. Um being deity. Um and Jews wouldn't wouldn't argue with that. That's not an argument for Trinity. In fact, if one can't be everywhere, why why could three be everywhere? Yeah. That's true. Yeah. I don't know, does that help? I'm just I'm just thinking in my mind, you know, the idea of the trying trying to understand how three can be Yeah good luck. Yes. Well and and so all that I mean there are there are some illustrations about Getting our minds around three and one, I won't take you there for now. But if you're interested, I can give you some. They're not proofs. They're merely even in the physical world you can't wrap your mind around some things like that, right? But the point is, um, we're talking here about the essence of God. And we as mere mortals are trying to wrap our heads around the essence of God? Really? Well, on the one hand, we can't, but he's revealed himself. The only way we're going to understand, as much as we can understand, is going to be based on what he has revealed about himself in Scripture And so let's deal with that. All right. We can't comprehend how it all works. Because why? It's outside of our experience. We tend to believe things that are we've experienced. And how do you how do you wrap your mind around the essence of God? Because that doesn't it's not something in the data we have in our experience. Well, we have to rely on scripture. And so if what we see that he's revealed about himself in scripture Doesn't make sense. That shouldn't surprise us. This is about God after all. Right? That's not a cop-out. We need to continue to study and search and and grapple with the implications and so on, but not feel what it can't be true unless we certify it as understandable. It's way beyond we can comprehend. Yeah. Yeah. And that's just one of the things that we can't completely understand. But uh and so faith is required, but that's not a a blind faith. It's it's Given the text that if we didn't have the scripture, it would be sort of a human invention and therefore made up and therefore who's going to believe it? But given that it is, given that God has revealed Himself that way Who are we to deny it? Right? So we got all of that out of those few verses? You're a tough crowd. All right, let's go to uh section one fifty-seven. Continuing in all three of those Passages. I think they're contiguous. And I'll start with a blended account on page 203. Most of this is from Matthew. Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to his disciples while all the people were listening. Isn't it interesting how he's teaching his disciples? Even while he's broadcasting to a larger group, some of whom are willing listeners, many are not. But he was saying in his teaching, the scribes and the Pharisees have seated themselves in the chair of Moses. Now, I want to hold there. If you've got the notes, flip the page. On page two oh four. You've got the Moses seat. In um in this case in the synagogue at Korazine It's probably up higher than it may have been initially, but archaeologists are pretty sure this is a typical example of a Moses seat. What was a Moses seat? Well it was a seat in the Synagogue where the teacher of the day, a rabbi or whoever, he would stand to read but sit to teach And he would sit in the seat of Moses, which is, you know, the the the authority of the scriptures they had at the time. They were he was teaching Moses and the prophets and and Um rocks, right? Uh yes. Yeah, this one is lifted up on these this these various tiers of wooden beams or wooden slabs. So if they could design a seat like that, why wouldn't they make wood out of wood? I mean is this This is a movable. You can't you can't just move it around. Well this is the whole rocks when they have trees. Yeah, yeah. Yeah y y you know how many rocks are there, right? Um th th y y you use the resources you've got and uh that lasts longer. Yeah, yeah So like a thing is like can't remove. Yeah. So that is a carved rock. It's not cement or something. Oh no no, it's carved stone. Yeah. It's decorated stone and and shaped and so on. Okay. Um and and uh Karen's there to give it a matter of scale. Okay, so they seat themselves in the chair of Moses. Why? Because they esteem themselves as the teachers in the synagogue. That's the point. Therefore, all that they tell you, do and observe. Why? Well, to the extent that they're teaching The scriptures, then that's fine. But do not do according to their deeds. For they say things and do not do them. They tie up heavy burdens and lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves are unwilling to move them with so much as a finger. But they do all their deeds to be noticed by men. And that's the key. They're men pleasers rather than God pleasers. That's his point here. For they broadened their phylacteries and lengthened the tassels of their garments. What are phylacteries? Okay, so it's it's the red six That's that's in the uh the Shema right and and so uh when he says place it on the foreheads and on your on your your uh hands and so on. They take that literally and it's it's it's a it's a beautiful um illustration of what Jesus is saying here. It's all external Right? There's nothing internal about their doing that. It's all external. And lengthen the tassels of their garments Is it sinful to have tassels on your garments? No. But they lengthen them to be more, to be longer than perhaps even practical, but certainly longer than others. Why? Well, Jesus said to do their deeds to be noticed by men. They want to be noticed as a notch above. In a position of authority, um closer to God, um um just exalting themselves in the sight of people. Margaret. So verse four where it says tie up heavy burdens and lay them on people's shoulders. Is Jesus referring to rules based Yes. Yes, very much so. And it's we know the rabbis made all kinds of rules for people It's not limited to Judaism, though. Oh no, it's human nature. Yeah. Islam does that. Every religion except biblical Christianity is a religion of works. And and the risk is if someone manages to keep all the rules or most of the rules they feel superior. Justified in their own eyes, essentially Yeah, and if someone else doesn't keep those rules, well we're a notch above. And that's exactly where they were. Yeah. Yep. That describes the Pharisees back themselves in the cherubim. Um maybe. As opposed to uh God placing them in that um kind of point role at that point. Yeah, possibly. Okay. Lengthen the tassels of the garments. Beware of the scribes who like to walk around in long robes. In other words, longer than others and bringing attention to themselves. And they love the place of honor, place of honor at banquets. and the chief seats in the synagogues, in love, respectful greetings in the marketplaces, and being called rabbi by men. But do not be called rabbi, for one is your teacher, and you are all brothers. Do not call anyone on earth your father, for one is your father who is in heaven. Um I guess that verse isn't in the Catholic Bible, right? Um Do not be called sarcastic or lower. I mean Doug was saying Jesus was sarcastic, right? Um Do not be called leaders, for one is your leader, that is Christ. But the greatest among you shall be your servant Whoever exalts himself shall be humbled, and whoever humbles himself shall be exalted. So is he saying here that we shouldn't call anyone a teacher? Don't call anyone your father? So what's he saying? Dr. Meyer has a good story. a couple of months ago on that like they're not the source of anything. The source of you know you don't teach your provision something how to provide that these teachers Yeah, they teach you, but they're not the source of your existence. Yes. For sure. He's talking about Pharisees. He's talking about Pharisees. Oh whatever they are. In their in the sense the Pharisees that you've been taught like the Pharisees in in their sense, so you you don't adol idolize them anymore. Or you don't have to do everything that they say you know. Be careful of them. They're not your ultimate authority But we still have this problem. I'm a foreigner and you all know that, but in America we worship pastors. We do. We do. High regard for them. And so much so that it is nearly equal with the pastor says, but it's the Bible that says it's one pastor. Oh, for sure, for sure. Uh we we where we are nasty as Scotland gathered. So it's how it is. Oh that explains a few things. Um so what's the what's the context here? What what is his point? Yes. And and particularly if they're self-exulting. Right? Which is what he's he's saying the problem is. And so if someone calls themselves a teacher, and they're self-exalting, and they're doing that for the purpose of looking better in people's eyes, in in man's eyes, kind of a man pleaser kind of a thing, says don't don't be tripped up by that. Uh you know you you you look at the the the breadth of scripture and uh God has designed that we need teachers and and so on. But um It's the spiritual gift of teaching, right? But but his his his point here is that they were uh exalting themselves not And and more importantly, they were exalting themselves in an unwarranted way. The they were saying say what uh do what we say, not what we do. That's hypocrisy. That's that's Um a huge problem. And Jesus is going to get even deeper into that here. Allowing God to make the teachers take the teachers. And to allow God to work through them in a humble way. Right. I'm sorry if you're both. No, go ahead. Yes, for sure. Absolutely. The hypocrite who's in the office. Yes. So and that's what I was gonna say to Mourag, it's it's hopefully respect, not worship. It's borderline, isn't it? It's only right because he the Bible is right, not because John MacArthur is right. Actually to be to be fair to Americans, you should see how these generate uh pastors in Oh, okay. See? Depends what you're subherented to. Yeah, well, since you brought up MacArthur, he's one of the ones who thinks the um Let us create man in our image that that refers to the Trinity. I I think he's all wet. So there. In your pastoral search mode. If there was a man who had excellent qualifications but was not from the master's seminary, would that be a stumbling block to our church? It has nothing to do with the seminary. It has a l everything to do with his doctrinal positions on things. No, that's right. But both Hebrews tell us that we should honor. Yes. Honor and worship are two things. But we have a very if we have a high respect of a man, we such a high respect of a man, we cannot discern if he's teaching truth or falsehood. Because he says that we believe it. That's very dangerous. Yes. And that's where you get called. Actually because The the situation we came out of had the exact same problem. Okay, that's what I'm talking about. It had the exact same problem. And actually he was the only leader Well we can endanger a senior stand. We're the only church in this area that expands us. That is not true. It's not a true statement. It might be rare, but it's not a true statement. Right where where you're told you you're you're you're told to honor that office. But even submit to. Yeah, we mistake submit honor and submit. But we we kind of mistake the honoring and submitting with the the extra level of worship and adornment and and it it it just kinda gets over Now I honor out you wouldn't say I worship him, would you? No, but but I would we'll see that in my church. It happens in a lot of churches. It's very dangerous. Yeah. So there's a good application out of this, right? Um be careful that we don't step over that line. Right. Right. And Jesus is warning here that um there are plentiful examples of people who have put themselves in uh positions of leadership and I I would say by extension there are some who get put into and once they're in that position it goes to their head and they act the same way. Right? Um realize very reasonably written in the past five years that when the pastors stray, they don't wake up one day and have amnesia and have no clue about the story of Joseph or Dave and the north. They can still get up and preach a solid sermon when you know they walked away from God in some way. They don't get adhesion. Yeah. Yeah. So it's serious stuff for sure. And Jesus is um It's coming down hard on him and he's just getting warmed up. Here the you know, in the book of Matthew it's in the immediate context. We just have a chapter marking there. But do you think this was in the immediate context of the previous question? I do. Same day. Yep. And so now it may not have been flowing like in the next minute, but um he was there in the c with the crowds in the temple area, and um he's turning to them. I mean right after Jesus talks about calling your or your daddy Lord or not, then he talks about this office. These two concepts are related in some respects. Yep. And in some ways may be trying to help the crowd with the puzzle they couldn't figure out in the previous Perhaps also. Yeah, but the but the main point here is he's going after hypocrisy. hypocrisy, particularly among those who are ought to be held to a higher standard, who are in positions of leadership. And if they're exploring The idea of giving too much authority, weight, privilege, and prestige to to try to fill off some what Morag was pointing at, to somebody in one of these positions that we see of authority, whether it be as you're older or you're a leader in the church or the leader of the synagogue or the leader of the temple, uh that we tend to ascribe more, I think. That that kind of fits under that same theme Yes, so he's going after these particular hypocrites who are in positions of leadership and causing many to stumble. Um partly because of burdens they're laying on them. But it's also a warning to uh us regular folk not to um be deceived by that kind of thing And um so he's speaking to the people, beware of these guys, right? Okay. Where was I? I was just an elderly thing for us to idolize people even in culture. We are sinners that way. I mean we can be blamed We all want to be with the in-crowd. We all want to be, I'm friends with this one because this girl, she's wow, everybody thinks she's fool or whatever. That is our human nature. So we see that in the church and out of Yep, that's exactly right. So we're susceptible to that and Jesus is warning about that. Yep. Verse thirteen, thank you. But now he's he's apparently kind of turning with his eyes on the scribes and Pharisees. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees. Hypocrites! Isn't it really um comforting when you're being told you're a hypocrite? So they're they're um Their dander is coming up here. Because you shut off the kingdom of heaven from people, for you do not enter yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you devour widows' houses for a pretense, or and for a pretense you make long prayers Therefore you will receive greater condemnation. Now that verse 4 is in brackets in the NASPE because it's not in the earlier manuscripts of Matthew, but it does appear in, I think it's Mark. Is that uh elsewhere, not in this context. Um so Jesus said it, but it may not have actually been here. Verse 15, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you travel around on sea and land to make one proselyte. What's the proselyte? Follower. Convert, follower. Particularly in this case, to make them a Jew, uh make a Gentile a Jew. And when he becomes one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourselves. Now he is not missing words here, right? Woe to you, blind guides, who say, whoever swears by the temple, that is nothing, but whoever swears by the gold of the temple is obligated. Now there's uh apparently a a whole tradition here of of um asserting the truthfulness of your words by what you're swearing by and what the hierarchy is and all this sort of nonsense. And Jesus says, you fools and blind men, which is more important, the gold or the temple that sanctified the gold? And whoever swears by the altar, that is nothing, but whoever swears by the offering in it, he is obligated, you blind men. Which is more important, the offering or the altar that sanctifies the offering. Therefore, whoever swears by the altar swears by both the altar and everything on it, and whoever swears by the temple swears both by the temple and by him who dwells within it. And whoever swears by heaven swears both by the throne of God and by him who sits on it. And Uh the main point here is that there there are there's not a a hierarchy of truth. It's true or false. And um Anyway, nonsense. So, verse twenty-three Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you tithe mint and dill and cumin Is that a bad thing? No. No? No. And have neglected the weightier provisions of the law, such as justice, mercy, and faithfulness. But these are the things you should have done without neglecting the others. And so he's he's getting here at w what he's building up to, which is they're all on the ex up uh external. They're all about show rather than um uh having a right heart and doing things for the right reasons. And uh man has built in that They don't they didn't say flour or wheat or you know, they're they're tidying on stuff that you really don't need. The sort of the the the um the frills, the the the not so important things. That's his point. They're they're they're majoring on the minors and they're failing on the majors To um tie into what Victoria just said about the flock, go looking at verse forty seven, who devour withered houses. That was a thing in Catholicism. I guess in Judaism too, where in Catholicism Um religious leaders would say, Well, if you want to get your loved one out of purgatory, you need to give us your cow or whatever is valuable and would basically rob the vulnerable. And that's the key. Even the vulnerable. It's not that they would delude just anybody, but even to the extreme, people who were vulnerable, how are widows vulnerable? No support in particularly in that culture. And so they ought to be uh getting the support of the community, and there were laws about that, even in the Old Testament. But instead they were taking advantage of them. So they're taking the valuable from the vulnerable and giving the flow of their own ties. Yeah. Quite a contrast, huh? Yeah. Thought of mine for a long time. It it's said that nowhere in the Bible or nowhere in the New Testament does it say anything about tithing. You don't require the tithe, because the New Testament doesn't cover However, in this point, Jesus, when they talk about you tie this with tiny things, you forget the Uh he says these you ought to have done. So he affirmed the tithe. Oh yeah. Yeah. Well he affirmed all of the Old Testament. But it's not a very good thing. It wasn't yet the church age. Right? Now he wa he was affirming the the the the necessity of the tithe and everything in the Old Testament. Not a jot or a title is going to fall away. Uh it's all I've not come to abolish it, but to fulfill it, right? Um But they were not quite there yet. They were still under the law and he was judging them according to that law. So um he wouldn't necessarily have had the same kind of of rebuke to someone today. He he would get it the same heart issue, but he wouldn't use that as a a as a law that went unfulfilled. I wouldn't think. Does that make sense? Yeah. I I I know the Old Testament three three and a half or two and a half times a really two. Right. Right. Right. Okay. Um you know what? Nine quarters coming up. Nine quarters coming up. Uh not only are we not finishing we're not finishing this paragraph. So I'm gonna put my little sticker here.