All right. So we are on lesson thirty-two, page one ninety-two. And um remember we're in Passion Week here, somewhat early in Passion Week. Jesus is um continuing to to uh train his disciples, but he's having lots of interactions, and we're going to see some of that here today. Interactions with Jewish leaders, the um So uh section one fifty two is from the three synoptic gospels, and it's an extended section And I think I'll I'll make a few comments and have some discussion as we kind of read through it here. So I'm using the blended account on page 194. On one of the days they came again to Jerusalem. Remember they were uh there's such a crowd here in the Passover time that almost everybody had to find accommodations overnight in the surrounding areas. Jesus went sometimes to Bethany during that week, sometimes just to uh the Mount of Olives. But anyway, they came again to Jerusalem, and when he entered and was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him. While he was teaching the people and preaching the gospel, and they confronted him, saying to him, Tell us by what authority you are doing these things, and who gave you this authority to do these things? They were all about authority, right? And they were the authorities, and so how dare he presume upon himself, right? Jesus said to them, I will also ask you one thing, which if you tell me, then I will also tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John was from what source? From heaven or from men? Answer me. And they began reasoning among themselves, saying, if we say from heaven, He will say, then, why did you not believe him? But if we say from men, we fear all the people will stone us to death, for they regard John as a prophet, a real prophet. And answering Jesus, they said, We do not know. And he also said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. Do you see any relationship between the question they asked and the question he asked? Oh yeah, who was asking? Yeah, Jesus is basically telling them that they would respond to his answer um very much the same way that um Um his answer to their question, the same way that their answer they're wrestling with his answer their answer to his question. In other words, if Jesus were to tell them I do this by the authority of my Father, the heaven the God of heaven, they're going to start getting uh worked up about blasphemy and all this sort of thing prematurely. And if he says um from men, they would say, well what men? Um, you know, we're the ones in authority around here. And so it was sort of a a lose-lose situation. Well, he puts them in a lose-lose situation by asking them about John and revealing something about themselves in the process. There's nothing told about what they answered in. Uh well no. They just said we don't know. They punted. Right. And it wasn't that well it I guess it sort of was truthful to say we don't know. It's also kinda interesting that Jesus is the one in charge here, even though they came to him him with a question. He's the one that's going to ask the questions. And and it's like they didn't say, no, you answer us, we ask first, you know It's like, okay, we have to answer him. Yeah. I I have heard that that sort of um almost debate kind of format was very common um in that day um among the Jews And they didn't take it to be all that strange that he would answer a question with a question and and have that sort of dialogue. But but Jesus put them on the the defense. Exactly. Exactly. Right. Anyway. Other times I'm just thinking there are questions that people ask us that are hard questions. Yeah, often in apologetics there's some things like that where people are basing their thinking on a premise that is um not worthy of they're founding their argument on and they don't realize they're they're making this assumption which doesn't have any basis. And you can often expose that as a um you know a bad premise, but that might be an example. Anyway, the account here continues where Jesus began to speak to them in parables. But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in the vineyard. And he answered, I will not. But afterwards he regretted and went. The man came to the second son and said the same thing, and he answered, I will, sir. But he did not go. So Jesus asks, which of the two did the will of his father? And they said, the first. And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, that tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you. For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and prostitutes did believe him, and you, seeing this, did not even feel remorse afterwards so as to believe him. So Jesus continues here, I think, to pursue their where their heart is, and particularly exposed from their um reaction to John. You know, there were others who were, in everybody's eyes, clearly sinners, who responded well to John's call to repentance. But not these Jewish leaders. And Jesus calls them out on it. That a lot of these sinners are going to be In the kingdom of God, even if you're not. And the reason is because they repented. They responded to John's call for repentance. And And you haven't. He says you didn't even feel remorse afterwards, so as to believe him. So He asked them if the baptism of John was from God or from men, exposing the fact that by their own admission They didn't recognize it as uh being from God, and therefore they didn't repent, as John was preaching. Um And Jesus says that you didn't even feel remorse for your sin, let alone genuine repentance. How do you think it made them feel? Multiple People against one, they always lose. Well, you know the the truth has a has a a way of of Convicting. Yeah. And those who are unrepentant have a way of of dancing around the truth, right? And making it appear that they're uh righteous when in fact they're not And Jesus didn't have any patience with people who were proud, pompous, unrepentant. um hypocritical, right? You would think, in answer to your question, you would think that these multiple times when he would expose their unrepentant hearts that that they would finally get it. But where does repentance come from ultimately? Comes from comes from God. And um But I think they did not want to repent because in their minds that would be giving up all their power and For sure. Oh, they were just wedded to that whole system. Yeah. Yep. Well fortunately there is a record of some percentage of of the leadership Uh following Christ. But at least there were a few Pharisees. Yeah. Um it's not clear actually here that Pharisees were part of this. It says chief priests and elders of the people. It's just not specific. It could have been. anybody. Okay, so then he says, listen to another parable. There was a landowner who planted a vineyard and put a wall around it and dug a wine press in it and built a tower. So, um planting a vineyard, that makes sense, right? Why would you want a wall around it? To protect the plants. Protect it of the animals. Animals, right. Uh why would you want to tower there? I don't know. Have a guard go up there and Yeah, it's basically a watchtower. Yeah. So you're you're um the the wall is a good a good protection, but uh having a tower where you can actually look down and observe Makes for extra protection. Super secure. Super secure. And those watchtowers were were common. Yeah. And he was expecting to make mine Yeah, so right. It's uh everything's there, right? And so he he gets this all set and um rented it out to vine growers and went on a journey for a long time. When the harvest time approached, he sent his slaves to the vine growers so that they would give him his share of the produce of the vineyard. So uh we're not given the specifics here, it's not all that important, but implied here is that there's There's a rental agreement, right? He's he's um rented it out to these vine growers and Um it seems like the conditions of the the terms of the rental agreement were uh well at least included in that. There may have been some time dimension to it, but the rent that needed to be paid would have been some of the produce of the of the vineyard. Right? So similar to sharecroppers that we used to have in the country. Yeah. My own four beer Yeah. So um uh it's his property, they're renting it, and they they're uh required to, as part of the rental agreement, to Give him some of the produce. And verse 35, the vine growers took his slaves who came to inquire about that, and beat one. sent away sent him away empty-handed and killed another and stoned the third. Again he proceeded to send another group of slaves, larger than the first, And they did the same thing to them, and treated them shamefully, and sent them away empty-handed, and one they also wounded in the head and cast out, so that And so with many others, beating some and killing others. But the owner of the vineyard had one more to send, a beloved son. He sent him last of all to them, saying, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. Perhaps they will respect my son. But when the vine growers saw the sun, they reasoned with one another, saying, This is the heir. Come, let us kill and seize his inheritance, so that it will be ours Now, why would the inheritance be theirs if they killed off the son? It's not, really. Uh unless that was the only son It presumably he had other sons. Presumably was, yeah. It reminds me Ab Abram before he had his own sons, he His the inheritance was to go to one uh his one born in his household. A servant. A servant, yeah. Well these are not really servants though. These are rent uh renters. Yeah. It's like a rebellious takeover. Like January sixth they thought they were doing their own. It's yeah, it's a it's a coup. Um They may have been thinking that okay, if there's no natural air, then we can claim it because we're the renters. But I think they're they were just guessing at this point. There was just a rationale to do what they wanted to do anyway. They were wrong. They were wrong. So to pull out the analogy a little bit here There's nothing wrong with the vineyard. Right. Which corresponds to the truth that God gave to Israel. The problem is the management of it. The management. The the the the lessees who have mismanaged the property. Right and that rules. They're not Well they're not honoring the agreement. Right. Right. Which corresponds to the leadership of Israel. Mm-hmm. And that's who he's he's trying to get at this, right? He's talking to them to directly. Yeah. And the servants who were beaten and killed are prophets that God sent to warn them. Mm-hmm. And his son? Jesus. Would be Jesus. Right. It seems like it's totally unequal. Um if you want to withhold paying rent, you don't necessarily kill someone to to do that. that. It's like way out of proportion to just keep from paying rent. Well think of the correspondence though to the nation of Israel. Who um were warned about um the need to be faithful and obedient to God, and yet Um even though they said that yeah, oh yeah, we're we'll we'll obey and whatever, they clearly didn't. And God brought the the curses on them that they they um had been warned about. Um they even killed some of the prophets. Yeah. Yeah. So um there's a lot of the same motivation that is now present in these religious leaders. to um um kind of have things their way and to maintain their their position and and prestige and so on and the If a messenger comes um reminding them of their accountability to the owner Their first inclination is to um shoot the messenger, right? And um try to avoid that accountability. And I think Jesus is pointing the finger at them, these guys here, saying, You guys are are uh um not living up to the rental agreement, as it were. And you're accountable for that. And you're asking me about authority? It really shows that they're really not interested in spiritual matters. I mean they're using a service of God as a front for having control over the nation that's their interest anyway. And that's all too common. Right? People love the approval of men rather than the approval of God. And it all goes back to it was the landowners in the first place. So he gets to make the rules just like the creator of the universe gets to make the rules that we have to follow. This is uh an example of how easy it is to delude oneself No doubt the leaders, the vine growers, thought they were doing the best thing. They probably talked themselves into thinking this is the right thing to do. But they were so wrong. They missed the forest for the trees. Well it was it should have been clear to them that they were acting selfishly rather than according to the agreement. And uh they were thinking, well, what did they say here? Um, come, let us kill him and seize his inheritance. They knew that was wrong. Of course, yeah, of course. But they did it. They said it anyway. Yeah, so it it may well be that when they entered into this rental agreement, that wasn't their plan, but as things prospered And they saw, hey, this is good for us, but it would be even better if we didn't have to share some of this with the owner. Let's, and so they make progressively get more and more selfish. And one thing leads to another. If you if you go by the the parallel, presumably the The vine corps knew that his son was legitimately to inherit the property Um the the Jewish believers in this case know that Jesus was legitimately the Messiah and that if they crucified him or crucified. they did away with him, they would then become the inheritors of the promise. I'm not essentially there's that much other thing. Yeah. Um i it it's hard to know what was in the thinking of these chief priests and elders of the people. Um other than that they were entrenched in their position and prestige and and wanted to maintain that saw Jesus as a threat to that, uh not only a threat, but exposing the superficiality of what they're clinging to when he's talking about issues of the heart. And the need for repentance and so on. Um but um The main point of the parable is that he's he's um uh drawing a parallel with with them as being selfishly motivated rather than having the interest of um um the landowner or being uh fulfilling their obligations under the rental agreement, that kind of thing. Um and that in a similar way, the nation of Israel was now and the leaders particularly were responsible for um um just abandoning the the intent of the law. So You can make some parallels here with who is what. You know, the sun, of course, represents Christ and the prophets who are earlier messengers, but um the fact that the context here is is um A rental arrangement as opposed to a master and his slaves, which some of his parallels are some of his parables are similar to that. I don't think we need to read too much into the the details there. But I I think they would have understood that he was talking about them. That's the main thing. Uh in fact it it mentions that later, yes. Um it this parable also speaks To the kindness and gentleness of God and His mercy. Because Jesus glorifies the Father in that He sends one servant after another after another after another where after the first servant was rejected and they were found to be In breach of covenant, they could they were that was the time to subject them to justice and to the penalty of the law. But as the story goes, he continues to be patient with them and one after another after another. Right. And um after the son is killed Justice comes. And um and it's interesting how Chris looks to the crowd and says, What should we do? And at that point it's obvious to them what should be done. And um it I think it's it's fantastic to see how Christ as he's answering the question the Pharisees are trying to win the crowd to themselves and and just continue to lose the crowd. It's backfiring in this situation. And he's gonna eventually say, look, because you guys are in breach of covenant, the covenant's gonna be extended to another people. Yes. Um the day of judgment is coming, the day of reckoning. Being increased contrary. And yeah, it's uh it's a pretty stern warning and the Pharisees know it. Indeed. Indeed. Yeah, there's certainly a lot, a lot of parallel here. Did you read the whole parable? No, we're not quite done yet. Yeah, I think we're at verse forty. Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to these vine growers? And I noticed when I was reading this yesterday to prepare that maybe I should have rearranged some of these verses here to make a little bit more sense. I think what I would insert here before verse forty forty-one is what's at the end of the next line. When they heard it They said to him, um, he will come and destroy these vine growers and bring those wretches to a wretched end. and will rent out the vineyard to other vine growers who will pay him the proceeds in the proper seasons, may it never be Something like that. Just g getting the the three gospel records together there. Anyway, Jesus looked at them and said to them Did you never even read what then is written in the scriptures? The stone which the builders rejected, this became the chief cornerstone? This came about from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore, I say to you: the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing the fruit of it And he who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but on whomever it falls, it will scatter him like dust. When the scribes, the chief priests, and the Pharisees oh there were Pharisees here, heard this parable, they understood that he was speaking about them. It wasn't rocket science. They figured it out. Yet, when they sought to seize him that very hour, they feared the people because they, the people, considered him to be a prophet. And so they left him and went away. So again, the religious leaders fear the people, the people fear the religious leaders, and Jesus feared nobody. But if anybody were to be convicted, this would be the time, right? Because they understood he was speaking about them, but they they were indignant. Rather than repentance. I think the time of repentance has already passed. I mean way back in John and they will call him he was doing anything by the bottom. Mm-hmm. And uh I think that's where too late. Wh when they remarked when the religious uh leaders remarked may it never be, they were actually agreeing with the premise of the parable These things should not be. Yeah, I I I yes, I interpret that to be very much like David's response to Nathan, the prophet. Until he says you are the man. Right. David, of course, was repentant. These guys are not. You know w what continues to be interesting as it unfolds this this in this Passion Week is that the We we've seen the the building commitment on the part of the religious leaders who are unrepentant to do away with this Jesus because he's such a threat to their position, their power, their prestige, their teaching. And he's had to um measure his interaction with them So that knowing that they're out to give him, and after the raising of Lazarus, they committed to it. Um but Um Jesus was was in control of the timetable and knew that his his um sacrifice would have to be on the Passover, not three days before. And yet during this this week he's ratcheting up the the uh um the finger pointing, if you will. And um he's not backing down. So it continues to build. Well he's as much as told them to their face thou art demand. Right. Right. They got that. Right. But uh the response is 180 degrees different. Yeah Okay, so the rest of this section is taken only from Matthew. Um the other Two don't have it. But Jesus spoke to them again in parables, saying, The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son. And he sent out his slaves to call those who had been invited to the wedding feast, and they were unwilling to come. And he sent out other slaves, saying, Tell those who have been invited, Behold, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen and my fatted livestock are all butchered, and everything is ready, come to the wedding feast. But they paid no attention and went on their way, one to his own farm, another to his business, the rest and the rest seized his slaves and mistreated them and killed them. But the king was enraged. And he sent out his armies and destroyed those murderers and set their city on fire. Then he said to his slaves, The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy. Go therefore to the main highways, and as many as you find there, invite to the wedding feast. Those slaves went out into the streets and gathered together all they found, both evil and good, and the wedding hall was filled with dinner guests. But when the king came in to look over the dinner guests, he saw a man there who was not dressed in wedding clothes. And he said to him, Friend, how did you come here, come in here without wedding clothes And the man was speechless. The king then said to his servants, Bind him hand and foot and throw him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth For many are called, but few are chosen. So um Um obviously there there are a lot of parallels here again with um the kingdom. The the the wedding of the Son, of course, would be um the the culmination of Christ's uh ministry and the the the wedding of the lamb. Um as a as a context here. But uh many people were refusing to come. And what does that indicate about them? Hard hearted, unrepentant, indifferent. Indifferent. Yeah. Um but what's interesting is that um Even among the dregs right who God in His in His grace and mercy invites Uh many of them come, but there's this one guy who doesn't have wedding clothes, which seems that's weird, right? Um But he was one of many who were from just the highways and byways and and they came. It's doubtful that any of them had wedding clothes to bring. Um they must have gotten the wedding clothes um um at the feast. They would have been handed these wedding clothes to have proper attire for the for the wedding. So this guy apparently refused that. That's the presumption. And in refusing that he wants he wants the um the celebration and the feasting and all that, but he rejects the um um the the gracious offer of the the king essentially to be properly attired and he sort of um uh insistent on his own way. And so you get all sorts of people here, some refusing outright and not even coming, and some who try to get in and take advantage of it, but without the right heart. So you know what just popped into my head, the people who are refusing the gracious offer of the president of a free vaccine because they bought their own way Well I suppose there are a lot of um parallels uh one could draw, but I think the the main thing is that um Sort of like Doug was saying earlier that God in his grace and mercy and long suffering is um uh Um wanting that all should come and to give proper um um joy and and support uh concerning the the marriage of his son. Um but many refuse. And we're uh we're very good at making excuses for a lot of things, but more than one time in descriptive when someone is confronted Here they can't say anything. They're absolutely speechless. Speechless. Yeah. Absolutely. No leg to stand on. They they know that there's nothing they can say. Right. Yeah. Yep. Which suggests that they try to get away with something they know is wrong and hope they're not seen. And when they are seen, they're obviously guilty. I think John has his hand up in the box. Oh yeah. Oh hey John. So we have to be in the state, and could we also be having that to it? Yeah. Yeah, I think so. Yep. Yep. Yeah. People who would have been expected to participate uh or otherwise preoccupied. It's not really on their agenda. Interesting. There were probably a lot of non-Jews out on the highways that were traveling to their own country who would not be already under the covenant of Christ. So there may be some some allusion here to Gentiles and so on. Yeah. Possibly. But the main point is that he's telling them that the kingdom is is um It demonstrates the both the graciousness and patience of God, but also the judgment and wrath of God. are reflected. And it also reveals the the hearts of people who either accept or reject. And I realize it doesn't say that it's not really people when you think about it. There are those who uh who feel like they want to work their way to the people of God. So here you have a situation where this parable says, you know, many people are called. But even though many people are called, there are specifics about how you actually get to legitimately participate in the wedding feast. You have to be clothed with the Savior's case. I think it's actually I would I would do my own thing and let God judge whether my B. Yeah. Yeah that that could be a parallel. So you've got both people who are just outright rejecting it, and you've got others who think they have a better way to get in. Yeah. Alright. Real good. So this many are called, but few are chosen. The calling here is just sort of the general call of A call to repentance and so on. It's not the same as the call, for example, in Romans 8, where um as many as who called or are um justified and and then ultimately glorified. That's the the efficacious call, the the call that you can't You can't violate because God's in control of it. But many are called, many are invited. It's a genuine offer, but um few are actually chosen. Kind of reminds me of the um did I make a note of this? In Matthew seven where it says that the um uh The path is wide and the and the gate is broad that leads to destruction, but the path is narrow and the gate is uh small that leads to life. And fewer those who find it, unfortunately. Okay. So with that, we go to section 153, which again involves all three of the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Um on page one ninety-six here now. Then the Pharisees went and plotted together how they might trap him in what he said. Now you'd think by now they'd realize they're not really They're not gonna do that. They keep coming back for more. So they watched him and sent their disciples, some of the Pharisees along along with the Herodians, which is interesting. Because they're diametric opposites. The Pharisees were the very strict um obeyers of the law The Herodians were, like Herod, the politicians, the political group that wanted to seek favor and maintain favor with Rome. And had no aspirations at all for obedience to the law. And yet both of them saw Jesus as a threat, whether it's religiously or politically. And they find themselves comrades in arms. Very interesting. So, uh some of the Pharisees, along with the Herodians, as spies who pretended to be righteous in order that they may trap him in some statement, so they could deliver him to the rule of the authority of the governor. So they had this pretense of wanting to follow the rules, the law. You can't just execute someone because you don't like them. You have to have evidence and and uh damning evidence is what they were looking for. I think mostly what they were looking for is evidence of sedition. Um rebellion against Roman rule. And so what do they come up with? Yeah. So they came and questioned him saying, Teacher, we know that you speak and and teach correctly and that you're not partial to any and defer to no one, but teach the way of God and truth. It's just kind of buttering them up, right? Tell us then, what do you think? Is it lawful for us to pay a poll tax to Caesar or not? What's a poll tax? It's not a tax that you pay to vote. Pole is uh means head. A poll ha a poll tax is basically the same um amount of tax for every head, every person. But it's a flat amount, not a flat rate. Okay? So every every head pays the same amount. And that was fairly common. So it is is it lawful for and and in fact there is a temple tax. You remember when Jesus told Peter to go out and catch a fish and there was a drachma in there? Or a Shekyl. That was a head tax also, but it was a temple tax, not the political Roman tax. Anyway, um so is it lawful to pay the Caesar or not? Shall we pay or shall we not pay? And they think, of course, we've got it. We've got him. But Jesus, knowing their hypocrisy, perceived their malice and detected their trickery and said to them, Why are you testing me, you hypocrites? Bring me a denarius, the coin used for the poll tax, to um to look at it. And they brought one. And he said to them, Whose likeness and inscription does it have And they sent to him, Caesar's. And Jesus said to them, Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And hearing this, they were unable to catch him in a saying in the presence of the people, and being amazed by him and his answer, they became silent. And leaving him with their tail between their legs, they went away. Um so it's interesting here that These polar opposite groups, the Pharisees and the Herodians, think both of them think that this is going to catch him in what he's saying. Give them a basis for charging him. And he says, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's. Which is probably a jab at the Pharisees because they weren't any fans of Caesar or uh Roman rule and were tr were um just hoping that the Messiah would come and shed them of that Roman yoke. But then he says, render to God the things that are gods, and there he's looking right in the eyes of these Herodians, who are least interested in the things of God. Um who was a Caesar in thirty-three A D Whichar was it? Callicula. Um Claudius? Yeah, Claudius, it was Claudius. It's a different name here. Okay. But Caesar was worshipped as a god. So are they trying to or are they saying if we use this Roman currency We are polluting ourselves spiritually by handling something that belongs to a fake god. It's like you're worshiping that god. By using Roman currency. Well, um I'm sure the Pharisees particularly had lots of um rationalizations in their mind. Um Um when Paul wrote Romans thirteen about um submitting to the governing authorities, including the payment of taxes. He was writing to the Christians in Rome, who were directly under the the rule, I think by that time it was a different emperor. But um I think Jesus has the same mindset here that even if there's a Caesar in place who is um um abusing his the authority that God has given him to provide civil um oversight and and so on. Even if he's abusing that, that's a judgment he's going to face before God. But we still have a responsibility to cooperate with God having ordained civil authority and and the paying of taxes is a part of that, to make it work. And so Jesus is very much preaching from the same um But it's interesting that both the Pharisees and the Herodians Um were amazed at him and his answer, became silent, and leaving him they went away. Both of them, presumably, hopefully realized that he was pointing the finger at both of them. This is another one of those famous cases. It is. Right. Right. Another one. Another one. Yet another one. You'd think that they would learn. Yeah, I I almost you almost sense their glee at this trap. I mean it's like there is just you can't see any answer that provides a way out. And it's just a it really is a brilliant trap if you think about it But his answer is astounding. Yeah. Do you remember the old cartoons with the roadrunner and the coyote? Yeah, poor coyotes. They just fell off a cliff. All these archives remind me of that. Well it does paint a picture of the fact that the devil who is the father of these of leaders who are operating as control and even though these people think that they can outsmark outsmart Jesus and they should know better They're under they're under demonic a lot of demonic influence. And it's the same for people down through the century Yeah, if if if your heart is hardened, your your eyes are blinded. Um Uh you're you're gonna you're gonna operate on the basis of um selflessness, uh pride, um And it you know it's just so typical. I was reading in Revelation uh this week. I finished up revelation and then went back to Genesis And it's interesting how Revelation and Genesis are have similarities in terms of creation and then recreation. Yeah. But one of the one of the things that um stood out is that even during the events of the tribulation, people who are insistent that they're not going to change turns to to the Lord. They they still have the same mindset of we're not going to bow to to you even when we see the earthquakes and the rocks falling. It's like the the hardness and the their deception that they've been deceived. It doesn't change And they don't have the power to actually recognize the the Messiah. At one point in revelation with all the destruction it says they shook every second time. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you would think that okay, now's my time to I get it now. I don't want to experience this pain and Isn't that on the phrase and that you can like um you know when they are intelligent They're um not they're they're angry. Defiant. Defiant, unrepentant. Um Somewhat unlike maybe uh the Lazarus in Jesus' parable, the rich man who who uh was being tormented by the flames and whatever. Um He seems to have seen the era of his way. He seems to have seen it, but he also sees there's no way out. But maybe there would be a way out for his loved ones. Yes. Everybody sees the errors of their weight eventually. But they're not going to be able to do that. Every knee will bow, right? Every tongue confessed. Jesus is Lord. Sorry? Every means every, yeah. Yeah. Whether whether they want to or not. Yeah. Whether it's too late or not. Sedition is what they eventually um executed Jesus for, right? He claimed to be king. Yeah Yeah. Of course they didn't have any evidence of that, but that was they needed something that would allow the Romans to execute it. Well they had his own test meeting, right? Are you kingdoms? Are you a king? Are you a king? Yes, I am. But um Incriminating evidence was not admissible for a capital crime. Well, but also he defined his terms. My kingdom is not of this world. Right? Um we didn't hear that. No. Yeah. So I just hear it. Okay, well let's uh go ahead and wrap up by closing in prayer.