June fifteenth, two thousand twenty-five, lesson forty-two. All right. So we are on lesson forty-two. Page two fifty-four in the notes. Uh it's all about praying, Jesus praying. Um Last week, I guess uh Jeff took you through the remainder of the uh upper room time Jesus had with his disciples And um at the end of that they picked up and and left. And here uh we're seeing um And then when they got to Gethsemane, uh there was more prayer. Um little technical note first on your notes on page two fifty-four. I noticed when I was uh reviewing this and preparing for today that Um you know at the bottom of each scripture section, whether it's a uh blended account or in the case of John 17 here, it's just one one of the gospels, uh on the left at the bottom there's some a note about uh The stated location or presumed location in the bottom right is something about the timing. On this one it says near Gethsemane on the Mount of Olives. It depends how you interpret that. Uh Gethsemane on the Mount of Olives uh is all right by itself, but they're not quite there yet. In fact, we learn in the next section that they didn't yet cross over the Khadrome Brook, the Khadrome Valley. And so Jesus' high priestly prayer was not in Gethsemane Or on the Mount of Olives. They hadn't quite made it there yet. But a pro presumably he's praying as they're walking. They're going from the upper room east. You remember how uh the Mount of Olives is a mountain ridge on the east side of Jerusalem, and there's a big valley, well not terribly big, but um there's a valley uh between uh Jerusalem proper and uh uh uh Mount of Olives and that valley is where the Kadrone Brook would run if there was any water in it, and often there's not. Um And so uh I think I'm going to update that note to say on the way to the Mount of Olives. Anyway, this section here from John 17 is often referred to as Jesus' high priestly prayer. Um I think the the thought there is that Jesus' role as the ultimate high priest between us and God, um, he's actually um in many ways praying in accordance with that role. He's uh In in many sections here he's praying for his his um uh disciples, his followers, and even as you look at it, he he's even praying for us. here. Um and so he's intervening between us and the Father as as a high priest would. Um Okay, so I'm going to go ahead and read the account from John 17, and I will probably interrupt my reading with some thoughts. as we go along. But before I read, I wanted to highlight as you look at the text several things that seem to pop up pretty frequently in his prayer. One of them that just jumps out at you is his his um concern is well, interest intent that he would be glorified by what was coming up, you know, his death, burial, and resurrection But also that all that would everything would glorify the Father. That's the ultimate uh intent here. And you see reference to the glory that he shared with the Father Um and uh that he be God be glorified and so on, all the way through here. And so that's one thing. It's on his heart. You can imagine he he knew what was coming, so what's on his heart? It kinda comes out here Right. Another thing that comes up fairly frequently is reference to God's word. And so the words that the Father gave to Christ to teach And and so on, uh but uh God's word more generally. Uh and um that's important. And then the third thing here, um, several times it speaks of people understanding that he, Jesus came from the Father. And you know we've gone through a lot, particularly in recent weeks, a lot of interactions that uh the Jewish leaders had with Christ. And their big problem was what? They didn't realize that Jesus was from the Father. In fact when he made reference to the Father, they often didn't know who he was talking about, right? Um And so his identity as the Messiah was completely missed um by most people. And his prayer here is that um that the father would draw many to come to know where he was from. So uh we'll see these these elements uh several times here but I'll go ahead and start So Jesus spoke these things and and that the things here he's referring to in John seventeen was the conversation that the It's often called the upper room discourse that Jesus had with his disciples, and you covered that last week. So Jesus spoke these things, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said Um it doesn't say he prayed, it says he said. Yeah. U usually when we think of someone praying, they're closing their eyes, bowing their head, and very respectful. Jesus lifted up his head, looking to heaven, uh, to have communication with his father. Uh I think partly it was because they were walking along the way, uh, but partly it was just his outpouring of his heart uh directly to the Father. And the disciples probably heard all of this um as they were walking along. So he lifted lifting his eyes up to heaven, he said, Father, the hour has come. And you remember several times he had commented that his hour has not yet come, right? And so he was limited, he was choosing to be limited and what he would do, what he would say, who he would where he would go. But now he's finally saying the hour has come. By hour he's not meaning, you know, 8 p. m. kind of hour, but the time. The time has come. The hour has come. Glorify your son that the sun may glorify you. That's the crux of it right there. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you. Even as you gave him authority over all flesh, that to all whom you have given him He may give eternal life. What do you notice there? He says, um to all whom you have given. Well he does speak of his authority there, but what How do people ultimately come to Christ? The Father gives them to the Son, right? And in some of what we read here going, he's speaking specifically of the disciples. But much of what he's saying in this regard has more general application as well. Uh that uh and he has said this throughout uh well particularly in the Gospel of John that unless someone is drawn by the Father, they're not going to come to him So uh to all whom you have given him he may give eternal life. And again, evidence that and confirmation that eternal life is not something that is earned, it is given. Right? And then he describes it. This is eternal life that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. Um again. Help um Uh if people understand the true identity of Christ as the Messiah, whom the Father has sent, um uh and God draws them, then Jesus gives them eternal life, which is basically by his definition what? Relationship. Relationship with God. Um now it includes An eternal aspect attribute of that, right? So that e that relationship is eternal. It's eternal life. What is the opposite? eternal death, which is what? Separation from God, but eternal life is eternal relationship with God, possible only through Christ. So he says in verse four, I glorified you past hence on earth, having accomplished the work which you have given me to do. Uh that's interesting. Here we're going to find um something similar he said on the cross, right? It is finished. But here he says he completed the work and yet If if without looking at this we were to ask what was the primary work of Christ on earth, you'd think about the cross. But he hasn't gotten to the cross yet. Right. Um what do you think he means? I've completed the work you've given me to do. He wouldn't have been been eligible. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So um basically he's saying everything I needed to do up to this point is accomplished. Perfect life, the teaching, the preparing of the disciples. uh all of that. The uh uh ministering to people, uh so that people ought to have and many did, but ought to have understood where he came from sent from the Father as he's praying here. Uh so the stage is set. Nothing else needs to be done in order for the final chapter to be written. Okay. Having accomplished the work which you have given me to do, now, Father, glorify me together with yourself. Here he says it again Um I don't think that's necessarily a pattern for us to ask God to glorify us so that we can glorify him. But God the Son, it was appropriate. Um but it is appropriate for us to say, Lord, may you be glorified through us, right? Um okay. Glorify me together with yourself with the glory which I had with you before the world was. Uh imagine that. Jesus uh being creator, everything that was made was made through him and for him and um and before before anything was created. God the Son and God the Father had that and the Holy Spirit um had that um very intimate um strong relationship, fellowship, uh sharing in the glory of uh the the holiness of God. Um and he's remembering that. And he's looking forward to um Yeah, returning. And uh but even here on earth he continued that relationship and is right here in this ro very relational Communication with the Father. Uh although this one, this prayer of Christ is probably the the longest one we have recorded. in scripture. We know that he spent much time in prayer without scripture being all that specific about what he was praying about. We can infer a little bit from context, but Um yeah the the the the point we don't want to lose sight of is that very um strong intimate relationship within the Godhead that wasn't broken up by Christ becoming a man, right? Um it it got a little bit different, but he spent much time in communion with his father in prayer. Um we're going to come back to this when he's on the cross and we're going to mention it a little bit here today. Um but what did break that intimate relationship with the Father was all of our sins being placed on him on the cross. And so he says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That was a quote, of course, from Psalms. Um it wasn't a a question, it was a fulfillment. And um I'm gonna come back to that later. Um Today. Anyway, y uh yeah. Yeah. Um what's a good um I guess you start with the word glory, right? And then glorify and glorify to come from that. Glory would speak in in in um uh I guess I'm I would try to be generic because other people, other things may have a a measure of glory, but the ultimate glory is the glory of God, which um exalts his um holiness, purity, goodness, everything that's godly, uh everything that's worthy of praise is put on display. Um and of course everything about God is worthy of praise and ought to be put on display. Um you know the the glory of a an earthly king, you know you think of people like Nebuchadnezzar who gloried in his his achievements and position and everything. Um w was very limited and as it turned out more limited even than he thought, right? Um but God's is not. God's glory is is permanent, it's it's um full, um beyond measure, those kind of words, uh and ought to be put on display. And he will put it on display at appropriate times. We ought to be putting it on display as much as we can, so that he would be glorified through us. Not that glory would be added to him, but there would be recognition given to him because of our our uh our lives. Yeah, what was it uh um the Psalm nineteen? The heavens declare the glory of God, just putting on display His Majesty as Creator. And that's just a piece of it. Yeah. Sure. And so Um when Jesus says, glorify your son, he's basically saying, put on display who he really is for people to see who he really is for your glory. So it would reflect back on the Father. Yeah. His His holiness it just is what it is. Absolute purity and um uh separation from sin. His glory um needs to be um exalted, recognized, spread. Okay. So let's see where we were here. With the glory that I had with you before the world was. So that's in contrast with his current position as a human being, very humbled. Right, not exhibiting that glory that he shared with the Father from eternity past. Uh not in fullness anyway, at the moment. Uh but verse six, I have manifested your name to the men whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. So again he's affirming that the Father was sovereignly drawing these men. to himself, drawing them to Christ, uh and that they have kept your word. And I think mostly what he's referring there to is um and particularly in the context They have understood that the Father sent Jesus. Jesus is the Messiah. He's come for a purpose. Um and they haven't um You know, man many Jesus asked, Well, uh, who do people say that I am, right? And they said, Well, some people think you're Elijah, some people Jeremiah. Or John the Baptist uh raised from the dead. But when Peter says, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God, Christ commended him, you got it. Not only that But flesh and blood didn't reveal that to you, Peter. Who did? God the Father did. And that's what Jesus is referring to here. Once they got it, they didn't um deny it Yes. And they kept your word. In other words, their their heart was to obey and to fit fall in line with God's um what God was doing. Now they misunderstood what God was doing, but their heart uh was there. Um verse seven. Now they have come to know that everything you have given me is f from you. For the words which you gave me, I have given to them. So that's referring both to teaching, I think, and just generally the um the primary role of scripture is to be obeyed. And they received them, the the words that I gave them, and truly understand what? That I came forth from you and they believed that you sent me. So they finally got who he is, his identity. in quite a bit of contrast with a lot of other people. Um if the Jewish leaders had comprehended that this really was the Messiah Um if their desire was to please God you would imagine their response to Jesus would have been a lot different. But they started from the presumption there's no way this could be the Messiah. Who's he? Um and so all everything went downhill from there. Yeah, it reminds me of Peter's sermon in Acts two, where uh he basically points the fingers at the Jews. And said this this Jesus who um um you crucified Which is a pretty bold thing to say publicly. But this Jesus whom you crucified, God ordained from eternity past that he would suffer and die on our behalf And you see that dual responsibility there. The ultimate responsibility for it all is God and the sovereignty, but that doesn't diminish the responsibility of people who sin to be uh uh accountable to God for that sin. Anyway. Um and um So wrapping up verse nine, um they received the words and truly understood that I came forth from you and they believed that you sent me. I ask on their behalf, I do not ask on behalf of the world, but Of those whom you have given me, and here I think he's speaking mostly of his remaining disciples, for they are yours And all the things that are mine are yours. And yours are mine, and I have been glorified in them. I am no longer in the world. Well he's actually right on planet Earth when he said that. What does he mean? What's that? No, I was going to ask what exactly he's going to do. Yeah, what did he mean by that? Yeah, I think what he means is, um, I'm done my earthly ministry Um tomorrow he doesn't say it this way, but tomorrow I'm gonna die and uh be raised uh uh on the third day. Um and so his his time on Earth is coming to an end. It's basically this is the the final paragraph of the final chapter. Uh and he's going to be out of the world. He's been preparing his disciples for the fact that he's leaving them, right? And uh they didn't quite understand that. Um But he's saying now is the hour has come. I am no longer in the world, and yet they themselves are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name the name which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are. Um keep them in your name. So one thing he's doing here is he's praying that God would the God the Father, particularly with Jesus now about to depart, God the Father would protect the disciples and more generally all the believers. and keep them in your name, the name you have given me. Um name refers to um the character of someone, basically. When we pray in the name of Christ, we're praying partly because of his authority, not ours, but Everything that's good about Christ is captured in his name. You know, we baptize people in the name singular of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Um and it's it's all that's godly Um and so um I should keep my finger on this so I don't get lost every time. Um keep them in your name, the name which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are. So Um to a large extent the reference to the name here is referring to uh the things of God, godliness. And um I have one finger here, but I'm still lost. Verse twelve. Um when I was with them I was keeping them in your name, which you have given me, and I've well I actually before that. Uh keep them in your name, the name which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are. Yeah. So if if his disciples and even more broadly other believers at the time were um Godly. They were in um the name of God, the Father and the Son. then the natural thing would be that they would be unified. Because what's the opposite of being godly? It's being ungodly and selfish. And there would be no unity because everybody would be going their own way and maybe even having dissension. But for them to be unified, they would need to set aside all that and be under the the um the authority, but also behaving in the character of God. Um and so the they're not going to be They seem to be very connected here. The character of God, the name of God, and the unity within the Godhead would be true also then of his believers. that they may be one even as we are. Um and that unity definitely requires godliness. Yeah. I was just gonna say names are super important throughout especially during and everywhere you look you know the whole genealogies people are referred to as Sun al Sabidi or So that that family relationship paramount, very good. And and here also where you know I'm in your name and and they're in my name and therefore we're all the same name Unity, family. Family. Right. Yeah, good. Okay, so he he's saying it one of the implications of this would be unity. Um Christ was praying for the unity of the church before the church began significant. Because left to our own devices, there would be no unity, at least no lasting unity, built on things that will will last. But godliness and God Um God focused, if we're all focused on God and His communication to us in Scripture, that's really the only basis for unity that they may be one even as we are. While I was with them, I was keeping them in your name, which you have given me, and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, well, except for the son of perdition Which is referring to Jesus, right? Uh Judas. Um not one of them perished, but the son of perdition, so that the scripture would be fulfilled, the scripture that he would be betrayed Um but now I come to you and these things I speak in the world so that they may have my joy made full in themselves. I have given them your word. And again he's speaking uh the importance of the word he's already referenced th that he preached and he taught and he lived out the word that So I've given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they, my disciples, are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I do not ask you to take them out of the world, which if the disciples are now hearing this, they're wondering, hmm. I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. So there's a mission for them, but protect them. Um according with God's will. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. So in the world but not of it. Verse 17. Sanctify them in truth. What does sanctify mean? to make holy. The sanct in sanctify is, you know, we use it in words like sanctuary, inner sanctum. The root is holiness. And To sanctify someone is to make them holy, essentially, like God is holy. Sanctify them in the truth, your word is truth. So can there be any holiness in our lives apart from godliness in our lives? Can there be any godliness in our lives apart from God's Word? Maybe tiny measures of it by God's common grace, but not to the fullest extent. Um Jesus uh is emphasizing that, right? Um sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. Um and so he's got multiple references here to the Word of God, the words of God. So The word holy and the word sanctify uh also have the connotation of um separation. Separation from what? Sin. Yeah. Being separate from sin. Completely different category. And how does that happen? Sanctify them in the truth. You know, if if we're living according to lies Then we're caught up in sin. We're not separated from sin. But also, he just said Um the world has hated them because they are not of the world even as I am not of the world. Um they are not of the world I'm um as you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. For their sakes I sanctify Whoop, that's later. Um yeah, they're not of the world even as I am not of the world. And they're hated by the world. Um there's been a separation between those who are following Christ his disciples and the world. And that that's because of holiness, of sanctification. It's the separation from sin. And it's an ongoing thing Um if if um was ever compromised with ungodliness, then there's a uh diminishing of any sanctification there had been, right? Um So he's speaking of godliness, he's speaking of separation from sin, separation from the world, and he's praying that God the Father would protect them and uh make them more and more uh sanctified. You know, uh in the epistles particularly we we read of uh the sanctification that that we would undergo as believers, that sanctification is being progressively well there's two references to two types of sanctification referred to in scripture. One is positional, we are in Christ we're just separate from the world. We're separate from sin. We're in Christ. That's a done deal. But that's our position, our experience is we're still in the world, even though we're not of it, and we're being progressively sanctified, progressively separated from sin, separated from the world, separated from anything ungodly, becoming more and more like Christ. That's a process that sank Diffication is becoming more and more holy. And um you can think of sanctification as holyfication. That's just my word. Holification, becoming more and more holy. Yeah, you you can look a long time for it. You're not going to find it. Um Okay. So he's he's speaking of all of that, and it's going to be important for them in the world to not be caught up in the world. Um it's very easy for the world to have an impact on us. It's real hard for us to have an impact on the world. It's got to be of God's doing Right? And the same was true even with his disciples, and Christ is praying for that. As you sent me into the world, I also have sent them. into the world. For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. I do not ask on behalf of these alone, but for those also who believe in me through their word. Hey, he prayed for you and me. Right there. People who would come to Christ later because of the ministry of his disciples, whether it would be directly that generation or in generations to come, it's because of their ministry. Jesus is praying that that would be true of us. That they may all be one, even as you, Father, are in me and I in you. that they also may be in us. So he's praying for our sanctification, our being separated from sin, our being made more and more godly And that the result of that would be true unity based on truth. Um and so that. Um the end of verse twenty-one so that the world may believe that you sent me. He's getting back to this that the world will recognize who he really is and that he he is the Messiah. And um that the Father sent him to be the one who would bear the penalty for our sin. Verse twenty-two. The glory which you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one, just as we are one. So what is it about the glory here? Um How is it that we could share in that glory, or his disciples even? Well, the more Christlike we are, the more we are um about God's business rather than worldliness Who does that glorify? God. And so uh it it brings attention to the glory of God, and if there's any way that the likes of us could bring glory to God That would be fantastic, right? Not for our benefit, but that it would reflect what God is doing in and through us. That's that's what He's praying for. Um And again the result of that would be unity, that they may be one just as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may be perfected in unity. That perfected is very much connected with sanctification, just being separate from sin, being um um holy. And the more holy we are in an unholy world, the more we're gonna stick out That's what God wants. He's praying for it. That while we're in the world, people would s maybe say, what makes you tick? Or it's obvious that you're not like me. There's no explanation for your character apart from the intervention of God. That would be a good conclusion someone to make, right? That would glorify God. Um so that the world would know that you sent me um And love them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, He comes back to that always. uh that um they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world. So he's sending them out into the world, but he's also praying that, of course, one day they would be where he is ultimately in heaven. And they will see his glory for in its fullness at that point. O righteous father, although the world has not known you, yet I have known you, and these have known that you sent me. They know my identity. And I have made your name known to them and will make it known so that the love with which you loved me may be in them and I in them. You know, I I try to imagine being one of the disciples in many of these contexts, but if I'm listening to this prayer and everything he said in the upper room, my mind's going to be swirling. Um But fortunately, by God's providence, he had it recorded uh by John. But you see what's on Christ's heart at this point. He knows what's coming within um less than twenty-four hours. Um and What's on his heart is holiness, um putting giving God the Father the glory, uh unity within his uh believers um that they would become likewise more and more holy. Um any other thoughts, questions so far? They notice because there's a difference. Yeah. Don't hide your light under a bushel, right? Uh you don't even have to be all that active, but if you're just being godly, particularly as you say, in the context of suffering, because everybody's natural response to suffering is very selfish. Woe was me, whatever, defeat and things. But um the same is true when there's conflict of some kind And we handle the conflict in a godly way. It's just the world is does it can't compute. It's not responding the way the world would. Yeah, Job is a good example. Job didn't real have real clarity. He had questions as well, and rightly so. Um all of his friends so to speak, assumed that his um calamities were because of some wrongdoing on his part. And so it was all about the justice of God finally coming down on him But it wasn't that at all. It was all about the sovereignty of God, not the justice of God, and that God would be glorified by his sovereign will and in this case sovereign protection of Job. Um And it wasn't about his justice at all. So his focus is on God, not on him. And there's much to learn there. Yep. Okay, well let's uh go to Gethsemane, he's on his way. I'll read the blended account on page two fifty-five. When Jesus had spoken these words, that is his prayer, he went forth with his disciples over the ravine of the Cadrone where there was a garden on the other side on the Mount of Olives, called Gethsemane. Gethsemane, the word, basically means oil press, um uh the olive oil. Press. Um and there's recent evidence discovered that um a a cave on on um the Mount of Olives that was believed to have been a place where Jesus and his disciples um spent the night multiple times, even during this last week. um actually had in it, in that cave, an olive press, and there's evidence of uh where it used to be and so on. Um And so that cave and then the surrounding olive trees around it would have naturally been called Gethsemane. Anyway, uh Garden called Gethsemane in which he entered with his disciples. Then Jesus said to his disciples, Sit here while I go over there and pray. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, James and John, and began to be grieved and very Then he said to them, Peter, James, and John, My soul is deeply grieved to the point of death. Remain here and keep watch with me. And he went about a stone's throw beyond them, knelt down, fell to the ground on his face, and prayed that if it were possible the hour might pass by him, pass him by saying, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. If it is possible, and if you are willing, remove this cup from me, yet not as I will, but as you will. Now an angel from heaven appeared to him, strengthening him, and being in agony, he was praying very fervently, and his sweat became Like drops of blood falling upon the ground. It doesn't say his sweat was blood, but it was had a thicker consistency, sort of like blood. Um so why was Jesus in so much anguish and distress? Well I guess the short answer is he was he knew he was about to die. Um but I'm I'm convinced that he wasn't he wasn't so much in anguish about the torture he was about to endure, the physical torture, but the more onerous Spiritual torture of being separated from God the Father for the first time from eternity past. And being separated from the Father, why? Because he became sin for us. Taking off sin upon himself. The Father turns his back on God the Son for at least those three hours on the cross And that was more than he could imagine. He was willing, if that was but if there's any other way, uh he'd be happy for that as well, but it was clear that he was submitted to the will of the Father. And yes, the the torture he went through was unbearable from our perspective, but I'm pretty sure that the prospect of being separate from God the Father and no longer participating in that glory that they have shared from eternity past was the hardest thing to anticipate. And so even angels came to comfort him. As they did by the way at the end of his temptations in the wilderness when he started his Ministry. Anyway, it's interesting what he says here. Um and when he rose from prayer, he came to the disciples and found them sleeping. from sorrow and said to Peter, now this is probably midnight, after midnight. You can imagine them being tired. But anyway, he said to Peter, Simon Are you asleep? Well, that's a rhetorical question. Of course you asleep. So you men could not keep watch with me for one hour? Why are you sleeping? Get up and keep watching and praying that you may not em enter into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. So, you know, we use that phrase a lot The Spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. He's referring to his disciples that he knows that in their heart they're willing to obey him and they're they're on board, but the flesh is weak. They're really tired and just practically they're walking. Um the spirit is willing then so he they need to be nudged into being alert even in the midst of their their uh tiredness. But as I reflect on this, I I think it's maybe somewhat ironic that Um what Jesus is going through may be just the opposite. In his case, I think the flesh is willing to undergo what is coming up But his spirit is in anguish about the prospect of being separated from the fellowship they've always had. He's always had with God the Father. Um That's interesting. Well, I think the fact that he went back and forth, um, A, he could have kept praying for whatever it was, three or four hours, the same thing. Uh but in the midst of that He wanted to keep nudging his disciples. So he's going back and forth. Um and when he comes back to prayer, he's b basically picking up where he left off, just continuing the same the same thing Um and it actually says, you know, basically saying the same thing. Um it says something about even Christ saw the need for persistence in prayer. Um I think what what um the upshot of that was um his being content in the will of the father and to be obedient and that was enough for him Yeah, that should be enough for us. Uh so he went away a second again a second time and prayed the same words, saying, My father, if this cannot pass away unless I drink it, your will be done. And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy. They did not know what to answer him for wants. Um And he left them again, and he went away and prayed a third time, saying the same thing once more. Then he came to the disciples and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough I want to come back to that. It is enough. Behold, the hour has come, and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. Get up, let us be going. Behold, the one who betrays me is at hand Um so he says, it is enough. What's he mean by that? Are you still sleeping or resting? Does he does he mean you've had enough? I mean it's already I don't know, four AM How much sleep do you think you want, right? Is that what he means? I think basically when he says it is enough, what he means is stop. Um but he said it is enough earlier in the evening. Do you remember when? Yeah. Yeah. And so he says, now when you go out, you're gonna I'm not gonna be with you, you need to be prepared. And he mentions swords and I guess it was Peter, one of them said, um, here are two swords, Lord, and he says, It is enough. I don't think he meant two is enough. I think he meant stop You g you don't get it. It's just like he means here. It is enough means stop, let's move on. Um anyway Since we're talking about praying, let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for the example of Christ and his submission to you, his desire, even in his earthly ministry, to bring glory to you. May that be our uh heart's desire as well, that we would glorify you um by it being obvious To an unbelieving world around us, that the only explanation for us is your intervention in our lives. May you be glorified, Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.