All right. Well, as it turns out, today's lessons are taken solely from Luke and then from John. And we don't have any blended accounts here to blend from the various Gospels. So we're going to be looking first at Luke, starting Luke 12, verse 1. So if you don't have a copy of the notes, you can go to the scriptures, Luke 12. And I'll go ahead and start reading that and probably interject some thoughts and questions along the way here. So Luke 12, 1. Under these circumstances, under what circumstances? Well, if you go back to Luke 11, the Jewish leaders were trying to trap Jesus Trying to trip him up in what he said or maybe something he did. And uh they had lots of problems with things he was doing on the Sabbath that didn't comport with their understanding of what should be done on the Sabbath. Anyway, so he is ha this this tension is building between Jesus and the Jewish leaders. So under these circumstances, after so many thousands of people had gathered together that they were stepping on one another. Why had so many people been gathering together? Well, Jesus has been doing miracles. They were something of a uh uh sensation, some people were coming. To be healed or um possibly just uh to um per uh to view other miracles Uh some people hopefully were coming to be taught, but people were coming in droves. Sounds like this decayed. Yeah. Um And um so they're stepping on one another, just trying to get a glimpse of him and to get closer. But he began saying to his disciples, first of all Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy But there is nothing covered up that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known. Accordingly, Whatever you have said in the dark will be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in the inner rooms will be proclaimed in the housetops. Uh upon the house tops. I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body and after that um have no more that they can do. But I will warn you whom to fear. Fear the one who, after he has killed, has authority to cast you into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two cents? Yet not one of them is forgotten before God. Indeed, the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Do not fear you are more valuable than many sparrows. I want to pause there. Many of the things that we're going to be seeing here, particularly in Luke, have come up earlier. He's using analogies or maybe somewhat variations of analogies and and teaching he's been giving um successively before, sometimes because of the context, sometimes because of the audience Now it says here, he's particularly trying to emphasize these things to his disciples, mostly, but he's crowded. There's lots of people around who are probably hearing it as well. sign of a good teacher is repetition. Repetition. So he was repeating things. Right. So the the lesson for us as we go through the Gospels is if you see In one gospel, there's a reference to are not five sparrows sold for two cents? And then you see elsewhere, like in Matthew 10, Uh two sparrows were sold for one cent. That seems like a better bargain than the five, doesn't it? But um Uh don't assume that those are the same occasion. Right. There are a lot of teachings in the life of Christ that are similar and you see this a lot in the parables, right? He gave parables of different kinds of servants who are faithful or unfaithful, um, whether it's with Mina or with um um Well he used I guess different talents. Sermon on demands. Mm-hmm. Scattered elsewhere. Exactly. Exactly. Right. So we're seeing that here. And how do you how can you tell whether they're the actually the same event or not? Well, you need to know from context, but um hopefully we've taken a lot of that into account for you here. We're following the chronology that's in the book of Luke because Luke makes it very clear he's making every effort to be chronological and accurate. And um so that's been sort of our guide. And if you look at the context in which other times a similar parable or uh illustration is given you'll notice that it's it's a slightly different audience or context and and so on. So okay. Picking up at verse eight. And I say to you, everyone who confesses me before men, the Son of Man, will confess him also before the angels of God. But he who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. And every one who speaks a word against the Son of Man it will be forgiven him, but he who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him. When they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and authorities, do not worry about how or what you are to speak in your defense. Or what you were to say, for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say. And again, he's bringing up some themes that he had talked about earlier. Uh don't hesitate to ask any questions as we go through, but we've got a lot of material to cover today, so I'm kinda gonna keep uh plowing ahead here. Pharisee is within the their religious society, they were they also did they also serve as rabbis or teachers within the synagogues? Or did they have any temple duties in Jerusalem? Yeah. Good question. The Pharisees were a religious order. A very devout Jewish order Um and their influence was mostly in the synagogues. And yes, that's where they would teach, they would train, they would um uh The rabbis, yeah, they would refer to each other as rabbis. Um they didn't have as much, if any uh involvement in the temple in Jerusalem. The temple was more under the control of the Sadducees. And you you see both the Sadducees and the Pharisees uh often here in the Gospels, and sometimes they're at odds with each other. The Pharisees were very strict, um conservative law abiding law capital L Old Testament law abiding believers well um Jews anyway The Sadducees were not. They were more um political They were very much accommodating with Rome to kind of hold their position in the temple. Um uh th their doctrine wasn't all that grounded in in uh the old testament scriptures, which is why they didn't really believe in the resurrection. Um But but wasn't the Sanhedrin made up of both things? It was. The Sanhedrin, the Council of Seventy, um was made up of both Um Sadducees and Pharisees, the chief priests were only Sadducees. Interesting. Yeah, they were kind of the ones in charge and The Sadducees were not th they they had this religious error about them, but it was very liberal from a from a Hebrew perspective. Very worldly, very political, uh expedient. Whereas the Pharisees were very much uh devoted to the law and things they layered on the law that they basically equated with the law, the traditions of our fathers they refer to, right? Um is there any um equivalent uh today for a Pharisee that um we might be looking out for in terms of the hyp hypocrisy of that group of people. I'm not sure about the hypocrisy, but today you'd be looking at the most conservative Jews, maybe I don't know, Hasidic Jews. Probably. Um there are various conservative groups within Judaism today, and the ones who are most zealous for the law would be the ones most similar to Pharisees. Yeah. What what is why they're not only in the New Testament as opposed to old and also modern test Yeah, good question. So the the Pharisees themselves, well even the Sadducees as well. Um they came into existence, um, at least my understanding is, in that intertestamental period between the Old Testament and the New Testament, became sort of a tradition a school of thought, a a uh political not political, but a religious party, if you will, um and followed some uh great teachers of the law and just built on that or just committed to uh the uh application of the law. Um And so that was something that that as a group they cropped up between the Old Testament and the New Testament times. But Probably largely because of the fall of Jerusalem and the dispersion of the Jews, their influence kind of waned over generations. uh soon after that. And um so it was a it was a unique period of time. Yeah. Okay. Um what's interesting is that we see evidence in in the Gospels of the Pharisees and the Sadducees kind of having this tug of war with each other. There's kind of a religious tension between the positions. Um and the Republicans and the Democrats. Yeah, there are a lot of politics involved and a lot of religious undertones and their agendas and so on, for sure Um but what's interesting is toward the end of and we're getting there In the next few months, I guess. Um, toward the end of Christ's ministry and certainly his Passion Week You see both the Sadducees and the Pharisees cooperating together against Christ. And so he had offended both of them. Yeah. For different reasons. Enemies unite. Yes. Okay. Where are we at? Verse thirteen? Someone in the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the family inheritance with me. So that's coming kind of out of the blue, right? But he said to them, man, who appointed me a judge or arbiter over you? And then he said to them, Beware, this is another beware he's giving them here, and be on your guard against every form of greed. For not even when one has an abundance does his life consist of his possessions. So he's getting at this guy's heart. Right? And he told them a parable, saying, The land of a rich man was very productive. And he began reasoning to himself, saying, Hmm, what shall I do? Since I have no place to store my crops. It's uh it's a bumper crop, I guess. And then he said, This is what I will do. I will tear down my barns and build larger ones. And there I will store all my grain and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years to come. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said to him, You fool, this very night your soul was required of you, and now who will own what you have prepared? So is the man who stores up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. So he's his answer to this guy Uh was more than this guy bargained for, right? Uh he was getting at the heart motive of riches and the short term um Pleasure that comes from that perhaps, but not the long term eternal value. And so he said to his disciples For this reason I say to you, do not worry about your life as to what you will eat, nor your body what you will put on. For life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing. Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, they have no storeroom nor barn, and yet God feeds them. How much more valuable are you than the birds? And which of you by worrying can add a single hour to his lifespan? If then you cannot even do even a very little thing, why do you worry about other matters? Consider the lilies, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. But I tell you, not even Solomon, in all his glory. clothed himself like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, how much more will he clothe you, you men of little faith? And do not seek what you will eat and what you will drink, and do not keep worrying, for these things the nations of the world eagerly seek. But your Father knows that you need these things. But seek his kingdom, and these things will be added to you. Do not be afraid, little flock, for your father has chosen gladly to give you the kingdom. Sell your possessions and give to charity. Make yourselves money belts, which do not wear out, and unfailing treasure in heaven Where no thief comes nor moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. So that section probably sounds very familiar, right, from Matthew 6 primarily from the Sermon on the Mount, but it's a different occasion. He's he's making many of the same points, a little bit different illustrations, but uh this is a very important theme that you would expect him to come back to periodically. And this guy's question prompts that kind of uh explanation. Okay. Is there a possibility there the the Pharisees and then the the rich the rich fools? Those two groups are actually related because I remember Pastor Lee said that the Pharisees are generally of a a business owner class of people. That was their day job. And so it to be part of that class, they probably would have been somewhat unscrupulous in in their business dealings and uh Maybe for it is and relied on their money as part of their hypocrisy Possibly, although you know the uh if you're referring to the rich fool with the barns and all the crops, that was a terrible, not an actual person. But it was intended to get at the heart of this guy who's asking about his inheritance and and so on. Uh the plumbing. So that the illustration about the the man who's on lab are very productive. Although the passage doesn't say it explicitly, this would this would Probably be a parable because it's not referring to a specific individual but what is both. Right. In fact, uh verse sixteen specifically says it's a parable. Yeah. Yes. Or do they have to have a pattern? I I don't know that there was one any one um scenario. They probably had a mixture of things and they were Pharisees by um Training Paul was the first time. Choice and training. He was a tent maker, so um their role as Pharisees probably didn't in and of itself ensure any um uh means of living. Um some of them may have already been kind of wealthy, but they were Pharisees because of their their training and their convictions and their desire to fill that role in Jewish life. So the Sadducees, however, pr they were more the priests and in that position. Which probably did cover their livelihood. Now it's possible that some of those Pharisees could have had specific roles. There's reference in some of the Gospels of a synagogue ruler. Um and I think one of them had his son or servant healed and so on. Makes reference to a a synagogue ruler. I'm not exactly sure what that means, but it's possible that Some of those were Pharisees and in that position they were actually employed and they might have had some of their livelihood uh from that that role, but I'm not sure. And then I'll left the curtain late. So if you ever like a certain way to left with only personality Yeah, so they may have dressed particularly in a prescribed way when they were performing official duties as Pharisees. But um Probably not all the time. Okay. Uh verse thirty five. Be dressed in readiness and keep your lamps lit. Be like men who are waiting for their master when he returns from the wedding feast, so that they may immediately open the door to him when he comes and knocks. Blessed are those slaves whom the master will find alert when he comes. Truly I say to you that he will gird himself to serve, and have them recline at the table, and will come up and wait on them. Whenever he comes in the second watch, or even the third, and finds them so, blessed are those slaves Be sure of this, that if the head of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have allowed his house to be broken into. You too, be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour that you do not expect. And of course, Jesus is referring to himself in his own return. And seeking for his servants to be not just ready for his return, but active in obedience. Leading up to that, right? Peter said, Lord, are you addressing this parable to us or to everyone else as well? And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and sensible steward whom his master will put in charge of his servants to give them the rations at the proper time? Blessed is that slave whom his master finds so doing when he comes. In other words, if the shoe fits wear it, I think. True I say you that he will put him in charge of all his possessions. But if that slave says in his heart, My master will be um a long time in coming and begins to beat the slaves, both men and women, and to eat and drink and get drunk, and the master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect it And an hour when he does not know, and will cut him in pieces, and assign him a place with unbelievers And that slave, who knew his master's will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will, will receive many lashes. But the one who did not know it and committed deeds worthy of full-flogging will receive but few. From everyone who has been given much, much will be required. And to whom they entrusted much, of him they will ask all the more. And so Jesus returns to a a sort of a uh master servant context here that he often uses in his teaching. The point here is uh initially Um alertness, readiness. Why do we need to be alert and ready? Because our master is um going to hold us accountable at some point and we don't know the timing of that judgment. Um so Um you know that's a that's a an aspect of our relationship with Christ that often is under uh underestimated, under uh uh misunderstood, but um from God's perspective, he's the master, we're the slaves. Life is not about us, it's about him. And our role as his servants, his slaves, is to advance his purposes. And um he takes good care of his servants, but he also holds them accountable. Um does it says he that the master um comes around the second or third watch. Um are those the two watches of the night And are there there are four of those? Yeah, I think so. I'm not sure how many they divided it into, but he's referring to the middle of the night, for sure. Yeah, so you're not expecting it in the middle of the night. That's the point. So that's what simply uh um this is a response to his disciples asking him whether you know they what he saying was specifically addressing addressed to them uh or to everyone. And uh in forty seven what you say is that uh Um and and and that slave, who knew the masterism that did not do it uh will be will receive many more slash flashes. Uh I would I imagine that that's that's referring to all believers who for for whatever reason are not founded in faithful in their calling and that there will be um well adverse consequences for that. So I guess the point that uh sort of makes me He uh scratch my head is what he says, he will cut them to pieces and sign them a place with the humble believer. I'm pretty sure that cutting to pieces there is an idiom. Uh I don't know the background of it, but from the context we can see that he's not literally cutting them to pieces because he assigns them to a place. So it's his he it's he's cutting them down to size, maybe is an idiom that we use, right? Uh, that might be related, I don't know. But it's it's tearing them apart everything that they s have stood for, which is selfishness essentially. and wanting their own way gets taken from them and they're held accountable. But it sounds like they lose their salvation. They never were the grace of the unbelievers. Yeah. Yeah, because they're revealing themselves as being even though they know his will and and everything, they're they're unbelievers all along. Yeah. Which is why they don't act according to his will. Yeah, stern warning for sure. Verse forty nine I have come to cast fire upon the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled But I have a baptism to undergo and how distressed I am until it is accomplished. Do you suppose that I came to grant peace on earth? I tell you, no, but rather division. For from now on, five members in one household will be divided, three against two, two against three. They will be divided father against son, son against father. Mother against daughter, daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law, daughter-in-law against mother-in-law. So uh even within families where um identity and loyalty and and so on, there's going to be division with regard to Christ. And that's always been the case, unfortunately. But um Jesus knew that was gonna happen. And clearly the the um The point here is that we should be faithful to Christ over and above everything else. Everyone else. Verse 54. And he was also saying to the crowds: When you see a cloud rising in the west, immediately you say, Ah, a shower is coming. And so it turns out. And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, it will be a hot day. And it turns out that way. Uh by the way, We might not say these things in our interpretation of the weather, but it makes a lot of sense in Israel. Right? So if a cloud's rising in the west, where is it coming from? The Mediterranean. And it's gonna probably have some rain in it, which is a good thing, right? And when you see a south wind blowing, if it's coming from the south, it's coming from the Negev, which is mostly desert, uh arid And it would be a hot day. So um and we have similar ways of interpreting the weather around us as well. But he says, you hypocrites, you know how to analyze the appearance of the earth and the sky, but why do you not analyze this present time? Like all these miracles that are giving giving proof of my uh Um, if if not my deity, he would be saying they should be saying, This is coming from God one way or another, let's figure this out. Right? You need to analyze the present time. And why do you not, even on your own initiative, judge what is right? For while you were going with your opponent to appear before the magistrate on your way there, make an effort to settle with him so that he may not drag you before the judge and judge you and the judge turn you over to the officer and the officer throw you into prison. I say to you, you will not get out of there until you have paid the very last cent. Again, that harkens back to some teaching from the Sermon on the Mount as well. Yeah, Victoria. So I'm talking about game. I would have said balances. know the truth, but you're you're pretending not to, is that the idea? Yeah. Um He's saying you y uh y you look for signs and interpret them well in other contexts. Why aren't you doing that here? Um They should know better. I guess. Yeah. Well it's is it also possible that Maybe they actually knew but their self interest was so overwhelming they didn't you know they they wanted to I guess not acknowledge it publicly. Yeah. Maybe we call that intellectual economy? Sure. All of the above. But they appeared outwardly so religious, like but they did not know the true religion or or anything they would that's hypocritical to me. Right It would be interesting if if the Pharisees of that day actually recognized the identity of Christ and the influential position that they had they the other people would have fallen in line and would be in agreement and but they were such a um I guess an intellectual influence over just the broad culture that people were in this quandary as to should we believe Pharisees, uh should we believe price and it it's similar in our day that like the universities and high schools and etc politics. It's so intimidating to be a Christian because no one there's there's no support for you um in terms of counseling Right. It's hard to swim against the tide, right? You really have to go against prevailing uh culture of our of our day. And at the end I think it was the Jewish leaders, whether Sadducees and Pharisees maybe both, who stirred up the crowd, crucify him, crucify him. And they all came on board with that. They they worked with their leaders. But but I think it's also obvious that there was some fairness that made it in the consequences Oh yeah. Paul Saul, sure. God always has his remnant, doesn't he? Well even um We see after the crucifixion both Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus. Um showing reverence for the Lord, which seems to be evidence of true belief by that point. Uh how much they believed earlier than that we don't know for sure. But um I think we'll see them if Yep. Okay. Uh section one hundred eighteen, we're moving now to Luke thirteen. On the same occasion, there were some present who reported to him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. And Jesus said to them, Do you suppose that these Galileans were greater sinners than all the other Galileans because they suffered this fate? I tell you, no. But unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Or do you suppose that those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them were worse culprits than all the men who live in Jerusalem? I tell you no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. And he began telling them this parable. A man had a fig tree, which had been planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit on it, and did not find any And he said to the vineyard keeper, Behold, for three years I have come looking for fruit on this tree without finding any. Cut it down Why does it even use up the ground? And he answered him and said, Let it alone, sir, for this year too, until I dig around it and put in fertilizer, and if it bears fruit next year, fine. But if not, cut it down. So, as Jesus often did, he emphasizes in his preaching and teaching the need for repentance. Repentance for sin, turning, forsaking the sin, and relying instead on God alone And that genuine repentance, as John the Baptist preached, would naturally bear fruit. the fruit of repentance. And that fruit would be um evidence of a changed heart. Right. You don't see repentance, it's all internal, but what you see is the the byproduct, the the the obedience, the um the um The things that result from it. Those things are not um the basis of our salvation, but they're evidence of a genuinely repentant heart. And even tell me that they are using the health. I'm sorry, repentance what? Is it going to keep a power from falling and all that dies? But the perish here means Yes. Yeah. He says, um, you know, we're we could be so focused kind of naturally on people's uh earthly life. without uh giving proper attention to our eternal destination, our souls. And that's where this repentance comes in. And so um Yeah, the point is not to perish. Like he said earlier, don't don't fear the one who can kill you but can't control where your soul goes. Fear the one who um is in control of where your soul goes. So it might I don't know if it's elsewhere in the future but you can show me where there's a great way. The group being the people who died? Um I'm not so sure. I don't think that's his point. I think his point is, yes, um Um lots of people died, it seemed like a tragedy. But w what's what's what's the greater tragedy? If any of them had not repented and um had a relationship with God, then this tragedy happens unexpected, where do they end up? Right? And so he says the lesson for us, let's get our w before something like this happens to us, or even just a natural death at some point. Let's focus on the eternal, make sure our relationship with God is right, repent from sin, so that our eternal destiny is secure. Isn't this along the same lines of the man born blind? They they viewed any time something bad happened is because of sin. Right. Yeah. Similar mindset that he's uh he's addressing there. Right. Right. Um and and interesting that in h Jesus' parallel or parable here He offers through the um the counsel of the uh vineyard keeper uh a little bit more patience, allowing the fig tree to respond to fertilizer and this kind of thing, which would be what? God being patient. Long suffering so that people would eventually repent. Right. Okay. Continuing in Luke thirteen, verse ten, we're in section one nineteen now. Page 156. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath. And Uh by the way, uh you remember in in Acts how the Apostle Paul would regularly, when he goes to a city, he would be teaching in the synagogues. Uh really he's just following Jesus' practice here. Uh that's where many of the most devout people are. And so he's um But he also knows that that while some are predisposed to believe him and to follow him, there are others there who are entrenched in their tradition. And it's it's gonna probably be a division, much like the division within families he talked about just recently. So I might ask, would that be a good example of that? Father today? To kind of be uh an instigator of of division? No, no, she can't see the dogs where they're likely to be Are people more receptive to the method and maybe also antagonistic to the method? Yeah, so in in our culture it would be more going to um Even mainline churches where you're expecting that most people there aren't saved, but there may be opportunity for people to respond to the gospel if they hear it clearly for once. Um that might be a a parallel. I don't know. Yes. Yeah, that was the point I was making. Right. So, uh verse eleven. And there was a woman who for eighteen years had a sickness. uh caused by a spirit and she was bent double bent over and could not straighten up at all. And Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, Woman, you are freed from your sickness. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made erect again and began glorifying God. But the synagogue official, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, began saying to the crowd in response, There are six days in which you should work or which work should be done, so come during them and get healed, and not on the Sabbath. But the Lord answered him and said, You hypocrites, does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the stall and lead him away to water him? And this woman, a daughter of Abraham as she is, whom Satan has bound for eighteen long years, should she not have been released from this bond on the Sabbath day? And as he said this, all his opponents were being humiliated because he was saying this at the hearing of everybody else as well. And the entire crowd was rejoicing over all the glorious things being done by him. So he was saying, What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it? It is like a mustard seed, which a man took and threw into his own garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the air nested in its branches. And again he said, To what shall I compare the kingdom of God? It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three pecks of flour until it was all leavened. So uh this this um Contention about what was proper on the Sabbath keeps coming up over and over and over again. And uh Jesus um didn't shy away from that opposition, which he probably at this point, and if not throughout, was expecting. Because they were so entrenched in their tradition and uh not the actual spirit of the wall. I think that's so powerful what he said. I mean it's you know, you're concerned about your ox, and then he says, but this daughter of Abraham, I mean that is But he was a little bit sarcastic or or a sensitive I think he intended that humiliation. Um and then toward the end here He uh compares the kingdom to uh several things here. The point is that it starts small and grows. Right. Okay. 120. Now we're s switching over to John. chapter ten. And just by way of context, we had already covered the first twenty-one verses of John 10, and that was during the fall at um the Feast of Tabernacles. And without any warning here in verse 22, returning now to the Feast of Dedication, which took place in Jerusalem. Um Tet Hanukkah. Right. And it mentions all that, but the it you just go from twenty one to twenty two and and I if you're not alert to that change. This is like several months later. Can I mention something that's um personal to me, but it might be interesting for everybody I was in a class once and they said go to the Gospel of John and look up your birthday. Like mine is October twelfth twenty seconds, so that's ten twenty-two. And I always said the Hanukkah verse is my verse because it's ten twenty-two when it was winter. But it was amazing. Everyone in the class did that, and the verse had a special meaning for this. So I just suggest that. Go to John and look at your birthday. But my birthday is the Hanukkah verse. Well that that reminds me of of the um of the the The person, I guess it was a lady, I don't know if it's a true story, who wanted guidance and says, Well I I know it's in the Bible somewhere, but I don't know how God would be leading me, so I'll just open it. Stick out my finger and say, um uh what's it say? Um and Judas went out and hanged himself. That would be likewise. Well that's probably not it. Let me try it again. Go down and do likewise. Woo. No, that's not it, let's try again. What you do, do quickly. Anyway. So, um it was winter and Jesus was walking in the temple in the Portico Solomon. And the Jews, now, when it refers to Jews here, typically, it's referring to Jewish leaders. Because everybody around was Jews And the Jews then gathered around him and were saying to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. There is a challenge, right? And Jesus answered them, I told you, and you did not believe. And the works that I do in my Father's name, these testify of me. But you do not believe because you are not of my sheep. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hands. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. And the Jews picked up stones again to stone him. And Jesus said, I showed you many good works from the Father, for which of them are you stoning me? And the Jews answered him, For a good work we do not stone you, but for blasphemy, because you being a man, make yourself out to be God. So did they get their answer? They got it. They got their answer. He told them plainly, and they understood exactly what he was saying. Jesus answered them. Um has it not been written in your law, I said to you, uh I said, you are gods? If he then calls them gods to whom the word of the God ca uh came, and the scripture cannot be broken Do you not say of him, or do you say of him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, you are blasphemy because I said I am the Son of God? If I do the works of my father, do not believe me. But if I do them, though you do not believe me, believe my works. so that you will know and understand that the Father is in me and I in the Father. Therefore they were seeking to seize him, but he eluded their grasp. A very pivotal interaction, confrontation here with the Jewish leaders. And here we're we're around December. before several months later um they actually put their plans into action to crucify him. Um One thing I wanted to point out here, uh versus um Uh starting at twenty seven, my sheep hear my voice and I know them, they follow me, and I give eternal life to them. They will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. So um Jesus is saying, his sheep are in his hand. And then he says, My father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. So we are it's not a question of Believers hanging on for dear life to Jesus, but he's hanging on to us, and the Father who's greater than all is not letting loose. So we can certainly displease him, but the life that he's given us is eternal. And we're secure in his salvation. That is known as a triple security. Amen. Yeah. Yeah, it's a it's a fantastic um promise that we have. You know, I hear uh sometimes I hear songs about holding on to Jesus. It it is important to to be faithful. It's us, yeah. Yeah. Gotta be careful about the doctrine you get in some of these songs, right? Okay. Well we gotta press on here. And John 10 then wraps up in section 121 here, verse 40. And he went away again beyond the Jordan to the place where John was first baptizing. And he was staying there. Many came to him and were saying, Well, John performed no sign, yet everything John said about this man was true. And many believed in him there. So he's um between the the Feast of Dedication, Hanukkah, around December And uh the Passover he was um somewhat laying low and so he went out just beyond the Jordan there. Okay, section 122. We're going to make this. And he was passing through from one city and village to another, teaching, this is now back to Luke, Luke 13. Teaching and proceeding on the way to Jerusalem. And some said to him, Lord, are there just a few who are being saved? And he said to them, Strive to enter through the narrow door, for many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able. Once the head of the house gets up and shuts the door, and you begin to stand outside and knock on the door, saying, Lord, open to us, then he will answer and say to you, I do not know where you are from. Then you will begin to say, We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets. And he will say, I tell you, I do not know where you are from. Depart from me, all you evildoers. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but yourselves being thrown out. And they will come from east and west and north and south, and will recline at the table in the kingdom of God. And behold, some who are last will be first, and some who are first will be last. Just at that time, some Pharisees approached him, saying, Go away, leave here, for Herod wants to kill you. And he said to them, Go and tell that fox, behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I reach my goal. Nevertheless, I must journey on today and tomorrow and the next day, for it cannot be that a prophet would perish outside of Jerusalem. So he was making his way to Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those sent to her, how often I wanted to gather your children together, just as a hen gathers her brood under her wings And you would not have it. Behold, your house is left to you desolate. And I say to you, you will not see me until the time comes when you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Um I want to come back to that line later when we get to Palm Sunday. Um and then even after Palm Sunday. There's some interesting fulfillment here. So that's somewhat transitional, and I wanted to wrap up here with section 123. Continuing in Luke, now we're in Luke 14. It happened that when he went into the house of one of the leaders of the Pharisees on the Sabbath to eat bread, they were watching him closely. And you know why. Trying to trip him up, right? And there in front of him was a man suffering from dropsy. And Jesus answered and spoke to the lawyers and the Pharisees, saying Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not? So he's he's not beating around the bush here. But they kept silent. Yeah, they kept silent. And he took hold of him and healed him and sent him away. And he said to them, Which of you will have a son or an ox fall into a well and will not immediately Put him out on the Sabbath day. And they could not make a reply to this. And he began speaking a parable to the invited guests when Uh he knows that they had been picking out the places of honor at the table, saying to them, When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not take the place of honor for someone more distinguished than you may have been invited by him, and he who invited you both will come and say to you, Give your place to this man. Then in disgrace you proceed to occupy the last place. But when you are invited, go and recline at the last place, so that when the one who has invited you comes, he may say to you, friend, move up higher. Then you will have honor in the sight of all who are at the table. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. So humility is clearly another common theme that Jesus dwells on here. Verse 12. And he also went on to say to the one who invited him. When you give a luncheon or dinner, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or rich neighbors, uh that is to exclusion of those people. Otherwise, they may also invite you in return, and that will be your repayment. But when you give a reception, invite the poor and the crippled, the lame, the blind. And you will be blessed since you they do not have the means to repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous. Verse 15. When one of those who were reclining at the table with him heard this, he said to him, Blessed is everyone who will eat in the kingdom of God. But Jesus said to him, A man was giving a big dinner and he invited many. And at the dinner hour he sent his slave to those who had been invited. Come, for everything is ready now. But they all alike began to make excuses. The first one said to him, I have bought a piece of land and I consider um and I need to look at it. Please consider me excused Another one said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I'm going to try them out. Please consider me excused. Another one said, I have married a wife, and for that reason I cannot come. And a slave, and the slave came back and reported this to his master. Then the head of the household became angry and said to his slave, Go out. uh at once into the streets and the lanes of the city, and bring in here the poor and the crippled and the blind and the lame. And the slave said, Master, what you have commanded has already been done, and still there is room And the master said to the slave, Go out into the highways along the hedges, and compel them to come in, so that my house may be filled. For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste of my dinner. So um the excuses that people make in in this parable are kind of like the excuses that people make in relation to their relationship with God And um yeah. Um I I I don't I don't think it's actually trying to picture a particular place or event, but the principle of um being um Receptive of the Lord's invitation and not having your own agenda is kind of what he's getting at here. Um And the fact that God is looking for people who will come and the ones who tend to come are the the most simple, not the more sophisticated uh the people who are full of themselves and so on. And that continues to be true. Alright, well we've got to close. Let's pray.