Yeah, so we're on lesson thirty-nine, the last supper, uh on page two hundred thirty-four. I'll go ahead and read the blended account and then Uh we'll have some discussion there. So then came the first day of unleavened bread on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. And Jesus sent Peter and John saying Go and prepare the Passover for us, so that we may eat it. And they said to him, Where do you want us to prepare it? And he said to them, When you have entered the city, a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him into the house that he enters. And you shall say to the owner of the house, the teacher says to you, My time is near. I am to keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. Where is my guest room in which I may eat the Passover with my disciples? And he himself will show you a large, furnished, and ready upper room. Prepare it for us there. And the disciples went out as Jesus had directed them. And they came to the city and found everything just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover. Okay. So um there's some important questions to ask here. Questions like Uh when was this? That may seem obvious, but actually there's some interesting aspects of that question. Where did this take place? And of course Why? So um it begins by saying that this was on the first day of unleavened bread on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. So there were three uh celebrations, three uh uh festivals uh that the Jews were required to uh celebrate uh above all others. There were others. Um but every male in Israel had to come to Jerusalem to celebrate these three feasts. You know you remember what those were? It's working backwards. But um but in chronological order, the first one would be this one. The Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Passover. Second would be what we call Pentecost, Feast of Weeks or First Fruits. And the third is Booze. Booze. The feast of tabernacles, booth, where a booth was just a temporary shelter to remind them of the temporary shelters they lived in while they were wandering in the wilderness. Um and um there's some similarities, there's some differences, and there's some uh complexities and confusion about these various celebrations. Um and there's a hint about the the the first one here, the first day of unleavened bread when the Passover lamb was being sacrificed, um in Um I should have probably added these things to the notes. But the Feast of Unleavened Bread, well before I say that, some passages you might want to make note of that summarize those three important times uh in the Old Testament under the law. Exodus twenty-three, fourteen through nineteen. And Deuteronomy 16, 1 through 17. And they just kind of give an overview of those three important times when every male, at least, was to come to Jerusalem, although Jerusalem wasn't identified in there because they hadn't entered the land and Jerusalem hadn't been established as their capital. if you will. So it was always worded in the place where the Lord shall tell you. This is where you are to go and have these celebrations. So more detail is given about the Feast of Unleavened Bread And the Passover, uh in Exodus twelve, seventeen through twenty, that's sort of when it was originally established as they were uh preparing to uh um leave Egypt. And then Deuteronomy sixteen, of course, the first part of that, one through eight. So the Passover meal, the Passover was one day. The Feast of Unleavened Bread began The Passover really began that week, so the next day. Uh for seven days they would eat uh of the Passover lamb and I guess some other things, but unleavened bread the whole time Why unleavened bread? Okay, so the the they were leaving in haste quickly from Egypt? And uh they didn't have time for bread to rise and whatever, and so um it would be a quick uh way to to eat They were told to do that. And so why were they told to do that? Yeah. So, you know, the the the Passover was got instituted um uh around the time that the the tenth of the um plagues against Egypt was happening and the tenth plague was what? The firstborn of uh All the people and all of the animals actually too. Uh the firstborn would be killed if Pharaoh didn't relent and let his people go. And of course he didn't. He called what he thought was a bluff And turned out h even his own son died. Um but the sons, the firstborns of the Israelites didn't, if what? They they they sacrifice the lamb, they put the blood on the on the top and on the two sides of the doorframe and the angel of death coming through will see that and pass over that house. And not not kill the firstborn there. That points to, always has pointed to, the sacrifice of the ultimate Lamb of God, Christ And the elements of the Seder, the meal that they they um enjoy during the Passover, have very direct cross reference to the the the nature of Christ and his sacrifice. It was very prophetic. And um I think to some extent the Jews early on and at some point understood that for but for the most part it was just their tradition. became tradition. But was fulfilled in Christ. And the the symbolism of the unleavened bread was that this sacrifice would have to be a sinless sacrifice. Um Jesus said, I'm the bread that comes down from heaven. And uh so uh you've got the Passover meal, had a lot of uh tradition and structure around it and the timing was very specific in in the law. And that opened up then a week of the uh unleavened bread, the festival, the feast of unleavened bread. You know, when we think of feast, we think of one meal. But for them typically sometimes one meal, but often like in this case, it was a whole week of celebrating of commemorating and remembering. And so the text here says this was the first day of unleavened bread on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. Now nomenclature. Sometimes in Scripture you hear this referred to as the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Sometimes you hear it being referred to as the Passover. as is typical with us, those two which were separately commanded in Scripture became kind of morphed together. So that when you refer to the Passover you understand it it's it's that whole period. When you refer to the Feast of Unleavened Bread, you understand that it's also including the Passover. So they're all they're disconnected. Okay, so that's the when. But while we're on the when, uh just a few thoughts about those other two festivals, the other two celebration. The Passover was held when? Kind of depends on when around around the other. Yeah. Um So you know the Jews operated under a lunar calendar, and so the timing of it according to our calendar would vary a little bit. Um but in the the the lunar months that Israel followed. It was very specific on uh in fact they God told them This month, when you're leaving Egypt, is now going to be your first month going forward. In your calendar, this is your first month, the month of Habib, later became known as uh Nissan. Um and it was on the fifteenth day. Well the fourteenth day and the fifteenth day kind of preceded that week. Um and so it was very structured. The second of those two three uh festivals, uh Pentecost, um, why is it called Pentecost? Basically it means fifty it's um the command that we get in um Exodus thirty four twenty two And Leviticus 23, 15 to 21. There's reference also in Numbers 28, 26 to 29, and Deuteronomy 16, 9 nine through twelve. Um it's sometimes called the festival or the the feast of weeks Well, how many weeks? It's a week of weeks, seven sevens. So you get 49 days, but then it says the day after that is the festival. That's 50 days. And it became later known as Pentacos. Um and so what was the the purpose of the Feast of Weeks? Turns out the Feast of Weeks is about that period of time. It didn't last for weeks. It was last it was just one day. Uh the weeks was a week of weeks. It commemorated the first fruit. Um and so God was instituting a a tradition, a memorial in Israel where they would uh humble themselves, give thanks for the first fruit of their crops Uh so uh very early uh particularly the wheat crop, there would be a first crop that came in during that period and uh uh Uh so it was it was instituting it sort of like our Thanksgiving, right? Coming at the end of the whole um harvest time. This is the uh there were multiple harvests. So this was the first fruit. Um and just acknowledging God's provision, giving thanks to Him and And uh celebration. And then the third one, the feast of booze or tabernacles, those little structures that were temporary that uh they built to actually live in um during that period to commemorate what the Israelites did as they were traveling in the wilderness uh after they left Egypt and uh unfortunately that lasted for a lot longer than it should have. like forty years, um, but it was meant to remind people of that experience. And I think to humble them, you know, um, it shouldn't have taken fifty years or forty years of wandering. Uh but also to remind them that during that time God provided for them. That's the point. It's the provision, right? In spite of that. The timing of that third feast was at the end of the harvest, the um the final harvest, if you will, before they go into the winter. And so this is very much like our Thanksgiving. Um and it's um sometimes called in scripture the the feast of the in gathering, you know, the final harvest. Um well, why do I belabor all that? Uh for what it's worth I think there's some significance here. Uh Jesus, we've seen already leading up to the the Passion Week here, that Jesus was very careful about the timing of his final return into Jerusalem and ultimately when he would be crucified. That he you know, his hour had not come. His hour had not come. Right. And then finally he is now the hour has come. He was very meticulous about when What was the significance about the timing of his crucifixion? It was on the Passover, it was fulfilling the Passover, right? The Passover lamb um was sacrificed. It was all pointing to the sacrifice of Christ. That couldn't happen outside Jerusalem. It couldn't happen on any other day than the Passover. I'm going to come back to that in a minute. What about Pentecost? What do we associate with Pentecost? The Holy Spirit being given to the Church. Actually, the It marks the beginning of the church age. Um and we read about that in Acts two. Um in Acts one, Jesus told them Just before he ascended into heaven to wait here in Jerusalem um until the Holy Spirit comes, and he will empower you. And why did they need to wait? Because God was very concerned about when it happened. It would happen at the time of Pentecost. I think there were a couple of reasons for the timing of that. And we get some hints about that in Acts two when it actually happens and there's a a visible well mostly audible proof of a new thing happening, which turns out to be the Holy Spirit indwelling and filling believers. What was the context? A big celebration. The city was packed, right? And People were questioning what's going on here, and Peter preaches this this uh famous sermon that summarized the gospel and the events that led up to where they are Now and what happened? Thousands of people came to Christ because the place was swarming with people and God was preparing them for beginning the church age. from a lot of different places. People from all over the place and they could hear the gospel being proclaimed in their own language by people who clearly didn't know their language and that got their attention. How can that happen? Only God could do that. And so God worked on their heart, even with the physical manifestation. uh the audible hearing of it in their own language. Um and God did a mighty work. That was the Feast of First Fruits. Do you see any connection between the first the Feast of First Fruits and the beginning of the church, and God was very specific about the timing. What about the third feast? Feast of booths, final harvest. What's the parallel to that? in the Christian calendar. What might God have in mind for a parallel there, if any? Final harvest. Which might happen when? Could happen any day. But the timing of it is very specific for what it's worth. I don't know that anybody else proposes this Except me, so you can just take this with a grain of salt. Um I would not at all be surprised if God timed the rapture to happen around the time of Pentecost. Nobody knows the year, but if it were to happen it would be that that one glorious uh final harvest before the end times prophecies kick in. Um I don't know if anybody else has drawn that conclusion, but the fact that God was so specific about uh the timing of Christ's death and having pictured it through the Passover celebration in many years leading up to it. And the fact that he was so specific about the timing of the start of the church on the Feast of Pentecost and the actual day, wait until the right time, and it will happen. It wouldn't surprise me at all that he's very um very much orchestrating human history, that that third one would be associated with a very significant event in his church. Um that won't be on the final exam. But I just throw that out there as a possibility. Okay. But there's there's another important question about the timing of the Passover. when you read through the gospels. We haven't gotten there yet, but you remember during the um the the trials of Jesus. I'm thinking mostly when it finally comes to his his interactions with Pilot, in the wee hours of the next day, we're on Thursday here, in the wee hours of Friday morning, um um the chief priests and the uh Jewish leaders bring Jesus to Pilate, um where do they interact? Do you remember? We haven't gotten there yet. They interact outside of Pilate's uh headquarters. Why outside? It says specifically in the text. Why? Because the Jews didn't want to defile themselves and not be able to celebrate the Passover. That's the next day. That not this day. That's Friday. So if Jesus and his disciples were celebrating the Passover on Thursday evening And the Jewish leaders had not yet celebrated the Passover, even by the time of Friday morning, and they didn't want to be f defiled to to um you know going into this Gentiles uh headquarters. How do you square up the timing of those two? Is the obvious question. And let me give you the answer. It's interesting. Historians have have very clearly seen and documented uh going even with uh Josephus way back uh to the contemporaries of Christ. That in northern Israel the tradition in the keeping of time was from sunrise to sunrise. And um You you sort of see references of course in the scripture to uh the you know the third hour or the sixth hour or whatever, and they're all dated from timed from sunrise. In the south, where Jerusalem was They figured the timing of the day from sunset to sunset. Just two different traditions arose. And You know, we have enough time with with enough problem with daylight saving time and some states have it and some states don't, right? Uh there they were just They just got accustomed to the fact that there was a different tradition in the north than there was in the south. Now that had some practical advantages, as it turns out. In that, yes, they all had to come to Jerusalem for the celebration of the Passover, but what it meant was that you could do it on both days, both the Thursday and the Friday. And you could serve more people that way. Uh so if you're so inclined to do it on Thursday, you can do that. If you're so inclined to do it on Friday You can do that. And it because it has some practical advantages, I guess nobody was trying to legislate uniformity. But Jesus and his disciples, of course, were all from Galilee, and so they would have been very comfortable with them practicing the the morning I'm sorry, the uh sunrise to sunrise. And so uh they wanted to get this in uh before the next sunrise. So Thursday night would have been the time to do it. Does that help? Okay. Well so much for the when. What about the where I'll let you read, starting at the bottom of page 234, the question about where, but the bottom line is I'm pretty well convinced, it's not a hundred percent, but I'm pretty well convinced this would have been the same house that they were in in uh early acts when they're all assembling in Jerusalem and uh Peter knew where it was at. He was released from prison. He knew where to go. He knew where the people would be. It's an upper room and in Acts it's identified as the house of John Mark's mother, Mary. Man, there's so many Marys. This is none of the w Mary's that we've we've talked about in in anything so far. Um but you remember John Mark, he's the one who wrote the book of Mark. Uh he was uh a cousin of Barnabas and um uh he had some interaction with with Paul of course that didn't go so well initially. Tradition has it that Mark was very much a um disciple of Peter. the Apostle Peter and drew along drew from Peter's personal experience with Christ in order to document it all in what is now called the Book of Mark Um and another sort of unrelated uh factoid is that there are A lot of commentators who believe that that guy, the young man in Gethsemane when Christ was arrested, who and it it mentions that he he came and he was covered only with a linen sheet and when they tried to apprehend him as a follower of Christ, um It's sort of like Joseph and and Pharaoh's Potiphore's wife. Uh he fled and they were grabbing all the cheese and he left naked and And there's no reference to that except in the book Mark. And people speculate that that must have been Mark himself, sort of like John not mentioning his name in his own gospel record. Uh Mark didn't say it was him, but he's the only one who included that. And that would make sense if they were having the Last Supper at his house. He might have followed them having gone to bed and then he hears that they leave and was curious to follow them, um it it could all fit together. I'm not saying we know for sure that it was Mark or even his house, but um Uh that all makes sense. Jesus and the disciples of course wouldn't have had a place where they could that would be large enough in Jerusalem to prepare for the Passover meal. And so having uh how Jesus got connected with them we don't know whether there was some prior arrangement or uh God just did what only God can do to pr make provision. Um and we don't really know anything else about Mark's mother except that the new church was meeting in her house. So you gotta think she's at least sympathetic and probably a believer. At that point, maybe not before the crucifixion, but at least at by early acts. What's significant about that though is he's very specific that it would be a man carrying water, and that typically was a woman's job And so he would s sort of stick out like a sore thumb. It wouldn't be hard for them to identify him. Now the fact that he would be there, did Jesus arrange it or did he just have omniscience and know it? Um your clue is your guess is as good as mine. It could be either. Yeah. Okay. Um so Jesus has them prepare and so the Passover meal had a lot of um very specific things associated with it that they had to um to do. Uh the the the menu, for example, there there's no flexibility and what the menu was going to be, uh there had to be the the sacrifice land. There was a lot of preparation involved and so he sent uh Peter and um Peter and John. Okay. Any questions So far. Okay. Um again he says my time is near. He's not saying the time is now, but my time is near, like tomorrow Um and so they they did that and prepared the Passover. So let's then turn oh by the way on page two thirty-six there's a couple of photos um on the um That is not the building where the Last Supper was held because it was completely destroyed. Uh this, however, is almost certainly built at the right spot where the Last Supper was held. And so as um Doug Bookman says, it's probably the right airspace. uh the right location, but um uh of necessity it was rebuilt much later or at least later and not the actual building. But it does contain a fairly large room, which you can see in the upper right hand corner there. Uh I don't know if it was built that way to commemorate the upper room mentioned the scripture or if it was just uh that's the way it was. But nowadays tourists, as you can see, can walk through it and get an idea of of something. I'm not sure what you get an idea of because it wasn't the actual building. Anyway, one sixty-six on page two hundred thirty-seven. And again, Matthew, Mark, and Luke are tracking Together here. When the hour had come what hours? The time for the meal, the Passover meal. When the hour had come, he came with the twelve disciples and reclined at the table, and the apostles with him. And he said to them I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say to you, I shall never again eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. Now if you're one of his disciples, what are you thinking at this point? When do they think it's going to be fulfilled in the kingdom of God pretty soon, is what they're thinking, right? Um the part about him suffering probably went in one ear, not the other. But They're probably thinking, okay, this is the last time we're going to do it prior to his establishing his kingdom here on earth, right? Um And verse 17. And when he had taken a cup and given thanks, he said, Take this and share it among yourselves, for I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine. From now on until the kingdom of God comes. Now, the Passover Seder, the the formula, the tradition uh involves Eating specific things at specific times and drinking at specific times. And this apparently was one of those uh components of the Seder, the Passover meal, including the drinking. As we'll see, what we now celebrate as the Lord's Supper was a basically a spin-off of the Passover Seder. The the Last Supper as Jesus instituted it is something that we uh look back on. Um in other words, the the Last Supper was not the the meal that they had that night, the meal they had that night was the Passover. The Last Supper was attached to the end of that meal, um, in the context of that meal Okay, so in the midst of that, John alone gives a number of specific details, and one of them is about Jesus washing. the disciples' feet. Page 237, uh John thirteen. During supper. See that? So it's it's the supper was the Passover meal and there was a procedure and steps and And and everything was was traditional. And that was happening during supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judah Iscariot the son of Simon to betray him, Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hand and that he had come forth from God and was going back to God, got up from supper and laid aside his garments And taking a towel, he girded himself. He then poured water into the basin and began to wash the disciples' feet. So he came to Simon Peter. And Peter said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? Now why would Peter ask that question? It's a job for a servant. And you're the Lord. You're the master. You're not the servant. We should be washing your feet, is his thinking, right? Verse seven. Jesus answered and said to him, What I do do you do not realize now. But you will understand. Hereafter. Peter said to him, Never shall you wash my feet. You gotta love Peter. And Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no part with me. And so Peter, of course, being the uh very quick calculator of significance turns corner and says, Lord, then wash not only my feet but my hands and my head Um and Jesus said to him, He who is bathed needs only to wash his feet. Now why is that? Why do they wash their feet? Yeah, so the feet regularly get dirty if you're just wearing sandals And you're out and about. Um there's not a whole lot of pavement around, so you're getting a lot of dust kicked up on the roads, even the the the paths. Um And so it's it's common to um wash your feet, if nothing else, when you enter another house, when you're welcomed, then you see um other um um circumstances where this comes up in scripture, right? The Jesus is invited into the home of uh I think it's Simon the Pharisee and And uh a woman comes in who's obviously uh a woman of ill repute, and she comes in and and wipes Jesus' feet with her tears and dries them with her hair. And this Pharisee host is aghast. But Jesus scolded him, saying, You didn't wash my feet when I came, but she's not ceased from washing it Um and he talks about forgiveness and and so on. And so the Pharisee there wasn't aghast that that It was a l a a person of low estate who was washing Jesus' feet. He was aghast that this was a obvious sinner who was doing it. And Jesus instructed him about forgiveness. And instructed the woman, go and sin no more. Anyway, um Jesus said to him, He who is bathed needs only to wash his feet but is completely clean, and you are clean, but not all of you. For he knew the one who was betraying him. Betraying in the present progressive sense. He was in the midst of betraying him. It was in his heart. He already laid plans. For this reason he said, Not all of you are clean. So when he had washed their feet and taken his garments and reclined at the table again, he said to them, and this is typical Jesus thinking through their understanding, helping them to understand, do you know what I have done to you? And of course the the um technically correct answer is yeah you washed our feet But that's not what Jesus was asking about, was it? Verse thirteen, you call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then, the Lord and the teacher, washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I gave you an example that you should do as I did to you. Truly I say to you, a slave is not greater than his master, nor is the one who is sent greater than the one who sent him If you know these things, you are blessed if you do them. So when it really comes down to it, was Jesus saying they had to wash each other's feet or something as a higher principle? Be a servant to one another. Whatever it takes, be a servant to one another. Yeah. If that means washing each other's feet, then so be it. If it means sacrifice in some other ways, so be it. And as Jesus taught many times, um uh the rulers of the world out there lord it over those under their supervision and authority. But you're not to be like that. You're to be a servant. The greatest among you will be a servant Possibly. Um that's that's often needed in order to really serve someone, right? To not hold grudges and hold back because of of sin or whatever or offense. Um Jesus taught them to love their enemies, so it it ought not to stop there. Um so I think that that can be the case. I don't know that it's necessarily the case that there's sin involved. But um whatever it takes to To be a servant, that's what you need to do. And he's saying, Follow my example here. Yeah. It reminds me of uh the time Peter asked Jesus for some clarity on that. How many times should my brother sin and repent and I forgive him? And he says, up to seven times? And what was Jesus' answer? Seventy times seven, which means what? Don't count, Peter. Right. Um and so whether even if people don't repent, we ought not to harbor that unforgiveness in our hearts. Um Yeah the question is, what if you're being taken advantage of and it's unfair, how should you respond? Um you remember in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus gave a couple examples. If someone slaps you on the cheek Turn the other cheek. If someone forces you to go one mile, go two. If they take your coat, give them your cloak also, what's he saying? Go above and beyond what you know um Maybe our instinct would dictate why. Yeah, it reminds me of Romans twelve. Uh never pay back evil for evil to anyone, respecting what is good in the sight of all men, if possible So far as it depends on you, being at peace with all men. Never taking your own revenge, beloved. Instead, leave room for the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. But, and again, quoting from the Old Testament, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. And if he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. What does that mean? God can use that to convict the person of his wrongdoing and and so on. Let God take care of that, not us. That's a good Yeah, and a a godly response when people are expecting a worldly response can get their attention. Beat uh pour uh burning coals on their heads even In a figurative way. Okay. Um did we complete one sixty-six? I think we did. And that's right, we did one sixty seven. So Jesus' example His example, of course, um uh illustrates what it means to be a servant leader. That's not an oxymoron. Uh Jesus said if you're gonna be um Great in the kingdom of God, you're going to be a servant of all. Okay, so we're on page 238, section 168, Jesus institutes the ordinance. of the Lord's Supper. And again, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. While they were eating, Jesus took some bread. So again, um he's instituting this in the context of the Passover meal, which is basically done at this point. And so he's turning the corner and starting something new. While they were eating, Jesus took some bread, and after a blessing of thanks, he broke it and gave it to his disciples And said, Take, eat. This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And in the same way, after they had eaten, when he had taken a cup and given thanks They all drank from it. And he said to them, Drink from it all of you, for this cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you, and for many for the forgiveness of sins. But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you In the kingdom of God, my father. So, um, what do you think the disciples are thinking at this point? They're probably pretty confused. You know, we're we're so used to this language, right? We understand the symbolism, we understand in hindsight what Christ did, but they're probably confused and it's obviously not it's a it's a departure from the normal Seder and he's personalizing it. He's saying this is My flesh, this is my blood given for you. Now, how do we know it wasn't actually his flesh and actually his blood? They were it was actually bread and it was actually a cup of that was already there, the the wine. The fruit of the vine. Um Jesus specifically said, Take eat this is my body. Well it was his body who was handing it to him, right? It wasn't a part of his body that was being handed to him. His body was handing it and likewise the the drink in the cup. Um it was uh symbolic of what Jesus was about to accomplish. And because they were so confused about that all along, his sacrifice and so on, Uh I'm sure this didn't compute until later. Um And they're pretty sure they wouldn't understand the answer anyway. Yeah Um so they just there there's no I don't think there's any record here that they they had any conversation about this. There it's it's just it's simmering in their minds and they're wondering, I'm sure what this is all about. But they obeyed. They participated. Yeah. You know, and we can imagine you know, if I were Christ, what I would do, knowing what I know now, I would be a lot more straightforward with these guys saying Tomorrow I'm gonna be sacrificed for your sins and just lay it all out. Um why do you suppose Jesus didn't do that? They probably wouldn't believe it anyway. It was so yeah. I think maybe not the only reason but a factor in keeping them telling them straightforwardly but still it's it's blinded from their eyes and their hearts, is when it actually happens. How do you how do you describe the disciples when the crucifixion was happening and after it happened How would you describe the disciples, their mindset? Sad, distraught, disbelief? Certainly confused, defeated. This is not what I had in mind. Right? And they were probably scared that well Peter certainly was during the trials Scared that maybe they were gonna be implicated and might have a similar fate. Um all those sort sort of dimensions of fear in there hearts actually was a good thing. Why was it a good thing? Eventually that happened, yes, and that certainly happened. But even when he was risen, it took them a while to get on board I think one of the advantages of the state of mind of the disciples at the time of the crucifixion is that um It was very clear to everybody that these guys weren't capable of a um a hoax to to say that he rose from the dead. They were of no state of mind to carry that off, much less to die for it, right? Um they were scared silly, confused, distraught, and uh they weren't about to even think about stealing the body and proclaiming he's the Lord of life. They were they were covering their bases, that's for sure. Yeah, we're gonna get there. Uh but um they wanted to ensure against it, I guess. Yeah. Um but you'll see it at um I guess it's the beginning of Matthew twenty eight, which may take us several weeks to get there, but um the um the the I guess it was the chief priests and and so on bribed the soldiers to tell them what to say. Well the disciples came and sold the body and and uh caught us napping, which is also an offense. Um and there's just no way these distraught guys could have done that. And um Um the impact of the resurrection on them that convinced them that this indeed is the Lord of Life caused them to become very bold for the gospel and most of them paid for it with their lives. If he had been really clear to them and they were well who who knows how how you can speculate what would have happened But I think their frame of mind was actually an advantage overall. You know the Great Commission in Matthew twenty eight, go therefore into all the world and preach the gospel. The very verse right before that said that some of those there doubted, even at that point. Anyway, um I think we've got we've covered the basis here. Yeah, let's go ahead and pray. Father, thank you for your scripture again. How you um in in cases like this you give accurate uh historical accounts of events and uh things that were said and done and we can learn much from them. Thank you for the example of Christ, who as a servant leader um not only washed his disciples' feet, but sacrificed himself for them and for us. Lord, I pray that we would continue to follow his example in all of his ramifications. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.