All right, so we are on lesson twenty-six, page one sixty in the notes. Challenging religious traditions, and we're going to cover the raising of Lazarus today as well. So section 124. Now Much like last week, we have a section here that's taken exclusively from Luke, and then we switch over to have a couple of sections exclusively from John. So if you don't have the notes in front of you, we're going to begin with Luke 14, 25. And then continue. So I'll read beginning in Luke fourteen. Now large crowds were going along with him, and that's not new, right? A lot of large crowds um up until now. And remember here we are um Toward the close of his ministry, actually. Um, not too far away from uh Passion Week. So it's probably very early in thirty A. D. Anyway, uh if Jesus said If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Well there's there's one supreme father, right? And that's the point. Uh but he says he cannot be my disciple I don't know if you've noticed, but particularly in the book of Acts, but even in the Gospels, The word disciple is used not just of those who are casual followers, but actually um believers. And so um the book of Acts particularly uses the word disciple and believer interchangeably. So Jesus says here, whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Now, you ever ponder the fact that If you're his one of his followers' disciples here, and he says, whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple, That may mean something different to them than what it means to us today because we're after the cross of Christ. They had trouble understanding, you know, even that he wasn't going to um uh somewhat immediately establish the throne in in Jerusalem and so on. And the whole idea of him being crucified on a cross was even though he told them on multiple occasions. was just not in their their mindset at all. Um and yet he said, Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which one of you, when he wants to build a tower, does not first sit down and calculate the cost to see if he has enough to complete it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who observe it begin to ridicule him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king, when he sets out to meet another king in battle, will not first sit down and consider whether he is strong enough with ten thousand men to encounter the one coming against him with twenty thousand Or else, while the other is still far away, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace. So then None of you can be my disciple who does not give up all his own possessions. Therefore salt is good, but even if the salt has become tasteless, with what will it become seasoned? It is useless either for the soil or the manure pile. It is thrown out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. So here and in and other places, Jesus is setting the bar very high. Right? He's not uh bending over backwards to find followers. I mean, uh obviously he's got lots of crowds here. And he's trying instead to thin the crowds down to separate out those who are truly um uh relying on him, have faith in him, versus people who are just coming along for the spectacle of it all. And to a large degree that's that's an issue today, right? A lot of churches are filled with people who are not even genuinely saved, probably. And um Jesus here is um challenging all of us to count the cost. And um It's not a cost to us to get saved, but it's a cost to us to surrender control of our lives and to um rely instead on him solely. Um Pastor Allen. I I was looking at the the the birds the verbs in this Passage of hate and carry and calculate and give up And it it almost Jesus is almost giving the impression that the major actor in discipleship is us. And and it if you read this as a prescription of salvation or discipleship, you You might hear it, this is what you do, and you're prescribing that I do these things, and then I'll be your faithful disciple. Whereas it's It's more descriptive, I think, and it's um Losing my train of thought, but the major actor is still still the Lord and we are the we have a responsibility to And even the word responsibility, it's from the womb until death we are responding to. Right. We're always responding to what Exactly. And we don't really create anything or own anything. We're always responding, including to um truth claims. Right. And we have a responsibility to to decide and act upon. Yeah, and and he's given us um responsibility as his stewards, right, to act on his behalf and and so on. Um but yeah, this isn't talking about the basis of salvation. It's talking about the right heart of someone who would be um Um his follower. And so, you know, when salvation is a free gift of God It's very tempting to kind of sit back and say, um, I've got this get out of hell free card, right? Um I can just coast And verses like this, Jesus is telling us, no, it's not about coasting, it's about serving. And he has saved us not just to coast, but to serve him. Yeah, Jonathan. I know one of the distinctive things about our congregation that sets us apart from a lot of other churches in the area is, you know, our hermeneutics and really hurrying them Bible literally? But how do we read, you know, um giving up all our possessions? I think the Franciscan monks do that But that's not most advice. Yeah. Yeah. Well what he's talking about here, he's talking about uh hating, right? Um and uh uh giving up possessions, counting the cost. Um the point is where where are our affections? Where's our heart? If our heart is more devoted to our human relationships than it is to God, then we're missing the mark. In fact, the irony of that is we can't have the uh strong relationships with other people unless our heart is right with God. Because we're going to be entering those relationships typically From a self selfish heart rather than a um others-oriented heart that God has given us. And likewise with possessions, if we're hanging on to things and possessions and and wealth and various things that are earthly and passing away, um, we're missing the whole point. So um Just like when Jesus challenged the rich young ruler to give up all his possessions and give to the poor, um, he knew that that was something in this man's life that was a stumbling block and he wanted to uh address it head on. Not that that was a prescription for everyone, but what is a prescription for everyone is that our heart be devoted to the Lord fully and not to these temporal things and even our closest family relationships, um, that they would be superseding our relationship and our surrender to God alone. Um so it's it's it's a matter of hyperbole to some extent to make the point. Um that our relationships are our even our love for and and genuine um love for family and our ownership even of of things Um these things don't become an idol and something that would would cause us to have diminished devotion to the Lord. I was wondering this whoever does not carry his own cross, if uh any of his inner group of disciples, the twelve, the close twelve Even thought of that or remembered that when they saw Christ carrying his cross and being crucified? Yeah. And it did. Yeah, probably not at this point, but later when they saw him do it. Right. Yeah, and I also thought about um uh when he asked James and John, Are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink? And they said, Oh yeah, sure. Yeah, bring it on, right? But they didn't have any concept at that point. Yeah. What the free came came to mind and uh it's it's that hard attitude, you know, that that what things were gained he counts all things as loss, you know, he counts them as rubbish that he may Right. It's that attitude. It's no longer valuable to you as it's just things are necessarily inherently evil or wrong. It's just that they're not to be a stumbling block in our sold out devotion to the Lord. Was there another? Yes. Uh well I was just about the verse where I said that about hating your family that uh the way that I understand it is with an example. You know, like you you what he's asking us that you know, you can't you can't follow the scripture God's mandate and everything. If you are loyal to your family idea. Which if they're in mind with Christ, that's fine. But if they're not then you get into a conflict. So you really have to decide, you know, sometime in your life if you're going to be gu a Christ disciple is I'm going to follow him and I have to leave all these other other thing which at some point can even mean you know can even get to a point that it's taking it. Yeah. Yeah and and another passage I think we've already covered that. Um Jesus said um he came to um um Right. And and so it's it's if our closest family members are uh um antagonistic toward the Lord or even apathetic We ought not to allow our relationship with them undermine our relationship with God. And if we have to choose, there should be no choice. We're loyal to the Lord. Yeah, that's the point. Now, ideally, um our close family members and so on would be like-minded in that respect, and it's a joyous thing. But if we had to choose, we should always be loyal to God alone. Sometimes when you know when you're studying in in this past a you can counter that, you know. You you will probably be the example, you will be setting the example and in time they will be under And and joining and because you've been studying that example, but at the beginning it at least for us it's sorry, like it happened like that. It was very difficult because family was like I don't know you Like my sisters, my mom, something. And so you have to, you know, decide. Yeah, God can use our faithfulness to him and our loyalty to him as a testimony to our families. But that's not a guarantee. It could also bring a bigger division between us and we need to be prepared for whatever God allows. Right. Yeah. What is the thing? I have unsafe family numbers and when they see this sacrifice, they don't understand there's really this amazing Swap. You know, what the riches that I can see, this is nothing. And so for them the the junction was like, Oh my goodness, we're not changing this, you're not putting But if they could just see the swap that happens, yeah, it only looked like that by themselves. Right. Right. Yeah, and so um we're dealing often with people whose eyes are blinded. And they won't understand, but that's all the more reason to be praying. That God would open their eyes. All right, well let's move to section one hundred twenty-five. Uh Luke fifteen, yes sir. Okay. Luke fifteen, uh the three parables here that will sound familiar. Now all the tax collectors and sinners were coming near him to listen to him, and both the Pharisees and the scribes began to grumble, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. Obviously, we wouldn't do that, right? So he told them this parable, saying, What man among you If he has a hundred sheep and has lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open pasture and go after the one which was lost until he finds it. When he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he comes home, he calls together his friends, his neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. I tell you in the same way, there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 so-called righteous persons who need no repentance. And I've inserted their little commentary in their own eyes. They don't need repentance, but of course they do. Um verse eight. Or what woman, as she has ten silver coins and loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and search carefully until she finds it? When she f has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin which I had lost. In the same way I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents. And verse eleven. And he said, A man had two sons. The younger of them said to his father, Father. Give me the share of the estate that falls to me. So he divided his wealth between them. And not many days later, the younger son gathered together Gave everything together and went on a journey to a into a distant country, and there he squandered his estate with loose living Now, when he had spent everything, a severe famine occurred in that country, and began to be imp he began to be impoverished. So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed the swine, which of course for a Jew would be a pretty low thing, right? And he would have gladly filled his stomach with the pods that the swine were eating, and no one was giving him giving anything to him. But when he came to his senses, he said, How many of my father's hired men have more than enough bread? But I am dying here with hunger. I will get up and go to my father and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight. I am no longer worthy to be called your son Make me as one of your hired men. So he got up and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion for him, and ran and embraced him and kissed him. And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his slaves, Quickly, bring out the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and sandals on his feet. And bring the fatted calf, kill it, and let us eat and celebrate. For the son of mine was dead and has come to life again. He was lost and has been found. And they began to celebrate. Now his older son was in the field, and when he came and approached the house he heard the music and dancing, and he summoned one of the servants and began inquiring what these things could be. And he said to him, Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him back safe and sound. But he became angry and was not willing to go in. And his father came out and began pleading with him. But he answered and said to his father, Look, for so many years I have been serving you, and I have Never neglected a command of yours, and yet you have never given me a young goat, so that I might celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours came It didn't say brother, right? This son of yours came who has devoured your wealth with prostitutes. You kill the fatted calf for him. And he, the father, said to him, Son, you have always been with me, and all that is mine is yours. But we had to celebrate and rejoice, for this brother of yours was dead and has begun to live, and was lost and has been found. So three illustrations the Lord gives here to emphasize, first of all, I guess from God's perspective how joyous an occasion it is when those who were lost are found. Right. Um And all three of them, even though you wouldn't know it except for Christ's commentary on the first two, but all three of them have to do with repentance. Right, when sinners repent and um they're what is repentance? It's forsaking sin, right? Turning our back on it and instead clinging to God alone And so all of these are Jesus intended to be a Conviction, point of conviction to these Pharisees and scribes who came to him grumbling about him reaching out to sinners. And um uh I guess one wonders whether they got the message, or if they got the message, whether they took it to heart. But yeah, Thomas. So what was a sinner to the Anybody but them. Pretty much. So the other thing of uh uh uh righteousness is based on their religious views. Well it was based on their presumption that salvation depended on uh living a a righteous life, following all of the rules that God had given in Scripture and all of the traditions that they layered on top of those rules. so that they could be considered by everyone, including God, as blameless, worthy of heaven. But of course that's a fool's errand. That's never going to happen. So to see Christ's grace and mercy is foreign to Except as um like in Matthew six where Jesus says don't um give alms to the poor to be seen by others. So they would give alms, making sure everyone realized how righteous they were in giving those alms. Right? So it wasn't from the heart to um cultivate a relationship with the Lord. And it didn't flow from a heart of devotion to the Lord. It was intended as a work to prove themselves. in their own eyes anyway, worthy of God. I think um mercy was a foreign concept to them. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Doing acts of charity Um it's not the same thing as having mercy in the heart. So what does that what does that do if they see Jesus showing compassion and reaching out to obvious sinners in multiple places, not just here. What it does is if he's right, that undermines their righteous standing before God. Um they're kind of actually being publicly ridiculed. Yeah, go it's interesting to note that uh the younger son practiced what he was going to say to the father. He really thought out how he had And then when he got to the father, regardless of what the father said, he went ahead and said what he had practiced saying. Indicating that it's clearly coming from the heart. The father probably was earnestly daily praying for this his son and to come to repentance. And then the the brother was definitely not praying because when he reappeared the two family members had an opposite reaction. Oh God, thank you for answering my prayers. Ran to him. Yeah, yeah, you don't want to read too much into it, but um I think Jesus was very explicit about the different reactions of the father and the other brothers. And culture and we not run. And a father would never run into some, especially in a stuff like that. Interesting. is a really good book that um just explained a lot of the background and culture like You're talking about the that's going on with the story and uh oh sure, sorry. John MacArthur wrote a book that speaks to this chapter. I think it's it might be called the Protabal or something like that. And uh he he went it's kind of one of those Is this one of these stories that I've read ever since I was a little child and and heard about since I was a little child and when I heard him teach on this passage Um and and the importance of the culture and things that this society would have heard as he was teaching this parable and and everything uh it just Just laying it all out was was amazing to the depth of everything that was going on, about how it would be improper for uh the father of the house to have hitched up his robe and ran. And more nonetheless to have run to this unrepentant son who wished him dead before when he said, Give me my inheritance And and to and he forced him to sell his property at a discount and then he threw it all away. And everything that the one son did was completely shameful, like the centers just absolutely horrendously shameful in the way that he treated his family and the way that he treated himself and the way he dishonored God And then when he returned, his father should have slapped him on the face and said, What have I to do with you? You're a sinner, blah, blah, blah, you know But he runs to him, he embraces him, he completely accepts him back, and he kills the sandy cap and clothes them, which is what God does to receive And then when he goes on he talks about how the son who's out in the field comes back refuses to come in Which um is a picture of the Pharisees. And the Pharisees ought to be glad that the brother has been returned. But then the father humiliates himself again, which is completely not what Jesus does. And the last thing that he said in that passage was that if you follow the pattern, there's a there's an expected response the the end of this parable is kind of left hanging in the pattern of the grammar and everything like that. The expected response is a response waiting for the Pharisee or the older son to be like, oh yeah, you are right. And it's just left hanging there. He just refuses to respond to his father. And the Pharisees are doing the same thing. They're refusing to respond. And and John MacArthur pointed out that they did respond when he killed the sun. Um it's interesting how this describes a sun that is outwardly doing all the right things. And it's always implied does his duty every day. But then when that repentant son comes back, reveals his The heart. Exactly. Right. And given the context here where uh Jesus is responding to the basically the accusation of the Pharisees and scribes, um, they would have, I think, very readily understood that he was putting himself in the role of the shepherd who is looking for a sheep, of the woman who is looking for her lost coin, and of the father who is rejoicing at the return of his lost son. And if they understood that um they must have They must have had the the kind of uh reaction that, at least in their hearts, that they did elsewhere, which is this guy is basically claiming to be God. He's reaching out to sinners. They should have put two and two together here. Moreover, um They probably would have realized that in the uh the last one, where there's more detail They would have been cast as the older brother and um Jesus is trying to teach them they've got the wrong attitude here. Um I wish we had in Scripture some indication of their response to I mean their their what they're thinking and and maybe some of them actually were repenting at this point. They're nameless. We don't know who they are But um Jesus was using these stories, but he was hitting them hard. Um and um we can only pray that some of them turned. Yeah. But isn't it in I think it's in John six where uh he's being confronted by The Pharisees and and they basically they say they don't need to repent or anything because they are children of Abraham. They've never been slaves. Because they're descendants of Abraham. So are is that all Jews with that mindset or would be, you know, that And i is is it that following the law and the oral traditions, that's just a matter of pleasing God not a matter of salvation or being being heirs of God? I don't think they saw a difference between the two. that uh p in order to be saved you had to please God, in order to please God you had to do all the right things that God has commanded, it's a works based salvation. Aren't they I mean they already think they're right with God because they're Oh I see. Um Yeah uh n no I don't think that they would say that that it would be sufficient. Because they know of a lot of people who are children of Abraham who they would look down as as sinners. They're thinking of people who have left right Judaism Who would no longer be considered Jews, is that right? Um Maybe in some cases, but I d I don't think that they would have had a clear line. I think they would have tried to convince rank and file Jews to follow their example. And that's what the teaching uh featured. Greg, if you take this story and you go back to the previous story Um to be right with God all you have to do is sell all your possessions, take up your cross and hate your family. And then then you're right with God. In your own thinking, right. Anyway. Yeah, all heavens rejoicing. Let's go to section 126. Lessons from the parable of the unjust steward. We're going to have to move along here. Now, he was also saying to the disciples, there was a rich man who had a manager. And this manager was reported to him as squandering his possessions. Squandering whose possessions? The rich man's. The rich man's, right. He's a he's a manager of this other man's possessions And he called him and said to him, What is this I hear about you? Give an accounting of your management, for you can no longer be manager. That's interesting. He'd already come to the conclusion, hadn't he? Um, the manager said to himself, What shall I do, since my master is taking the management away from me? I'm not strong enough to dig, and I'm ashamed to beg. I know what I shall do So that when I am removed from my from the management, people will welcome me into their house, into their homes. And he summoned each one of his master's debtors and began saying to the first, How much do you owe my master? And he said, A hundred measures of oil. And he said to him, Take your bill, sit down quickly, and write fifty Then he said to another, and how much do you owe? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. And he said to him, Take your bill and write eighty. I wonder why there's a different percentage here. And his master praised the unrighteous manager because he had acted shrewdly. For the sons of this age are more shrewd in relation to their own kind than the sons of light. And I say to you, make friends for yourselves by means of the wealth of unrighteousness, so that when it fails, they will receive you into eternal dwellings. He who is faithful in very little thing is faithful also in much. And he who is unrighteous in a very little thing is unrighteous also in much. Therefore, if you have not been faithful in the use of unrighteous wealth, who will entrust you true riches to you? And if you have not been faithful in the use of that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own? No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and well. So again, Jesus is ramping up the um the teaching here. um forcing people to think about their priorities. Where's the heart? And um Uh he uses frequently, this is not the first time, he uses frequently this example of a uh uh the relationship of uh uh steward or manager, right, with his master. And that's a picture of what? Our relationship with our master. our Lord. And so we need to view ourselves as his slaves, his servants, his stewards, and um We are uh to be good stewards of his resources because we'll be held to account. Uh questions I find um the statement that he makes it In verse nine, we say I say to you indicate for instruction. Uh make sense for yourself by means of uh But then he says, as you call down that uh sentence, he says, they will receive you into eternal growth. Who is they? And and why Yeah, yeah. Well, uh eternal dwellings, obviously, um in this context is a good thing. This is not um um hell, but rather is it's referring to to um their salvation and that there will be great rejoicing and so on. So how is it? What's the connection between there uh you're using material things and uh temporal things to have an eternal impact. Well, um uh it's similar to what Christ said in in uh Matthew six, where um um we Make use of temporal things, manage the things that he has given us on a temporal basis. with eternal um consequences in mind. And so uh we we don't just um Consume these temporal things for our selfish pleasures, but if we are managing these temporary things for godly purposes, there's going to be godly fruit that results from that. So that's my question. That means they there is not referring to the friends that mean they The first uh uh part of that sequence. Is it referring that to what something else? No, I think it is them. It's it's at least some of them, because if you if you're a good steward of what God has given you temporarily um and you're using it for God's glory, then The implication here, I think, is that God is going to bless the youth and the stewardship of those things uh with eternal benefit, which would include, presumably uh people coming to the Lord because we're a good steward of what God's given us. And to the extent that there some of those, not all of them necessarily, but some of them are coming to the Lord, we're going to be able to rejoice with them in heaven, in part because Not only we're following Christ loyally and and faithfully, but we're good stewards of the temporary things He's given us. missionaries go to Togo. Or or even just directly um helping the poor, you know, having genuine mercy in the heart for those who are um uh down and out and sometimes are are uh genuine acts of compassion and like the good Samaritan coming alongside. Um God uses that to to draw people to himself. I've had trouble with his path for forever. That's the fact that he has cheated and master. And getting praise for it. You know, that's it. Yeah. Yeah. Well, he's always referred to here as this unrighteous steward. Right? He's not being commended as uh as to his morality, but as to his shrewdness. And our shrewdness ought to be to make use of this temporary stuff that's going to burn up To use it in for for eternal purposes. Yeah, it wouldn't have changed his his um um sentence, if you will. He was still gonna fire this guy. And he's he's actually made he's dug himself in worse because now he's forgiven all these deaths that he didn't have the authority to forgive. But the point is that he was he was shrewd in the ways of protecting himself, and Jesus is saying in the in the similar ways, we need to be wise and shrewd in using things are going to burn up and be temporary anyway. Convert the value of those things to some eternal value. Yeah. Fa faster at the at the end of um each segment usually ask Well what does this tell us about the deity and then the humanity of Christ? So when Jesus uses these uh kind of unjust stories, but he has a a righteous and holy purpose. an illustration that he's telling. It's like his humanity, he Jesus is very aware of how the world works and the corruption of it and how people scheme and try to get the system to work for them. So Jesus being perfectly holy, he he knows how life works. Yeah. And harnesses that even in the Mm-hmm. Victoria. Well that's about fifty percent on something that you may never have gotten back. Yeah, he's he's not really commenting on the morality of any of that, but rather it's obviously shrewd. Yeah. And uh political. Political perhaps, yeah. Strategic, whatever. Yeah. Well let me g um continue on here. We've got a lot of ground to cover here in a short amount of time. Section 127, Luke 16, 14. Now the Pharisees, who were lovers of money, were listening to all these things and were scoffing at him. So uh two two possible reactions. One is repentance, the other is scoffing. And he said to them You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men. But God knows your hearts. See, he doesn't beat around the bush here, does he? For that which is highly esteemed among men is detestable in the sight of God. The law and the prophets were proclaimed until John. Since that time the gospel of the kingdom of God has been preached and everyone is forcing his way into it, but it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one stroke of a letter of the law to fail. Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries one who is divorced from a husband commits adultery. Now, there was a rich man, and he habitually dressed in purple and fine linen, joyously living in splendor every day. And a poor man named Lazarus, this is not the Lazarus we're going to read about later was uh laid at his gate, covered with sores, and longing to be fed with the crumbs which were falling from the man's the rich man's table. Besides, even the dogs were coming and licking his sores. Now the poor man died and was carried away by the angels to Abraham's bosom. And the rich man also died and was buried. In Hades He lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham far away, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried out and said, Father, Abraham, have mercy on me And send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool off my tongue, for I am in agony in the slame. But Abraham said, Child, remember that during your life you received your good things, and likewise Lazarus bad things, but now he is being comforted here, and you are in agony. And besides all this, between us, you, uh us and you, there's a great chasm fixed so that those who wish to come over uh from here to you will not be able, and uh none may be able to cross over from there to us. And he said, Then I beg you, father, that you send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers. In order that he may warn them, so that they also will not come to this place of torment. But Abraham said, they have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. But he said, No, Father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent. But he said to them, If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, they will not be persuaded, even if someone rises from the dead. So again, um Jesus confronts these scoffing uh Jewish leaders, the Pharisees, um, head on. Um and uh Um I don't think there's much way at all they could be confused about the messenger that um The appearances before men counts as nothing before God. And appearances before men is exactly what the Pharisees were striving for. And the way Jesus put it was justify yourself in the sight of men, instead of relying on God to justify you by his own standards. And his standards, as he's illustrating in the uh parable here, is based on the heart, not on the works. And God's grace of course. parable that Jesus used to teach about the chasm between what the world between his parable and not an actual historical Uh yes. Um however Jesus speaks of these places and the description of them as if they're actual places. But The rich man and uh Lazarus here in this parable is the only person I think ever named in one of Jesus' parables. Whatever it's worth. But yeah, Jesus was telling this specifically, um and and it it probably was true that Already by this time there were lots of examples of this very same thing that would have happened that Jesus would have known about, I suppose. Um but his his point in telling the story is to get them to realize that they ought not to be seeking to be justified in their own eyes before men, but rather to be humble of heart and justified by God alone. Because Old Testament saints, I think, when they died went to a different place than Old Testament sinners. And and so there even though it may be a parable, I I believe there was an actual place before Christ himself died and rose in again where these people went. Yeah Jesus is speaking of the the the context here or the events as being consistent with reality. Yeah, that last part is really amazing. I mean it it also reminds me of Jesus on the road to Emmaus, you know, expounding Moses in the part office it's it's efficient to the revelation of Christ in in there to to know him. And that it doesn't require the miracles, you know, someone raising from the dead, scripture has been revealed as is all we actually need and either you can accept it or reject it. But it it's it's amazing because when when Lazarus was raised from the dead, they plotted to kill him and Jesus and Lazarus. Yeah. And that's a good segue. I want to get there really quick here in a few minutes. Let's go to section 128. And here we're now in John seventeen. He said to his disciples, It is inevitable that stumbling blocks come, but woe to him through whom they come. It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea. than that he would cause one of these little ones to stumble. Be on your guard. If your brother sins, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. And if he sins against you seven times a day and returns to you seven times saying, I repent, forgive him. The apostle said to the Lord, Increase our faith. The Lord said, If you had faith like a mustard seed, you would say to this mulberry tree, Be uprooted and planted in the sea, and it would obey you. Which of you, having a slave ploughing or tending sheep, will say to him when he has come in from the field, Come immediately and sit down to eat? But will he not say to him, Prepare something for me to eat, and properly clothe yourself and serve me while I eat and drink, and afterwards you may eat and drink? He does not think uh he does not thank the slave because he did the things that were commanded, does he? So you too, when you do all the things which are commanded to you, say We are unworthy slaves. We have done only that which we ought to have done. Um Interesting when the disciples ask him to increase their faith, what he does is challenge them. And um um challenge them to realize that they are servants and um They need to be obedient to and serving the master. Also connecting there in verse four the forgiveness being associated with repentance. And so he continues to uh emphasize the need for genuine repentance. Alright. Let's then go to Lazarus. The The historical Lazarus, John 11. Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. It was in it was the Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick. So the sisters sent word to him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom you love is sick. But when Jesus heard this, he said, This sickness is not to end in death, but for the glory of God. so that the Son of God may be glorified by it. Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus so that when he heard he was sick, Then he stayed two days longer in the place where he was, because he loved them, right? That's not what their plan was. Then after this, he said to the disciples, Let us go to Judea again And the disciple said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you. And are you going there again? And Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the the n the light is not in him. This he said, and after that he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep But I go that I may awaken him out of sleep. The disciple said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they felt he was speaking of literal sleep. Jesus said to them plainly, Lazarus is dead. And I'm glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him. Therefore, Thomas, who was called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, Let us go also, that we may die with him. Seems like some resignation here. So when Jesus came, he found that he had already been in the tomb for four days. Now, Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off. And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. Martha, therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet him, but Mary stayed at the house. Martha said to the Lord, said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. And Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. And Martha said to him, I know he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. And Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even if he dies, and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this? And she said to him, Yes, Lord, I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, even He who comes into the world. When she had said this, she went away and called Mary, her sister, saying secretly, the teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she got up quickly and was coming to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met him. Then the Jews who were with her in the house and consoling her, when they saw Mary got up quickly and went out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Therefore, when Mary came to where Jesus was, she saw him and fell at his feet, saying, the same thing her sister said, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit and was troubled. And said, Where have you laid him? And they said to him, Lord, come and see. And then the shortest verse in the whole Bible, I think, is Jesus wept. Um but why did he weep? Because Lazarus had died? No, he was rejoicing that Lazarus died so that they would have faith. Why was he weeping? He w he was compassionate for sure. Um he was trying to empathize with them, but I think he was weeping that so many people were thinking this is the end. Um but so the Jews were saying See how he loved him. He's weeping properly now. But some of them said, Could not this man who opened the eyes of the blind man have kept this man from dying? See they're they're focused on their solution rather than God's solution. So Jesus again being deeply moved within Came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it. And Jesus said, Remove the stone. Martha, the sister of the deceased, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be a stent, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not say to you that if you believe, you will see the glory of God? So they removed the stone. Then Jesus raised his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me. But because of the people standing around, I said it, so that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth The man who had died came forth, bound hand and foot with wrappings, his face was wrapped around with a cloth. And Jesus said to him, Unbind him, let him go. So it follows then the next several verses here. Let me continue reading. Therefore, many of the Jews who came to Mary and saw what he had done. Did in fact believe in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them the things which Jesus had done. Therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees convened a council and were saying What are we doing? For this man is performing many signs. If we let him go on like this, all men will believe him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. That's the point. That's where they were at, right? But one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you take into account that it is expedient for you that one man die for the people, and that the whole nation should not perish. Now, he did not say this on his own initiative, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation, and not only for the nation only. but in order that he might also gather together into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day on they planned together to kill him. So Caiophas prophesied not knowing what he was saying. It was over his head. But ironically it was true. And then, in verse 54, therefore Jesus no longer continued to walk publicly among the Jews, but went away from there, near the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim. And there he stayed with the disciples. So um Jesus was well aware that the the Jewish leaders were were out to destroy him and he wasn't going to give them opportunity to do it before the appointed hour, which had to be on the Passover. Right. And this was still um a few weeks before the Passover. All right, well um Next time I do this I'm gonna have to do spread it over two years so we have time to actually talk about some of this stuff. Um but we'll see. Martha and Mary seem to have the same Equal efficiency of faith. And even though Mark uh Mary was sitting in Jesus, he he doesn't really display any greater Well actually I think she um Martha does. She says in verse twenty two, even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you um and she says that after he died. Um Mary didn't say that. She said the first thing, but not the second thing. So um But clearly raising Lazarus from the dead bolstered those who had faith, bolstered that faith as well. Google that would be in there in the all gets like you're gonna say the for the starting of this entry. Um just people have heard about what Jesus did by reading but it's probably dead. So they're they're worshiping under by She did something that even the prophets couldn't do, you know, like he did for eight, you know, some people from today and that could Right. Yes, definitely this contributed to the triumphal entry a couple of weeks later This is only two miles from Jerusalem. Word travels fast here. Everybody's on the internet, right? No. But you're right. Definitely so. Things are coming to a crescendo. Yeah. Let's pray