So we're on uh lesson forty-three. Uh I'm gonna begin with that first section. I think we may have touched on this last week, but Also, I want to give you a heads up. I'm going to try to get through two lessons today. Because we're just kind of looking ahead at the weeks we have available. But these are short, so I think they can be combined. So, uh taken from John eighteen, starting verse thirty-three, therefore Pilate entered again into the praetorium and summoned Jesus and said to him, Are you the King of the Jews? Jesus answered, are you saying this on your own initiative, or did you, or did others tell you about me? And Pilate answered, I am not a Jew, am I? Your own nation and the chief priests delivered you to me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting so that I would not be handed over to the Jews, but as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. Therefore Pilate said to him, So you are a king. And Jesus answered, You say correctly that I am a king. For this reason I've been born, and for this I've come into the world to testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. And Pilate said to him, What is truth? So Pilate of course has this conundrum that he's in, both the political one and perhaps even a spiritual one here at this point. And uh he's wrestling. He's trying to figure out what to do with the situation because it can blow up in a way that he that wouldn't be good for him or others. So um that dialogue continues here. Um And um that portion was taken only from John. The other gospels come in at at different places here. And where the The passages are parallel, they're parallel in pieces, and so it's sort of pieced together here. But the the um Blended account on page 262 picks it up and kind of blends them together. So I'll continue there. And when Pilate had said this, he went out again to the Jews and summoned the chief priests and the rulers of the people, and said to them, You brought this man to me who incites the people to rebellion, and behold, having examined him before you, I have found no guilt in this man regarding the charges which you have made against him. Nor no, nor has Herod, for he sent him back to us. And behold, nothing deserving of death has been done by him. Therefore I will punish him and release him. So when the people gathered together, Pilate said to them, See at this point, um it's more than just the chief priests and the mob, but the it's a growing crowd of people. I guess word was getting out. It's early in the morning, but uh there's an indeterminate number of people kind of continuing to gather here. So when the people gathered together, Pilate said to them, You have a custom that I release for you at the Passover. Release someone for you at the Passover. Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas or Jesus who is called Christ? Do you wish then that I release to you the king of the Jews? For he was aware that the chief priests had handed him over because of envy, and I think he was kind of rubbing it in here at this point. Now at um uh at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the people any one prisoner whom they wanted. At that time they were holding a notorious prisoner called Barabbas, a robber, who had been imprisoned with the insurrectionists and had committed murder in the insurrection in the city. The crowd went up, asking him to do as he had been accustomed to do for them, and cried out together, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Away with this man, release for us Barabbas. Pilate, wanting to release Jesus, addressed them again. But they kept on calling out, saying, Crucify, crucify him. And he said to them a third time, Why? What evil has this man done? I have found in him no guilt demanding death. Therefore I will punish him and release him While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent him a message saying, Have nothing to do with that righteous man. For last night I suffered greatly in a dream because of him, but the chief priests and the elders persuaded and stirred up the crowds to ask him to release Barabbas for them instead and to put Jesus to death. But the governor said to them, which of the two do you want me to release to you? He's he's trying his best, right, to to to get out of this. And they said Barabbas Answering again, Pilate said to them, Then what should we do with Jesus, whom you call the Christ, the King of the Jews? And they all said, Crucify him, crucify him. And he said, Why? What evil has he done? But they were insistent. And with loud voices were shouting back all the more, saying, Crucify him. And their voices began to prevail. Then Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather that a riot was starting, which is what he wanted to avoid. He took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd, saying, I am innocent of this man's blood. See to that yourselves. And all the people said, His blood shall be on us and our children. And pilot pronounced sentence that their demand be granted. Um This reminds me that people have pointed out here that Jesus was presumably right there in their midst. Um somewhere nearby. It wasn't clear where Barabbas was, but he was probably in holding somewhere. And Perhaps he could hear some of the dialogue going on and he might not have heard Pilate. He might not have heard individual people, but he could probably hear the crowd. And um uh it seems rather um possible and kind of scary that if you were Baravas and hearing the crowd, what you would hear would be his name. Barabbas, and then after that you would hear Crucify him. And um he might have been shivering at that point. But anyway, uh this this interaction here with Pilate's gonna continue. We're not we're not quite done with him yet. But Um you see the the tug of war he has with the Jewish leaders here. Neither one of them Well, let me put it the other way. Both of them, all of them want to preserve their position. Right? There's some politics going on here. Um uh Pilate is somewhat tenuous in his position with Rome and if there's any any um hint of unrest and him out being out of control of the situation, then uh he may be out of there. And likewise the Jewish leaders, as we've seen all along were very jealous for their power, their position, and standing among the people. And it says multiple times in the Gospels, they feared the people because the people were following Jesus and believing in him. And um it's interesting that that um all that Politics and machinations and everything, and yet God is using all that to accomplish what He had foreordained to do And Jesus, for the most part, uh didn't respond to any of the accusations. He responded really only to who he was. And um Yeah, it's amazing. So uh any thoughts, questions so far? Yeah. It it's I mean it's just amazing. I mean Pilot over and over says he's innocent, I find nothing wrong in him, you know. And even though he says he's done nothing wrong, he says I'll punish him and release him. And and then uh he then he uses Jesus, even though he sorry said he's innocent, he used him as a as a stand-in, uh, you know, to choice to choose between Barabbas and and Jesus. And so even there he's taking a a man he's declared innocent And and he's going to be a stand in for the sinner you know, in his place. Yeah. Yeah, it's i it it it's also ironic that the Jews were trying to pin on Jesus this charge of insurrection And who was the insurrectionist? Right. Um yeah, Margaret. Uh comments about that name for rabbin. Okay. Baba means father. Right. And bar? Bar is son. So I it looks to me like the name means son of the father. and a stand-in for the the most important son of the father. And it just seems ironic That of all the names in the world that could have belonged to the person who was released in Jesus' place, it's somebody whose name is Son of the Father. That just seems ironic. It's sort of like the scapegoat in the Old Testament. Two notes and they released one and then they and all the spins on the other. Yep. Yep. Very interesting. Okay, well let's let's uh continue the uh dialogue here. Now again the contribution from each of the four gospels is piece together here on the next couple of pages. But the blended account begins on 263. Then wishing to satisfy the crowd, isn't it interesting how both the Jewish leaders and Pilate were kind of afraid of the crowd, not wanting Uh to get on the wrong side. Anyway, wishing to satisfy the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas for them, the man they were asking for, who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder. But after having Jesus scourged He handed him over to their will to be crucified. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus away into the palace, that is, the praetorium and gathered together the whole Roman cohort around him. They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him. Why a scarlet robe? Mocking him as oh this is the king, right? King of the Jews. And after twisting together a crown of thorns, again, it's mocking him, right? They put it on his head and a reed in his right hand. What's that? The scepter. The scepter. This is his royal scepter. And they kept kneeling down before him and mocked him, and they began to acclaim him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews. And so this is now the Roman soldiers. And they kept spitting on him and took the reed and kept beating him on the head with it and uh uh gave him slaps in the face. Then Pilate came out again and said to them, Behold, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him. Jesus then came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, and Pilate said to them, Behold the man. So when the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify, crucify. Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by that law he ought to die because he made himself out to be the Son of God. So now that's their real charge against him. Therefore, Pilate, when he heard this statement, was even more afraid. And he entered into the praetorium again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, You do not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and I have authority to crucify you? Jesus answered, You would have no authority over me unless it had been given to you from above. For this reason, he who delivered me to you has the greater sin. As a result of this, Pilate made efforts to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying, If you release this man, you are no friend of Caesar. Everyone who makes himself out to be a king opposes Caesar. Therefore, when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down in the judgment seat. At a place called the pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha. Now it was the day of preparation for the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold your king. So they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. And Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. That was probably one of the worst things they ever said before God. So he then handed them over to them to be crucified. So here we are at about daylight, dawn. And this first kind of a kangaroo court and then a um miscarriage of justice even with Pilate where the mob was ruling. Um but it was all according to God's decree that it would happen. And um Jesus understood that, and at times he would correct people, he would teach, he would affirm his identity. But um voluntarily delivered himself over to be crucified. We've heard that sin is sin. But Jesus here doesn't say that. Yeah. He says who he who delivered me has the greater sin. So evidently in his mind Yeah. Yeah, well there is there the there is uh we see several places in in um well even the gospels that uh there's going to be degrees of punishment. You know, uh it's gonna be worse for you, um Khorazine, than it is for the people of Sodom and Gomorrah because uh Or the people of um of Nineveh. You know, he he gave all those comparisons and he says, No, it's going to be worse for you in the judgment. Um It's all sin, but there are degrees of punishment and responsibility for that sin, for sure. Yeah. Yeah, I I do want to um I do want to make the point here though. It's not clear who all the people are, and it is rather strange that um five days earlier They were all throwing palm branches on the road before him and and this kind of thing, the crowds were. Um, There there is some fickleness here perhaps, but um it's not entirely clear that they're the same people, in my mind anyway. Probably some overlap. I think maybe what's partly going on here is, as we've seen all the way through Not just the disciples, but people generally thought that when the Messiah was going to come, he was going to be d their deliverer, kind of like Moses was the deliverer from Egypt. The Messiah was going to come to be their deliverer from Rome and reestablish um Israel as it should be independently and and in in victory and glory and all that And that was probably still in the minds of people on Palm Sunday and thinking, yeah, it's coming, it's coming, it's gonna happen, right? And when it became clearer in his teaching that week and then now in his arrest and his not not protesting and not um trying to defend himself that their concept of what was going to happen, their whole mindset came crumbling down. Um and they realized that, okay, if he's not going to take over and free us from the bondage of Rome Uh he must be an imposter, let's just get rid of him. So some people probably made that transition even during that week. Um hard to say. Uh but Um all these things are kind of blending together. Yeah. Yeah, we do tend to have a habit, I think most of us, to be so committed to our preconceived notions. And not and that sometimes can blind us to um what God is really doing. We need to be careful about that. If we assume that that we have it all worked out in our heads and it's gonna all play out the way we think, and that it doesn't, Uh there could be some time of reckoning there. And if we're so committed to our preconceived ideas, it may cause us to um lose faith in what God has said. So there's a danger there. Yeah. Yeah, unfulfilled expectations are hard anyway. Linda. No, he said I would scourge him and then let him go. So uh I'm assuming that the scourging was to show that He's in charge, he's applying discipline, but it's not what they wanted and and yet If if he's gotten to this point disrupting people, maybe this would placate the the Jews. Uh but it's Um it's not explicitly told uh as to his reasoning, but I think that's that's part of it. Yeah. Yeah, uh I I think so. Um it if if he were not if he were just to release him and not do anything to him then his working relationship with these guys to keep things under control was going to be undermined. So he had to not just placate the people, but he had to placate uh the Jewish leaders he had to continually negotiate with to in this tenuous balance of power. And you know, typically uh a response like that would be seen in the world as weakness. Yeah, and he said to Pilate, My kingdom's not of this world. Right? If it were, my people would uh rise up in force, and that's not that's not the program here. Yeah, and you know, uh I think if we were honest, if we lived in that day, we'd be among the ones who are shouting out. Right. And so it was not just their sin, it was our sin as well. Yep. In God's timing as well. In God's timing. Yeah. Um which I think is is probably the foremost example of um even though we can't comprehend it, it's the foremost example of um God's sovereignty over the decisions of human beings. And um those decisions are not happening in a vacuum. God is sovereign over all of that. And it says very explicitly in that passage that God did it and yet you guys are accountable for it. Because you made those those decisions. Um and that's that's not the only example. I mean that's that's the supreme example, I think, of that connection. Yeah. Yeah. Uh an interesting uh that reminds me of something else as well. Often here in the in the text, even what we've read today, it refers to the Jews. What does that mean? Yeah, and in this context and in most of those contexts it's it's the Jewish leaders, those who are in control, the Sanhedrin and and so on. Throughout much of Christian history, unfortunately, there developed an antagonism toward the Jews as a people because they crucified our Lord. When in fact it was um most of the well not most, I don't know about the percentage, but there were many Jews of course who protested this. Um they weren't in leadership, they had no influence over the affec the the things happening. Um and it wasn't the Jews as a nation who well, as a nation They didn't exactly embrace their Messiah, and so that's a problem. But they didn't as a nation crucify him. It was their leadership who did Yeah, yeah. So it it was it was both happening at the same time. Um Right. Yep. Yep. Okay. Well, It's now not next week. We're on page one two sixty-six. And uh No. We covered that. We covered that in the slides we did the week we weren't here. Like we remember? Just check it in. Okay, uh section 199. And after they mocked him, they took the purple robe off him and put his own garments back on him and led him away, therefore, to crucify him. And he went out bearing his own cross. I'm on page two sixty-six. As they were coming out, they found a passer by of Cyrene named Simon, the father of Alexander and Rufus, who we are guessing, uh became prominent believers and well known. And so um that is Mark's gospel. So um They were connected anyway. Anyway, they're coming in from the country, whom they seized and pressed into service to carry the cross behind Jesus And following him was a large crowd of people and of women who were mourning and lamenting him. See, there were a lot of people who were not condoning this. But Jesus turning to them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, stop weeping for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold, the days are coming when they will say, Blessed are the barren, and the wounds that never bore, and the breasts that never nursed. They will begin, then they will begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. For if they do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry? Two others also, who were criminals, were being led away to be put to death with him. When they came to the place uh called in Hebrew Golgotha, which translated means place of a skull, they gave him wine to drink uh mixed with gall, myrrh, and after tasting it, he was unwilling to drink. He did not take it. So um I'll let you read the notes there. We've covered a lot of that already. But yes. Yes, it's a prophecy from the Old Testament referring to that future time. Yes. So he's he's again saying that that will happen. Um and it's gonna be uh worse than even now. Yeah, right. Um I doubt it. I think from the other um prophecy I I forget exactly which prophecy this was from, if anybody has that cross-reference open. But um Jesus made reference to this a couple of times and I think it's it's beyond 8070. I think it's end times kind of context. Okay. So yeah, we can do it. Page two seventy. This is familiar material, but if if you have any questions, definitely holler. On page two seventy now we're um This is blended of course from all four Gospels. There they crucified him, and with him two criminals, one on the right and the other on the left, and Jesus in between. And the scripture was fulfilled which says, and he was numbered with transgressors. That, of course, is Isaiah 53. And Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It was written, Jesus the Nazarene, the King of the Jews. Therefore many of the Jews read this inscription for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek. The fact that it was near the city, what's the point there? A lot of people could see this. And they didn't want a lot of people to see that message. So the chief priests of the Jews were saying to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but that he said, I am the King of the Jews Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. But Jesus was saying, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his outer garments and made four parts, a part for every soldier, and also the tunic. Now the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece So they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, to decide whose it shall be. This was to fulfil the scripture. They divided my outer garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Again, Isaiah fifty three. Therefore, the solution. And Psalm twenty-two. Yeah, both of them are. Yeah. Actually, that may also just be Psalm 22. Anyway, therefore the soldiers did these things, dividing up uh his garment among themselves, and the people stood by looking on, and in the same way The chief priests also, along with the scribes and elders, were sneering at him. He saved others. Let him save himself, if he is the king of Israel. the Christ of God, the chosen one, let him now come down from the cross and we'll see, and we'll believe him then, right? If he trusts or he trusts in God, let God rescue him now, if he delights in him. For he said, I am the Son of God. And um here I think they're again quoting from um Psalm twenty-two. Not they're not quoting, but they're fulfilling Psalm twenty-two. And verse 36. The soldiers also mocked him, coming up to him, offering him sour wine, and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. And those passing by were hurling abuse at him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ha! You who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. The robbers who had been crucified with him were also insulting him with the same words. But one of the criminals was hurling abuse at him, saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us But the other answered and rebuking him, said, Do you not even fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed are suffering justly for we are receiving what we deserve for our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. And he was saying, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, that you shall be with me in paradise. So apparently both of the criminals were joining in in the insults, but the one had a change of heart. And he saw the response of Jesus. He he maybe some things that God had already placed in his heart were convicting him. I don't know. But uh he actually came to faith in Christ. And but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. Lots of Marys. When uh Jesus then saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, who was that? John, he always referred to himself that way, in kind of a humble way. Um he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Who's he referring to? John. No, he's saying, behold, this is now your son, John. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. Right? And from that hour the disciple took her into his own household. So even on the cross, about to die, he was demonstrating care and responsibility for his mother. And um You might wonder, well, if he were omniscient, why wouldn't he have known that James, his half brother, would would James and Jude and maybe others of his brothers um would have come to salvation and would have been logical ones to care for their mother. Instead, he was focusing on John, who Um there's a possibility that they were distant relatives. Uh we'll look at that maybe. upcoming week. But uh clearly not not the most logical ones. But they weren't saved at this point. His brothers weren't saved at this point. And um Uh who knows exactly what was in the mind of Christ here other than the care for his mother, but it does seem clear that he wasn't relying on his omniscience. to ensure that she was going to be cared for um for the rest of her life. At least that's my take on it. Okay. Possibly. Um yeah. And it's possible that once his brothers were saved, and we're not exactly sure when that happened. Um But it was fairly early on. That there may have been some arrangements, who knows. But um He was obviously caring uh ensuring that she would be cared for well Question. Okay. Yeah. Is this the first time in the Bible that heaven or the afterlife is described as a place of splendor and paradise And not in the Old Testament. Umnotation. Many mentions of the connotation. Yeah. Yeah. Um Uh that's it's it's an interesting question, but if there's more stuff that word paradise itself, uh and also the timing here I'm not I I I don't think that that reference to paradise here is the same as the reference to the mansions that God's preparing for us. It was something that was um in that context, in that time, a name that he would use appropriately. Um he might use a different well, he did. He made reference to the many mansions above. And of course in Revelation we've got all these other uh um descriptions of of uh the splendor of heaven um and the new heaven and the new earth and all that um So yeah, so I I wouldn't I don't even know, I haven't studied this. You know, what what word was actually used there for paradise and how that tracks with Yes, so it's it's it's that time at that time he was gonna be with Jesus with Jesus, not in um Yeah. Yeah. Or the rich man in Lazarus and being by Abraham's side and yeah. Well that's probably closer to what he was referring to here, I'm thinking. Okay. You know, I keep looking at that clock and it hasn't moved a bit the whole hour we've been here. And so we got plenty of time. Do you think it is eternity? Maybe. Any other thoughts here? Questions? Yeah. Uh we don't I don't know that we know about Simon himself, but his kids must we we're guessing must have because they have Um people recognized those names who were the original um readers of uh I guess it was Mark's gospel. So we we s we presume that. We don't have any other biblical record of it, but we presume that. And it it's probably reasonable to presume that Simon himself Um having had that very auspicious role would have um asked a lot of questions of people around at that time. And he may have heard very early on about the resurrection as well. And who knows, he may have been among the people on there at Pentecost. But we don't have any details. Um Uh I I don't know what the traditions were completely, but my presumption is that the soldiers um uh had the tradition, the the um authority to take the divide among themselves the belongings of the prisoners they were were um um executing. And so uh there wouldn't have been presumably any value in that stuff other than Um the the the mocking that could come from it. Um souvenir. Souvenir, but Yeah, and so casting lots for it, oh yeah, I won, I'm I'm you know, I beat you this time, you'll get me next time. Um I I don't imagine there was any huge um value attached to it in their mind, but it's just their way of playing. Yeah. Could he take him back after he was resurrected? I don't think he needed to. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And that happens I think next week. Yeah. Indeed. Yes. Yeah, it was probably a little longer than a minute. Well in in Judas' case the word that's used there, at least in the English, is remorse, which is not the same as repentance. So he regretted, but it wasn't a a um um a a repentance of um you know a saving repentance. It was sort of a more of a regret. So he understood that he did wrong, but he had no hope. And um so I I guess that's that's another illustration of the fact that even our repentance and faith, as we see in Scripture, are gifts from God. And we we don't just generate faith. And we don't just generate saving repentance. God graciously um gives us those. Now we have the responsibility to respond appropriately, um but that regret that remorse on the part of of Judas um was um evidently we see from his actions not a saving faith. Right. And just emphasizing obviously that that um the all of the benefits, let's say, of salvation are gifts from God. They're not in any way contingent on our effort. That's the point. Uh I'll take the persecution, thank you. Larry. Well and and and that's Esau's another interesting example because he sort of Right. He initially had a lot of bitterness toward Jacob, obviously. But when they met and Jacob was kind of shaking, not knowing what he was going to get. It had been long enough maybe that it had kind of blown over and he didn't make a big deal about it. But that wasn't repentance. Well there wasn't really much well, maybe there's some repentance needed on Esau's part, but um Yeah, but your your points well taken. Yeah. Seems like it did. And of course the thief on the cross is someone we always point to that it's never too late. Right. Um, All right, we got a few minutes. Page two sixty-four, is that the one? Yes. Um So that's a picture of the Western Wall in Jerusalem today. Taken from the outside looking toward the inner part of Jerusalem, pretty much all of that wall was built later in the time of Yeah, the Turks or the Crusaders, something or other. It was it was quite a bit later. But the lower levels And the sort of entryway and the steps and so on were date back much farther. And um If you're here when we had the little intro to an overview to um Jerusalem at the beginning of September, I guess. Uh Dr. Bookman gave uh the account here of how um there is a record that uh Herod the Great, when he lived on the other side of that wall, which is where the palace was uh put in a gate here and that's why there are steps leading up here even though there's no gate at the moment. The the wall came later or it was added because Jerusalem was destroyed, right? And so you've got a lot of that destruction. And um some of the walls were rebuilt on the same locations they were before. And um So it seems likely that this was the place where um Uh Pilate was was uh pronouncing judgment on Christ. And so outside here would have been where the chief priests and and and uh Sanhedrin were um there's this rock here that's called judgment seat appears to be something from the original. The wall was kind of built around it and over it and it would have been there originally. part of the bedrock. And that word gabbatha apparently really means bedrock. And that's what you're seeing here, these outcroppings. And so um it seems pretty likely that um Paul or uh um Pilate was able to kind of come in and out through that wall, addressing the crowd, and then going back in and addressing Jesus and eventually sitting on his judgment seat to pronounce judgment And um so that was kind of cool. We went there at night, that's why it looks so dark. But um I had a few pictures a little bit lighter in the slideshow. Yeah, well most most or at least a lot of the spots that were actually the spots in um Israel, particularly in Jerusalem. Um they've been demolished because of the various destructions. And then the actual spot, as best people can tell, uh that we're correct. Um have a huge cathedral on top of them. Yeah. And so it y you lose a bit of the context. these days. And so if I had any emotions, it was about the disgust I had about all these these trappings and and so on that were beside the point. That was probably where Jesus actually taught and did a few miracles. Right. All right. Let's uh close in prayer.