So today we are on lesson 46, and it includes three sections, 196, 197, 198, and they are Pilate interrogates Jesus in private. Pilate tries to release Jesus, and the Jews demand Barabbas release instead. And then the Roman soldiers mock and abuse Jesus Pilate sentences Jesus to death. So who is this Pontius Pilate? Because he seems to be a pretty major figure in this lesson. Anyone know who he is? What's he about? He seems to be kind of a complicated guy as you read through these sections. He was a Roman governor of Judea who presided over Jesus and ordered the crucifixion. This is the basic information. He was a very strict and cruel administrator. And again, in this section, he's kind of portrayed as a conflicted figure who ultimately yields to pressure from the Jewish leaders and the crowds in condemning Jesus. Some pieces of information I pulled out. Um Pilot's title of prefect and Plot said his duties were primarily military. However Pilot's troops were meant more as police than a military force. Um so his duties extended beyond just military ma uh matters. As a Roman governor, he was head of the judicial system. He had the power to inflict uh capital punishment, was responsible for collecting tributes and taxes. um distributing funds, minting money, um and because the Romans allowed uh a certain degree of local control Pilate shared a limited amount of civil and religious power with uh the Jewish leaders. Um Pilate as a governor would report to Tiberius. And Tiberius's full name, because I always get confused with all these Caesars and Julius and His full name is Tiberius Julius Caesar Augustus. So it's kind of an interesting little study trying to keep all these names. Who is Julius Caesar and who's this type It's kind of an interesting study if you take some time to really see um who all of these um people are because they kinda like take someone's name in the past just kinda added onto their name and the name seemed to just kind of expand. Um but he was um he would report to Tiberius, who was the Roman Emperor um And an empire is kind of different or or an emperor is is kind of different from what a king would be. So a king is more associated with Other s uh systems of government typically over like a single group or a single nation, whereas an emperor would rule over several nations. And this we'll we'll see a little bit uh at the last section because um uh pilot is asking several times about are you a king? Are you what kingdom are you talking about? So um it's interesting how this will play out in the last section Um okay. I think that's the only thing I wanna oh. Um Another interesting thing about the Pilate is in some aspects the gospel portrayed Pilate as kind of reluctant to execute Jesus. And we'll see that as we read through. Um in fact, a kind of an interesting little tid that I pulled up, the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, or one of them believes that Pilate became a Christian and venerates him as a saint. So that's kind of a interesting little side piece. So why don't we jump into this? And again, three sections. And it's really, if I had to summarize, it's interrogations and sentencing. So we are gonna start on page two seventy-four. And so what I did in this study, and I just took a couple of phrases and I thought I would kind of um expand a little bit on it. But uh would someone like to read that section? That L comes from John. It's at the top of page two seventy-four. Any brave readers out there? Sure. Therefore, pilot entered again into Pretorium. Summoned Jesus and said to him, Are you the King of the Jews? Jesus answered, Are you saying this on your own initiative? Or did others tell you about it? Pilate answered. I am not as you am I? Your own nation and chief priest will review me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting so that I would not be handed over to their Jews. But as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. Therefore Pilate said to him, So you are a king? Jesus answered, You say correctly that I am a king. For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world. to testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. I will tell you what is truth Now this is anyway, so this is half of that last verse. So we're going to find out what that truth means to the second section. But for right now, we're just going to let it dangle in the air. Um did I say what a Pretorium is? Uh Pretorium It can refer to several things, most commonly the headquarters or residence of a Roman official. And in this case, it's also going to be referred to as Pilot's Town. That's what a Praetorium is. Um I'm gonna come back to Paratis. King of the Jews. Um so that's Pilate's first question. Are you the King of the Jews? And down below, see Jesus answers, you say correctly, I am a king. So if anyone ever asks, is Jesus really a king? Was he really king of the Jews? Did he ever really say it himself? There it is. John eighteen. Um the king of the Jews, I see this thing as more of a insult to the Pharisees than to Pilate or even Tiberius, since a kingdom in the eyes of the ro of Rome Uh we're kind of categorized nicely within the understanding of the meaning of an empire. So an empire again over several kingdoms, it wouldn't exactly come off as a insult because, well, You can be a king of a kingdom, but you're still under the Roman Empire. There's no conflict there in terms of the hierarchy of the of the Roman Empire. Um Of course, allegiance with the Empire would have been expected in the eyes of the Romans. Um the Jews would be highly offended since identifying Jesus as king would mean not only acknowledging him as Messiah, but also recognizing him. as God. Um so there again in verse thirty seven, um, I am a king. Um, and what oh sorry. Comments, yes. Why why do you say that would have also been recognizing MS Gala? Oh, Because if he's king of the oh um you know actually not from that verse. Messiah, not not that verse recognizes him as God. Sorry, previous verses. Yep. Good good good catch. Um so what is truth? Um it's kind of interesting. I kind of looked at this a little deeper. And there's kind of two thoughts here. One is um it's MacArthur in his um from John MacArthur he looks at this as this was being it was said with cynicism Other writers see it as a possibility of sincerity, like asking a question, what is truth? Like almost possibly Tell me more, what is truth? Um and so why do I say that? Um In the New King James Version, Pilate says, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews and said to him, I find no fault in him. And the ESV, Powell says, what is truth? After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told them, I find no guilt in him. So there's almost like this tension of is he being cynical or is he just being a seeker? Of course at the end we'll see where he where he ends up. But here it's almost like he's He's it's it's hard to when I was looking at this, it's hard for me to say whether he's being a cynic or if he's a s a a truth seeker. Any thoughts on that? I find the question to be sort of um universally or beyond the ages uh the fundamental question of reality. And and um our answer to that question will I and I think we can agree that in our culture today the answer a lot of times down to sort of two halves. Um I mean I've said this before, but uh if the truth is I make it or the truth is out there. And Uh I'll I'll start from the references to the X off. But anyway, um that answer to that question um I I think is fundamental and And some some I've had discussions with folks um concerning the gospel and you know whatever and amazingly had a nice, really nice conversation with the gentleman about uh that topic and we always seem to get down to the origin of truth and he seemed to think that it was what he made it. And I'm trying to explain that the my view is that it's out there and I need to wrestle with I need to I I need to understand it and um take it's absolutely it's the absolute versus relative. So I I think that pilot maybe in some ways being sarcastic in a sense or being, you know flipping But also you know, sort of throwing his hands up and you know it's a question we all ask. And we see at the end he kind of likes out those cards at the end, but of course we all ask. Would it would it be more to the argument that you seeking truth if you actually wait for Christ answer It's the fact that Pilate asked this questi asked this question, but there was no answer or response from Jesus is recorded, and the next thing that's out is that he said Some people do that. John MacArthur is is in that camp for the same thing. question for since there's no um documented response from Christ would this lean more towards that than it would if he was seeking truth Um would it lean more towards being cynical? If the question is the question pilot says this from a truth speaking perspective or a cynical perspective. Um the only thing I could think of is when we follow through the rest of the passage. Time and time again he's saying you see that he does not want to kill him. So there's must be something bothering him. He sees that this is this man does not deserve death. Well doesn't he even try to invoke the the Jews pay on him? Let me give you someone else in his place. Yeah, or or not even that. where Christ was, you know, essentially eviscerated and he he like from his from what I read it kind of sounded like he was trying to bring out like invoke empathy from the Jews so that they would cease this. But it's very interesting that that's the route that he took Like, oh here, let me just you know slog the flesh from this man and and and hopefully they'll see him as a human being. Yeah, I that works Or well, the fear of man, right? The fear of man over the fear of God. The uh I guess we when this was being questioned by Anna Synchaipus, you know, they were trying to get something out of them that they could charge them when you know essentially finding this this claim of blasphemy and and yet when they sent him to to Pilate he wouldn't care whether Jesus was blasphemy or not. But he starts in on are you a king? That would mean to the Romans you're going to you know create some kind of insurrection and You know, set up your kingship. Um and yet when he says, Yes, I'm a king, y you would think that that would be like how okay, say you're a king, that's no good, so I'll put my stamp approval on execution. But somehow in that whole thing it seems like he's asking questions and you know he's trying to figure out a way to to keep them from being extra Executed. You know, he goes through all of this and he goes back to the Jews and says, I I don't find anything in him that's worthy of execution. executing them but ultimately as we'll see you know you he does eventually say okay well I washed my hands of the whole thing but building on that. Um it it strikes me that um the question of what kind of king he is And what is authority is? You know, what is truth? Where does it come from? They're really part of the same question Um and so if as Jesus says, His kingdom is not of this world, um his authority is coming from Our Creator, not from Himself, in the first instance, but not from man. Um then it's a whole different category than what territory news are used to thinking in terms of. Um And so I find it interesting that he he doesn't really pilot doesn't seem to respond a whole lot to Jesus saying, My kingdom is not of this world. Um because that gets right out of the the authority issue. Whether this is it's not insurrection, it's just a different a different sphere, a different reality. Um But he doesn't seem to pick up on it. I also think it's very interesting that this came up at Jesus of birth, where the Magi came to Herod asking for where is the king of the Jews. And of course he was interpreting that politically. And nobody there was explaining that his kingdom was none of this world. Whereas Jesus, when he was questioned, he didn't notify that. Um the other aspect to it is that these Jesus mentioned that his servants aren't fighting. I don't know if that's maybe Pilate saw that as you know, Jesus seems to get past it. It's not really he'd have no but take over the place. Which would have been the real crime crime then. Like that would that would be the crime that conscious pilot would be investigating. So there or not he's a threat to the real crime. And the Jews try to pin that on him. So he's you know, he's stirring up the crowds and and uh calling himself a king and whatever, but Pilate's not convinced And the irony is it's actually the leaders, the Jewish leaders that are stirring up the people in the midst. But it's all politics, it's what kind of power. Any thoughts on how this would apply to us? Well I think it points us a lot to how A lot of people were taking things literally and physically and politically, and Jesus kept putting them back to spiritual truths. So it I think it's fascinating how he He asks, Are you king of the Jews? Thinking totally politically. And Jesus' answer eventually after some other questions is, You say correctly then A king. So he didn't even answer the question. that I'm aching and these really don't even run it towards the spiritual truth. So I think we can get tied down to more like Literal interpretations, but tie it back to what Jesus wants us to, which is spiritual truth. Yep. Yeah, like and like you said, not just king of the Jews, but king of all nations. So That probably would have been harder for a pilot to grasp. Probably. But yeah, he's very non-threatening. Very non-threatening. Why I read some of those bullet points. Jesus answers the question about his identity since that was the key issue Um and then again, um however note the irony and consistency, they were dead set of killing the Messiah, but they felt compelled to obey the law. So it's just a There's the uh strange inconsistency there. And the last bullet point, Dr. Pulling, Pop concluded that Jesus was not insurrectionist as the Jews claimed. Um Maybe pointing out the hypocrisy, but not necessarily an insurrectionist um As as pilot would be one. Um I wonder if there's sort of a legal requirement that pilot is sort of following in the And says I can't I can't prosecute and and chose him to be an insurrectionist and deserve death. He hasn't done anything to do that, regardless of what he says. No, everybody says that, okay, whatever. You know, it's kind of like this he would need to have some proof but he's an insurrection. I guess but I I struggle because Barabbas clearly is the insurrectionist bad guy and yet Python lets him go. So I yeah, it's I think it's kinda like the way a lot of our politicians follow the law. Law applies To you, not necessarily to me. the you know the way in which they did that. That was for the crowd that chose. Yeah. I'd have been one for hours ago. contrast. Like Barabbas was clearly guilty, clearly a threat. Clearly like this horrible person and who had done horrible things and he put it in front of the cloud cloud that you surely will see the difference between what this man has committed So what this man has done nothing and it they chose the murderer over the innocent. If you like what they do today, it's uh uh because the repeating itself. Uh-huh. They take the the bad over the over the ones that have same mind? Seems to be man's biggest problem. Yeah. For our sin over righteousness. without God. Because like these people clearly did not have Christ in them. They were not they were not believers at that point because they chose the representation more or less of sin, like murder and death over life of Christ. Even though this is what was supposed to happen, they still cried out for and they even said like his blood be on us So it's very interesting like politics aside, this is just like mankind in general, that our hearts are more geared towards death and murder and sin and all of this other stuff versus innocence and truth. It's very strange how it's almost like surreal. Like how could you possibly but then I look at myself I make really bad choices. Yeah. Maybe not as an yeah. Not as an extreme example, but still I offend God on a daily basis. Um and unfortunately even I know I'm offending God So um something that continues to strike me here throughout the gospel, particularly toward the end here is the prevalence of the fear of man as opposed to the fear of God. And so uh regular Jews, even if they believed Jesus and thought he was he was a good person and would be following him They didn't stand up for him for fear of the Jesus specifically by being um cast out of the the synagogue. But then the Jewish leaders, it very clearly says that they're they didn't They didn't do certain things to Jesus at certain times because they were afraid of the crowds. And here Pilate is, he's afraid of the crowds as well and the Jews are gonna create an incident that uh he'll be accountable for and he doesn't want that to happen. He's already in the finance with Caesar. Everybody's afraid afraid of everybody except afraid of God. Pilate would have been killed for the in his insurrection. He would have been counting guilty amongst the Jews if there had been one. So it's it's For me it's it's very interesting, it's not even though he was just afraid of the Jews, he was more afraid because Rome was very good at instilling fear and ruling by fear. And Pilate, because he again did not know truth by his own dimension Yeah. And kind of another interesting example of the fear of man. We don't have to go very far, right? I mean Peter denies Christ three times, right? How does that happen? Yeah. Fear of fear of man right in our own midst. Okay, section 197, right? 197. So Pilate tries to release Jesus, but the Jews demand rabbits. release instead. So this goes to two seventy five and then two seventy six. There's a lot packed in here too. Um, Okay, let's see. Um Would someone like would like to read maybe up to or through verse sixteen? And when Pilate had said that this he went out again to the Jews and summoned chief priests and rulers and people And said to them, You brought this man to me as one who incites the people's people to rebellion, and behold, having examined him before you I found no guilt in this man regarding the charges which you have made against me. against him. No, nor has Herod, for he sent him back to us, and told nothing death has been done by him. Therefore I will punish him and release The punish and release him almost like, okay, I'm I'm willing to compromise. We're not gonna do death, but hey, I'll beat him up a little bit and we'll just let him go. And so everyone will be happy, right? And it's interesting, even Herod wasn't going to do anything to him. He just said, he's your problem, you deal with him. Um Herod, um So who is Herod? This is Herod Antipas, who had been enemies but later became friends. Um this unlikely alliance occurs because Pilate, upon learning Jesus is from Galilee, which is Herod's territory sends Jesus to Herod for judgment, hoping to avoid the decision, but of course we see that the decision is well just gonna send it right back to you. Um Heron um questions him but finds him silent. Um mocks him and then just sends him back. Uh what's interesting is both Pilate and Herod do not find Jesus guilty nor deserving of death. And so again that's where we see this little um v uh very weak for s for a guy who's so powerful to like well I mean he should just be able to say, This man is innocent, go or this man I'm gonna kill, I'm gonna kill not only him, but all of you. But he's just just so weak. Again, coming down to that fear of man. Um and so this kind of very weak compromise um Yeah, very sad to see. Um would someone like to continue reading on from seventeen I guess it would be about twenty I c I agree. Um so when the people gathered together, Pilate said to them, You have a custom that I release someone for you at the Passover. Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas or Jesus who is called Christ? Do you wish then that I release for you the King of the Jews? For he was aware that the chief priests had handed him over because of envy. Now at the feast, the governor uh was accustomed to release for the people any one prism whom they wanted At that time they were holding a notorious prisoner called Barabbas, a robber who had been in prison with the insurrectionists, had committed murder in the insurrection in the city. The Quran went up, asking him to do as he had been accustomed to do for them, and cried out altogether, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas, away with this man and release for us Barabbas. It's interesting how yeah they I don't know who all um Pilate could have chosen, but he definitely picked a man who was strikingly different in character from Christ. I I just noticed for the first time that I would ask uh do you wish that I was King of the Jews? I feel like that was an indelicate Maybe poking a little bit. Yeah, I agree. And which I mean protecting in the text, but the crowd It's not it written there, but yeah. You would think the crowd would try to like correct him and say, Hey, this is not King of the Jews Yeah. But go ahead and kill 'em anyways. But they don't even they don't even, you know, correct him on that. It's not in the text, so I I I w wouldn't make that claim, but it's kinda interesting that it's not Um verse 20. Pilate wanted to release Jesus, address them again. So here's a second time. Um but they kept on calling out, saying, Crucify him, or crucify, crucify him. And when he said to them the third time, so here's Why? What evil has this man done? I have found in him no guilt demanding death. Therefore I will punish and release him again attempting to appease the crowd. Um punishing rather than death. So he's looking for a kind of a way out of This predicament that he's in. While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent him a message saying, have nothing to do with that righteous man Again I think I thought that was kind of an interesting even his wife um calls him a righteous man. Um But that's kind of interesting the second part of this sentence. For last night I suffered greatly in a dream because of him. So maybe maybe she had heard of his teaching or something and she was conflicted or something or But getting rid of someone because of a dream seems kind of um not not not uh not really the way you you're you want to run a king uh run a kingdom, right? But the chief priests and the elders persuaded and stirred up the crowds to ask him to release Barabus for them instead and to put Jesus to death. But the governor said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release to you? And they said, Barathis. Answering again, Pilate said to them, Then what shall I do with Jesus, whom you call Christ? That was kind of interesting. The king of the Jews. They all said, Crucify him. And he said, Why, what evil has he done? But they were insistent with loud voices, shouting back, all the more saying, Crucify Him. And the voices began to prevail. When Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather that a riot was starting He took water, washed his hands in front of the crowd, saying, I am innocent of this man's blood. See to that yourselves. And the people said, His blood shall be on us and our children. And pilot pronounce sentence and that their demand be granted. Interesting that they are willing to take um uh shouting out you know we will we are responsible for his death. Um and again it's not just In this section it's the Jews, yes, but really this is what man does. Rebels against God. And so um This is said of all of us before we were emperor, before God ever saved us. And that bullet point, in his conscience, Pilate knew that Jesus didn't deserve death and that the Jewish leaders were manipulating him, yet he caved into their demand in order to prevent a riot Um which everyone knew would jeopardize the standing with Rome. So against that that fear of man. Then our last section. Yes. Uh I just noticed Um but twice here Pilate is referring to Jesus in verse or in Matthew uh yeah Matthew Do you want me to release Arabus or Jesus who is called Christ? Um and then later he says, and what shall I do with Jesus whom you you call Christ. Well um that was part of their their the Jewish leaders accusation that he calls himself Christ a king. And we're trying to use the term um giving his political connotations and insurrectionist connotations. But when he when Pilate's talking to them, he says, Whom you call Christ, that's actually um kind of rubbing their nose in it. You know, he he's it's an insult. Because they were saying he calls himself Christ, which means the anointed one, Messiah. And they're clearly rejecting that claim. And then Pilate just kind of puts it back to him Um and down when he found across he had that sign. King. Um And they said no don't don't say that. So he he claimed to be king of it. And he said, No, I've written what I've written. So there's there's um It's not a complete caving into the Jews in terms of the substance of it. It's more about the process. But it's all about who he is. If he's the Christ, if he's he is the Jews, if he's the Messiah. Um and things should have to handle differently from our perspective. From God's perspective, it had to happen this way anyway, because of his role of salvation. But it's um That's all about who he is. And it is interesting. That's like the only time you see a pilot like stand up saying, you know, this is the way it's gonna be. I'm putting this the the sign is what's going on Of course I should have had that backbone passages late earlier, but but in all three languages so that there's no question about people understanding it. Right, right, right. Well looks like he did it just well not it it looks like he did it despite them because it it he didn't send the Mark ten or Mark fifteen ten but he recognized that this was not uh what if she was almost pure envy. And by keeping it by keeping it the Jews he was also like almost like needling the the Ferris Easy Like you brought him to claiming he was a king and an insurrectionist, so this is what's gonna be on the cross. And as a politician, he needed to have an enemy He couldn't be in a position where he was at the mercy of Jewish leaders. If he caves into a mirror completely and And he's out there back in call, that that doesn't sit well either. So he's got this fine line. I guess we all get in a hard spot, so which way, you know, how do we choose? Mm-hmm. Even though he knew that Christ was innocent, even admitted that Christ was innocent, his wife has a dream, which was a huge thing in ancient Roman religion. So it's like he he knew all of it, but instead of saying on that using his authorities and and doing that, he again with political views trying to reason with them or you know give in a little bit here trying to find like a compromise now where there was never compromise they have. I was gonna ask a question before you move to the next section, but is there any uh Jewish traditions in which at the end they s the people said um his blood shall be on us and our children. Is there any kind of thing? The only thing I found about that was just the the fact that they were taking responsibility. Um I don't think there was like Yeah. I I'll take this responsibility and I'll unload whatever responsibility upon my children. I think it was just more of a emphatic way of saying we're gonna take we've made the choice. I I didn't s I didn't what's I Similar to oaths, I think. Oaths. People would make an oath and Jesus criticized that. He'd make an oath to Doesn't make sense. Invoking something that doesn't make sense. But it people just say it flippantly. a thing where if a man tended a sin, it can also fall on his household. So it's like they're saying he will take the generational falling onto us. I I remembered that a long time ago. I think it was more of a um not necessarily the offense to God per se, but things that I do, like if I get arrested and I'm thrown out of jail, it's not my being arrested falls on my children, so the fact that I'm no longer the household there's like repercussions, collateral damage. I think that's more of what it means versus actual guilt of sin. Um Well sort of thinking you you will accept the consequences of those even down towards other. Capsicosis of action. Uh two seventy six. So um Okay. Okay. Uh the last section, section one ninety-eight, the Roman soldiers mock and abuse Jesus And pilot sentenced him to death for fear of a riot. So that two seventy six goes. two seventy seven. Um okay so there's the blended account and then there's another section, John nineteen. Um let's read let's read that section. So again, I'm on page 277, the blended account. Then wishing to satisfy the crowd, Pilot releases Baradis for them. I wonder where Barad is going after that. Um the man they were asking for whom had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder. But after having uh Jesus scourged, which is um whipped, beaten, um, he handed him over to their will to be crucified. Verse 27. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus away into the palace, that is the Praetorium, and gathered together the whole Roman cohort around him. They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and after twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand, and they kept kneeling down and bowing before him and mocked him. And they began to accla uh acclaim him, saying, Hail King of the Jews. They kept spitting on him and took the reed and kept beating him on the head with it and to give him slaps in the face. It's really a horrible sight to think about. Um Yeah, about as bad as you can get. Um yeah, I think it's a good idea. Disrespect. But it's even more dis disrespect. When we do it and we know the details, we have the book of life And every detail of the book of Libra. We have the scriptures. How many times have we slapped communication? It's almost worse for us because like you said, we have the scriptures. Um we we know the truth. Um And you do it to each other. But it's interesting because Pilate talking twice by himself. Because in John nineteen it talks about how Well after he was flogged, he brought somebody in into the praetorium and tried to talk to him and ask him like this is kind of like dumb straightforward his his his superstition. He could be considering like are you you know divine of some kind of thing. 19, 4 to 16, kind of sitting there. Um Pilate came out again, he said, and said to him, Behold, I am bringing him out to you so that you may know that I find no guilt in him. Jesus then came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robes. Pilate said to them, Behold the man. So when the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify, crucify Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by that law He ought to die because he made himself out to be the Son of God. That law, if you're interested, is Leviticus 2416. And here's even saying he he made himself out to be the Son of God. I think that's probably where I I think that's probably where I I bought that uh identification of God in those pictures. That's yeah, I was like, why where did I get that? Yeah. So here, more of a um reference to being uh reference to Jesus' deity. That's where that came from. Um a therefore when Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid. Um which I find really interesting and which conflicts me about Well what's going through Pilate. He seems to b he seems to comprehend the significance, especially after saying the Son of God. Is this perhaps a recognition of a fear of God? Well, in a Greek mythology in Roman mythology, the Greek god were known for for you know going around these women and and having partially divine children. So he being a semantic superstitious man clearly wasn't that afraid of Jesus' claiming that he could be clean out and to die. Um you know, but ha claiming divinity like insinuated that there could be curses or or punishment from from the God if you went against them. Great point. More so more so more more than not really afraid of the one true God, but just kind of like a superstitious Ghosts and kind of a thing. Perhaps. Perhaps. Maybe not as sincere really looking for the truth. Well clearly not. Yeah. Well maybe he thought it was really quite true that it's like pilot, I think. This is bigger than I thought. Oh I got Okay, verses 4 to 16. Oh, I'm sorry, we just did that. 9. And he entered the pret into the praetorium again and said to Jesus, where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, You do not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you, and I have authority to crucify you? Jesus answered, You would have no authority over me unless it had been given to you from above. For this reason, he who do he who delivered me to you has a greater sin. I was kinda worried who is this he's talking about? Um so who delivered it it could have either perhaps been a reference to either Judas or Caiaphas. who would have known better or at least would have had greater knowledge. And that doesn't that doesn't mean pilot gets off, but um He's still responsible for his actions. Um I wouldn't want to be either in either camp, but Uh oh. Yeah, so that he referring to either Jews or Caipus is kind of the current understanding. Verse 12. As a result of this, Pilate made efforts to release him. But the Jews cried out, saying, If you release this man, you are no friend of Caesar. So really poking him for the fear of man. Um everyone who is n everyone who makes himself out to be a king opposes Caesar. Um which really clearly wasn't the case here. Um in fact what, render Caesar what is Caesar's, right? Therefore, when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called the pavement. Um but in Hebrew, Gabbatha. Now it was the day of preparation for the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold your king. So they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he then handed him over to be crucified. Um some some notes down there. Note that Pilot tried multiple times. But uh both before and after releasing Barabbas and before after having Jesus flogged to release Jesus, all the while pronouncing his innocence. But the Jews insisted that their side was the only one loyal to Caesar, which is kind of interesting because they hated the Roman Empire. So it's Uh so according to the crowd, either Jesus was the insurrectionist or Pilate was. Um in reality the only insurrectionist in this was Barabbas But Pilate, being weak, yet fulfilling God's sovereign decree, caved into the mob and handed Jesus over to be crucified. The Jews understood what he feared most. Oriot would result in his losing control, embarrassing Rome, and jeopardizing his power and position. So they manipulated him and the crowd. If I kinda remember, I don't think Pilate's reign ended very well for him uh regardless. So um this didn't really seem to keep him in power for much much longer. In doing so, in so doing, the Jewish leaders align themselves with Rome, not God, motivated by the desire to maintain their own rule and position. Any thoughts on any final thoughts on this? Yes, go ahead and do it. So everything that's probably going on is is hard. It says you read back in verse twenty-four the the the act of his washing to hand But then it's codified for all of church history because do you think like in the Apostles Priest, I remember memorizing this as a child, suffered under punch as pilot. So it's like for all of the rest of history, team by name, is the one that is associated with The crucifixation. You know, it doesn't say suffered under the Jewish leaders. No, it's just pirates. Yeah, yeah. But yet he washed his hands Well that that's being said, I I don't know how innocent he was in reality. Well that's okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. been looking over this material and they came to me and they were like, I always thought that I was taught in like in the Catholic Church that it was Pontius Pilot, Pontius Pilate wanted to use it, Pontius Pilot wanted to use it. And it Not true and turned out, but I mean he'd anything we didn't want to and I think it was historically stated that Oshis was known for like ruthless punishment and the fact that this man who was known for his like severity still didn't even want to beat him or do any of these things against him just kind of goes to highlight or even underscore the the extremes that were occurring that day. Yeah it's interesting once you once you really actually read the scriptures you really see that you know because I was in the same camp, I just oh Pilot just went out and just you know killed an innocent man. It's not that straightforward. I mean we see Pilate over and over and over again trying to persuade the crowds that Jesus really is innocent. And to the point, again, trying to just absolve himself, although that clearly he was the one over this entire region. So clearly he doesn't get the free pass that he thinks he's gonna get thinking um you know we're discussing this very particular uh incident and trying to make sense of what everybody's thinking, what everybody uh was trying to do, but is it true the revelation of who Christ is And it seems very clear here that they couldn't have the truth because They didn't see him as he was. So neither Rome or the Jews at the time had that. So they didn't have the truth and to me that simple sentence is that you just could not see who Jesus was because only by the grace of God because I don't think I did anything to in a moment see who he truly was Um your point is is excellent. It wasn't you, it was my father who revealed himself. Me revealed himself. And I just don't see it. And I didn't either before being saved. From earlier because like it was around 36 according to Joseph, around thirty-six AB, he was when he moved from office for another incident that happened after this. And um said it was kind of So you have been handed over to Caligula Caligula? And I know apparently there are some sources that say he committed suicide out of fear because of of what he's being accused of, which has basically ended in death by Fear of man never really works out though. But because not to change the topic too much, but uh there is kind of a humorous uh story that's told Here's not a story, but um people have speculated that Um during this whole exchange between pilot and the bottom. Um You know, Pilot is one voice and the mob is a pretty loud voice together. And he asks them Um who should I release to? And they say loudly, Barabbas. Now Barabbas is actually within earshot of this He probably doesn't hear the question, but he hears the loud answer of the crowd. And so he hears his name. And then the pilot asks Um, so what should I do with this Jesus Father? And they cry out in a loud voice, Crucify. And so it's possible that all the Barabbas' hearing is his name associated with it. He's probably squirming. But you're probably right, you're not a though. And then getting a relief. And of course what do you do when he had released by continued on how does Mary Wayne committed more insurrections and murder, right? Maybe he was one of the ones who got saved when three people broke. All right. Well I think next week. Next week we are the crucifixion. Yes. Any final thoughts or prayers before we before we end? Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for this uh lesson. Um uh the idea of who do we fear? Do we fear God or do we fear man? Lord, may we never put in our hearts never to compromise. May we uh remain um convicted and focused upon you. Um We look forward to today when we can worship this true King, Messiah, our loving Lord and God. Thank you that we can really gather together, encourage one another, and just um uh have the have your words uh revealed to us. Um Things that perhaps we've skimmed over in the past. Lord, it is exciting to see how your word, no matter how old we are, how old we get, continues to draw us closer to you. continues to reveal truth and never dulls. We want to give you praise and thanks in your son's name. Amen.