All right. So we are on lesson forty-eight. Last week we began looking at the crucifixion. Uh today we're looking specifically at the death of Christ and we'll obviously in subsequent weeks look at the the burial, resurrection, and and so on. So we're on lesson 48, section 201, page 286, and as is often the case Around the Passion Week, we've got contributions from all four of the Gospels. Before I read through the blended account Um I don't think we have much discussion earlier about uh the the nature of crucifixion. I think it might be helpful to highlight a few things. Um I've never witnessed a r uh crucifixion, thankfully. Um but I understand from medical people and those who have researched it that there's some key things going on. in that mode of execution that have a bearing on what we read in the scriptures. Basically The idea with crucifixion is uh is very deliberate by the Romans, I gather. They invented it. Uh it's intended not only to be lethal but also uh a good deal of agony. And the agony is initially in the form of being uh pierced, probably not through the palm but through the wrist, just to carry the weight. Um but more so the the nature of the experience there is if you're hanging and if all your weight is um on your um you know you're being held by the uh the nails, um very quickly you you see that you're not able to breathe And um and so what the victims would try to do, um, they would typically nailed through both of their feet together onto the cross as well. And what they would try to do, even though it was painful at that point of piercing, uh, they would try to push up on their legs so that it relieves some of the pressure on their lungs. They can actually breathe a little bit better. Um and then probably when they can't stand the pain too much they They undo that and they repeat that presumably over some period of time. And so when we read through what Jesus experienced, I might make a couple of comments on the nature of that execution. You I I don't think we're gonna get to it today. But um you remember one of the pretty sure it's next week. No, it is this week. It is this week Um where the soldiers uh would break the legs of the victims. Um they wouldn't necessarily I don't think do that all the time, but in this case um the timing of it was such that um uh night was coming the Sabbath was gonna happen pretty soon and um so there's some interest in hastening things along. If they break the legs then these guys can't push up on them anymore And uh it's pretty quick after that happens. Okay. Well I'll go ahead and read the blended account here on page two eighty-six. Right, right, right. Okay. Um so it's now about the sixth hour, which is when? Sixth hour was around noon, right? All three of the synoptic gospels refer to this as the sixth hour up until the ninth hour. So the sixth hour would be counting from six a. m. And so six hours from six A. M. would have been about noon. So he's been on the cross. Uh we saw earlier that uh they began this process. uh at around uh the third hour, which would have been nine A. M. And so he's already been there for three hours, but then there's It says here, um from the sixth hour darkness fell upon all the land until the ninth hour Because the sun was obscured. Um and some people might be thinking, oh coincidentally that was an eclipse Well no, I don't think so. You don't have a three hour eclipse. Right? Um this is mira miraculous. Well either way we got a miracle going on, right? Um But this is this is definitely uh evidence to everybody around that this is out of the ordinary. This is um um Well, let's continue reading before we make too much too many comments. But about the ninth hour, um Jesus cried out with a loud voice, Iluai, Iluai, lama sabakshani, which is translated, My God, my God. Why have you forsaken me? You see in our text here that that's all caps. That's because it's a direct quote from the Old Testament, in this case, Psalm 22, verse 1. Psalm twenty-two has a lot of detail about the crucifixion. Of course it was uh written long, long before it ever happened. Um and so why would G apart from quoting that Why would Jesus say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? I was just quoting the King James, wasn't I? Why have you forsaken me? So in what sense was God forsaking Christ? Right. Right. Right. So um of course God the Son had continual Fellowship with God the Father from eternity past. And here is I think what he was agonizing most about in the Garden of Gethsemane the previous evening. which was the prospect of no longer having that fellowship with the Father, however short a time it was. Um and that being, why? Because he was bearing the sins of people who deserved that and he didn't. Um and so he was clearly seeing that as a fulfillment of the prophecy back in Psalm twenty-two. Um what's interesting is that not everybody there, in fact I guess nobody, at least at least the ones who are uh referred to here, seem to understand uh connection But let's uh continue for a minute. For example, it says uh some of the bystanders who were standing there when they heard it began saying, Behold, the man is calling for Elijah. So I don't know if that's possibly because um when he says Eli or Eli, um, it the first thing they thought of was Elijah. Um or If um well, you know, I was gonna say it you know you'd think that given the nature of crucifixion that he might not have speaking v spoken very loudly, but you see what it says He cried out with a loud voice. So everyone heard this. Um and so a lot of the naysayers were trying to think of some reason for it and all they can come up with is calling for Elijah to help him presumably. Yeah, the prophet will name Elijah Yeah, possibly that was in their thinking. It doesn't exactly say that, but it's possible they're thinking that. But the name Elijah, I'm pretty sure, means the Lord He is God. Which by the way was featured very prominently when he was doing battle with the prophets of Baal. The Lord, he is God. Elijah. Um anyway, well the L here is definitely God. My God, my God I'm not exactly sure that may be right. Yeah. And they're very similar, just little dialect differences between the two. Well, in his humanity at least. Um what I find interesting here is as it continues in verse twenty-eight, I guess, in John, after this Jesus, knowing that all things had already been accomplished to fulfill the Scripture, said, I am thirsty. All things had already been accomplished to fulfill the Scripture. What do you think all those things are? He still hasn't died. Yeah. Um let me come back to that actually. Um and so a jar of sour wine was standing there, so immediately one of them I guess one of the soldiers ran and taking a sponge filled it with sour wine and put it on a branch of hyssop and brought it up to his mouth and gave him a drink, saying, Let us see whether Elijah will come and take him down So it's all sarcastic. But the rest of them said, together I guess, uh, in agreement with him, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him. Therefore, when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. Um it is finished. Now that that word, that term, is um you see on the next page the Uh third bullet down. It's uh the Greek word titelistae, which mean it's a financial term. It means paid in full. And uh when I think about that, I think of uh Colossians two, thirteen through fourteen, which is actually included in the note there on page two eighty-seven. Colossians 2. 1314 says, When you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him. Having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt, certificate of debt Consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us, and he is taking it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross So his his sacrifice was clearly in payment for the debt that we owed, a holy God. Not a debt that he owed because he was sinless. Uh but he said paid in full. But he said paid in full before he died. at least before he died physically. But that three hour period, which is now just finished, um, must have been when he died spiritually. A s phisi uh a spiritual separation from God the Father. God the Father turning his back on God the Son because he was burying the the sins of the world. Um you know, all of us uh when we die, uh death, because we're a two-part being, we have a body, the physical material part of us, and we have a spirit uh soul. Scripture uses those terms interchangeably. And when our uh body dies our spirit leaves the body. And we'll see reference to the happening with Christ here in a few minutes. And so if you've studied uh end times much and we talk about um what happens at death. Obviously what what happens to us as human beings when we die are body dies and our spirit goes immediately if we're Christians to be with Christ, uh the body um can be buried, you know, whatever happens to it. Um And the resurrection that will happen in the future is making reference to a resurrection of the body, because the spirit already has gone one place or the other. uh either to be with Christ or to be in uh holding pattern, awaiting final judgment. Um and so in the life of Christ, bec in his humanity He experienced both those same things. His body died, but before his body died, he experienced that separation from the Father. spiritual death. Another related thing to keep in mind is Adam and Eve. God told Adam and Eve, In the day that you eat of that tree you will surely die. Did they die on the day they ate from that tree? Not physically, but they did die spiritually, right? Separated from God. He kicked them out of the garden and they no longer walked with him like they used to Um but there was a death on that first day. It was a substitute, an animal killed, or probably more than one animal, killed to for the skins to cover their chain. Depending on how big the animal was, yeah, they could have been pretty big. Um and so right at the very very beginning, God was trying to teach them that his solution for sin involved A substitute bearing the penalty, which was a picture of what Christ was doing right here. If you understand spiritual death, it's separation from God, cut off from God. And that's what was happening to Jesus during those three hours. Um, at least in his humanity. I don't know that we can fully understand how God the Son and God the Father who experienced complete fellowship and unity in from eternity past could at this moment, just three hours, um be separated. But um the darkness that came over all the land during those three hours I think was was a testimony that something significant was happening here that people weren't under Um so Christ, you know, uh uh Second Corinthians tells us that he Christ became sin on our behalf. And be when he became sin on our behalf, was burying our sin and the guilt and the the alienation from God that comes from that, um he was separated from the Father for three hours. But of course um and I think one of the things he's getting at here is that was not indefinite. It was finished. It was paid in full Jesus refers to perhaps a little bit in John seventeen and his prayer the night before. Uh clearly it was on his mind. Um that the the glory and the uh that they shared together from eternity past. But yeah, how can our finite minds even contemplate? Yeah. Um was there another? Yeah. Um we have a a few indications in scripture um about what happened. But you remember what Jesus said to the thief on the cross Today you will be with me in paradise. So um his spirit, soul separated from the body, we'll get to that in a minute, um, and then went to paradise, wherever that is, um, and this other guy went with him, so it wasn't y unique to Jesus But we know that on the third day his spirit and his body rejoined, although the the body was um uh glorified had characteristics that our limited bodies don't have. Um and we don't understand that either. But um so in between he was at least uh in paradise with um this thief on the cross and presumably with other other saints who had already died who um maybe preceded Christ, um, maybe never knew him, but they had faith in God's provision of the Messiah. Most you know, it's hard to speculate all the details, but that seems to make sense. Okay, so uh he says it is finished Paid in full, and Jesus crying out again with a loud voice, which I'm pretty sure would have been unexpected. Someone who's about to die by crucifixion. But he cries out with a loud voice and says, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And this again is a direct quote from the Psalms, in this case Psalm thirty-one. Verse five. And having said this, he bowed his head and yielded up his spirit and breathed his last. So he yielded up his spirit. It seems to have the sense that Um even in death it was voluntary. He wasn't a victim of it in that sense. Um now the term spirit And the word breathe and breath are really based on the same word, both in Hebrew and in Greek. And um so there's some I wouldn't call that irony, but uh when you breathe your last you're giving up your spirit as well, the unseen immaterial part of us. And then what's interesting, behold The veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. Now what is the veil of the temple? Right. The veil that separated the call it the holy part of the of the temple from the most holy place where what the Ark of the Covenant was, where God um uh resided. Um and so that veil was actually quite thick. It was it was quite a wall of separation. So that even the normal priests who are doing their normal activity within the holy place wouldn't accidentally go into the holy most holy place. And It says the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. What does that suggest? God did it. There's now access Um and God did it because it's from top to bottom, but also it just happened. Uh nobody was up there kind of trying to tear it or had any scissors or a knife or anything God did it and um it was obviously a an intervention by God, a miraculous intervention, to visualize The implications of what just happened. Yes. Yeah. Um now as I get to thinking about this Um, yeah, the timing is is critical. God has a very definite sense of timing for things in terms of fulfillment of prophecy and his whole program of salvation. Um but I'm pretty sure nobody there at Golga would have known about the veil of the temple being split from top to bottom. Who would have known? The priest, yeah. Word probably got out a and eventually people would have connected the dots, I think. They had to have. It was a miraculous display of God's sovereignty and and uh his messaging that it happened at the very hour, presumably the very minute when Christ uh um died physically, breathed his last. Um kind of announcing to the world, starting with the priests, that it is finished, paid in full. I think it's a possibility Um yeah the um let's see where is that? Is it that's in Matthew, is it Matthew only who recorded that? No? Mark has it and Luke has it Um I'm I'm pretty sure, in fact I'm positive, that God had could have revealed that to the gospel writers later when they were writing it, but I'm almost equally confident that it was understood by everybody Um this is not something that would have uh not been noticed and Word would have gradually gotten out Although probably the people who would have actually noticed it, whether they saw it happen in person or whether they just next time they came in they said, hey, what happened? And they might have asked around And that's how they learned. Um but I'm pretty sure that those priests, for the most part, um, would have been uh skeptical of its connection with the death of Christ. They're probably not a very um what, congenial group of people when confronted with the possibility that God did this as a testimony of what was happening on the cross. Well, since you raised it, let's let's continue reading here. This wasn't the only uh manifestation Um and the earth shook and the rocks were split. Now who who would have noticed that Everybody. Right? Everybody would have noticed that. And the people there on Golgotha would have seen the connection of the timing. And even the priests in the temple um would have felt the earthquake. And with the earthquake and the The the uh tearing of the the temple of the veil happening at basically the same time, uh they must have initially thought that there's a connection, but their thinking probably was it's just a a a natural event. An earthquake happened Right, and somehow or other it had the effect this effect on the veil, but of course they would have been scratching their heads in what way would the earthquake have had that effect on the veil Uh until later they realized. Yeah, exactly. Good point. Um and so later they would have Come to realize that it all happened. People would say, well the earthquake happened, right a this guy died. And it was already dark for three hours Um so it's possible that um some of those priests would have been drawn to the conclusion that that um uh I guess we're gonna see it next week. No, we're gonna see it in a few minutes. Uh the conclusion that this was the Son of God. Some of them may have come to that conclusion, particularly if they saw the veil, and maybe even have some thoughts about what the meaning of it was. But we don't know that. We don't know that. Well, um question is what is the whole w what's We're we're talking about God the Father, God the Son. What about the Holy Spirit in this whole event? I think the only thing we know specifically in Scripture is his connection to the resurrection For sure. Um yeah, yeah. I think that's probably a good surmise, surmision. Um it would make sense, but I don't I can't think of any verses that address that. So he may well have left at that point for the th full three hours and then um was later involved in the resurrection and You start all over again, I guess. Um yeah, it wouldn't make sense for God the Father to be separated from God the Son if the Holy Spirit wasn't also you know. Okay, so um the earth shook and the rocks were split, the tombs were open, maybe with the help of a little Splitting of rocks. And many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised. Of course, fallen asleep is a re reference to what? They were dead, right? They're in the grave. Um and they were raised. And coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, that must have been interesting. They entered the holy city and appeared to many Um you know how there are uh various uh takes on uh Bible events and the life of Christ and so on. I'd love to see one that focused on that. And the reaction people would have had to their loved ones coming out of the graves and the conversions that may have happened Of course, what happened um fifty days later at Pentecost may have been partly due to um the testimony of people who met the Rot it doesn't say how long these people were alive after coming out of the grave. Um but they may have been just like Lazarus and they probably died eventually later anyway, but um Can you imagine? Seeing any of your your loved ones coming out of the grave and um Yeah, yeah. And all this stuff happening at the same time as a testimony that God is orchestrating that this is not just life changing, it's it's a whole paradigm shift. Um fulfillment of God's promise and and so on. Uh sorry, yes Uh the glorified bodies part I think is gotta be the case. Uh what happened to them after I'm not I think is mostly conjecture. Uh I'm not aware that we have any any uh evidence in Scripture. Yeah, but how long they stayed around and what they did, we don't know. But I'm pretty sure the impact and the intent was directed at people's hearts. And um I only wish we had some indication of the extent of that. People um going from skeptic to believer because of what God uh had done Yeah, yeah. So um good good observation. The resurrection was not just of Christ, but it was of other um presumably saints, people who were believers who had died. Um yeah. Okay. Any other thoughts, questions? Yes. But what it's not clear is when the raising happened. Coming out of the tombs it says explicitly. Now there may be something in the in the grammar there that maybe connects the timing, but I'm not aware of that. wrestling with the implications of that. Well, you know, that that might need to go on your list that you're gonna ask the Lord when you get to have it. Yeah, I'm not sure that we know to what extent people observe the walking out of the graves. Some of them they would have had to have, but Ask you with glorified bodies. No, no, it's like Jesus' body when he was raised. Um they were enough like our bodies that were they're recognizable, even his scars were recognizable. But capable of doing things like entering a locked room without going through the doors, you know, and and to rise into heaven and um having capabilities that because they're in a glorified state um our current physical bodies can't do. And so that presumably was true of them as well. Okay. So much opportunity for conjecture here. But um it's just fascinating. Obvious it seems like just coming back a little bit, seems obvious that God was um um doing several very key things to make a very clear message to everybody. Um some of it, like the the tearing of the veil, was very localized and took a while probably for the news of that to get out Some of it was everybody experienced, like the earthquakes. Um, but um God was putting his his um But his ultimate step stamp of approval was at the resurrection, right? But he was saying he's making a statement here that people uh pay attention. This is crucial. Okay, um let's go to section two oh two on page two eighty-seven and um I'll read the blended account. Uh therefore the soldiers did these things. Now that's that's um actually a r a repeat uh something we had earlier from John nineteen. Um the things that they did that it was referring to is the dividing of the garments. And so on. Now when the centurion and those who were with him keeping guard over Jesus, when they saw the earthquake, presumably they saw the earth Trembling, the the effects of the earthquake. And the things that were happening became very frightened and began praising God. Now that's an interesting combination. frightened and praising God. Um God put the fear of God into it. I think is what it's saying. Um And the result of that is to acknowledge that God was doing this. That's praising him. And so Earlier they presumably and others were mocking Christ. Now they're actually attributing all this to the work of God. It seems like it, yeah. Yeah. I don't think it means all of them necessarily. Uh The centurion specifically is singled out. Centurion i is a title of the the military leader of a thousand or a hundred soldiers And uh it didn't take all hundred of them to carry out I don't think, to carry out the crucifixion, but certainly the people who did were under his command. And so he appears to have connected the dots. Um certainly this man was innocent. And then Matthew records, truly this was the Son of God. So not only was he innocent, but this is God's demonstration that everything this guy said must have been true. And so they didn't have a lot to go on other than than that. Um and so uh in in keeping with much of the gospel narrative and Jesus' um experience, the ones who seem to have faith are the Gentiles rather than the Jews. And to a large extent that was true here too. It's both. As in you will see in a minute there are a lot of Jews. But in terms of the ones who were unsaved who ought to be connecting the dots and getting a message from this, it was the Gentiles who were at least recorded here as Connecting the dots and believing. Uh and all the crowds who came together for this spectacle. What was the spectacle? The whole crucifixion itself. Yeah, it's it's it's it's there as a public show, partly as a deterrent to would-be criminals, um, but also a a uh very clear demonstration of the power of Rome. Don't mess. Right? Um, but it's a spectacle. A lot of people probably watched it on their cell phones It went viral. It would have in these days for sure. When they observed what had happened and began to return, return where Return home or where they were staying in Jerusalem. They began to return, beating their breasts, which means what? Sign of sorrow, um not necessarily godly repentance. But it was a somber theme and uh would have been nice if they came to the same conclusion as the centurion. Um And all his acquaintances and many of the women who have followed Jesus from Galilee while ministering to him were standing at a distance So we've got a crowd of people at some distance who were followers of Christ, including presumably most, if not all, of the remaining disciples at some distance They were looking on and seeing these things. But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother, his mother, his mother's sister, Salome. the mother of the sons of Zebedee, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the wife of Clopus. We have a an abundance of Marys here, the mother of James the last and Joseph And there are many other women who came with him to Jerusalem. Okay. So if you look on page 288, uh there is some um confusion about who all these people are, some of them named, some of them not. And if you look across Matthew Mark and John, where they're they're mentioned by name. Um some of them, like Mary Magdalene features, Mary the Mother of Jesus features, um, but most of the others There's some question. And so one of those questions has to do with Matthew saying, the mother of the sons of Zebedee, James and John, who up until this point, and we've we've seen her before Right? She came to Jesus asking for her two sons to be one at his right and one at his left and so on. She wasn't named, just the mother of James and John. And Mark refers to a solome, and John refers to his mother's sister, Jesus' aunt. And so various speculation uh has been offered as to who these various people are. Um who was his mother's sister, Jesus' aunt. And so one of them one of the theories is that it was Mary the wife of Klopus, but that doesn't really make sense for there to be two Marys in the same home. Mary the mother of Jesus and Mary the wife of Klopas. That's probably not right. Um It could be someone because she's not named here is not named anywhere else in scripture. And um the fact that it mentions she was there and what the relationship was but didn't name her um makes that somewhat unlikely. I think the best likelihood is that it's Salome, um where in uh Mark she's named by name and in Matthew if that's the correct um Inference, she's referred to as the mother of the sons of Zebedee, James and John. So their father was Zebedee, but what was the mother's name. In this case um it would have been Salome. Um John mentions his mother's sister. And so there's several relational connections here that are possible. If it's true that this Salome is both the mother of James and John and the sister of Jesus mother, Mary, that would have made James and John Jesus' what? Cousins. Cousins. Which may explain a few things. in terms of their their um boldness and also her boldness in going to Christ. Uh there's some family connection here, it uh maybe more natural. It's still speculation. I don't know But um for what it's worth, I think I would favor the Salome uh explanation. Okay, any other questions at this point about the death of What what kind of good observation? Um what kind of things do you think the centurion would have been processing about the behavior of the events of Christ. He may have even heard him say, Father forgive them for they know what they're doing And then you see all these these earthquakes and the and the darkening of the sun. Um so it's the the character of Jesus coming out, but then sort of accentuated by all these other events. Um yeah I think God intended to use those various events to get people's attention. Yeah. Any other thoughts, questions? Yeah, so um look are you on page two eighty-eight? The table there. So um Matthew refers to the mother of the sons of Zebedee. James and John, who were both disciples. Mark makes reference to Mary, the mother of James the less. That's a different chain, right? So he's the son of Alpheus, she would have been the wife of Alpheus Right. So um there's not yeah, so look at that table again on two eighty eight, um where in Mark it makes reference to Mary, the mother of James the less, and Joseph. Now Joseph was not one of the disciples, but he was a brother. You probably was well known among the disciples at some point, whether then or later So he's mentioned. Um but Mary the wife of Clopus is likely to be that same person as Mary the mother of James. Oh I see you you're saying because James is the son of Alphaeus Yes. Yes. Well look at uh the first paragraph. Yeah. So um Clophis and Alpheus are two Greek pronunciations of the same common Hebrew name, Kelfi. So um Mark was using one And John was using the other. And this Clopas is not the same as Cleopas, if that's the way it's pronounced, who we meet on the Emmaus Road. Yeah, names are sometimes hard to track through and and can be very confusing. So um Right. There are several things that Peter, James, and John experienced with Christ that the others didn't. So they're kind of his inner circle. And so there may have been some nepotism going on there. I don't know. Yeah, yeah. So um a lot of names like today, you know, a lot of people have the same name and keeping track of which one's which. I mean Mary is the best example here Right? And trying to figure out which one's which is sometimes confusing. Yeah. Anyway. The impact of that piece about the the women, just to step back for a minute and kind of bring a closing to our thoughts. is that there are many, many eyewitnesses, many of whom were either skeptics or in this case um very confused. Um and a lot of them were women who were devoted but not in any shape to form a conspiracy about the resurrection Um and his disciples weren't in any shape to do that either. Which speaks to the the uh what the veracity of the resurrection itself. That it's not something that was contrived by these people who were uh um distraught, they were uh confused, upset, and yet eventually they went out and died because of the resurrection. They gave up their lives. Complete transformation. Anyway, let's go ahead and pray. Father, thank you that you have recorded even details in your word from who was there to just the manifestation of your power and the significance of that moment that um all could experience and see, uh all would eventually learn about to um expose the hearts of those who are hard hearted and perhaps to um to soften the hearts of those who you were calling to yourself. Lord I pray that that that reality would continue to be true uh in these days, uh toward the fulfillment of all that you planned for salvation and for the world, and that um That even in our experience we would be not eyewitnesses, but witnesses nonetheless of your death, burial, and resurrection And its impact in our lives. Pray that that would be honoring and glorifying to you. Pray in Jesus' name. Amen.