Well we see examples in scripture of um people asking why Lord or how long Lord um and sometimes he lets us know Sometimes we'll never know. But we need to be very very comfortable knowing that God knows and He's revealed to us and will reveal to us everything we need. Um ours is not a position where we need to demand to know everything. No, no, I don't think it's a sin to ask why. It's a sin to get angry that you don't get the answer or you don't get the answer you want. You can ask But it doesn't mean he's necessarily going to give you the answer in your timing or at all. And that's okay. We need to be okay with that. Guard against that for sure. Yeah. Well, that was um last week. So I'm on page 160, uh section 114, and uh we have some interaction here between Christ and Pharisees, similar to some we've seen already This is taken from Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And I'll be reading from the blended account on 161. And he came home. Where was that? Copernum. And he came home and the crowd gathered again to such an extent that they could not even eat a meal. This was the typical thing, right? People were crowding around him Um many of whom for selfish reasons, but not all. And when his own people heard of this, who do you suppose those were? I think it would have said disciples. Probably his family. Yeah, the w the term there doesn't have to mean family, but it could. Extended family. But we already know that his brothers, pretty much all of his brothers at this point didn't believe him. They're probably very jealous of him. Why are we the ones that get in trouble, not Jesus? I'd be jealous. Um and we do know of a case where his mother and brothers came to question him and didn't say so much about the content of the message in that case. But here, um He says when his own people heard of this, they went out to take custody of him for they were saying he has lost his senses. So they had some responsibility for him, they thought. So this again points to the probability that this is probably his brothers, or at least some of them Then a demon possessed man who was blind and mute was brought to Jesus, and he healed him so that when the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke and he saw. So both the muteness and the blindness were were uh healed. All the crowds were amazed and were saying, This man, meaning Jesus, cannot be the son of David, can he? Meaning, you don't suppose this is the Messiah, do you? But when the Pharisees and scribes who came down From Jerusalem heard this, came down from Jerusalem. Capernaum's north of Jerusalem. What does down mean? Down in elevation J Jerusalem is way high and Capernaum is down below sea level from the shore of the Sea of Galilee. Um from Jerusalem heard about this Some of them said, this man is possessed by and cast out demons only by Beelzebub, the ruler of the demon. Beelzebub is um derived from a um apparently a Philistine uh god it's related to Baal in the name, but it basically means the ruler of the demons, and so these Pharisees and scribes are using a non um uh a non-Hebrew name, a a cultural uh term that the people around them use, but essentially they mean Satan So the chief of the demons. And others to test him were demanding of him a sign from heaven Now isn't that interesting? Demanding a sign and yet they're attributing his signs to Satan. Maybe what they're thinking is, give us one more chance to evaluate your sign to see where it might be coming from But in in their hearts they're unbelieving. Right? And, knowing their thoughts, Jesus began speaking to them in parables. meaning a parable of a parallel illustration to drive home a point. And he said, uh any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste. In any city or house divided against itself False and will not stand. How can Satan cast out Satan? If Satan casts out Satan, he is also divided against himself. He is finished. How then will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebel. If I by Beelzebel cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? For this reason they will be your judges But if I cast out demons by the finger of the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Now that's the conclusion they did not want to come to. Right? Or how can anyone enter a strong man's house and carry off his property unless he first binds the strongman? When a strong man fully armed guards his own house, his possessions are undisturbed. But when Someone stronger than he attacks him and overpowers him, he takes him away from him all his armor on which he had relied and distributes His plunder. What's his point there? In connection with casting out demons, strong man, binding the strong man. So in order for anybody to cast out a demon, he has to be stronger than the demon. He has to bind the a and um get rid of the demon, essentially. Um and so he's saying that If I've done that, I'm stronger than the demons, I've got more authority, more power than the demons. Um that should be evidence enough Right? Well, they would say, well, Satan has power over that, but Jesus' answer is what? Then his kingdom is divided. He's he's it it doesn't make sense Yeah, it's it is interesting, however, uh and I think again back at Matthew thirteen with the uh parable of the four soils that When ge um when Jesus spoke that parable, his disciples asked him, so why do you speak in parables? And his answer was Uh so that those who can understand will understand. And that those who don't understand, it's over their head. What happens when someone doesn't understand? Their heart is hardened and they hear a very clear gospel presentation and they don't respond. They're held more accountable than they would have with just a parable. I think part of what Jesus is doing here is he's answering the question by parables, knowing the hardness of these Pharisees' hearts. Um but his answers to them were also beneficial to his disciples, lest there be anyone that had a doubt. Um we don't have the advantage of knowing people's hearts. And so we need to presume that God may be working in that person's heart And so we need to be as gentle um and and thorough as we can be in the context, but we need to recognize that if their heart is hardened And they're hearing the very clear truth, that may bring them under even greater judgment. And so we need to be praying for it. Okay So where was I? Verse 30, right in the middle. He who is not with me is against me, and he who he who does not gather with me scatters Therefore, truly I say to you, any sin and blasphemy blasphemy they utter shall be forgiven people, but blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven. Do you think he was pointing any fingers at that point? Those Pharisees. Whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man, that is Christ, he's saying, me It shall be forgiven him. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it shall never be forgiven him, either in this age or in the age to come. He is guilty of an eternal sin because they were saying he has an unclean spirit. So what does it mean to blaspheme the Holy Spirit? It means to, like they did, attribute the w the clear work of the Spirit to demons. to Satan. And to den to have a heart that's so hardened that you don't see what's just plain before your eyes that the work of the Holy Spirit is a work of God, not a work of demons And it's it's something that someone would do whose heart is very much hardened. Set in its ways. Um, there won't be an opportunity for God to forgive that person because God doesn't give him God's not going to give that particular person um a heart that will understand. Which is the only way someone can come up to understand the work of the Holy Spirit. Yeah, does the heart get hardened? Um quickly or over time, uh yes. Um I don't know it's it's too easy to generalize, but I I think Uh most people with a hardened heart have increased their hardness over time. Um but I don't know that that's a universal principle, but it just seems like it makes sense. But the point I want to make here though Is well with the question, is this a sin that a Christian can commit? No. That is the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit is not a sin that a Christian can commit. Why Because the Holy Spirit's living in every believer, and God sovereignly has softened our hearts in order to become a believer So that even though we do sin from time to time, our predisposition is we're a child of God and we're not going to deny the Holy Spirit's work, which is the foundation of the whole our whole coming to Christ and our salvation. Um moreover, it's very clear in Scripture that someone who is saved, they're in Christ, doesn't lose their salvation. Um yeah, we sin, and God has provision for sanctifying us over time, but um a genuine believer will not commit this sin. That's good news Right. Yeah, and um that's a good contrast. The fruit that we have, of course, is the work of the Holy Spirit. Right. And the fruit that they have is the result of their unbelief. Uh yeah, I was going to say something else, but I guess I forgot. Anyway, where are we at? We are on verse 33. Either and we're on page 161. Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad. For the tree is known by its fruit. That's what Glenn was saying, right? You brood of vipers. How can you, being evil Speak what is good, for the mouth speaks out of which of that which fills the heart. Verse 35. The good man brings out of his good treasure what is good, and the evil man brings out his evil treasure out of his evil treasure what is evil. But I tell you that every careless word that people speak they shall be Give an accounting for it in the day of judgment. For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Now, when the unclean spirit goes out of a man It passes through waterless places seeking rest and does not find it. Then it says, I will return to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds it unoccupied, swept, and put in order, then it goes out and takes along with it seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they go in and live there And the last state of that man becomes worse than the first. That is the way it is also with the evil of this generation. So it's a way of saying they become more and more hardened, right? While the Jews were saying these things, one of the women in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you and the breast at which you nursed. But he said On the contrary, blessed are those who hear the Word of God and observe it. What does he mean by observe it? Obey it. Yes, observe it. Right? So that's the contrast between the Pharisees who came to him seeking to test him and to accuse him of doing things in the power of Satan Uh the contrast to that is someone who hears the word and obeys it, which they were not. Any other thoughts there? Short thoughts Okay. Let's go on to section 151 or 115 on page 162. This is now just Matthew and Luke. And I'll read from the blended account. Then as the crowds were increasing, some of the scribes and Pharisees said to him, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you. Here we go again. But he answered and said and began to say to them, This generation is an evil and adulterous generation. What does he mean by adulterous? Yeah. They're they're not worshiping the true God, they're worshiping a god of their own imaginations. And that's an offense to the true God, right? This generation is an evil and adulterous generation. It craves for a sign, yet no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster and became assigned to the Nunavites, so will be the Son of Man. So the Son of Man will be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. The men of Nineveh will stand up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn this generation Because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, but behold, something greater than Jonah is here And by way of another example, he said, the Queen of the South, Queen of Sheba, right, will rise up with the men of this generation at the judgment and will condemn them because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold something greater than Solomon's here. No one, after lighting a lamp, puts it away in a cellar, nor under a basket, but on the lampstand. So that those who enter may see the light. The eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is clear, your whole body will also be full of light. But when it is bad, your body also is full of darkness. Then watch out that the light in you is not darkness. If therefore your whole body is full of light, with no dark part in it, it will be wholly illumined as when the lamp illumines you with its rays. So what do you think would have happened? Here's speculation. What do you think would have happened if the the um scribes and Pharisees said, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you And he shows them some sign, what do you think their response would have been What we just saw. Oh, he does that by the the power of Satan, right? He already knew their hearts. There's no need for another sign here. Uh but the sign that he promised was what? His resurrection, yeah. And that's going to be a sign that's gonna be real hard to ignore. Um you think that w that was clear what what that w it was clear to his hearers what that sign was gonna be? No, they were probably scratching their heads. I would have been. Um but later after the resurrection these things came back to their minds, right? And um his disciples realized that he was referring to uh his resurrection. That calls into memory back when he cleansed the temple the first time, back in John Two. Um they asked something similar and he said no sign will be given to you except um I'm not sure if he said the sign of Noah but he says you tear down this this temple will be torn down and in three days I will raise it up again And John makes the comment that after his resurrection it clicked. They understood what he was talking about. And um so here a second time he's using um Some reference to to what's happened in the past to his resurrection. Do you think People today, when they're considering the claims of Christ, um are looking for a sign as to whether they should believe it or not. one way or another I think a lot of people do. You know, why should I believe the Bible? Um that all seems like fantastic stories and and stuff. Um if their predisposition is to deny the supernatural then of course they're not going to be receptive to a sign. But God can use his word and can soften hearts and uh it's neat to see when that happens. Or extraterrestrials maybe. Yeah. Anything to um peak their imagination and and whatever, but they can't bring themselves and and you know, one of the reasons people come up with all sorts of explanations of things, including that, you know, we've evolved over billions of years is the only alternative is that we're here by an act of a sovereign creator Which means we're accountable to him and they'd rather not believe that. So I'll believe anything else, so long as it doesn't hold me accountable Ultimately that's what's going on. Professing to be wise, they become fools. Okay. Uh anything else here on this one? Yeah. Yeah, and this much of what um Luke has here again i is parallel to what some of what Jesus had in the Sermon on the Mount, uh in this case in Matthew five. Um So when he's talking about the light here and a lamp, um, verse 34, the eye is the lamp of your body. When your eye is clear, your whole body is full of light. So when your eye is um not distorted. Your your perception of things is not distorted by the things of the world and so on. You're seeing clearly the truth of God Um and here it's not speaking of he's using the the analogy of physical working of the eye to give a spiritual um lesson that if we're if we're seeing things as they really are, because God is um um allowed us to understand his truth and to be receptive to his truth and we're not hardened and and rejecting it, then that's going to have an impact on our whole lives. And So someone doesn't someone who has genuine light, genuine truth from God, doesn't conceal it. You don't put it under a what did he say here? Uh uh under in a cellar. You know a cellar, right? That's basement essentially. Um and um you don't put it in a basket like with a basket on top of it, um, so that the light doesn't go anywhere. The point of having God's truth is to um share it that it would be uh noticeable by people. And um you know, if if what you have as your wisdom is not God's wisdom, then it's just as well that you put it in the basket. But if it is God's wisdom then we should put it on display. And Matthew, he said, um uh you're you'd be a city on a hill, you know, you'd be shining um for others to see. Does that help Yeah, yeah, we've we've ti we've seen that multiple times so far going through the life of Christ where sometimes he will say, um, um, you maybe if it's a healing, go to the priest because that was the the commandment under the law to demonstrate that you're clean. Uh but for the most part he would say things like, Don't tell anybody. Um he said that mostly to Jews around the area where he was ministering and uh in contrast with at least one point where he was on in the Decapolis area on the eastern side of the Sea of Galilee, and he told the demon possessed man who demon left him and went into the Um to go back to your hometown, your area and tell them what God has done for you. Um the difference, I'm pretty sure, is what we were seeing uh in both of these passages. Uh for example on page one hundred sixty one I guess it's Mark 320. When he came home, the crowd gathered a around again to such an extent that they could not even eat a meal. Right. So we see evidence of that lots of times in his ministry that the crowds just made things really hard logistically. he would often have compassion on them, but that just fed the crowd, literally and figurative. Um and the more people pressed in on him and the more he realized that a lot of it was people were just coming For selfish reasons, just for the spectacle, just to watch things. It wasn't o out of a genuine repentant heart, but also because by this time in his ministry he wanted to invest largely in the training of his disciples, preparing them for his departure. And he couldn't do that if he was inundated with crowds all the time. He had already ministered m to much of the crowds and he continu would continue to do so, but a steady diet of that meant it would be logistically hard for him to prepare his disciples And they didn't do it anyway. Right. And which is natural, but um you see both kind of instructions from Jesus, mostly the ones where he says, Don't tell anybody were in um Israel proper and um after he had already been ministering to large crowds and they just kept getting bigger. Um okay. So let's go to section 116. Hard to believe. We're on the last section of this lesson, and we've got time to do it. Jesus challenges the hypocrisy of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law. Have we been there before? We've seen this repeatedly, right? I'm sorry. Yes, that is it. Yep. 116, right? On page 163. Now, when he had spoken, a Pharisee, and these Pharisees were often in those crowds and were trying to figure this out. They had a vested interest in understanding what's going on and you can't fault them for that. Um but one of these Pharisees asked him to have lunch with him. Um is that a good thing or a bad thing? Um I don't think so, but let's look for any clues of that here in this particular case. But um It could very well have been that he was being hospitable and he had genuine interest to understand, for all we know. Um and He saw the value of getting alone with him rather than just being in the whole crowds and uh having a good conversation and so on. Um I I think it could be a commendable thing. Um and he went in, Jesus went in with him, reclined at table, and when the Pharisees saw it, he was surprised that he, Jesus, had not first ceremonially washed his before the meal. Now, this is not a concern of washing your hands because they're dirty and it's unhealthy to eat your food. That's not what the Pharisees is complaining about. or or astonished about, but there is this it says specifically, um, had not first ceremonially washed before the meal. Ceremonial washing was a tradition of the Jews particularly the Pharisees, so that not only would you keep the law, but you would keep these man made traditions that are heaped on top of the law, and if you violate them, you're certainly in danger of violating the actual law I guess what's they're thinking. Uh anyway, they were treating these man-made traditions as really equal with the law. And you are really in danger if you violate any of these things And they knew that Jesus would have understood that. Um but they were surprised that he had not first ceremonially washed himself before the meal. But the Lord said to him Now you Pharisees clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but inside you are full of robbery and wickedness. That's a nice way to talk to your host. He's getting right to the point, isn't he? You foolish ones, did not he who made the outside make the inside also? But give that which is within as charity, and then all things are clean for you. But woe to you, Pharisees, for you pay tithe of mint and roux and every kind of garden herb. So if you've got these herbs that are growing, you give a tenth to the Lord This this very detailed um uh observance, and yet you disregard the justice and love of God, much more important But these things you should have done without neglecting the others, the more important things. Woe to you, Pharisees, for you love the chiefs seats in the synagogues and the respectful greetings in the marketplaces, woe to you for you are like concealed tombs, and the people who walk over them are unaware of it. One of the lawyers, now this is not an attorney, you remember. These lawyers were the experts in the Jewish law And its interpretation, its application. One of them said to him in reply, Teacher, when you say this, you're insulting us too. And Jesus is probably thinking, that was my intent. Uh if it applies, if the shoe fits, wear it, right? Verse 46. But he said, Woe to you lawyers as well. For you weigh down men weigh men down with burdens hard to bear, when you yourselves will not even touch the burdens with one of your fingers You're not going to be helping you you place these man made burdens on people, but you're not even helping them to to bear those Burdens. Woe to you, for you build the tombs of the prophets, and it was your fathers who killed them. So you are witnesses and approve of the deeds of your fathers, because it was they who killed them, and you build their tombs. For this reason also the wisdom of God said, I will send to them prophets and apostles, and some of them they will kill, and some of them they will persecute, so that the blood of all the prophets shed From the foundation of the world may be charged against this generation. From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the house of God. Yes, I tell you It shall be charged against this generation. Woe to you lawyers. He doesn't give up here. For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You yourselves did not enter And you hindered those who were entering. When he left there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be very hostile and to question him closely on many subjects, plotting against him To catch him in something, he might say. But he's at the point in his ministry uh where he's approaching Golgotha And he knows there's going to be increasing opposition and he didn't want to have any misunderstanding um about him being just a good teacher and fitting in with their hypocrisy Um I don't know. I th if the guy had some the the the the Pharisee who invited him to lunch, if he had altruistic motives, he wasn't essentially Let's give them the benefit of the doubt. Um everything Jesus said about him and the rest of them certainly was true and it was either convicting Or it further hardened him, and I'm guessing the latter. Um but it's interesting, even with Nicodemus, um, Jesus with these people, but also with Nicodemus, wasn't um um what, counting on or dwelling on the possibility that this guy is close to believing. Um Jesus was actually very um It's kinda hard on Nicodemus. And um we don't have any this wasn't Nicodemus, I'm sure, but we don't have any um of the background story of Nicodemus's um progression between that very early confrontation with Jesus in uh John 3 and the Nicodemus we see after the crucifixion who helped to bury the body of Christ, who apparently by then um was a full believer. Um and it may have been the the raising of Lazarus or perhaps some other things in between, we don't know. But um most of the Pharisees didn't have that progression. At least at this point. Actually in the book of Acts you do see reference to um Pharisees, even other than Paul. um priests and and so on who came to Christ, which is fascinating. It's encouraging. But at this point, these official uh teachers and uh law specialists were so hardened that um he had to call a spade a spade to challenge them. Uh did this guy or any others Um eventually come to faith, we don't know. The immediate reperc repercussion here is um uh in general the scribes and the Pharisees began to be very hostile to it. to him as if they weren't already, um, plotting to catch him and to have some basis for the conclusion they had already come to that he needs to be removed We need to get rid of them. Let's find a basis for doing it, um, which just reveals what's in the heart. Um one little note here, I don't know if you have any side notes in your copy of the Bible. Um He says, from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, and he's talking about prophets who were who were killed. Abel, we don't normally think of Abel as a prophet, but he probably was speaking the truth that God had revealed to them, to his brother Cain, and you see where it got Abel. Um Zechariah, he's one of the last prophets in the Old Testament. But as it turns out, that Zechariah is the son of Barekiah, as we see in Zechariah 1-1. And we don't have any record of his death in Scripture. There was another Zechariah who was the son of Jehoiada in 2 Chronicles 24 who was stoned in the temple court, much like what Jesus is describing here. So was Jesus speaking of that earlier Zechariah, you know, separated by something like three hundred years? Or was he speaking of this last prophet, Zechariah, whose death we don't actually know. Well, if if it's the latter one, then according to Jesus, he was killed in much the same way the earlier Zechariah was killed Even though there's not a record of it in the scripture. Uh if it refers to the earlier one, then he probably was not a his actual father was probably not Jehoiada the priest, but he was a descendant of Jehoiada the priest. But his actual father must have been um well, people have speculated that there was another Becheriah as well. Anyway, it's not that huge of a problem The simplest understanding of it is that Jesus is exactly right. Um and the fact that we don't have any evidence of the type the manner of death of the last prophet Zechariah It just means it didn't get included in Scripture. There's a lot of things that didn't get included in Scripture. Um so and that's kind of the point that he's making here of all those prophets God sent for a purpose and um The fault was not theirs, the fault was the listeners, people responding poorly. And the point Jesus is making, uh this This generation is even more uh culpable because someone greater than any of those prophets is here referring to himself. And um just to kind of repeat the obvious here, when Jesus is condemning the the Pharisees and even the lawyers that they focus too much on the external things and not the internal things. What he's referring to there on the inside, of course, is the condition of the heart. Right. Are they um if they're clean on the inside, if they're clean with with respect to where their heart is before God and they're not harboring sin and unbeliefs and and so on, then what's going to come out is something consistent with that What's gonna be seen is gonna be driven by what is not seen in the heart. Uh the one d description he gave in a similar situation where he was pronouncing all those woes on the Pharisees. The one I like the most is um you're a bunch of whitewashed tunes that look great on the outside but you're full of dead man's bones on the inside. Um we need to be careful that that's not us. Um God is looking at the heart and if we go through life just trying to put on um go through the motions, all the externals look fine. But on the inside we're full of dead man's bones. Um may that not be true of us. Anyway, any thoughts, questions on this last section? Okay, let's go ahead and close. Father, what powerful uh words Jesus would give to his detractors. He was certainly loving and gracious, and yet there was a time for him to be firm and direct, convicting. Even when he knew that that conviction would fall on deaf ears. And um Lord, I pray that we would have wisdom to uh know how to balance uh gracious, loving, humble attitudes toward others. And when would be the right time to be more direct and convicting by your spirit Um thank you for your your uh lessons to us in the life of Christ. Pray that we would uh learn those lessons well and rely on your leading to Uh not only hear the word but to obey it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen