Well, uh I heard that we didn't make it through the last section of last lesson, right? Last week. Uh you must have uh Uh given Jeff lots of questions uh to wrestle with. So I think we're on page one twenty six Well i that section actually begins on one twenty five, but the blended text is on the bottom of one twenty six. Um This is the Pharisees rebuke Jesus about ceremonial defilements. It's kind of a common theme in Jesus' interaction with the Pharisees. But I'll go ahead and read beginning to the bottom of 126. After these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee For he was unwilling to walk in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. So that obviously was a uh a question of timing, not if but when, right? Now was not the right time. And then some Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered around him when they had come from Jerusalem. And had seen that some of his disciples were eating their bread with impure hands, that is, unwashed. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they carefully wash their hands. Now is that a bad thing? No, I mean washing your hands before you eat is a good thing, right? Um but it clarifies here, thus observing the traditions of the elders. Those traditions are things that they would uh add on to the law, the legal requirements of God, um, to become as required as the elements of the law itself, thinking that that would be the uh the thing that God would want. Anyway, verse four. And when they had come from the marketplace, uh they do not eat unless they cleanse themselves And there are many other things which they have received in order to observe, such as the washing of cups and pitchers and pots. So it's not inherently wrong to do that, right? What's Jesus' problem Not that they clean and wash their hands and they're meticulous about that, but what? Yeah, so they're and he'll actually um put it this way several times. Uh It it's not what they're doing, it's why they're doing it. Right. And so they're doing it for just the external um uh the external um in their mind obedience to God's instructions when really they're man's instructions. Um but not doing it from the heart, right? Doing it for for more selfish reasons than godly reasons. Verse five, the Pharisees and scribes asked him Why do your disciples do your disciples not walk according to the commandments of God, or I'm sorry, the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with impure hands? So they're acknowledging these are traditions. And Um you know how it is with traditions. Well we've always done it that way. We do it because it's a tradition, not because it's God's rule. And he said to them, Why do you transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? No he he often answers a question with a question kind of turn the conversation to what's really important. And in this case, how uh hypocritical they're being. You transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition. That's a pretty serious rebuke, right? Rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far away from me. But in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the precepts of men. That's all from Isaiah twenty-nine, thirteen So Jesus continued, neglecting the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of man, which is more important, the commandment of God. Right. And if the tradition of men conflicts with the go the commandment of God, guess what? The tradition's wrong. Or at least our motive for doing it is wrong. Um verse nine. He was also saying to them You are experts at setting aside the commandment of God in order to keep your tradition. I think if you had asked them, they would say, well, the tradition is supporting are compliance with God's law. I think that's probably what they would say. But Jesus is saying, you're not really doing that. It's all external. It's for the wrong motive. And so he says, verse 10, for Moses said Honor your father and your mother. And he who speaks evil of father or mother is to be put to death. But you say, if a man says to his father or mother, whatever I have that would help you is Korba, that is to say, given to God. So Jesus said, you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or his mother, thus invalidating the word of God by your tradition, which you have handed down. And you do many things such as that. You see the issue he's making here that the the fundamental uh commandment of God to honor your father and mother, I mean it's even in the Ten Commandments, um, is circumvented by their their rules that uh provide exceptions and and so on. Uh verse fourteen After he called the crowd to him again, he began saying to them, Listen to me, all of you, and understand, there is nothing outside the man which can defile him If it goes into him. But the things which proceed out of the man defile the man. It is not what enters into the mouth that defiles the man, but what proceeds out of the mouth. This defiles the man If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. When he had left the crowd and entered the house, then his disciples came and questioned him about the parable He w they were referring to this as a parable, and said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this statement? You offended the Pharisees? Are you kidding? Yeah. Um but he answered and said Every plant which my heavenly father did not plant shall be uprooted. Let them alone. They are blind guides of the blind. And if a blind man guides a blind man, both will fall into a pit. Peter said to him, Explain the parable to us. And he said to them, Are you still so lacking in understanding also? Do you not understand that whatever goes into the man's mouth from outside cannot defile him, because it does not go into his heart, but into his stomach, and is illuminated. Thus he declared all foods clean. And he was saying, that which proceeds out of the man, that is what defiles the man. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, deeds of coveting and wickedness. As well as deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness, all these things proceed from within and defile the man. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile the man. So when Jesus is u using the term defile, what is he referring to? What kind of defilement? Spiritual, yeah. Not just a a physical thing. Uh so it is good physically to you know wash off the germs and whatever before we eat, but he's talking about spiritual defilement and what's far more important is what's going on in the heart than all these external preparations for eating and and so on. Um I was actually struck that as I was reviewing this that um you know it's it's not a good thing for us to offend other people. Usually when we offend people we're sinning, right? In this case, Jesus really did offend the Phil the uh Pharisees, but He was right in uh being a stumbling block. That's what that word offend really means. Being a stumbling block. Giving them the truth. And if they stumble over it, it's between them and God. Um And he didn't shy away from calling them hypocrites, which is what they were, right? It's not just listening, right? It's not just doing the external things, um, but it's doing things. Correctly and from the heart. Right. If we're doing the right thing for the wrong reason, is that good? It's better than doing the bad thing. You want both to be good. You want both to be good. And that's a lot of what Jesus covered in the Sermon on the Mount. Um it's it's what he's continually interacting with these Pharisees about. Uh it's what inside, it's it's the heart level where he's working here, not just the externals, you know, checking the box, oh I've done that, I've done that kind of a thing You know, it the Old Testament talks about circumcision of the heart almost as much as it does physical circumcision. And you'd think they'd get the message, right? But I think if we were in their situation we probably would have it would have gone over our head as well. So You see Jesus interacting with the Pharisees with a similar kind of forcefulness to shake them out of their complacency and hypocrisy But perhaps more so to get the attention of people whose hearts are prepared. To see that the Pharisees are not the ones to look up to just by what they do on the outside. What's important is what's going on on the inside Well, that was the end of last week's lesson, so let's begin today. So on page one hundred-eight. And this begins a new uh major section where he's had a lot of public ministry and interacting with people and he's trying here uh to um be more focused on preparing his disciples for his departure. And so section 85, Jesus retreats to a home in Phoenicia. Where's Phoenicia? It says uh The district of Tyre and Sidon. North of Israel, what is today Lebanon, right? Just north of Israel. Uh and the blended account here, Jesus got up and went away from there and withdrew to the region of Tyre and Sidon. And when he had entered a house He wanted no one to know of it, yet he could not escape notice, even there. Now what what do we know about this area of Phoenicia, Tyre and Sidon at this point in history Are they Jews? No. What are they? Gentiles. Right? Why would I mean he's already said before that he has come for the um Uh I think he may even say it here. I was sent only for the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And yet he's up out of Israel. He's up in Gentile country. Um why So what's been happening everywhere he goes in Israel, he's surrounded by crowds of people, which is not inherently a bad thing, but there are times when he needed to get alone with his disciples and um prepare them for what is to come. It was intended to be a little retreat. We saw earlier he tried to go on the boat to the other side for that kind of purpose and look where he got him. Defeating five thousand, right? And so this this is happening shortly after that. He's still looking for opportunities to spend time more alone with his disciples. Okay, so he's there, but he couldn't escape notice even there, which suggests what? He was recognized by these Gentiles. Um word had gotten out maybe some of these Gentiles had actually gone into Israel after they heard some of the reports about his miracles and so on. And um so he was recognized even up there. Okay, so section eighty-six, Jesus heals the daughter of the Syrophoenician woman. And I'll read from the blended account. Uh but after hearing of him, a Canaanite woman from that region immediately came out and fell at his feet, and began crying out, saying, Have mercy on me, Lord, son of David. This is a Gentile now, right? My little daughter is cruelly demon-possessed. Now, the woman was a Gentile of the Syrophonician race. meaning of Zero Phoenician descent. And she kept asking him to cast out the demon out of her daughter. But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and implored him, saying, Send her away, because she keeps shouting at us. They were thinking about who? Kind of themselves. They thought probably they the disciples probably thought they were protecting Jesus from all the attention, whatever he was coming here to avoid. But he answered and said, Let the children uh be satisfied first, for I was only sent to the lost house of the sheep of the Israel, lost sheep of the house of Israel. But she came and began to bow down before him, saying, Lord, help me. And he answered and said, It is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs So who the children here be? Israelites. And who the dogs be? Gentiles. Gentiles. Yeah, her, I guess. But she answered and said, Yes, Lord, but even the dogs under the table feed on the children's crumbs, which fall from the master's table. Then Jesus said to her, O woman, your faith is great. Because of this answer it shall be done for you as you wish. Go. The demon has gone out of your daughter. And her daughter was healed at once, and going back to her home, she found the child lying on the bed, the demon having left What does this tell you about Jesus? This is not the first Gentile he has encountered and helped. And it turns out some of them are showing more faith than the Israelites, right? This being one of them Um what else do you see about Jesus' character here? Compassionate? Focused on his ultimate reason for being here. Um do you think he was um discouraged that even though he came here to kind of get away on a little retreat with his disciples, that it was being interrupted with such force Um, I don't know, I would have been, hard to tell what is going on in his mind, except that we see what he did. Um he responded mostly to the faith. Partly the persistence, I think. Um but when he saw that faith he said, This is not something I ca I want to ignore. Right. Yeah, so that was a sign of her faith, although initially It's it's not a it wasn't necessarily faith-based, but in her case it was. Someone could be persistent for very selfish reasons and whatever, right? Uh but in this case it was consistent with her faith, and that was made evident by her responses Kind of like getting into a boat trying to go to the other side to have a little time alone and then you're met by five thousand twenty thousand people. He saw that as an opportunity to be compassionate, but also to teach his disciples a lesson, which we're going to find today they didn't learn very well. Yeah. Cool. By the way, I I um he said it's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. I I don't know that he was actually um making that a a statement that um uh non Jews are like dogs. But there's a comparison here that um there's there's a there's a priority order There's there's uh his his focus as he mentioned to his disciples is uh sent to to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. That's the priority And there are other important things, other things he could be doing, but the priority is reaching out to Israel. Uh but as it turns out And this is another example of it. Um non-Israelites are sometimes showing much greater faith than the Israelites are. Okay Number 87, Jesus heals a deaf and dumb man, page 129. Departing from there, Jesus went out uh from the region of Tyre and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee, within the region of Decapolis, which is mostly on the east side of the Sea of Galilee, a little bit to the south. And having gone up to the mountains He was sitting there. And they brought him one who was deaf and spoke with difficulty, I'm sure because he was deaf. And they implored him to lay his hand on him. Jesus took him aside from the crowd by himself. And put his fingers into his ears, and after spitting, he touched his tongue with his saliva. This is great medical practice here, right? And looking up to heaven with a deep sigh, he said, Ifatha, that is, be opened. And his ears were opened And the impediment of his tongue was removed, and he began speaking plainly, and Jesus gave him orders not to tell anyone, but the more he ordered them, the more widely they continued to proclaim it They were utterly astonished, saying, He has done all things well. He makes even the deaf to hear and the mute to speak. So we're back to that familiar um routine, right? He heals somebody, it's miraculous, the crowd goes bonkers and and he's telling them to not spread it Because what happens if they spread it? More people are gonna come, probably most of them for the wrong reasons. Um and he really does want time alone with his disciples But um be that as it may, words spread widely, continue to spread widely. Um any thoughts here? Any questions? An observation? You know, we've seen already numerous descriptions of various healings that he did. Some of them were completely remote, right? Someone was healed, almost ready to die. who was some distance away, he didn't actually be in the presence of 'em. Other times he would just speak to them. Other times like this he would interact with them physically and touching and so on. Um Sometimes he would do it in response of the faith of the person who is ill, sometimes responding to the faith of the person who is asking on behalf of the ill person, sometimes not necessarily in response to faith at all. but to display the power of God. Uh it wasn't a cookbook kind of thing, but you know what was similar to all those? It's brought out here. And people recognize that this is something that only God could do That's the point. That's one of the points. The other point was being being uh compassionate to those who are suffering. Yeah, he could have easily isolated himself from people, but um Even though he wanted to spend time with his disciples and uh make sure that they were well prepared, um He didn't get a lot of those opportunities. In fact, in Matthew 28, right before he gives them the Great Commission after the resurrection, said they came to him and many of them doubted him Can you imagine this? Here you are. You're you you you pay for the sins on the cross, you're about to be raised into heaven, you've got these disciples who are going to take the message to the world, and some of them doubt it. Even looking at the resurrected Christ still doubted So um yeah, he had the likes of us to deal with. You know, just regular folk. Um and The reality, of course, is that a lot of this didn't click with them, you know, connecting the dots we've been talking about, um, until the resurrection appearances and then the coming of the Holy Spirit. And you can see him time and time again explain to the disciples various things. We're going to see more of it today. And it's clear it's just not connecting. It's not getting through. Uh it will get through later, and I guess he understood that, but uh he was just um needing to keep repeating himself and keep teaching the same lessons over and over again. Sheep are interesting critters. Back here they they say they're they're back around the Sea of Galilee. Well uh They probably had to go through Israel, but they're they're at the um um decapolis, or at least the edges of the capitalis, probably on the east side of the Sea of Galilee. Well, um Th there may be multiple reasons. I think the logistical reason is here's somebody who's um who can't hear and he can't speak. Now he does have vision, but uh he can't hear what you're saying. And he can't speak because of that and just generally. Um and so assuring him physically in ways that you might otherwise be able to assure him by speaking, yeah, seemed like an appropriate thing. Whether there was more there or not, I'm not sure, but it seemed like a natural uh or at least a reasonable approach to someone who otherwise might not be able to see your tender care and and make sure that you're So then we get to section 88. Jesus feeds the 4,000. Seem like deja vu? Yeah. All over again. All over again. Yeah. I'll read from the blended account on page 130. In those days when large crowds came to him again, bringing with them those who were lame, crippled, blind, mute, and many others, and they laid them down at his feet and he healed them So the crowd marveled as they saw the mute speaking, the crippled restored, the lame walking, the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel. You know, in Matthew, in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. That's what's happening here. Right? If it's clear that what's happening is because God has intervened, they're praising God. And they had nothing to eat, by the way. And Jesus called his disciples to him and said to them, I feel compassion for the people, because they have remained with me now three days and have nothing to eat, and I do not want them, I do not want to send them away to their homes for they might faint on the way. And some of them have come from a great distance. The disciples answered him, Well you can just do what you did last time, right? No Where would we get so many loaves of bread in this desolate place to satisfy such a large crowd? And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? Do you have? And they said, Seven and a few small few small fish. And he directed the people to sit down on the ground, and he took the seven loaves, and giving thanks he broke them and started giving them to the disciples to serve to them And the disciples served them to the people. And they had a few small fish, and after he blessed them, he ordered those to be served as well. And they all ate and were satisfied And they picked up what was left over, uh picked up uh what was left over of the broken pieces, seven large baskets full And those who ate there were about four thousand men besides the women and children. Um you know, y you might be tempted to to think that this is just another account I mean the the feeding of the five thousand and the feeding of the four thousand is really the same account. Um but there are several reasons, important reasons why that can't be the case. Um one is that Matthew and Mark include both. It wasn't like Matthew had the 5,000 and Mark had the 4,000. Matthew and Mark both had both. In fact, all four of the Gospels had feeding the 5,000 And another is a uh a couple sections below here we're going to see Jesus referencing both. And what uh help connect the dots, guys. Right? Uh we'll get there in a minute But this really was a second time. Very similar response on the part of the disciples, suggesting they they didn't get it yet Right? Yet again. But you know when I look at this I I probably would have behaved the same way. We had the benefit of seeing the end and n reading this multiple times, we're already familiar with it And let's go with the flow. But if it's happening in real time and you really aren't getting it, I mean, um, it's just a natural human response. What the response should have been more spiritually uh given more spiritual insight and lessons learned and so on. Well, you know, this reminds me a whole lot of God's interaction with the nation of Israel. uh particularly um after leaving Egypt and wandering in the wilderness and uh conquering the land. Um what do we see there? We see a lot of what I call dirty laundry. People who are not acting out of faith They're not getting it. They're not connecting the dots. Are you kidding? We walked through that sea and there's walls of water on both sides And once we get through, God causes the water to come in on the army that we were afraid of? What kind of lessons should we be learning from that guy, right? Lessons that weren't for the most part learned. Or at least were soon forgotten. Um and it was time after time where they would complain God would give them uh what they needed, whether it's water out of a rock or bread that just comes down from heaven, or uh meat in the form of quail regularly, every single day? Of course you get used to it once every single day. You figure it you're right, right? But what's God teaching you? What lessons are you getting out of it? Why would God make sure to include all of that Dirty laundry essentially in Scripture to teach us that we're no different from them. And that yes, we can point our fingers at them, they should be connecting with us, they should be learning lessons We should be pointing that finger right back at us. Are we learning those lessons? Right? What was he doing when he asked that question? Testing them, kind of drawing them out. Where is your faith at this point? Right? Yeah, and I think I think the other lesson for us here, particularly with the disciples, uh but to some extent also with the nation of Israel in the Old Testament God is showing that he's working out his plan through the involvement of just regular people, right? Who did he call to be his disciples? Pretty regular folk. Right, not um aristocracy, right, or well educated and all that. And that was intentional. Um That it's not dependent on their capabilities, it's dependent on their obedience to God. And that's a lesson for all of us You know, we can't say, well, I'm just not educated enough. I'm not I don't have enough skills and whatever. And God says that's exactly who I need Right? Because it's not about it's not by might, not by power, but what? By my spirit, says the Lord. And uh that's just as true today as it always has been. Anyway, um section eighty-nine, right? Jesus rebukes the Pharisees who again ask for a sign. And sending away the crowds, this time it seemed to work, I guess, Jesus immediately got into the boat with his disciples and came to the region of Magadon, down Manuta. Uh the Pharisees and Sadducees came up and began to argue with Jesus, testing him And they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. Now why do you suppose they would ask him to show them a sign from heaven? Do you think they're completely ignorant of everything he's been doing so now so far? Probably not. They yeah, I think they were definitely suspicious of him and want him to be on record, I guess, about um his authority. I mean they asked him later, by what authority do you do these things? Um Paul writes, I guess it's in 1 Corinthians, that um the Jews always are asking for something. And um Jesus is actually scolding them here uh that um be because their heart is not uh inclined toward God, um He's not going to give them a sign just to wow them. They're already unbelieving. Um yeah, let me go ahead and read this then. Uh where am I at? Um ask him to show us Show them a sign from heaven. But sighing deeply in his spirit, he replied to them, When it is evening you say it will be fair weather for the sky is red, and in the morning there will be a storm today, for the sky is red and threatening. You know, red sky in morning, sailors take warning, red sky at night, sailors delight, same same kind of thing. Do you know how to discern the appearance of the sky, but cannot discern the signs of the times? Truly I say to you, an evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign. And a sign will not be given to this generation except sign of Jonah. And he left them and went away. And they're probably scratching their heads, the sign of Jonah. The sign of Jonah. Is he gonna get into a fish or something? Right? Um so having the the full record, I think we can we can safely d discern that what he had in mind was uh where he explained later that the sign of Jonah was, you know, he was in the the belly of the great fish for three days, three nights, and then he was released. Um he's making reference here to his resurrection after his death. But of course that was over their head and he meant it to be, at least over the the Pharisees' heads. Yeah well there there were mixed reactions, but the Pharisees for the most part were pretty uniform in their disbelief Right? Uh attributing it to to like you say the devil. Um they had a they had a a stake in this because if he's right, it should be obvious to everybody that they're wrong. And Not wanting for that to be the case, they had to t be opposed to him. Um but there's a lot of that today. Not just religious people, but people who don't want to believe the truth because it means they're wrong Their philosophy's wrong. Their assumptions are wrong. Um it's pride. Um what was the purpose of the science? Yeah. And so if that's really what they're interested in, they have ample evidence. Right? And they should be listening to what he says because only God could do the things that he was doing. One of the Pharisees at least, Nicodemus, got it. Because when Nicodemus came to him and says, you know, um Teacher, we know that you are from God because no one could do the things you do except God be with him. And Jesus worked with him a bit, but challenged him. If if I were Jesus in that situation, I'd say, hey, you got it, man. You're one of us That's not what Jesus did. He challenged him to really get to the root issues, change of heart. Right? Um so it seems like for the most part Jesus' interactions with Pharisees consistently was to rebuke them. Um challenged them and not even privately, because they're coming publicly, he rebukes them publicly. Anyway, it says he left them and went away. You gotta wonder they were probably grumbling. That wasn't the response they were looking for. Okay, but I need to rush here. Section ninety. More rebuke. Um I'll leave I'll read the the blended account here. Looks like it's some water. Leaving them He and the disciples again embarked and went away to the other side of the sea. And they had forgotten to take any bread. You know what's happening here, right? And did not have more than one loaf in the boat with them. And he was giving orders to them saying, Watch out, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees, and the leaven of Herod And it began to discuss with one another the fact that they had no bread. And he said um He said that because we we did not bring any bread. And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, You men of little faith, why do you discuss among yourselves the fact that you have no bread? Do you not See or understand? Do you have a hardened heart? In other words, like these other people who are unbelieving? Having eyes do you not see? Having ears do you not hear And do you not remember when I broke the five loaves for the five thousand how many baskets full of broken pieces you picked up? And they said, twelve? When I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of broken pieces did you pick up? And they said, seven. probably pretty hesitantly. And he was saying to them, How is it that you do not understand that I did not speak to you concerning bread? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees Then they understood that he did not say to beware of leaven of bread, but the teaching of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Um so you know one of the reasons for feeding the four thousand may have been Jesus perceived that they didn't get the message the first time around and they needed a second dose And here w uh w which didn't actually do it in and of itself, right? They still didn't connect the dots. And so you get here and he's trying to help them connect the dots. So it's not just that he can provide bread where there's a legitimate need, but also Using that as a as an analogy, beware of the bread, the leaven, of the uh Pharisees and the Sadducees, uh, particularly uh the traditions that are that we've already seen tend to supersede in the minds of the Pharisees, or maybe even replace the actual commandments in the law. So he said, beware of that Yeah, I think I think there's a lot to that. Uh I wouldn't get so focused on the numbers. Um the seven seems like it would have been it because they were in the decapolis, it it seemed like ten would be a a more natural number to be symbolic. Um but yeah, I mean it the the the context is a little bit different. It's not too far away, apparently, um from where the five thousand were fed, but Uh the attendees of the 5,000 were predominantly Jewish, and here the attendees were presumably mostly not. So yeah, he's he's if nothing else, he's showing to the disciples and us that uh ultimately his scope is worldwide. It's not just the Jews, although starting with the Jews is definitely the plan. Good. All right, well I want to we're within striking distance here. Um ninety-one starts on page one hundred thirty one. I'll read Well, it's only one account, Mark. And they came to Besseda. Now Besseda again is is in the upper kind of northeast corner of You can follow the corner of the Sea of Galilee. So it's not too far away. This is Jewish country. In fact, that's where Andrew, Peter, James, and John were actually from Uh and they brought a bro a blind man to Jesus and implored him to touch him. Taking the man by the hand, he brought him out of the village, and after spitting on his eyes and laying his hands on him, he asked him Do you see anything? And he looked up and said, I see men, for I see them like trees walking around. In other words, not completely focused yet. Then he laid his hands on his eyes again, and he looked in intently and was restored, and began to see everything clearly. And he sent him to his house saying do not enter the village. Um so a lot of similarities here b between the blind man and the deaf and the mute man. Jesus is is um uh conducting the healing with kind of a hands-on approach. What's unique about this one is it's a two stage thing. And it seems to be that he's drawing out the guy's response. Um how is it? You know, um if he if his response would have been, hey it didn't work or whatever, it it would have shown less faith then and and so on. I I don't know exactly why he did it in two stages. He didn't need to. He could have just spoken, you know, it could have been done. Um but it seems like he's trying to draw the guy out Um and eventually he saw clearly. But don't even enter the village, the village of Beth Seda, and we don't know exactly why. Except uh Jesus, I'm not sure if we've gotten there yet, but Jesus um one of the the gospel writers, I even forget now which one it was said that um uh Jesus pronounced woes on the three towns where he did most of his miracles because they were unbelieving. And it mentions what those three towns were Besseda, this one. Corzin, which is a little bit to the north of the Sea of Galilee, and Capernaum. Now we see lots of events recorded in Scripture about what he did in Capernaum As far as I know, this is the only miracle he did that's recorded in Scripture, but he did in Best Saida. And as far as I know, we don't have any recorded in Scripture of the ones he did in Korazine. And yet those three towns were where he did most of his miracles, Scripture says. And yet he s tells them, Woe to you, Beth Seda, woe to you, Khorazim, woe to you Capernaum, because if the deeds done in you had been done in the time of he gave several examples, Sodom and Gomorrah and and and Nineveh and the preaching of Jonah, um they would have repented long ago, but you guys aren't Um so I think he it's possible that he was nudging this guy not to be influenced by the people in Best Seta because they were obviously to Jesus um hard hearted. They were not welcoming. I don't know. Anyway, um real quick, section ninety two Now when they came to the villages of the district of Caesarea Philippi. Now this is important. Go back to your maps. If you can find map 9, 6 You see the region north of the Sea of Galilee? Um Caesarea Philippi is right sort of at the beginning of the uh mountainous area of Mount Hermit, the tallest mountain around. It's way up north. Uh it's it's basically the farthest edge of uh Israel at this point. in what had been the the district of Dan. S there's another Caesarea, you don't see it on this map, but on the on the um Mediterranean shore, there's a Caesarea also. And you can imagine who both of them were named after, Caesar, right? This one, however, is called Caesarea Philippi because it's named after Caesar, but it's also meant to be a monument to Herod Philip, uh who du who is a figure during this time. Uh but the important thing about Caesarea Philippi is it was basically if it were around today we would probably call it Sin City. So it's where the Roman soldiers would go for their time of leave, and you know what soldiers do en masse when they go to a port city or or whatever. It was a very heathen place. It was dedicated to there were temples there to pagan uh gods, uh, particularly the god Pan. Um And fortunately, unlike the Caesarea that was on the shores of the Mediterranean, Caesarea Philippi was up north where hardly any any of the Jews would need to go anyway. But but in fact, no matter where it was, most Jews would not go there because they would defile themselves. It was just so so pagan, heathen, sinful. So why was Jesus going there? Because there weren't other Jews around. Uh he didn't take some time alone with his disciples Uh it doesn't say they were going to Caesarea Philippi, but the region, the general area. It started to be mountainous in that area. And um uh Yeah, they w they wouldn't have gone into the actual city. But in that region they were probably more able to be alone. And um so Jesus starts quizzing his disciples. So when they had come to the villages of the district of the Caesarea Philippi along with his disciples, it happened that while he was praying alone, when did Jesus get alone? When everybody else was asleep, right? He was seek he was asking his disciples on the way. Who do the people say that the Son of Man is? And they said some say John the Baptist and others Elijah, but still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets of old has risen, and he continued by questioning them, but who do you say that I am? Sim Simon Peter, who often puts his foot in his mouth, this is this is um stellar here. Simon Peter answered him, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. No question in my mind. Good for Simon. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona. Barjonh means son of John. Because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you. but my Father who is in heaven. So he came to this conclusion by God's grace, but he had the boldness to say, I believe it. This is who you are. And Jesus said, I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be have been loosed in heaven. Then he warned the disciples that they should tell no one about him that he was the Christ. So he's explicit with his disciples he has the Christ, but he doesn't want them yet to pass that on to other people. Um So obviously one of the the more interesting things here is when he he calls Simon Peter And says, uh, upon this rock I will build my church. Of course the Catholics assume that what he's speaking of is Peter being the Catholics uh the foundation of the church, even though scripture says that Christ is the the apostles generally are the foundation with Christ as the cornerstone. Um But what he's saying here is upon this rock, what rock, the bedrock statement that Peter said, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. That's the foundation of the church. Yeah. But I think we're gonna have to end. So we picked up one le uh section from last week. We're gonna have to do the same thing next week. Um but it's all good Okay, let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word and particularly for recording these multiple accounts of the life ministry. of Christ. And um pray that as we continue to learn from his character, we learn from his ministry, his word, that um we would be able to be faithful followers of His even during this day, uh this era, so that uh your church would grow and you would be glorified, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.