But what he's saying, he's taken all that scripture and he's just kind of brought it all together. Before we go into it, I do want to go back up and so we can follow who the he's who the he's are in this because it kind of jumps around a little bit. But the Nasb are right up there at top if if you want to kind of jump back and forth. Is that John the Baptist praying? Right. Um the way of escape if you turn to first uh uh James, James after one is that when you attempt it, uh Um that's what God said, I'll give you endure. Yeah. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. read a verse or two and we'll kind of I want us all to be engaged in the in the uh in the account. And the Sonia Wesetras of Abilene. And the son of Zacharias in the wilderness. Mountain until it was brought well. Yeah, you know, people and they were being baptized by rivers, which is best in their sense. But you brood of lipers who warned you to flee from the wrath to come. Everything is not there when it's down going to the 10. Right. Yeah. I think that's the first step before you even safe. So that when you know, do they happen right at the same time? Yeah. And there's a couple of schools of thought of what it might mean. Pressing four, pressing fire, all those other things. believer hopefully identifies himself with the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, testifying for repentance of sin. Text like we have a copy of that. We're gonna guard our eyes. And I would say even more so going one step further. Discouraged. So eat, get a good night's sleep. Um if you go to his blended account, that first line, you see that's coming from Mark, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, Son of God. He's he's he's blended it all together as one paragraph. Now in the fifth year, I think that one comes from Luke. Uh if you go down with first one, two, three, the fourth the fourth line in that blended account in the wilderness of Judea, that came from Matthew. Or I'll just anyone force it, I'll just anyone force I'll be content with all of this. Yes, you're absolutely right. to the recognition of the sinner. Um but we can't repent until God saves. We're responsible for repentance, although we have no power to actually repent. of repentance to prepare their hearts for the Messiah. So I do have in here some notes about references back to some of the prophets. to be baptized by him. They're called nikfahs. and sits on Christ and then followed by a booming voice out of heaven identifying this as my son, my beloved son. the anointing by the Holy Spirit, and secondly, the affirmation by the Father. I had a dream, I um it was an actual physical event that he witnessed. I would say that I would think so. So it didn't say anything about John the Baptist. He was with the wild beast and he ate nothing during those days. Jesus is in this it's actually kind of a cool I mean if you don't I know it says wilderness and I can you know we think of like wilderness as being like up the mountains up yeah but And the devil said to him, I will give you all this domain and its glory, for it is then handed over to me, and I can give it to whoever I wish. Therefore, if you worship before me, it shall be all yours. For it is written, He will command his angels concerning you to guard you, and on their hands they will bear you up so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. And it calls to, well why don't you just demonstrate your God? context and not just take don't put your face on what people say. Twisting the scriptures, trying to convince us that God really doesn't love us. is because I mean it is encouraging to all of us because it it reminds us that with each and every situation there is a way out but when Market twenty four seven, you know, it's I'm assuming for all men, it's it's a very difficult situation and it's so blatant in our society and it's so always in your face and you if you're not in scripture, if you're not meditating on the word, if you're not Well, I'm God I don't want to he could've just kinda well no, I don't think he I don't well no he could have done it. With the temptation he will also provide a way to escape that you may be able to endure it. So you have that sensation. uh engage us in discussion. Um again this is really an exciting message. And Dr. was governor of Judea and Herod was the Tetra of Galilee and his brother Philip was the Tetra of the region of Ia and Draconia. Where or where, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, make ready the way of the Lord and his path straight. So when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he began saying to the crowds who were going out be baptized by going out to be baptized by And he said to the forest number that we want to have in order to stop soldiers for officially You see kind of like a group of Pharisees, Sadducees, and you see those who are coming um for repentance and there's probably a mix in between. Because when you when you become a believer you're indwelt with the Holy Spirit. Such as the Pharisees who are saying, Well, my father's of Abraham Um And there's clearly others in the crowds of soldiers, there's people who are taking more money than they ought to. In fact, John even says, I'm not even worthy to even touch the sandals of the one who's coming coming after me, the one who's truly gonna make uh the way of salvation sent. the works of Christ were were given to me that I could even see that I needed repentance. But yes, absolutely salvation comes from Christ, not from John the Baptist. Um, uh on his timing. He had a specific ministry to prepare the hearts of these people for Christ. And so um so waiting so I I I would I don't want to go beyond scripture but I'm assuming it would be something of you know making the way for a the prophet that we are expected to come to establish in the case. But scripturally it's all right there. But Jesus answering said to him, Permit it at this time, for in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. testifying about his becoming sin on our behalf. Jesus Christ would also be uh performing in a ceremonial cleansing, such as a baptism. Of course, never actually committing sin himself. But uh could you imagine the heavens being ripped open and where this like a dove this Holy Spirit comes out of the sky Jesus being the Messiah, Jesus being the Lamb of God, I wanted to um take a quote from John MacArthur about this dramatic scene. Um but I'm assuming this is so dramatic. That's Jesus, right? uh the coming of the Messiah, the uh ripping of the heavens, coming down from heaven. The other aspect of this that I wanted to mention was the Jews were waiting in anticipation of this one day. Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led around by the Spirit in the wilderness for 40 days to be tempted by Satan the devil. I think that's the take-home message. Adam is blaming the woman and then he even goes one step further and says, And it's ultimately your fault, God, that this temptation has led me to where I am So three thoughts on these temptations. into the relationship between so the son and the father. you know just uh to be a brain bringing act is really to or be reminded. You know, that's why we were to go out, you know. The time to react to temptation is when you first are sensitive to it. Christ is being tempted here, but he's not sinning. Um or am I gonna linger? struggle? And that scene has come up in a print set near for me to look at to read. But I also believe that as Christians we all should remember that when we sin we cause God to grieve And then go work with stay. and to obedient to God and to endure the temptation, or I give into my flesh and go down the other way and give up to give into sin Understand that God is faithful, we go prayer, we call scripture, and we walk through that corridor to endure that's why we have Or we go into our lust and give into our lust and our flesh and we we go the other way and we fall. Yes. So it's so his ministry was really to get people to realize their need so that when Christ came they could see the solution what knowledge they had. for them to go into for washing. complete this idea of of uh righteousness and being obedient uh to the fulfillment of a high priest They say Jesus came out come up from the water and behold while he was praying. Jesus. So if you go to John one thirty-two, it says John bore witness and says, I saw the spirit descend from heaven and remained on earth. And one thing about the Greek though is that it's there's no capital letters at all capital. Um this is so significant because Isaiah has been talking about the coming of the Messiah and cries out there's several verses um that Isaiah is using that talk about 20 volumes of temptations were given three examples, and the significant significance is how Jesus reacts Um, why don't we read those and I'll give you some thoughts on some notes that I took about the three different temptations. And he led him to the to Jerusalem, the holy city, and had him stand on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down from here. But if if we are um if Christ can relate to all of our temptation, I'm sure it probably is, every temptation, uh not just these three Satan knows the word of God, so I would say somebody can s pull to you scripture and say something about it, but you better go back and read the text. w uh when he was dealing with Shiva and sin. And I just encourage everyone, don't ever think that you cannot talk to the Lord because He loves us talking to Him. It's a loving God we serve. Everyone's always outside. But one who has been tempted in all things as we, yet without sin. So like Allah of the uh you know, you look away and you thank God that you are a man Yeah, I think because just m just ma marinating and temptation. from this column to that column to that column, he's just kind of made it slow, the one story. As we're progressing through the account, he's taking bits and pieces of the scriptures. as to whether he was the Christmas as to my battery. Saved, unsaved. How can you say one is saved and one is lost? But he is preparing. Um like when one like when salvation happens in terms of repentance. Oh. So I don't want to go beyond the text other than um if you went back up to like Matthew in verse three, uh he's referring to uh Why does Jesus need to be baptized at all? Then he permitted him and was also baptized by John in the Jordan. Let's read on top of page 42. in this time. So the Savior of the world took took his place amongst the sinners of the world, although he was not a sinner himself. I don't know why I didn't ask that myself. And we know it's not a vision. um beg the question or at least point out the obvious is when people want signs or even a sign like this how could you not please That's only me sensing. The verse there says, oh that you would rip the heavens and calm down. Sorry about that. Jesus' baptism. Could you imagine being in the desert for 40 days and Satan is tempting you? Cunningham Falls or something. And Jesus answered him, It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. When the devil had finished every temptation, he left him until an opportune moment. This seems to be kind of like a rather pathetic attempt to corrupt Jesus. Um again um going against trying to get him to shake his fist at God, the Father Jesus' response in each time is quote is going back to the trustworthiness of God the Father in the written word. If the whole purpose is just knowledge, then again we have it. So I wanted to quote Psalm 11911, Your word I have treasured in my heart that I might not send against you, so this is merely like the memorizing of scripture is not something for that particular moment and that particular tentation or is it just a general principle of memorizing a word like this so I you know I would love to get your idea of what you say that way in the state. and seek strength from God the Father. But if we weren't sensitive, if we if we weren't in the word, we would have lingered on those visual temptation. Extremely difficult. follow the Lord into that. Um several these comments have made me think of the verses in Hebrews four, fifteen and sixteen, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses. Um those are typically when temptation tired or stress tired stress. So so always when we attempt it, we have a core door to make a decision on. And what the believers now. In the beginning of the Gospel of Jesus, the Son of God. And the priest in the high priesthood of Annas and Silas. And what are of us? for the one in 90 and I am not able to until backwards concept of John is baptizing with water, Jesus is baptizing with the Holy Spirit and fire. That con that clearly does not fit in this context. how he presents himself to those in the thoughtful test. He's also making the point of just because you say your fat your father, you are of you know Abraham, our works are not salvation is is is not a works based activity of God and I'll get to some of those verses. I won't be dogmatic about it. And the Holy Spirit of God descended upon him in bodily form like a dove. And there's probably some some you know, the statements are true, whether it's exactly from this text. What we and as in it in the order of Melchizedek. So there's this human demonstration of what it means um to re identify yourself you know, a mix of different people there. Where am I? uh schizo, which means to rip, so it's dramatic. Forever. Again, I'm assuming I can imagine that Satan is pounding Christ this entire time, temptation after temptation after temptation, um, and instead of like So how do we react when we are confused? Interesting. I can give you prosperity, happiness, control. Do something contrary to the will of Godfather. Um that's why it's so important for us to have our minds filled with the word so we can respond correctly. If we don't um engage ourselves with scripture and follow the the um to to go through and not just forty days of temptation because he could have just Um Christ isn't doing that just I mean he is following the will of will of the Father, but he's also doing it out of compassion to save us. referring to baptism of the Holy Spirit and fire. John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist, and his diet was locusts and wild honey. For I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham Peace with God, wrath with God. So we have to remember that too, that he was sent and he did what he was supposed to do to make way for some He was obedient to to his calling. Yeah, I mean someone calls you to repent is calling you to admit that you have you're broken, you're you're a prompt that you're a sinner, you need to you need to turn away from that It's hard to think that there was no way of salvation for you know people who do Well so so God is sovereign and God saves whom he wants ass whom whenever he s assumes. We've never been given a chance. you know, reveal to people when John might be that type of thing. He saw heaven open. John permitted Jesus him and was also baptized by John in the Jordan. In bodily form, like a dove and behold a voice came out of heaven. For the high priest to go into the Holy of Holies, they have to go through ceremonial washings As seen in uh the order of Melchizedek. of demonstrating obedience for believers to be baptist Now he's not identifying himself to himself, but he is being obedient to Christ. Um this is a dramatic scene. Let's see what those are. Um it's not a personal vision, just a him. They're in a beautiful garden. That's the water. Actually, why don't we finish reading the passage? He's such a liar, isn't he? We're seeing Jesus using scripture and using it in the right context. But God is the one who owns everything. When I get super busy, my mind is no longer has scripture is the last thing I'm thinking about. Um when I am really sensitive, when I am in the scriptures, um you know temptation doesn't just like pound you. You're gonna you're gonna fall for sure. So we should keep that in our hearts too. If we were in dwell with the Holy Spirit, just imagine we're dragging the Holy Spirit down to it. is not to go into your flesh and you'll be able to endure. So you kind of have uh on the one side you're contrasting saved versus not saved. idea of baptism because Jesus clearly does not need to be saved. Christ getting baptized to fulfill that being in the order of a high priest. At least from the human perspective, um baptism uh is an ordinance from God. And not alone. Um this is about as dramatic of a sight as you can get. Um on the on the blended account we say um when Jesus came up immediately from the water and behold while he was praying who was praying that And rather than following the will of God, do your own will. Then we miss the whole point. I just have one suggestion and it's my suggestion. She will mention none. And the desire had become complete to give birth to sin. And Askar and said to them, the one person is to share with him over here. Um I see that called out before. When someone truly repents, what's already happening? But Jesus answering said to him, This is John, permit it at this time, for in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteous. See John permitted him and he and was also oh wait, then he permitted him. For the priests to perform these ceremonies, they go through ceremonial washing. It's all over the place. Rather than you know bringing his army of angels down to destroy Satan at this moment because it's not the moment yet. If we're not like trusting that scripture really is true, that's you know when we think there's a better way or a better option to address temptation before it becomes sin. You know, hard. We we would always sin. That's a good thought to to kinda. And again, the reason we're doing a life of Christ is so that we grow that deeper love so that we don't sin And he willingly did it. The Jews at the time were waiting for their Messiah, their king to come. Organized. There are some similarities. And he permitted. What's also interesting is this there was an interesting comparison with Adam. Um again Satan is even quoting scripture uh that the angels will come down uh to rescue. And so um I would suggest that we be more sensitive at the point of time that we can actually be proactive at time of temptation before it blooms into sin. We need to trust that the scripture really is true. Why would you limit your powers? So why don't we read it? Yep, exactly, exactly. There's not repentance. I would also say it's it's um we can't ever say we can't ever stand before God and say, I I have no idea. The next page, page 42. Two other main reasons for why Christ would be baptized. So Jesus could not purchase the righteousness from mankind without somehow identifying with the sins of mankind. This is not like a vision. Passages that were that talk about this ripping of heaven, God coming down, establishing his his kingdom. This test for God the Father is to bring into question God's love and trustworthiness. us the vow of Satan to make us think that we can't come to him because he is a a a a devil of deceit and he twists things around and he loves the light is remembering Jesus is great enough for us. of prayer to come up at certain times. Um fourteen. In general, are there when are the times that you're most likely to fall to temptation? Um someone wanna read uh that first bullet point on that page for me. Pomley, so first if you look at page forty, um right there number fifteen, he's got the text out of scriptures from Matthew, Mark, and Luke. So I thought it were out there, so I didn't want to like just not bring them up. But let's talk about the temptations next, which is the following page. This is really a good application piece. Yes. It's really important in his hand to thoroughly clear his threshold floor and to gather the wheat into his barn. And it makes that temptation like that. We have John and Jesus here. In some cases, you know, I you could say, you know, um I've always heard that comment, you know, I'm on fire for the Lord. So those things we should remember too. So if I had to if I had to time it I would say God saves you with repentance you know, following right after that. I I don't have a standard to say who would be saved other than just knowing that God is sovereign. Okay, okay, okay. Uhhuh. And such a liar. I mean he went into the desert not just because oh I want to see uh you know what what's out there or you know or be tempted or something like that. Absolutely true. Yeah, fruit of righteousness always to be great. And only we just see one temptation and boom they immediately fall. He was sent for that conscience only. Jeff, can I address this question? quick peep. Jesus, okay. And I'll just read, um, I'll read this quickly. rather than our own strength. First followers in the first mirror So today we're doing lesson five and we are talking about baptism and temptation as it applies to Christ. There's also two other thoughts that I wanted to kind of throw out there. Because Jesus just came out of the water. So the environment is extremely different. All right. Oh, you might be right. But you can definitely see there's what we're starting to see is a definite difference. Oh Dr. And then like a dove and behold a voice came out of heaven, this is my beloved son. Constantly just like backwards. Right. Yeah. You're right. Jesus was praying, right? Number two, I think this is the second one, worship me, Satan, and I will give you the world, the desire of possessions. And he knew it was gonna come after that as well. So it doesn't know if one baptism of the Holy Spirit referred to those who are actually saved and the baptized by fire those are Uh before I was saved, I I I had no idea what repentance was. We've never been given that we've never been warned. But from uh I'm referencing uh Dr. I'm sorry? Excuse after excuse, and then let's look at how Jesus reacts It's the wilderness. Verse 12, and Jesus answered and said to him, On the other hand, it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Does anybody want should we just kind of go around the room and just kind of want to start here and we'll just kind of zigzag around and just kind of we'll add Yeah, the Old Testament saints were saying by believing in the coming of the Messiah, they had to put their faith that he would come and he would But God is faithful in He makes a way of escape. And then that lingering is what now we're full blown sin. Can I comment on um first Corinthians ten thirteen, which is the first that handed us with um Yes. Yes. Absolutely. He's talking about repentance. Yep. Um, saved based on the knowledge and understanding that that God reveals, um, how all that works out in the old on all the Old Testament, um, people of the Old Testament. But uh it seems to me he's he's talking about this one to follow after him and you know, he's giving uh these things that he's gonna be doing. But the whole idea of baptism, John's baptism, the crowds that he's speaking to, uh, and then the difference of what John's baptism is versus And I think that's an application for us. And these are some notes I took on these temptations. And from the human perspective, it's like why would you do that? So this is what you're DBX is already later to increase I'm I'm assuming I'm assuming that that everyone else in that crowd saw um since it's not a vision, it does a vision would kind of be like like something only kind of The point is the relationship with Christ. What shall we do? And it's really kind of neat to follow for example. The difference basically with John the Baptist, it's his purpose wasn't to be preaching salvation. And they are they go on today. The concept of mikfa uh was operating at this time as it is still today. Oh you know what? And then he saw who saw that? Um it's very interesting. So Psalm fifty one, the Psalm of Repentance, uh is the song um that David used also Yes, yes. Number two, confirmation as Messiah as the promised king, the Lamb of God, and establishing the start of this public ministry. That's the great thing about discipleship. Okay. Can anyone kind of point out who's out there in the crowd? Well, so what happens when someone in order to repent, well it's first off it it's a work of God. So just identifying that there's a uh you uh uh a switch in the language at this point. It's only used one other time in the New Testament when the veil of the temple at the temple, at the death of Christ, was ripped from top to bottom. And um and a time to um and so yeah, let's never doubt the word of God, which is ultimately what Satan is always trying to do. Um God says that um God is faithful and He will not let tempt it beyond our ability, but the temptation So there's there's the um yeah, the kind of a comforting of you know But he's because he's he's the one before Christ who's actually the one from whom we receive salvation from. But John tried to prevent them saying, I have need to be baptized by you. Plumley asked you that sweet. Is it like a minute after? He started off with Luke. Even in even in future lessons here. At the beginning of the before the scripture begins, it says that a star is used to mark births that are historical presence in the Greek, which may have been translated with an English pacifist in order to This is an actual event. And not alone. We couldn't. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Can you give me a versus a versus okay? There's a group in here that is not showing repentance. Sure. Again, I'm going to go to the blended account. Ten fifteen. Yeah, yeah, exactly. But each person when he's tempted, when he's lured, lur and tied by his own desire But you know, Lord, when your timing comes, you give me what I need. I will um Dr. Why don't we read this text? Yeah. So there's lots of concepts here, but I think this will kind of give us a good definition of all three. Verse 18 says with many other invitations he treats the gospel to other people. Uh because Christ does become not only our king, but our high priest. Well that's a great one to put in your your memorization question. We are on page 40 and again um we'll read through it, we'll read the notes, and I'm gonna throw some supplemental things in to kind of Uh huh. And so repentance is more of a reflection of what God has already done. And is this the same kind of baptism? Um maybe a little dogmatic. That's a great question. Um when I was taking CLA, the weather is always warm. Yes. Jesus is not praying, right? And I had a um a really good Christian brother and we were like, we are gonna guard our eyes. So being in the scripture, having someone coming alongside you, um, and just being very sensitive because temptation creeps in slowly And I would kinda go one if I could kinda go off that a little I would say there's a difference between temptation and sin, right? It's long. But we can see the wheels are turning and it's Josh who's preparing Or even there's something in intermediate, I guess, here prior to Jesus actually became publicly known And he's I can imagine that he's saying, Don't follow me, follow that guy. Yeah, they're all involved. And what was it again? Um I would assume everyone else saw. He was without sin. Um that's a reference to John 132 where John says he bore witness and he says, I saw the spirit descend from heaven and remain on me. Everything is great. The hope is that Jesus is going to show off his power. It's hard. Then that alone is a is a message for us as the Lord leads us, it might be into situations which are difficult. Um and they must have all have seen it. So I'm in the spiritual leadership class and we were talking about um temptations. Rather than endure, like a trial we would endure. Anybody else want to try? So that's that concept of, you know, John is just putting water on you, but Christ is going to empower you with the Holy Spirit. There's some great verses on Isaiah talking about the expectation of God coming down and establishing his kingdom. What do we do in times of temptation? So we will endure your your your your your your trials and the temptations I give you now Yes. I'll go ahead and read it. Why was Jesus baptized and John's baptism was a baptism? Jesus answered him. That's why Christ had to come down and do it for us. And we were really good. It's that, here's the situation, what am I going to do with it? Right? Okay. So uh on birth, um uh let's see And the third one, test God by throwing yourself off the top of the temple. And he trusted their family take care of it. Then Jesus was praying, then he saw and that he right there is after a comma, so another capital he. The wilderness is really a far different if you flip to the next page, you'll see what actually the wilderness actually looks like So it's just one flowing story. And we said to them, do not take money for when you won't let us Um okay, so uh confirming his uh kingship He's identifying the difference between someone who's sincerely repentant and someone who's not. So um I I understand that Jesus was not supposed to be Um so there was this idea of um And not alone. Sounds like the people I go to work with. You're hungry, just make some food. Why would you um go to the cross? And we're talking about baptism. We have been warned. That's a great point, and I don't see any little subheadings or any but I'll make a no as I do. Um turning stones into bread. And he came into all the district around the Jordan in the wilderness and they are preaching a baptism of repentance for forgiveness. Crooked, the straight, the rough roads smooth. And because shall we say, well, what shall we do? Which God has to grant you that before you can ever even think of repentance Well my favorite and Joe were talking for each other. We still have to get into temptation. One is getting prepared for salvation. And I'm gonna land on the one that I believe. This is my son, Jesus, in whom I, God the Father, is well pleased. Could I do it? Those seem to be the times that the temptation drives us into sin. You don't want to be this kind of on fire. Yes. Yeah, uh it's neat to see the symbolism seems to s have water as a symbolism first here. Um I had some notes here. And I want to kind of get your thoughts on what that means. And in this passage we can see he's already making a distinction between the difference of a group who's repenting and a group who is not So and then especially with the Trinity there and my business myself. Oh, I'm sorry. It's impossible without the spirit. We had a purpose, but it was done by two. It's God who gives us the ability to repent. I do want to bring them up. One thought is the fulfillment and identification of Christ as a high priest, as in I think it actually has to do with uh the Lended account. He is praying. When they had ended, he became hungry. So I'm assuming everybody else would have seen. They've got water. Now in the fifth years of reign of Tiberius Caesar, when Pontus Pilus Like step one is almost permitted. What I thought was really interesting is in Judaism Because we are also constantly bombarded with temptation. Jesus or Satan reveals his ultimate purpose of really trying to induce Jesus to worship him. When you're really truly like your mind. Since John is baptized him for repentance, this is before they even knew who Christ was There's no trees, there's no water, there's no food, uh, there's no shade, there's no nothing. Go, Satan, for it is written, you shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only Here's three hundred pages, there's a Bible. And when sin is fully grown it gives forth to bring forth to death. Um is is there an indication that everyone could see it? Jesus. And again you can go through there's several um prophetic um God owns everything. And then there was one day where we were looking, and then we're like, no, no, no, no, no, look the other way. Being be in the world. I mean someone's already recognizing their sin. And John the Baptist is talking about repentance. But again, you can see right above it where Dr. So there's this identification of Christ with our sin. He was just standing next and he did what the Jopy did, but didn't say anything about him So it's not even Satan's possession to give. But you're not sensitive if you don't have the scriptures, if you're not disciplining one another. Use God's word, flee. And Nessie? Go down. It's the heavens rip open. Therefore, let us approach the throne of grace with confidence, so that we may receive mercy and find And I find it very useful to me because sometimes I get sidetracked from prayer And I would say, um, so there's there seems to be two main groups in this crowd. Yeah l yeah, let's ask Dr. Yep. Again, to go off and do something other than the will of the Father. That one on one. Poley will be here next week. And he knew and foretold everything that was supposed to take place as far as his purpose for being sent. At this point. To be impuned to those who believe. And not only fall, but Um and I would kind of draw your eyes to um That he saw heaven open is John looking up and seeing heaven open. That's John the Baptist. Because whatever we sin against, we sin against him. Oh however however you feel it. Verse 21. Um this is a actual I just actually saw And in each case The first thing is, which I think was really a neat idea What are these stars? Oh I'm looking at it I'm looking at it I'm looking at the wrong I'm sorry, I'm looking at the wrong one. Jesus, right? Yeah. I'm not too dogmatic. Yes, yeah. Immediately coming out of the water, he saw the heavens open What that looks like, I have no idea. They've got plenty of food. Then the angels came and began to minister to him. I can give it to you sooner, and you don't even have to go through all this affliction. And um God wants us to come to him. I think it's really helpful and that's the way I'm gonna I'm gonna kind of progress is looking at that and he's got it he's got it written in there, a blended account As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, behold, I send my messenger ahead of you who will As Jesus comes up out of the water, a dramatic scene occurs. Um Jesus what Jesus went through was I think it's very helpful. And after being baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water, and behold, while he was praying, he saw heaven was opened. And the first, which we already kind of mentioned, was he publicly identifies himself with us, our sin. Anyone have any thoughts on temptation, how to address temptation, um, struggles with temptation? On my phone I have uh put in You get it all in one nice flow. Clearly it can't be. That's a good question. If you look directly at the nasty So someone had to interpret yes. Yeah, that comes from Luke. There is no sincere. So talk about Jesus. Um now you get the lust of your heart and begin to produce love in your heart and and go that path. Um from this text Flumley and John MacArthur that really the the text uh supports It looks like uh At this point. So they were in anticipation Jesus clearly does not need to repent. In fact, um Yel Kippur, which is the Day of Atonement, which is coming up in October, um Because it's capital E. So I think look at First Corinthians and Paul says no temptation. So instead of having to jump Second Corinthians, he made him who knew no sins be sin on our behalf, so that we might become righteous I've seen that in the room too. But you're right, the text doesn't specifically say and five hundred other people saw as well. I'm going to start in verse 3. Because you're hungry. Make it sound so good, don't they? So that's why it's so important. And I know for years, um, I've thought about what that means, with the way of escape. And so he talked about because Christ really loves us. Decision to to endorse and Hell. Where is it to be a good thing? Um And we see that they're they're gonna be judged by fire I haven't seen the symbolism of water, baptism by water, kind of like a cleansing But I do want to touch on these three different temptations. Yeah. Now when all the people were baptized, Jesus arrived from Nazareth and Galilee at the Jordan, coming to John But you have to see everything the capital right there. Temptation I was just wrong. Therefore, bearing fruit and keeping with repentance, do not begin to say to yourselves, We are Abraham, our father. Um it was kinda interesting, I I know it's only like a verse or two But yeah, there is a way. Um which kind of I would just say too this is an example of Yeah I know this scripture and I like Why would you endure the wrath? Yeah. So that's just for me And so so when we tempt it that's the two way to go to deal, I go toward God Goodbye. Right. So it's kind of a I don't have the whole bike print, so I think it says so great Again, a blended account. There's a better plan than God's plan. Um that I thought were were interesting Um Yet he submitted himself to a baptism for sinners. Um, and again, it comes back to you know is come back and repent Um but you can see if you go just stay within the text, you can see this contrast of Prepared for salvation. Uh okay, okay, okay, okay. Um Isaiah 64, 1. Oh, let's go. We get it w immediately sometimes. And so it's not just the knowledge, it's relationship. And let's dive into what is meant by Jesus baptized by John. Okay, so if you saw the heavens opening, oh uh and Mark uses a verb that Matthew and Luke do not use Yeah and I and I would also say again um and I said the very first time in the class like it Um You wanna start? Most people that don't have me that there are people Uh um let me let me get a little think like they're birds unless uh It doesn't sound like a bad idea, right? So I think it's way harder, at least for me, I don't know scripture, but remembering how much Jesus But right now I'm gonna endure, I'm gonna walk away and give God the glory God chooses upon the information or There must be something different about this particular baptism and what it might represent Um So so so that's why Yep. It seems to imply that salvation can only happen after you salvation. Um Yes. For me it's usually when I'm not in the Word, when I'm not with other brothers, when I'm isolated, when I'm by myself, when I begin to doubt. Now we're only going to look at you know the Bible only identifies three different temptations, but So we can rest in the knowledge of God's will, his timing. Immediately, so right after this event, baptismal event, immediately after that Yeah Uh but you can see for example And do you come to me? After being baptized, Jesus came up from the water, and behold, while he was praying That God would rip open the heavens, come down, and make his name known, and establishing his kingdom. God is with them. Probably he'll he'll instead of try to guess what it's a good it's a good observation. Um again just emphasizing the dram the the intensity of the dramaticness of this event. If we were left on our own, we would never Jesus is baptized by John. Who's praying then? Here we see Satan's appeal to hunger, the desire of the flesh. I think it's very helpful. Christ has already begun to draw them Jesus was baptized, publicly hopefully identified with himself with Arsenal Um And um next week is There's there's some repentance unsincere, but that sincerity is more in a preparation Satan's purpose is to throw doubt. Good application. Think about what John does, which is baptism of water, and think about what Jesus does. Oh, of the steps of salvation? And that's the difference. Yes, yep. And he led him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory in a moment of time. Ultimately, right? Although I didn't use the term baptism. Technical question. So we're also seeing the humanity of Christ, right? Verse 13. This is how we should. You can see how he works it. And behold, a voice came out of heaven, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And then the Holy Spirit of God descends upon him. Um Yep. Um from a human perspective, why would you do that? And and And then if you go uh and you can see he's also kind of bolded some verses or pieces of verses, for example Um But there's no indication whatsoever that this is a baptism. The same way that Christian baptism Oh Nothing wrong with feeding yourself, right? Because really by the time you're already in sin, it's too late Goodbye. It wasn't until Christ But we can't say we Yes. I'm going to go to Pl uh Pastor Plumley's note at the bottom, but I also want to just throw out a couple other ideas. And so to um Yeah, I do see s it saw an original. But something very dramatic, very real. Okay. Every relief will be filled, and every metal It doesn't say as five hundred other people also saw. All flesh pursued the salvation of God. I should I got two of them. Which is interesting because there's this crowd of That's you know very I And you'll see if you go to some of these temples, they'll have these little baths There's also some what is it, what, six or seven bullet points at the bottom of the page And the tempter, the devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread. Um Am I going to turn from it? I'm saying one more thing with you know temptation Um K42. Adam and Eve the temptations that happened. Show off your power. Yep. Plumley is pulling out to kind of blend the story all together This is a dramatic, dramatic change So He's using the word every time. But if we don't Please. What is that message, that gospel that brings to us? Then he So a little bit of tease and hymns jumping back and forth, so it's important to keep that. Like when Paul on the road to Damascus, wasn't he the only one that heard the voice? But again, the scriptures This is Jesus tempted in the wilderness. When the devil had finished every temptation, I'm not even sure what every temptation means I have a funny story. We looked the other way. Right. So the way of escape But he will burn up the chaff with unintentional fire. Any thoughts about what those two things mean? Um No matter what we've done. So um when you see that incredible love So we have about five minutes left. Um, the word of God came to John Right. First Right? And then the next verse And he also is speaking language. Then he permitted him And the Holy Spirit of God descended upon him. Yeah And again, you could always refer right up to the exact scripture, but it's all Jesus came to take the sin for That's where he took some of Um He was called to do that. But I'm gonna I'm gonna get to that. It's a capital He, right in the middle of the sentence. We we are It's not a message of salvation. Go back up to that first verse. And repentance is necessary Because I don't think I've ever been told you this story And there was someone else we were looking at If you're hungry, go into the kitchen and make yourself a sandwich He might be ruling at this moment in time. It's not God's timing yet. Where is And that's kind of why I wanted to go to this idea or this If I had to time it God alone is the one who saves Which is kind of an idea of the penance Up on top. It's it's Yes. So he's preparing the way Yeah. This is clearly not And so I've already handed over my weapons And he was willing And he's out there for forty days. Absolutely. Um why don't we let's read um Um Don't go to the cross. Essentially that's what all three of these temptations are So the Jews were aware of this Here's Satan using the word of God. Because surely God will come down and save you. This is clearly a very different Okay. Uh He was led into the and um he But he is It's little it you get chipped away. He's the only one that recognized Jesus when he appeared. Um Why would you go through this four day of Immediately. He wants us to come to him and he doesn't want Right, God did it, but Yeah So you can see he says Whereas those who are not believing So is that Jesus too? That's Jesus. Yeah, it also saw an original okay Well it'd probably be important that those are Here, let me just give you everything you need And then just below it And it's actually a teacher. And all the country of Judea was It's a message Rather than doing that Is that Jesus? Um That's Christ Jesus. I'll go very fast. We fall, right? Because they're very different. Wait, wait, wait, what what's reading? Why? Um um And What's it like? I think the mascot Um I was telling um Um What shall we do? Is it Um