Before we go to the Lord's table, I'd like to invite you to turn in your Bibles to 1 John chapter 3. Today we're going to walk through verses 11 through 18. And so we are going to focus in on an amazing section of John's first epistle. First John chapter three verses eleven through eighteen. John writes, For this is the message which you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another Not as Cain, who was of the evil one, and slew his brother. For what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil and his brothers were righteous Do not marvel, brothers, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers The one who does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. By this we have known love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. But whatever was ha whoever has the world's goods and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how does the love of God abide in him? Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but indeed and in truth. Please join me as I open and pray. Gracious Father, you have called us to love, not simply with words, but with sincerity of heart and lives that reflect your truth. As we have just read, this message of loving one another is the message that we have heard from the beginning when we were born again in Christ. Lord, cleanse us. Cleanse our hearts from selfishness, from bitterness, and indifference Teach us to recognize our brothers and sisters not as a burden, but as your beloved children. Deserving of true compassion and practical care. May our love not be theoretical but active. Let it not be selective, but let it be sacrificial, just as the Lord Jesus laid down his life for us. Give us the courage to lay down our pride, our comforts, our resources for the needs of others And let truth in love be the example that we set for ourselves and for the body of Christ and the world. When we doubt or grow weary, remind us that greater love has no one than this: that one would lay down his life for his friends. Father, we count it a privilege to be your children and to be a friend of Christ. We thank you, and we pray this in his name and for his glory. Amen. As I was preparing my mind for the Lord's Supper and also for this message, I was reminded that in the Bible God's word is filled with many striking contrasts. Contrasts that at times can jar a person's thinking. Not only do they grab our attention, but they are meant to help us think very seriously about who we are and our own sin. For example, as we read in the Old Testament and especially in the law, we see the absolute holiness of God being contrasted with the sinfulness of man. We see the difference between the righteousness of the godly as opposed to the unrighteousness of the wicked. And perhaps in Proverbs, there is no better place for us to go than to see the contrast between the wisdom of God presented over and against the foolishness of this world. Clearly, the Bible presents us with many different contrasts. Pride versus humility, light versus darkness Righteousness versus unrighteousness, obedience versus disobedience, and the kingdom of God versus the kingdom of this world. I think if there was any one list of contrasts that should grab our attention more than others. It would be what Jesus said in the Gospel of Matthew chapter seven verses thirteen through twenty-eight. Because when it comes to the message concerning the gospel of the saving grace of Christ. It is really about recognizing that there is only one way to be saved. In Matthew chapter 7, Jesus presents us a list with contrasting metaphors. And the only one of these ways that a person can be saved from their sin and to enter into heaven is to choose the way of God. In Matthew chapter 7, Jesus contrasts two different gates, two different ways, two different destinations. Two different groups of people, two different kinds of trees, two different types of fruit, two different types of builders, and finally two different types of foundations. He gives us these contrasts in order to make crystal clear the message of God's salvation in Christ. Well, just to give us an even added understanding of the gospel of Christ in the book of Romans, Paul contrasts the grace of God with the Old Testament law. He then, in the book of Galatians, describes the fruit of the Spirit over and against the deeds of the flesh. In the book of Ephesians, he explains how to walk in the Spirit as opposed to walking in the ways of the world. In Philippians, we discover the true meaning of joy and contentment versus discontentment and apathy. And in Colossians, he presents the supremacy of Christ in contrast to the empty religious traditions of men and the elementary principles of this world. Over in the book of Hebrews. We then have the imperfect and incomplete provisions of the Old Testament which again was given under Moses and contrasted with the infinitely better provisions of the new covenant offered in Christ. In Hebrews alone, we discover a better hope, a better testament, a better promise, a better sacrifice, a better country. a better citizenship and a better and more significant promise given to us in the person of Jesus Christ alone. The contrast in Scripture just go on and on. Well now as we come to verses 11 through 18 here in John's epistle John brings all of that down to the very heart of the Christian life. Along with contrasting light versus darkness, life versus death. Truth versus error, eternal life versus eternal death. We finally come to this overarching contrast between the children of God and the children of the devil And the reason God or John uses these contrasts is that over and against the false teachers and apostate believers who were trying to infiltrate the church and deceive the church John wants us to know what are the true tests of an authentic Christian life. One of the most important ways to tell the difference between a child of God and a child of the devil is by examining the contrast between godly love and devilish hate. And this is exactly what John is going to give us in our passage today. the contrast between love versus hate. Last week John introduced to us the concept of what it means to be a child of God versus a child of the devil. between a truly repentant person and the one who lives contrary to the will in the word of God. Well now in verses 11 through 18 he's going to show us How a pattern of godly love is what really characterizes God's children. That instead of living in a pattern of unrepentant sin Here is one of the fruits of a truly repentant faith. And that is, do you truly love your brothers? Amen Or in your heart do you hate them like Cain? Back in verse 10, John told us by this the children of the devil, or the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. How are they obvious, John? He goes on to say, anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God And then he says this amazing statement, nor is the one who does not love his brother. Here in verses 11 through 18, he begins to address this issue of love. Love that is at the heart of the Christian life. Love that should be accentuated in a very significant way. In chapters four and five, John's going to return to this theme of love. But here he points his point is that those who live contrary to the righteousness of God, who do not love the way that Christ loved us Not only are they not one of God's spiritual children, but for the lack of godly love they give no evidence of producing the real fruits of true repentance. I will. Christ-like love is at the heart. It is at the heart of the Christian life. It is the essential nature of a born-again believer. And how do we know this? Because godly love is what distinguishes us from the world around us. By way of reminder, we know this because John tells us that this is exactly what Jesus Himself said back in John chapter 13, verses 34 and 35. It is because God's love is how we know who are the true disciples of Christ. And just to remind us, j Jesus said this in John chapter 13. He said, A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, even as I have loved you, that you also love one another. And he says, by this all men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Again, later on in 1 John chapter 5, John is going to tell us, his readers, that Christ-like love is what truly characterizes an authentic child of God. That everyone who loves the one who gives new birth loves also the one who has been born of him. That's John chapter 5, verse 1. 1 John 5, verse 1. Again, John says, by this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and do his commandments. In chapter 5, verse 3, John goes on to say, For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. Why are they not burdensome? It is because Christ-like love is being made manifest in our hearts and in our lives. So that we live in obedience to God because we love Him with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. And this is exactly what the child of God desires to do. When a Christian is obedient to God's word, Christ says, that is when the love of God is truly made evident in the life of the one who is his child. Those who demonstrate true Christian love, John says, will have passed out of death into life. Which is just another way of saying that they've experienced true saving faith. Well, in our passage today, John is going to connect this with precisely what Christ came to accomplish when he sacrificed his life for God's children. That through the sacrifice of Christ on the cross, not only did he give us the remedy for our sin, But he set us free so that we could follow his example and again demonstrate God's sacrificial love for others. That kind of eternal love not only saves us, but it is the love that He demonstrates through us to prove the authenticity of our faith. For the child of God, love is not a matter of just words. It's a matter of actions, deeds. And again, deeds don't save us, but they show the work that God has already done in our hearts. Again, it's what proves the authenticity of one's faith. And just to be clear, there will be times I know when we will fail to love each other because of our own susceptibility to sin. Inevitably That failure to love, the way that Christ loves us, will produce then doubt, uncertainty, insecurity, self-condemnation. And our own doubt concerning our life with God. But this is why John tells us this Later on, especially in verse 20, where he says, God is greater than our hearts and he knows all things. Why? Because when our heart is ready to condemn us, it will at times. God will give us greater assurance of our faith. He will speak into our lives truth that will reassure us of our position before the Father. And if we're a true child of God, the promise is that He will give us the confidence to know that we are truly one of His. God does this when the Holy Spirit manifests his love through us. And how we know this is because those who give evidence of a pattern of Christ-like love in their life They are the one John says who keep God's commandments and do the things which are pleasing in his sight. They walk in a habit of obedience and not disobedience to God's word, confirming the promise that they are at home with Christ through the power and the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit. And that saving faith proves itself to be true when we love one another just as Christ loved us. And that's the evidence of a truly saved individual, someone who has a truly repentant heart and faith. Well, beginning in verse eleven of our text this morning, John reaffirms the exact same principle that Jesus gave in the Gospels: that love, not hate, is what characterizes the Christian life. And clearly, for the true repentant truly repented person, this is the single most important command that is meant to be joyfully obeyed. Let's first look at the command to be obeyed. The command to be obeyed. Then we will look at the contrast to be avoided. The contrasts to be avoided. And lastly, the conduct to be practiced. The conduct to be practiced. Hopefully by the time we're finished this morning, we'll have a better understanding of what the Christian life ought to be. And so let's begin again first with the command. In verse 11, John says, and look with me here, for this is the message which you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. John says, this is the message that we have heard from the beginning. But what was the message that you're talking about, John? It's the message that we ought to love one another. Love is not merely a duty that we owe to the family of God. It is really the expression of what it means to be a child of God. And this is because when we love the family of God, it means that we are walking in the light of God's truth. John says in 1 John chapter 1, verse 5, he says, This is the message we have heard from him, and declare to you that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. Well, when it comes to the gospel message, there is this doctrinal aspect to the Christian life, which is something that every believer partakes of. But likewise, there is also this ethical aspect of the Christian life, which is something that gives us the evidence that the seed of Christ has already begun to grow in our life. Here in verse 11, John is now addressing the ethical aspect of the Christian life. Apparently, when this letter was first written, false teachers and false believers prided themselves on having some sort of secret knowledge about God. The reality was that they out had absolutely no love for the Christian community. They isolated themselves from the church They even tried to deceive believers by questioning the apostolic message. What they ended up doing was reinventing a counterfeit gospel. which was in accordance with their own worldly lusts and desires and ideas. John then says, The message which you have heard from the beginning, this is the message that you received the first time that you came to saving faith in Christ. And that message has never changed. Christ preached it, the apostles taught it, the church has practiced it. And what is that message? It is that God is light and God is also love. He is love. And therefore, anyone who is truly his not only lives in the light, but they also love the way that Christ loves us. And that life-transforming message has never changed. For now, over two thousand years. It continues to be the same message that we preach day in and day out as we live our Christian life before others. And again, the truth regarding our Christian conduct is that it's just as unalterable as the truth about Christ. Again, those who claim to be in Christ but do not practice Christ-like love, John says, they are not a part of God's spiritual family. As a new creature in Christ, filled with the love of God, the Bible teaches us that we are no longer dominated by our own self-centered sin. And our unrighteous motivations and intentions no longer characterize our life. And the reason for this is because even though We occasionally sin. Our life is now marked by a love for one another that is rooted in the saving message of Jesus Christ. True Christ-like love is now the overarching theme of every person who is a believer in Christ and a child of God. It is who we are, it is what we do, and it is this way because it is the work that is already working within us through Christ. Well here in verse eleven, John is telling his readers that we are not like the world. We are no longer the children of the devil. We are no longer characterized by the same nature as the devil who has had that nature from the very beginning. And why is that? Because our life is now characterized by a life that is similar to Jesus Christ. In other words, when people look at us, they should see the evidence of a new life in Christ. And let me tell you, this is why we need to remind ourselves of the gospel each and every day. It is because that message has never changed. And it is the same message that applies to us each and every day of our Christian life. The only real change that is now taking place in our lives is that the love of God, the love of Christ, is the motivating purpose for which we do everything that we do. Paul put it this way in 2 Corinthians 5, verses 14 and 15. He said, For the love of Christ controls us. Having concluded this, that one died for all, therefore all have died. And he died for all, so that they who live would no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and rose again on our behalf. Again, the direction of our life, the motivation, the intentions of our life, they are so radically changed that we can't help but live different from the world. In short, the Christian life is all about living for Jesus Christ. And his life of love is now what binds the family of God together. We no longer live for our own selfish desires and personal motivations. We are now others-oriented. And just to make that point absolutely clear. Here in verses 12 through 15, John uses the perfect negative example that everyone would be familiar with, and that's the story of Cain and Abel. This is what brings us to the devilish contrast that must be avoided. Look with me at verses 12 through 15. John says, here's what true Christian love isn't. And this is what it doesn't look like. Not as Cain, who was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil and his brothers were righteous. Do not marvel, brothers, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers The one who does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. Well, John uses Cain here As the ideal example of the contrast between love and hate As you know, it's the story that was at the beginning And it sets the example of the contrast between godly love and devilish hate for the rest of the world. This story of Cain and Abel is found in Genesis 4, if you're not aware of that. Genesis is the first book of the Bible, and it gives us the condition of humanity as it began in the beginning. After Adam and Eve had fallen into sin, it was Cain and Abel then who became the first example of the most striking contrast between righteousness and wickedness in the pages of Scripture. And we need to think very, very carefully about what John here is saying about Cain so that we under understand the principle of godly love. In Genesis chapter 4, verse 1, in fact, take your Bibles and turn there. I want you to see this. In Genesis chapter four, verse one, it says, Now the man, Adam Had relations with his wife Eve, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain. And she said, I have gotten a man with the help of Yahweh. Now, that's a very important statement there at the at the end of verse 1, because in the original Hebrew The implication is that Eve believed that Cain was going to be the answer to God's promised seed back in Genesis 3 verse 15. She believed that Cain, the firstborn, might possibly be God's promised redeemer. But that's not what happened. We read on. Verse 2 goes on to say, again, she gave birth to his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of the flocks, but Cain a cultivator of the ground. Verse 3 says, So it happened in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to Yahweh. Of the fruit of the ground. And so here we find in verse 3 Cain bringing an offering from his labors in worship to God. It's in verses four and five then that we see the conflict begin to take place. The text says Abel on his part also brought the firstborn of his flock and of their fat portions. Yahweh had regard for Abel, but and and for his offspring offering, but for Cain and for his offering he had no regard. So Cain became very angry, and his countenance fell. Again, right here is where things go terribly wrong for Cain in relation to his brother Abel. Given the fact that we don't have all of the details in this context, it implies that God must have already given them instructions. about what kind of acceptable sacrifice needed to be made. Hebrews 9. 22 actually reminds us and tells us that all things are cleansed with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness. Well, at the beginning of Genesis, God must have already told Cain and Abel that blood sacrifices were the only acceptable form of worship. And Abel obeyed, Cain did not. Instead, Cain determined that what he wanted to bring to God was the fruit of the ground of his labor as an act of worship He brought fruit that he himself had planted, that he had harvested from the ground with his own hands, and essentially he then brings an offering to God. Which is something that he wanted to bring and offer, and not what God commanded. At this point, it could be said that Cain instituted his own acceptable form of worship. As a result, the Lord had no regard for what Cain had determined his offering would be. And so at the end of verse 5 through verse 7, It then tells us that Cain became very angry and his countenance fell. Yahweh came to Cain and said, Why are you angry? Why has your countenance fallen? Verse 7, if you do well, you will will your not will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is lying at the door? and its desires for you, but you must rule over it. Then came the devastating event of verse 8. Cain And I find this interesting, it's rather than him speaking to God, he goes to his brother. Cain spoke to his brother Abel. And it happened when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and he killed him. More precisely, he murdered him in the most brutal way possible. If we go back then to 1 John chapter 3, go ahead and turn back. We're told why he murdered him. The reason Cain murdered his brother was because his hatred originated with the devil. Look at the first part of verse 12. It's because Cain was of the evil one. God's word tells us to love one another, and why? Because love is the exact opposite of hate. And the greatest example of hate among the human race, then is Cain himself. And so verse 12 tells us That the reason Cain slew his brother is because he was of the evil one and not of God The phrase of the evil one comes from a Greek word that involves not just evil behavior, but evil intention It involves an active opposition to anything that is good. One writer even calls it organized evil. And we see that in the way that Cain murdered his brother. It is an intentional evil. And it refers to someone who not only is willing to do evil. But that they are actual evil. And someone who then seeks to drag everyone down with him. And this is why it is so applicable to Cain. Cain was angry with God, so his intention was to destroy the object of God's favor. He did it in the most horrific and most heinous way possible. Who is the evil one that John is referring to here in the first part of verse 12? Well, we know it's Satan We know it's the enemy. John is telling us that Cain's hatred is the epitome of what it means to be a child of the devil. And the evidence of this hatred was his act of intentional homicide. John tells us that Cain was of the same nature as Satan himself. Because according to the Gospel of John In chapter 8, verse 44, which we referenced last week, Jesus said that Satan was a murderer from the beginning. He was a murderer from the moment that he intentionally rebelled against God. And this is exactly then what characterized Cain and when he rebelled against bringing the proper sacrifice to God But for what reason did Cain then murder his brother? Again, verse 12 tells us. John asked the very same question, and for what reason did he slay him? Two reasons here, because his deeds were evil and his brothers were righteous. Cain murdered Abel because he wanted to do the things his own way. He despised his brother for doing things God's way. And again he slaughtered his brother because his deeds were evil and his brothers were righteous. Abel obeyed God, Cain did not. And because God then looked with favor on Abel's sacrifice, Cain resented his brother deeply. He resented the person who was bringing the offering to God. And as a result, he murdered him there in the field. Now, what is most telling here is John uses a word for slay. That's the same word that is used for slaying animals according to the sacrificial system of the Mosaic Law. The word itself means to butcher or to butcher by the cutting of the throat. This as graphic as this word is It's very likely that when Cain called Abel out into the field, he murdered him by slitting his throat. That may have, he may have even used the same knife that Abel used to prepare the offering for God when he made his sacrifice. Now we don't know this, but this butchery is what took place to draw the contrast between love and hate Cain's anger was so violent, so insane, so personal, that he then slit his brother's throat. And that's the greatest expression of devilish hatred on the face of the planet. When Cain and Abel were born, clearly the seeds of death were already implanted in their lives because of the sins of their parents, Adam and Eve. But as far as we know, not one person had actually physically died as a result of this kind of sin. Animals were killed, we know that, but no person had been killed. And no doubt Cain knew exactly how to kill because he knew what God had done and how he had instructed Adam and Eve in the beginning. He knew how to slaughter an animal. In fact, according to Genesis 3 verse 21, God showed Adam and Eve how to do it. God killed the first animals to make the clothing for Adam and Eve. He did that because he instituted at that moment a pattern of sacrifice that would be made for man's salvation and redemption. That reminder of that dead animal would be the reminder that this is what it would take for you to be redeemed from your sin. And the fact that God covered Adam and Eve with the skins of animals provided the perfect picture of God then covering our sins with a blood sacrifice. But Cain was the first to pervert that practice. He turned the act of sacrifice into a heinous act of homicide. As one writer put it, the human race learned to murder when it was being taught to worship. And again, What was the reason why Cain murdered his brother? Because his deeds were evil and his brothers were righteous. And I want you to notice in verse 12 the word deeds. Jealousy, resentment, and selfishness formed the action that became the basis of the first murder. And so Cain then murdered his brother because he despised and resented his brother's righteousness. Not all people are murderers like Cain. But Cain's hatred is not dissimilar to any one of us, because even if you call a person an empty head, Jesus said in Matthew. Chapter 5, he said, You've committed murder in your own heart. Again, the only difference between hatred and murder is the act itself. And yet the attitude is exactly the same. In verse thirteen we find that this same attitude That is present in this unredeemed humanity is identical to Cain's attitude towards his brother John tells us that we should not marvel or be surprised at this kind of hatred. And boy, I tell you how ap applicable that is to the world today if you just sit down and turn on the news, you see it. But again, marvel is this word here that could be translated amazed, astonished, again, surprised, and even shocked John says, don't be shocked by the fact that hatred is equivalent to murder. We shouldn't be shocked that the world hates us, John says, because look at what it did to Christ. Cain is the epitome of murder and the archetype for this world. If Cain hated his brother enough to murder him, don't be surprised if the world then hates you. Hate leads to death, and the world is absolutely obsessed with death and with destruction. Those who act on their own hatred will stop at nothing to drag you down with them. However, not so for those who belong to Jesus Christ. Look at verse fourteen. We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. He who does not love abides in death. John says the assurance that we have as believers is that if we love God and we love our Christian family, we will give evidence of that, of having been having passed out of death into life. Those who have passed out of death into life, John says, they are the ones who then are truly God's children. They are truly believers, notice verse 14, because they then love the way that Christ loves us. And they love their brothers. Those who do not love, in contrast, reside in death. You only need to look at the attitude and action of Cain to know that this is true in the world. Verse 15 says, Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, just like Cain is the implication. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. What John is saying here is that the pattern of hatred, as destructive as it is, is the pattern of an unbeliever's lifestyle. Believers practice love, unbelievers practice hatred. And in God's eyes, hatred is the equivalent of murder Those who have the attitude of hatred, jealousy, resentment, selfish ambition, or selfish intention, John says, they do not possess eternal life. Like Cain, no matter how much they say they believe in God. And there's no doubt, Cain believed in God. But God will not look on favor with their worship. And this is why it is so important for us to examine our own hearts And not just to examine our external behavior. Behavior is important, but more importantly, it's indicative of what Christ has already started in our hearts. and what's already going on in our hearts. And this then brings us to our last point. John says true believers aren't just known by their internal motivations. They are known by their external actions. A truly repentant person is someone who puts the love of God into practice. And that then brings us to the conduct that should be practiced Not just a command to obey, not just a contrast to avoid, but a conduct to be practiced. And again, look with me at verses 16 through 18. Here then is true Christ-like love. As we've looked at the contrast of hate, now let's look at love. By this we have known love. That He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. Whoever has the world's goods and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how does the love of God abide in him? Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but in deed and in truth. John gives us here three very practical reasons why the love of God is so important to the Christian faith The first is the example of Christ in verse 16. The second is a failure to demonstrate Christ-like love is a closed heart. Verse 17. And thirdly, the principle that we need to live by is action, not words, verse 18. Let's look quickly at the example of Christ in verse 16. Unlike the world, God's love is not defined by an emotion. It's not defined really as an attitude. True agape love is defined as an act of self-sacrifice. We know that God loves us. How do we know that? Because Christ Himself laid down his life for us. What's our response to this? What is our godly responsibility toward this? John says, well then we ought to lay our lives down for one another. Cain murdered his brother, but Christ gave his life for his friends. And for those he loves. First Peter 2, verse 21 tells us, Since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that you should follow in his footsteps. The issue here is more likely that you and I will not have the opportunity to put our life on the line for someone. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't go out of our way to then love one another This is why John adds verse 17. Those who fail to demonstrate God's love do so because they have closed their heart. to the needs of those around them. Failure to love ultimately is an issue of a closed heart. John says, but whoever has the world's goods and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him. How does the love of God abide in him? This is actually a rhetorical question here, and the answer is obvious. No true believer would close his or her heart to the needs of other believers. And to those around them. A child of God says, I can't close my heart when I see my brother in need. A Christian who is filled with the love of God, John says, is someone who is willing to give up his possessions, his comfort. his time, anything that he values in this world, just so that he can love his brother and meet their needs. Keep in mind, John is not teaching us to give up our money and our resources indiscriminately. He is teaching us that we need to be purposeful, intentional, as well as generous. God wants us to look for specific needs and to be intentional when the needs are obvious, not to close our heart and not to act indifferently toward those who are a part of God's family. Because that's what the world does. Now again, the issue here, John says, is do you close your heart when you see the genuine need? Particularly when you see the needs of other believers. John says, if you see a genuine need and respond to it, then you know that you are someone who has the love of God abiding in you. Remember, Jesus said this, by this all men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. If you are habitually caring for and again doing this in a way that exemplifies the very character of Christ, Then you can know that you are a child of God. But if you are habitually uncaring and regularly indifferent to those around you, John raises the question about your salvation How can you call yourself a lover of God and not act? If you have an attitude of indifference, selfishness, envy, resentment toward other believers, then John says You do not have eternal life abiding in you. But that's why John says Christ-like love is a matter of actions and not words. Look at verse 18. John says, Little children. And I love the fact that he says this because as a caring father, he's instructing us how we ought to live and grow up and mature in Christ. He says, Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but indeed and in truth. Our love for other Christians must be demonstrated by our actions and not our words alone. A profession of love is not enough. By implication, John is referring to someone here who is all talk and no action. The person is the ultimate hypocrite because they never do what they say. Not so the children of God. We prove our love by our actions. In fact, sometimes we don't even need to open our mouth. We just do it. John says, we must be men and women of action, not words. For those who are truly God's children, words are insufficient. Action is the only way to meet the needs of others. Sadly, we live in a world that is dominated by hate. As we look at society and the world around us, it is clear that Cain's hatred is rampant in this world. Likewise, the greatest tragedy of any believer in God's family would be to forget the point of Calvary, the point of Christ on the cross. Romans 5. 8 tells us, but God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, he died for us. God sent his son to give us life as a payment for our sin. He gave us the greatest demonstration of his love in sending his son to die in our place. John says in 1 John 4. 19, we love because what? He first loved us. It is our privilege, it's our responsibility to show God's family how much they are loved by God, and how do we do that? By acting In actions rather than words to express our love for one another. When we put God's love on display, this is when the world will know that we are Christ's disciples. And they'll know it because we have love for one another. We will prove the power of God's life-transforming message. And we will then begin to proclaim that message, not just with our lips, but with our lives, so that the world will know Christ and how to have salvation in him. This is such an important message. And by way of practical application, I would like to just encourage you, if you have a need Let us know. If you need help, please don't be shy about asking. Let us as believers, all of us, gather together to meet that need. And I tell you, if we do that kind of action before an unbelieving world, It will be such a proclamation of the Lordship of Jesus Christ over our lives. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we are so grateful for the joy of knowing you through Christ's love. We thank you for sending your son to give up his life to die such a horrific death. so that we might have life in him and become you the righteousness of you. Father, we thank you for the joy of being able to exalt and glorify and give praise to the one who is love incarnate And I pray that as we continue to pursue Christ, as we continue to mature in Christ, as we continue to practice the principles of Christ, to show people the actions of Christ. And to demonstrate the very life of Christ, that Lord, we would have the opportunity again to proclaim your gospel to the world. We rejoice in knowing you and who you are, but we know that if it were not for your love, we would never know you. Guard our hearts, Lord, from the temptation to give in to our hatred and sin. That's the old life. Help us to be renewed. In a new mind, a new heart, so that we can then put on the new man and walk with compassion, love, grace, forgiveness. And continue to uphold the Church of God by being a demonstration of you to the world Father, again, we thank you for the joy of this table, and we just ask your blessing on it as we partake of it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.