Perspective, point of view. We have all kinds of view. We have the world view, the Republican view, the Democratic view, the independent view, and the human view. Today across America, this great country, five hundred churches, sermons are being preached across this country. Some are preaching their view, not God's perspective. In fact, uh according to one evangelical research, only fifteen percent To 20% of 500 churches emphasize exposure expository preaching, that is giving God's perspective. Many of the servants today are human perspective Even if you look at your own Bible, when you read the scripture, you'd be careful because you might be doing HCG, meaning you are simply putting your idea, your view into the scripture That's why exegesis is important in preaching. Exegesis is simply Starting the Word of God in the original text, in the original language, and bringing out the scripture, the meaning intended by the author and by God Himself. I think this is why we have a problem. In fact, in in in many churches today, the rest of preachings were topical, moralistic, shallow. Most of them are man-centered, not God-centered. They preach John 3. 16, but they sort of glows over John 3. 17-18. In fact, I don't even know what just 317-18 is in regular members of any church today. The only focus in God's love. But not God's truth. They preach about God's mercy, but not God's justice. So before we go to our text this morning in Ephesians, I'll just give you an example how pictures of people look on John 316 to 18 You can open your Bible to John 3. 16, 18 if you want to. John 3. 16 says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish But have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to judge the world, but that the world might be safe through him. Here's verse 18. He who believes in him is not judged. He who does not believe has been judged already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. The point is this, if you ask three people, say three pastors, you know, at random, they're gonna look at this different perspective. In fact, some of the trainings that I have met pastors look on the human perspective, that God's perspective. According to JFV, the Jameson Fawcett Brown commentary, we can read this from different theological perspectives depending on our theological preferences. It's been a source of different doctrine of positions. If you ask the Augustinians or the Calvinists, they will tend to emphasize the role of God in lightning the world And giving his son. But if you ask an Armenian, he would emphasize on on the pronoun whoever. Whoever. They stressed us a lot, indicating human freedom and the human decision-making process in salvation. Talk this verse. John 3 17, 16 to 18. To me it's a barometer if if I someone, what do you think of 17 and 18, right? God is law, but he's also what? God of truth As Pastor Tom Link says, God is love, but he does not excuse sin. That's the problem. We think of God's attribute mainly in a defective view of God, meaning it's just like it's like, oh God is like he'll understand. No. You have to balance that with the scripture It's almost like this, like if you have a problem with one one experience, for instance, you have you having a problem? You check it out with what? You ask this file, you pastor, you pray about it, it's like this. This is the scripture, this is recent or logic. This is church tradition. Over here is your your experience, your emotion, right? Every logic and reason must be supported by exegesis, by scripture. including experience. It must be supported in right the scripture and church tradition That's the basic thing. Basic thing that we have to learn about this in in turn you know in in giving our our our point of view. Today read news paper. If you read the news and media paper Everybody's giving their own their own point of view. There are only two views. God's point of view and man's point of view. Keep that in mind. Now the thing is this. One way to understand God you know is uh understanding his his will. And God's will is sometimes hard to understand. Experientially, right? According to J. Packer, God has two wills. One is called the design will, or the revealed will. And the other one is the deciding will or the decreative will or the secret will. You might ask me, hey Pastor Tony, are you saying God is pretty? Is he? What two, three persons, right? But three persons, right? One God. Is he schizophrenic? No, he's not schizophrenic. Of course not. For instance, one of the favorite versions of the Armenians is this. This is the God's will, by the way. This is correct, it's not a correct view. 2 Peter 29 says, the Lord is not slow about his promise, as some come slowness, but is patient toward you not missing or desiring for any one to perish, but for all to come to repentance That's true. That's God's desire. That's the desire the design will of God. Ezekiel eighteen twenty-three says, Do I have the pressure in the death of the wicked? declares the Lord Rather than rather than he should turn from his ways and leave. That's the design will. How about the Decide that that sorry, that is the deciding wheel. This is now the deciding wheel in Romans 9. 15 This is tough. His design his designing will, his trick will is hard to comprehend. Look at Romans 9:15. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. I don't understand that. This is the same verse repeatedly throughout the scripture. God desired us that never should perish, then again he would decide in his own decreative will, I will save this person, but not this person. That's how it is. There's no dispensation between God's will and human will, isn't it? Look at uh not a very this I like this one in uh Again, Romans 9:16, continuing, so then it does not depend on the man's will or the man who runs, the man who works, that is, but on God who has mercy. In Acts 1348, this is very clear, by the way, about predestination of God's will. When the Gentiles heard these, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. People are appended by that word, predestination election. But it's here. It's here. There are more verses that speak about it. So that brings us to our book this morning, the book of Ephesians. Ephesians 1. 4 says, just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before him. Like dynamite, this verse triggered the most heated and debated doctrine since the mid-16th century and even now We have people and congregation and churches divided on this verse, one verse alone. He chose us in him before the foundation of the world. So what is the doctrine of election, Ephesians 1. 4? What is Calvinism? Simply means what You and I receive mercy from God. I receive mercy from you. You receive mercy from God. If you're a Christian. That's all. Pure and simple. He chose us to show mercy out of so many sinners in this world. We know different from them. We know different from them. Someone says, blame John Cunning. Now John Calvin was a great theologian, but he God opened his eyes and he expounded scripture. You know, word for word, exegetically, I like to read the word. He picks on this topic and wrote about it in the Institutes of Christian Religion. He developed many enemies because of this, and even many many of his friends oppose him. One of his arch enemies was a French man named Jerome Bolsay, a medical doctor One Sunday morning, Dr. Borset, like a raging bull, entered the St. Peter's Cathedral in Geneva in the middle of the worship service. He won on a tirade, tirade like a maniac, denying the doctrine of Trinity, rather election, and even called Calvin a liar and a hypocrite, right in the middle of the church. Calvin was not preaching at the time, but he was in the vicinity and heard about it. So he went to the church and confronted the man in the presence of the whole congregation. And then shut him. Wait a minute now. Did you really show him? He shat him with the word of God. That's what it is. He shat him with the word of God. Scripture by scripture, he Destroyed the arguments of this man who was arrogant. Eventually the Frenchman was arrested for disturbing the peace and was exiled for heresy. That's one way to deal with people who are against the doctor collection. Have them arrested. So last Sunday we barely finished you know the first point. Uh in fact uh I was telling you uh last last week that Even Tim Keller took him six months to preach Ephesians 1. MacArthur took seven years and a half years to preach Matthew. Pastor Tom is taking him almost two years to preach John. You think preaching is easy? You know it's not is that that easy Anyway, let me give you the conclusions from last Sunday for those who who were not for the benefit of those who were not here, okay? So last week we we uh discussed this. The first conclusion is this. Ephesians 1 is salvation from God's perspective, not human perspective. Ephesians two is salvation from human perspective, that is our perspective. Number three We are neither in the right position nor conditioned to receive the truth of the doctrine of election in chapter one until we know we have been made alive from our spiritual deadness in chapter two. Therefore, knowing this truth, we can say that nobody can make himself or herself a Christian. Only God can make you a Christian. The doctrine of election Does not nullify or negate human responsibility. That's tough. We have a proof, Romans 1. 8. 20. We don't have time to go there. No excuse, Paul says that. So here's the conclusion for that final conclusion on this one here. Therefore man is responsible for his sins and actions. And God is responsible for his salvation. I'm not responsible for I can't save myself. Can you save yourself? We are responsible for our sins and actions. That's the that's our perspective. God's perspective is his salvation. We should so deep, so so rich. We were trying to comprehend, we can't even comprehend it I like Tim Keller. He says, you know, Tim Keller says, uh, you know, the doctrine of election is like eating a hard candy. You know. You're tempted what? You you're tempted first to bite it right away, but it's hard. It can break your teeth, right? Or even your jaw sometimes. But you take your time and finally get smaller, the hard candy, and you bite on it again. And finally you reach the tender part, which is sweet, tasty, rich candle chocolate, so good. You know? I can taste it now. You find yourself smiling with joy When you read Ephesians chapter 1, that's how it is. You can't understand it because you are trying so You want away you we want convenience. You want it right away, right? It takes time to get upon the layer of truth In fact, the word taste in the spiritual sense is related to our heart and thinking. When you don't enjoy the word of God, something is wrong, definitely. I've experienced that. We don't desire God because we desire something else, right? Tim Kummer says again this, we are poor evangelists because what? We have many adults in our hearts. We say we have many adults. Well, exact examiners I have many idles at times. It's amazing. It's true Okay, here are the five points again. Kind of revise this revise this uh points, but The five points of Ephesians 1, 3 to 14 are this. Number one, God is the origin, the executor, and the active agent of salvation. God is the origin, the executor, and the active agent of salvation. That's in verses 1, 4, 5, 9. Number two, God chose and pronounce us to be united with the Son before creation. Verses 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 12, and 13. Number three point. The goal of salvation is our holiness. But the ultimate goal of our salvation is God's glorification. Verses 4b 611 14. Number four, the recipients of electing grace are the church collectively. And the believers individually. Verses 4, 11, 14. Finally, the blessings of redemption are the work of the triangle God, verses 1 to 14. Let's look at point two. God chose and foreman us to be united with His Son. I have to include the word for now because choosing and loving are so closely related in the scripture as we would find out For instance, the word for new the Greek is re it means what? Really foreknowledge, for new, for known. Let's open our Bible if you will again to Romans 8 twenty twenty to thirty. Scripture reading this morning. I want you to open your Bible there. Could I like to point something there? Some people consider Romans eight as the greatest verse in Scripture for practical purposes It tells us that nothing happens outside of God's plan for our good. Verse 28 says, God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God. to those who are called according to his purpose, for those who for those whom he foreknew. That's a big word again. He also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. And this whom he predestined also he called. And this whom he called he also justified And this whom he justified, he also glorified. The Greek word for new literally means knowing beforehand. One word, for knowledge. You know some people define knowledge for knowledge like this. Oh yeah, God looks forward in the whole of time. you know, in the future and he knows that this person or that person would repent and believe. You know, in a way that's true This is the future of his domination. But you can't limit God's perspective on immediate foresight of future. The point is this the word Greek word for news deeper than that, it indicates close, intimate relationship with God. If you believe that that God that that man would repent and believe that God says that in the future that it's it's up to him to be saved. That's Pelagianism. That's radical Armenianism. That's human perspective. You see? The biblical definition of prognosis or for knowledge is so deep that it runs through the scripture, the world. Knowledge itself, knowing, is there. Let's take a look at the summon the the verb know known, you know, in the in the scripture. Look at 1 Corinthians 8. 3. But if if anyone loves God, he is known by him. Galatians 4. 9 says, but now you doth have come to know God, but rather to be known by God. See that? This is the word again, gnoscco, or to be known, known. God knows who belong to him. God knows his children. In Matthew 7, 21-23, Jesus said, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father, who is in heaven, will enter. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast up demons, and in your name perform many miracles. Then I will declare to them, I never knew you. See the word. New it indicates what intimacy, relationship, love, in a sense The point is this, God has known us and love us before the world began. That's Ephesians 1:4 Do you ask can you explain that, Pastor Tony? Are you kidding? I can't do that. No one can. It's a mystery. Well what shall we do with it? Ignore it? No. We simply what learned this from a car to simply embrace this truth by faith. You know? It's like the doctrine privy. You can't resolve that. People try to resolve it. So we have to define it. It's so hard we have to define it negatively. God the Father is not the Son, Son is not the Spirit, the vice versa. But one God, one essence. You know? Or the true nature of Christ is fully God, fully man. You can't resolve that. You take it by faith. If you notice the mysteries in the scripture are two tensions between, you know, it's those tension, they're both true Those secret things actually belong to God. We have this in the Bible, Deuteronomy 29, 29. The secret things belong to the Lord our God. There's nothing wrong with uh reading and searching the scripture for answers and it's all but I think it's our attitude attitude sometimes. You know sometimes we think we are so smart, right? We're proud. We got three degrees behind our name. You know everything, right? Let's just say for the sake of discussion Compare ourselves to God's brain, okay? If God is a brain, right? That's that's thinking from a human perspective, by the way. It's not in scripture. If God's brain is as big as this earth, Ours would be like P brains. We are a bunch of Prainers. Prainish theologian looking at the own point of view. You see? Isn't it? God is so awesome. In fact, right now He knows what you're thinking. I don't know. I don't sometimes I don't even know what I'm thinking. Is it is it? See that that's how God is. His perspective is so high, here we are finite as we are. You know, sometimes dim weird, you're trying to understand every word. You can't understand. But but the we have enough revelation to know what salvation is. We have enough revelation to his redemption, his son, his love. You know. It's a lot of good great verse, I like this one. But if anyone loves God, he is known by him. See that? God knows his children. 2 Timothy 1 9 says, Who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his purpose and grace which was granted us in Christ Jesus. From all eternity and includes eternity past. That's foreknowledge. Now let's look at the uh first uh verse 5. He hath chosen us, King James Version. He chose us not be Literally it means he picked us out of this world for himself. By the way, the word election, elect or choosing and predation are predation are somewhat similar. The only difference is this. Election He's is the it means in Greek it he set us for particular purpose. Predestined is he destined us. It's a secured, it's a guarantee. It's permanent. It's ir irrevocable. In fact, if you were predestination is is there. It's just that's eternal security. You have to go anywhere to to look for you know for assurance that you're not saved if you're really saved, right? The guarantee nothing can stop God's Predestining you to a particular purpose, you know. Nothing. What's the meaning of that? One is an act of will by God and you know Uninfluenced by temporal or physical force, he chose you. He chose us. He pretends we predestined us to be as his son, adapted sons. That's his purpose eventually and holiness ultimately So God's choosing by the way, God's choosing is not restricted in the New Testament. Which it should well be you know even in the Old Testament. The word choose or chose can can be traced back to the Old Testament. By the way, the word chose or choose is associated with the word called. Loving, knowing, okay. The language of salvation. For instance, in uh in Genesis 12, God called Abraham with a purpose. In calling him, he also what saved him. When God called Abraham in the sentence, God chose him out of so many men. He was a pagan. He was a pagan. God chose Israel too in Deuteronomy seven six. Among all the pagans in the nation, he chose Israel. It says, For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people of his own possession. of out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. Even within the nation of Israel. Even within the nation of Israel, he chose the tribe of Judah and rejected Ephraim. That's a strong word. Rejected. Psalm 78, 67, 368. We have time to read that later on. He also rejected the tenth of Joseph and did not choose the tribe of Ephraim, but he chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Sinon, which he loved. There are more. Just look at Hebrews eleven. Hebrews eleven. Now that brings us to the next phrase in Hymn. See preaching is you it's almost like you're really dividing the word of God, word for word, is what it is. God chose In him, right? In fact, I'm not gonna preach on on the pronoun us. That's even controversial. Who is us, right? I learned something from Leslie Crawford, a graduate of the Master's Seminary. I read his thesis on uh Ephesians 1. 4, and uh I like his thinking. Look at this The in him is a formula by God. In him formula. It is God's redemptive formula. The praise in him is generally taken as the believer's mystical union with Christ. This In him formula affirms the condition existing for the blessings that God gives to the believer It is the coastal clause. I have to spell it for you because of my Kentucky accent. C-A-U-S-A-L Cosa clause. Okay. That place alone has meaning. In the Greek grammar, cos of clause. So we can say the praise in him in many ways, like uh for instance one You can replace replace that praise with in him in in uh let's let's let's read uh one four again. God chose us Because we are united with Christ. God chose us because we are related to Christ. And God chose us because we are one with Christ. That's the meaning of in Him. It makes sense to me. In fact the praise INHIM is there about nine or ten nine or ten times in the in in this chapter alone. Nine or ten times. That's what that's significant. Well no he yeah Paul did not write that because he likes it. No. But it's there because it points you to Christ, who who the center of salvation is. In other words, the key is this. The key point, the standard point of the whole chapter is the formula in Heme. Divine election is in Christ the Redeemer. That's the point. That makes Christ the center and source of all blessings to us. Don't get a big head because God chose you. Hey, it's all about Christ. We thank God that we chose him in him, right? That's our position. To be in Christ is the safest position to be in this foreign world. Isn't it? That's the safest position to be in this whole world. And what is the opposite of in Christ or in him? You know the answer. In Adam The other you know, the other man in Adam. First Corinthians 1522 says, For as uh for for us in Adam all died, so also in Christ all we be made alive. The Apostle Paul also contrasts between Adam and Eve, rather Adam and Christ in Romans 5, 12 to 14. So what uh what can we conclude with the praise in him or in cries? What's the practical application? Here's one. When you say you are in him or in Christ, you are acknowledging that you are united with Christ. Number two, you are acknowledging your dependence on Christ. When you are in Christ, you are acknowledging that Christ is the Son of God. That is, he is God, the second verse of the Trinity. When you say you are in Christ, you are declaring that without Christ you are nothing. It's another good application. Finally, whenever you are down, distressed or disappointed, count your blessings. Read Ephesians 1. I mean there's so many blessings there, right? Now I have to go back to the exegesis, which is uh initially I mentioned that that the the preaching sermon teaching should be based on exegetical analysis. If you're a student like me, nothing I'll always be a Greek student, I have no time for to for more to go on but You will find out that prepositions like in, by, through, from, for, with determine the meaning of the passage intended by the writers of the scripture Especially the New Testament. Sound theology is built on sound exegesis. And proper use of prepositions. John Piper says that if you read the N N I V, which is a read readable book in the Bible, And IV, it says a lot of prepositions are gone because instead of literal translation like NASB or ESB, they usually what? give the interpretations. In fact, AIB I I have I think I I have it I have it somewhere you can you have to be careful how you read it. It's put it's pun feeding you Which is not really bad, but you know, it can affect theology, right? It can affect theology By the way, I have to mention this. There are well-meaning teachers, even some sincere pastors who are guilty of ACGes. Meaning they like to put what they think is in the scripture As I mentioned before, exegesis means you allow the scripture to speak out, devote to the reader the meaning intended by the author. Don't ever say, I think this is what it means. No, don't say that. Don't say that at all No, don't say that. Don't even think like that. So that brings us to the last part of that verse. Before the foundation of the world I don't know about you, you know, it it's that's uh let's be when is that? I don't know. Before the foundation of the world. That is before creation. Before you existed. Before anyone existed at all It is not only a time reference, but it assumes the eternity or the eternality of the Son of God. John 1752, Jesus was praying to his father before his crucifixion It says, now Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was. Before the foundation of the world, before creation. 2 Timothy 1 9, who, that's God, has saved us and called us with the holy calling not according to our words. but according to his own purpose and grace, which was granted us granted us in Christ Jesus from all eternity This is this is even one clearer. This is clear. Second Thessalonians 2 13. But we should always give thanks to God for you, brethren beloved by the Lord. Why? Because God has chosen you. When? From the beginning for salvation. From beginning, right? Through sanctification by the Spirit and faith in the truth. Now that brings us to point three. Finally point three. The goal of salvation is our holiness. And the ultimate goal is God's glorification. Look at verse 4V. That we would be holy and blameless before Him. That we we would be holy as saying it positively without playing as saying it negatively Colossians 122 says, Yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body through death, in order to present you before him holy and without blame and beyond reproach. Well we have to be perfect or holy before we can enter the kingdom of heaven. We can't enter into this unredeemed body. We can't. God said, Be ye holy, for I am holy. Before we can be in his holy presence in heaven, we have to be holy in Bamba's. By grace in his in this uh in in a sense he is saying that You can't enter heaven right now, but in preparation, because we are in Christ, we will be holy and we will see him as he is. Really I think he's preparing our body to meet him before that momentous day God, meanwhile, is conforming us to the image of the sun at the moment. But conforming really is sanctification, is really making you holy. And the sanctification is a process, a lifetime process. Well you can resist it, then you're gonna suffer. You can submit to it, then you're gonna what? You're gonna have joy. Because your perspective is not there, but get this perspective, see So why is it? Why is it that sanctification is is hard for us? Because we have this unredeemed body. This body is not redeemed yet. We keep on we keep on sinning. According to MacArthur, the sin principle is raging war within us. I mean there's a war going on, right? Every day, every minute sometimes. There is that war that Paul talks about in Romans 7, the divided man. And the only way for us to be perfect, to be holy, is what? To die. I mean that's what it is. Because sin is so bad. It's so bad that the only time we're not we stop sinning is what? When we die. So do you want to die? Nobody wants to die. Right? Our object is heaven, yet we cling to this earth, isn't it? Because we know that death is the last enemy. And when we die immediately we will be in the presence of the Lord. That's beautiful, isn't it? That's beautiful. Yes, the summation of Visions 1. I got it from J. F. Bigani, J. Jameson Fawcett Brown. Love lost to fall, but restored by redemption is the roof and truth and summation of holiness. Love, lost to fall, but restored by redemption is the root and fruit and summation of holiness. Here's a final thought for you. No, Randy Alcorn told the story. You know, Randy Alcorn is uh the president and founder of the eternal pers eternal persp perspective ministry. And he told this true story. He lives in Washington, he used to live in Washington. In 1989, in the state of Washington, Wesley Alendod assaulted, abused, and killed three boys, ages eleven, ten, and four. His methods were so heinous, forensic psychologists dubbed him one of the most evil killers in history, in US history. The evening before the execution, the family of Pastor Randy Alcorn were getting getting ready to have dinner. Pastor Randy's young daughter, I think she's about eight or nine years old, asked him, Dad, can we pray for Wesley Alan Dodd? Perhaps God will show mercy on him. You know, Pastor Randley was moved by her young daughter's request. So they prayed. The following day was the execution day, the big day in the world. Reporters around the world traveled to witness this sensationalized murder case One of the reporters asked firstly Alanda this question, just one question. Firstly, what is your last word? Can you tell us, please? Vasri Aland without hesitation but with red eyes replied, I thought I will never find peace and forgiveness until I found peace and forgiveness in my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The reports of verse down. They were angry. One of the reports said screaming, You child killer! You deserve to die! You deserve to go to black. Wow. Ranya says, this testimony is real. From a reliable source. That is God's mercy. That is Ephesians 1 4. Do you think we're better than Alan West I think we're not better than him. Because we see we see human point of view here. You know what I'm saying? We believe that God has some secrets that we don't truly understand. I don't understand mercy. From our perspective, it is what he deserved tonight. That's human justice, physical justice, you know But for some reason God showed mercy on him. I think God has foreknown him before the world began Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you that you have shown us your decretive will and your desiring desired will, Lord. Lord, no matter what we do, what we think, we should rely not only on not on our own perspective or human point of view, but we should rely on your word. The only view, your view, God's view. That in this life, we would suffer. We with trials, tribulations, we have we would have disappointments. We would but Lord we are in Christ. And that's the safest place to be in this world today. Father, again, we praise you and we love you. Jesus' name, amen.