Our text this morning is all about Christianity, what God has done for humanity, for those who are lost. And I think this is a very interesting, not only interesting but deep subject. Because I've met people who think are Christian, but that I in my in my own discernment, not judgment, okay? They're not really, they don't know the Lord. Because the way they leave, the way they act, you see. You cannot make yourself Christian. No one can. No matter how hard you try. You cannot make yourself a Christian. Only God can make you a Christian. And if you are a Christian right now, you are a Christian because of God's race, because He made you a Christian. You cannot regenerate yourself either. I mean that's a powerful term, isn't it? Regeneration, that's a powerful term. Only the spirit of God can regenerate you. Can a leopard change his thoughts? Can that fast creature change this? No, he can't. Even man. You can't change the mo. You might have a remove the moon on your face, but you can't change it, you know, on your own. However, you can make make yourself a Muslim by adhering to the Islam faith, by obeying the teachings of the Quran By observing Bramadan and by hating those who don't believe like you. Sounds familiar? Oh you you can make yourself a Buddhist. Buddhism really is the problem of atheism, people don't know that. You know they go you go to a place, you you to some kind of monastery, you dream dreams, and then you reach the place called Nirvana. It is a point of nothingness. People are deceived. You can go on to follow the Zen Wei of Buddha and the Yin Yang tenet of Buddhism For the same reason you can be a Mormon, thinking that you can be God like Jesus. Or a Hindu who thinks he's God. Everyone is God. And suddenly, I have to say this, you can also be Roman Catholic By observing their teachings, by press praying to the rosary, praying to rosary, rather, by making confession to the priests, and by believing that the Pope is infallible. Press today the battle for the truth is still here, from the day of Reformation to even now. I think really the battle is in the pulpit, in Sunday school, at home Well someone might might say, perhaps one of you might be thinking, hey Pastor Tony, you're too critical. You're too serious. You're too self-righteous. Am I? Someone asked me, are you a fundamentalist? Like with a dirty sound in it, you know. Well I said yes, but that in the way you think. Biblically, yes, I'm a fundamentalist. This is not my opinion, beloved. It is God's point of view as revealed in the scriptures. In fact, today, this morning, I got more enlightened, although I've read this before. You know, I always learn something from scholars like Dier Carson and uh Team Keller, Mark Dever, MacArthur, even Tom Lee, a man of wisdom. So where in the scriptures is this thing that you were telling us. Now I'm telling you right now. This is the subject point here. The main point is that the servant of God in salvation is pervasive throughout Scripture. You can't miss it You can't miss the word election choose from the Old Testament. As far as Revelation, choosing, elect, choosing, elect. For instance, it's in Romans 8:28-30, 1 Corinthians 1 26-31, Acts 17, 17-31, 2 Timothy 1-9. Like Genesis 12, Deuteronomy 7, 6, Deuteronomy 14, 2, 1 Samuel 16, Psalm 78, 78, and more. Too many to mention. Again, what is the common biblical doctrine found in these scriptures, these verses? The sovereignty of God in salvation. Ephesians 1, by the way, before you know we dive into it, before we dive into the deep truth of Ephesians 1. Let me just summarize one and two. Chapter one is salvation from God's perspective, his point of view. Chapter two is perspective from our side, human perspective. In chapter 2, salvation, instead of starting with God choosing us, forgiving us, and relieving us by the blood Chapter 3 starts with saying that is being dead in trespasses and then being becoming alive and regenerated by the Holy Spirit Then it shows a relationship with Christ and the body of Christ and becoming fellow citizens with the saints But that chapter one. Chapter one is God's perspective. That's why people have no understanding of it except believers. Also, keep in mind that the book of Ephesians, one of the preaching epistles, the first three chapters are doctrinal. And the last three chapters, four, five, and six, are practical applications. Notice that the Apostle Paul in the in this letter He first emphasized the doctrine in chapters 1 to 3. And in chapter 4, 1, he says, Therefore I implore you, like he was begging, right? I beseech you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling in which with which you have been called In other words, he's saying, in view of this great revelation in chapter 1, 2 and 3, in view of this great sound doctrine of election and spiritual blessings, do these things. Do these things. Obey them. Apply these things in your life. Before, beloved, before we can understand chapters four, five, and six, we need to understand chapter one first, and chapter two, and chapter three. You just don't pick and choose what you want to read, see. That's why preaching is takes time. In fact, Tim Collar preached on the book of Christians for six months. MacArthur preached on the book of Matthew for seven and a half years. Seven and a half years. Pastor Rich is still preaching on John since last year, isn't it? You cannot exhause the scripture. You cannot. It's so dark, so much knowledge, so much wisdom in there. You see Well I mentioned sound doctrines, right? People frown on me to say sound doctrine, you know. You check on his doctrine. Whenever you go to a church, you su you look at the doctrine of statement. Not only that, look if they practice it. Right? Many times they don't practice it. Sound doctrines are the Synicomon, it's a fancy term, without which of the Christian life Some doctrines are the creeds of the Christian life. C-R-E-E-D-S. Now sometimes uh you might have my my Kentucky accent is somewhat difficult for you to have once in a while I have to spell it like no. Creeds. Not greed, okay? Creeds. Good doctrine equals right living and bad doctrine equals wrong living. Our creeds determine our deeds. Did you know that? Our faith is based on the scripture, which is doctrine, creeds of the Christian faith. It determines our behavior. Our action, our attitude, our mindset. You know, however, some people believe that are vice. A lot of people believe that way. Some people say that it doesn't matter what you believe, what your doctrine is, as long as you live a decent life, you know. I pay my taxes, you know, I'm on time at work, you know, I don't commit adultery, things like that, you know But what is the standard, right? But did you know that Thomas Jefferson said a long time ago? He said, it's not your creeds, but your deeds. He went on to say, I have never persuaded someone else to believe as I believe about God because who knows? He goes on, it doesn't matter what you believe, it is by my life and by my deeds. You know what? If Thomas Jefferson is standing right here, I'll say to him, with all due respect, Tommy Boy. We don't do respect, sir. Mr. Jefferson. You are wrong. You are absolutely wrong. Is that do I sound self-righteous? That's not my opinion. That's that's that's scripture's opinion. That's God's opinion, right? Because he's wrong, because the book of Ephesians And the rest of Scripture are a complete contradiction of what he believed. What he believed. He was wrong. Another way of putting it is this way. Our theology dictates our methodology Our theology dictates our methodology. In other words, our understanding of who God is will determine how we worship Him, how we pray. In fact, when you hear someone pre praying, you can tell his theology from it. Isn't it? How we treat people, especially unlovable people. How we work with abusive employers, how we live in submission to a corrupt and godly government, may I add inept government. By the way, the last statement is not a political statement, okay? That is not a political statement. That is, my friends Biblical truth. We have to discern. Ephesians 1 is so there's so much in there that um I mean the introduction might take half an hour. So brace yourself. Here are the five points of Ephesians 1, 3 to 14. Five points. You can have more. Number one God is the origin. The executor and the active agent of salvation. Verses one, four, five, nine. Number two, God chose and love us to be united with His son. Verses 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13. Salatana now. Number three, the recipients of electing grace is the church collectively and the believers individually. Number four, the goal of salvation is our holiness, your holiness. Verse 4b And to the priests of his glory. Verses 6, 11, 14. And finally, number five, fifth point. The blessings of redemption are the work of the Triune God. I know many of you here young seminarians or students uh are studying Greek Greek text, you know. If you look at Ephesians 1, 3 to 14, It is actually one long sentence in the Greek text, 200, two words of confusing practices and classes. Two hundred two words in Greek text. Because of this, it is hard to determine the relation of each cross or practice to one another. When a when Apostle Paul wrote this, you know what? I think he got caught up. He got excited. He was this at all. Whoa! He says He says, What a magnificent revelation. I have to write it down before I forget it. He simply uttered these words in complete awe until he ran out of breath. If you notice when I read the scripture earlier, my time almost twisted. There's so much in there. I don't know where to stop or to pause. You see? But in spite of this, this is a great passage. According to Tim Culler again and D. Carson and Tom Lake. In the Greek text, Ephesians three to fourteen is poor grammar. It's poor grammar. Compared to Romans, Romans you can more or less understand right away the doctrine, the teachings of Paul. But here, Paul being static, esoteric, mysterious, rich deep truth of God. I mean it's just mind blowing, isn't it? Because of this Pull grammar in Greek text, it engendered, it produced, it occasioned Contradictory contradictory statements from scholars. From liberal to conservative Norden, N-O-R-D-N, E. Norden, author of the book called Agnost, the Unknown God, said it is the most monstrous sentence conglomeration that I ever I have ever found in the Greek language Actually he is a liberal scholar, and I'm assuming he's not a deliverer. This is almost close to blasphemy. Monsters. Well here's here's the believer scholar. His name is Masson, M-A-S-S-O-N, C Mason He expressed his appreciation. He said, one is struck by the fullness of its words, its liturgical majesty, and its perceptible reading from beginning to end. Dr. John O'Carter said of Ephesians, it is the believer's pressure in the heavenly bank that cannot be overdrawn. I like that. It is a treasure in the heavenly bank that cannot be overthrown. People audience called these verses 315. Ordo Saludis is a transit term meaning the order of salvation. First he chose us, then he redeemed us by the blood of Jesus. Then he forgave and adopted us. Then he kept us. Then he kept blessing us. And then he glorified us. I mean you get to verse 15. It's not over yet, friends. There's glory beyond heaven, and that is the consummation of all history, in which there's more glory to be conveyed. What we see here is not just what we see, there's more. There's more, Delavit, tremendous truths and blessings Later on time for meeting, we can take a look at other questions that harder learners, you know, parallel or similar to efficients one. Sure, you know about this? Romans 8, 20 to 30, 1 Corinthians 1, 26 to 31, even in Acts 17, another, even you know, in in in Timothy. As I mentioned before, all these verses, the servant of God in salvation is clear. Election In fact I just found uh I was taking a break before coming here at Starbucks with a hot tea. I saw a sign election in the back. I was saying, hey, that's my sermon this morning. Election. But this was about electing uh electing, you know, politicians here Because that's besides the point. You see, election, the doctrine of election is offensive to the finite mind. It is offensive to the human mind. It is offensive to the depraved mind. Why is that? It's only in a minute here. It did defend me when I first when I was converted in 1978. I read Ephesians, I read Romans. It's too world. If they defend me. Say, what? What in the world? What? I didn't do anything He said there is something, but what what is this, right? What is this doctrine? You know, by God's grace A few months later, I was able to embrace and handle this biblical truth by faith. You and I, beloved, can embrace and handle this truth by faith. The unregen unregenerate man rejects and cannot understand the doctrine of election. For example, I have to tell you this story here. This is just supposing, okay? A hypothetical story. Supposing you met an old friend who is not a believer during a tenure class reunion. If you remember attending the same college, you play the same sports, and you even go to the same church. You discovered during your reunion that he became a multi-millionaire. 200 million to be exact in ten years. You also found that he drives a red Ferrari. Young man, I think I said. He just goes up and reads a red Ferrari there. He seems to have everything. He's also handsome, 6'4, well built, athletic, looks like a celebrity. Everything seems to be going well with him. You also discovered in your conversation that he had been married and divorced three times in ten years. That tells you something right away, doesn't it? And he stopped going to church. Before you left, you gave him a Bible And ask him to read Ephesians chapter 1, that you would meet again in two days before he goes back home. So you met one more time. He came to you and said, Explain to me, Ephesians 1. I don't get it. Explain it to me. He was demanding. And you say, you, my friend, cannot make yourself a Christian. You cannot handle the truth. That irritated him. And he goes ballistic. So he says, What do you mean by that? You think I have a pea brain? Oh what? The truth says. Then you say with myths and compassion, you can't handle the truth, man. But I have a PhD in economics. I got money. I'm a genius with arch you when I have to twenty. So he's his he's sort of you know Explaining it that he can understand. He can he can understand it. And then meekly again you said, so you cannot handle the truth, my friend. Then he goes holding his hand on his head. What can I do? What can I do? I tried. What can I do? I don't understand. What can I do? Help me God. Then you say, that's the right attitude. That's the right attitude. So you took open your Bible to peace and students and guide them through it. In chapter two, from your Bible, chapter two, Ephesians. Good with me. Because truth is part of chapter one. This is crucial. So you read these verses to him and you emphasize three verses. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them, we too all formerly live in the lusts of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest And then you skip to verse 8. But with grace you have been saved through faith and not out of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. Well while you were helping him to do read this chapter two, you were praying for this man. You were praying for him that God should show him mercy. And all of a sudden, he says to himself, it's true, this is true, I am a sinner, I'm lost. Now I get chapter one. So what's the point of the story? Until you see the light of the gospel. You know, you cannot see the greater light of the glory of God. Until you recognize yourself in chapter two, you cannot and will continue to reject chapter one. Paul starts with the glory of God, his perspective. God's perspective in chapter one. That's the problem. In other words, you cannot embrace and handle the truth of chapter one, unless you have been regenerated. Even that, you have some problems sometimes. You see Now let's go to chapter um one again, verses one to three. What I'm gonna do is uh just just briefly discuss the first three. Because the the the the uh the main sermon really is on chap verse four. We're not even there yet. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God, the saints who are at Apostles and who are faithful in Christ Jesus. Here Paul actually identify himself as the author of the letter. And here's the name Paul, which is a Roman name in the Greek and Roman world. Is really Saul. His Hebrew name is Saul. Paul identifies himself as the author. He also designated himself. This is more like a self-des-designation. He says, I am an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. He's not boasting. He's simply giving his credentials. They emphasize by the will of God. This is typical of Paul. This is the same inclusions, Colossians 1-1, 1 Corinthians 1-1, 2 Corinthians 1-1 He establishes the credentials at the outset, and in doing so he draws attention to the official character of his writing. The term apostle, I have to mention this, is used in the New Testament. It is used in the New Testament of the twelve disciples who were called a name by Jesus. In the first three Gospels, including Acts 1. 13. You know, these disciples were with our Lord Jesus during his earthly ministry, and they also witnessed his resurrection. In Acts 1. 22, in Acts 4. In addition to the 12th, Paul also included Barnabas, James, the Lord's brother. And Apollos, who was a great preacher, by the way, Apollos, along with others. Paul has been called the apostle to the Gentiles in Romans 1, Roman 1, Romans 1, 5, 11, 13, and Ephesians 3. Now by the wheel of God is an expression that appears four times in verses one, five, nine, and eleven Paul includes this to tell them that he was it was the will of God, meaning that it has something to do with God saving him. Paul did not commit himself to this position. He was not a subordained apostle, my friends. God chose him, therefore, divorced by the will of God had overturned God's unmerited grace. And it emphasizes that there was no personal merit on Paul's part. Now some manuscripts, some old manuscripts omit the words in Ephesus. But I'm not gonna I'm not going to discuss the details of that controversy. But I agree with D. Carson and others, other authors of the Pillar Commentary Ephesians actually was a general epistle sent to mainly Gentiles in South Western Asia Minor And that it was linked with Ephesus at an early stage, perhaps because of its being a strategic church strategic church, or because it was one of the several cities to which the letter was sent As it is. Ephesus was the main church. It was a circular letter. Verse 2. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. This greeting of salutation is typical of Paul. You know it you can see it in other of his epistles. Then he goes on, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us. with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. It says, blessed be the God, the Father, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. How can you bless God? What do you mean by that? Can the greater be blessed by the less? God is the greater with the less? He's the great with the creature. Yes, but it must be in a modified sense. God blesses us with all spiritual blessings, but we cannot give him any blessings. We cannot. Why? Because he needs nothing from us. God says in Psalms 54, if our hungry, I will not tell you. Or the world is mine and the fullness thereof. God is self-sufficient and self-existent. He is not dependent on his creatures. He doesn't need anything. He's infinitely blessed already. We cannot add to his blessedness. So what then does it mean to bless God? Well, the language is an expression of gratitude and thanksgiving. You know what David says? David, we can relate to David when he says, Bless the Lord, all my soul, and all that is within me. Psalm 1031. Psalm 1031. We can join Paul when he said, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So we can bless God. But we can't give anything. We can bless him in the sense that we what give our heartfelt thanks, gratefulness. You see? Now we come to the most difficult verse of this passage. God chose us in him before the foundation of the world May I kind of modify it and you find out why? God chose us and loved us in Christ before the world began. When does time begin? We don't know, right? You know when time began? Eternity past? I can't tell. We know that time began in Genesis 1-1. It says, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth So when time began from human perspective. But there was time before that. This is what Paul is talking about in in verse 4. So Leslie James Crawford, another scholar from Australia. So it's about the Ephesians 3 to 14. He says, God is the active agent to our sology. By the way, that's the first point. God is the secretor. God is the active agent. God is the origin of salvation. Crawford says, God is the active agent throughout the doxology. He called Ephesians 3. 14 doxology. Simply means what? Praises. Doxology is praise. It is God who has blessed us, chosen us, predestined us, we lived our lovest, redemption and forgiveness, verse 7, made known and proposed before the world began. Before the foundation of the world means before creation. But rather, you know, many people do not believe that. I think the term naturalism is more proper today than evolutionists. They're changing their term. They're finding evolution is simply a dogma, it's not a proven Fact. It is a dogma. So for all purposes of discussion, we would call them naturalists. Naturalists. So do you believe Genesis 1-1 with that reservation? Christians do believe, right? But when they come to Ephesians 1, they got a problem. Why do you believe God in Genesis 1 1 when he said God created the heavens and the earth, right? Let there be do you believe that verse Ephesians? Yet in in your own for your own sake, in j in in chapter one of Ephesians, especially chapter four, verse four We have trouble with that. Scholars disagree. Scholars disagree on this. You know what? I think it's pride. We are not completely cleansed from our pride. The same principle is still there. Even among scholars, pride is still there. So God is the origin, the executor, and active agent of salvation. And the uh the ultimate goal is glorification By the way, there are only two verses where human activities are involved. One is hearing and believing in verse thirteen. Hearing and believing And this is found here. This also found the Romanist Essentially faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. In other words, no one can come to the Lord unless he hears the word of God. That's why when you witness you after God's word, you share that gospel. You know, I don't carry gospel trucks anymore. Oh if there's one guy, he just dropped it right in front of me. You know, trying to trade trust can. What I do is uh first you try to get connect connection with him, get to know the person. Get to know him and then you can share something that you have that he doesn't have. Bible says, therefore, God must stand the preacher. Since speak comes by hearing. Romans 10, 14, 15 says, How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how will they believe in whom? In him whom they have not heard? And how will they hear without a preacher? How will they preach unless they are sent? Allah this one here. As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news of good tidings. How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news and good tidings. Good you know. Beautiful. I was looking at my feet here. I I have my shoes on, I don't think I can see my feet right now. I don't know if it's beautiful, but Look at your old feet, right? Is it beautiful? Yeah, for for a translation it should be literal It really means metaphorically it is God loves missionaries because they walk a lot looking for lost sinners. They travel a lot, you see. We walk With our feet, no, not with our hands, right? There are two words by the way in uh In this in this uh I'm gonna mention uh the the word predestination in the election, they're they're sort of sort of different. They're similar but that there's some some difference. I'll I'll share it with you in a minute So let's look at he chose. Crawford says a proper and accurate understanding of the meaning of he chose And the subsequent parallel concept keeper destiny is critical. Is there a difference? Yes. The verb choose, the sentence he chose implies the origin and the freedom. Of the chooser, free from an external influence. The destined Toro is that it simply gives an assurance, a permanency of that choosing. So the predestiny is almost like saying God chose, God the same thing, our will. Make it sure. Make sure it happens. There is that permanency about tradition. If some people say, well, I'm predestined to be great, right? Or destined to be great. Permanency. Choosing is the first action. Predestination is the future action. Okay? The Greek word for choose is ecogamy. I have to mention that A clegomai or a klego. It may report to refer to choosing things like in Luke 10, 41, 42. But the Lord answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and bothered by so many things, but only one thing is necessary. For Mary has chosen the good part which shall not be taken away from her. You know, you remember the story of Martha and Mary. Martha is the busy lady in the kitchen preparing food for the disciples and the Lord. And Mary took advantage of that instead of helping her, she chose, okay, that's the right word, a grego, she chose to be with the Lord. Which is far greater. Now the verb clever clegomite might also refer to people in the New Testament. Many times it designates an appointment to a position of service. Jesus Christ is the left one. In Luke 9. 35, the church, we the church, is this chosen people, 1 Peter 1, 1 to 9. The verb also is in the middle voice, it's suggesting that the relation of the person chosen to the special purpose of him who chooses. In other words, the emphasis is on the subject. Not the object, not the direct object, the chooser, not the one who is chosen. You follow me God made a specific specific choice that is directed by his own purpose. The emphasis is in action plus his purpose. We see that in Ephesians. His purpose. His purpose, why he chose us, he chose you. But the point of difficulty is in the nature of God's choice Here are some questions that might come up later on in Ephesians 1, number 1. Does election include the sense of choosing out of a group? And thus, and therefore excluding a person of them or not? Number two, are the objects of his choice individuals, groups, only Christ? In fact, we uh through the centuries of biblical studies scholars debate on this You know you we have the term Armenians and and Calvinism, whatever. Just throw on How about the Old Testament? The Hebrew equivalent of eclagoma is Bahar, he chooses. And the usage of this word supports the idea of a choice out of many. Out of many. The choice of Israel involved the bypassing of other nations in Deuteronomy 7. 6. Even within the nation the tribe of Judah was chosen and Ephraim rejected. Typical example we do at we want in Roman is Romans nine to eleven, when God chose Jacob instead of Esau. They have not even done anything yet. They were not even born yet. God chose him Why is that? Why? Because he's God. Because he's God When Job was under his suffering trial, he was questioning God. So God says, Job, where were you when I laid the foundation of this world? You see? It is God. He is God. It's okay to question him, but we can't question his Authority, his holiness. You might seek for answers. Lord, why did I lose both my legs in the accident? You see Wait, the suffering. Wait, the cancer. Because he has a purpose for that particular situation that we are in right now. It's difficult to explain to believe to unbelievers especially, you know, pain and suffering, the evil. I mean it looks like the devil is winning, eh? Look at Egypt, Middle East, and some parts of the Philippines. Even here. We're divided. We're seeking for answer. We can't Get all the answer right now, my friends, because God has a purpose. I don't know his his purpose for this country. Eventually you might see it. Maybe not. I think there are signs that Christ is coming again. Christ is coming again with a lot of wars and rumors of war going on. You know, I think the great apostasy is coming. People don't preach in the pulpit. Pastors don't preach the word of God anymore. They compromise. They've compromised so much the gospel is gone. He chose us in him as a purpose. Election has a purpose. Predestination has a purpose. Fatalism has no purpose. No purpose at all. But if you seek God's wisdom, if you're depressed, read Ephesians one Well then that's a cure. All the blessings? Well, why do you depress? Why do you take medication? Speak for God's words and promises. Enjoy yourself. In the Word of God, physical sufferings are temporary. Well you might say, well, to say Pastor Tony, you don't have any problem. I got a problem. My right foot right now is aching from the gout. It was this morning, you see. This is this is temporal. What we see is temporal. We forget The majesty of God on high. We set our things on things below, nothing things above. That's the problem. My prayer this morning is that we would look in Ephesians one, like I say One preaching is not enough to preach be chosen him. Part two is coming. Lord willing next Sunday. And uh please rise for a prayer and benediction. Father, we are overwhelmed. Yet we are comforted by the truths of Ephesians 1. You are majestic. You indeed chose us in him before The world began. You have resumed us. You have adopted us as your sons. And yet in our minds, in uh in our dim dim-witted mind, Lord, in our pea brain, we sometimes question you. We question you, Father. Lord, give us the grace to embrace and handle this truth. Help us to share this with our unsaved loved ones. Keep us strong, keep us faithful, and now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God and the communion of the Spirit be with you all now and forevermore. Amen.