Okay, so we week twelve since we missed one Sunday on the Gospel for Life. Uh just for the sake of of uh bringing everything to the forefront of our minds. I just want to read through all of the gospel thoughts that we've talked about so far. So I'm just gonna I'm not really gonna comment too much uh on any of them, but I just want to read through just so it it all comes uh to to bear and then we'll move on to gospel thought number seventeen. So the first thing that we did is we considered uh the gospel cyclorama as we kind of got ourselves inside the scenery of the sufferings and the death of Christ. was to see that it is in the death of Christ that God's glory is on display. We see the fullness of who God is, his character uh and his relationship with mankind uh on display at the cross. And what that also shows us is that Christ's suffering His death paves the path for my life. But if we are to imitate him, we are to die as he died. But Death is not the end was gospel thought number three. Power and life comes to those who die for Christ And so we ought to live our lives on a on a daily death march, if you will, constantly dying to ourselves. But knowing that we will experience in that process the life and the power of the resurrection and the power to live for Christ. When we die to ourselves, that puts us in a situation where we are often misunderstood, where people have wrong thoughts about us, where people perhaps misjudge us. And we have to die to ourselves and not necessarily defend ourselves in every situation. And we can do that being confident that my suffering and death will be vindicated. that in the end uh all wrong thoughts will be set right, that God knows the truth now and the truth will uh be known forever. And so I can endure uh even mistreatment and r and uh an improper reputation now because it will one day be vindicated That we observed that as Christ went through his suffering and his death, that he was doing that as an act of worship to God. uh that he wasn't just uh being a victim, he wasn't just passively being uh carried through the process, uh his life was not being taken from him, but rather he was giving of himself to the Father for us as an act of worship, as we saw from Ephesians five two. And he did that. As he worshipped, he trusted that the Father would uphold justice perfectly and eternally. He himself did not seek to take revenge, though he could have. He himself did not exact justice in that moment, though he could have. But rather he trusted the Father who right who judgesly righteous righteous J who j judges righteously. Um and and so he gave his life knowing that justice would be done. And so we too can trust the Father that even in the face of injustice in our life, that God will exact justice in his what way and in his time. We observe that though I deserve the wrath of God for every sin of mine, God upheld justice perfectly by pouring out his wrath on Christ. And though I have said it sinned infinitely against God, including deocide, the murder of God That he has forgiven me of that sin, and because he has forgiven me of that infinite sin, I can now turn and forgive others of the finite sins they commit against me. We saw also that the Father has justified and forgiven me and I am cleansed and free from condemnation So though my sins are many, they are now white as snow, and we have no need to be enraptured in shame and condemnation and guilt. We saw that I am purchased by God and owned by God, and I now live to serve his purposes. and not my own. So salvation is not just about getting a ticket to heaven. It's not just about forgiveness. It's now about a transformation of purpose that now I am owned by God I no longer have ownership of myself. No one else owns me but God. And now I have the privilege of serving his purposes, not mine. We saw in Gospel Thought No. 12 that in the garden, Jesus counted the cost and he decided it was worth it. He looked ahead to the end result of what his suffering would accomplish. And he decided that it was worth enduring all of the pain and all of the suffering and the death because the result was worth it. And so we too should count the cost. of following Christ. We should look ahead, even as Jesus called us to in the call of discipleship. We should count the cost and we should know for certain that it is worth it to follow Christ no matter what we suffer. In Gospel Thought No. 13, we saw that because Jesus suffered outside the gate, I must be willing to give up comforts and bear his reproach, knowing that this world is not our home. And then 14, Jesus suffered the way I'm suffering right now, and infinitely more so, which means I'm never alone in my suffering. He is our sympathetic high priest. He is with us. He never leaves us or forsakes us and he identifies with us. Because he is with us, he is with us in our suffering. So he can say what no one else can say And that is, I know exactly how you feel because I'm feeling it with you. And so we are never alone. Gospel thought number fifteen is sometimes the Father purposes that those whom he loves deeply suffer greatly, even at the hands of others. So that when we suffer We should not ever think that we have been separated from God's love, that somehow our suffering is the result of a lack of love on God's part, but rather knowing that sometimes God does purpose that those whom he loves suffer greatly. And then last week, as we finished Gospel Thought No. 16, we saw that sufferer or forgiveness is suffering, forgiveness is death. That if we're going to forgive someone, we shouldn't expect that it should be easy. In fact it's not easy because we're taking, we're we're absorbing in ourselves in some ways and to some degree the consequences of another person's sin. And so forgiveness is suffering, it is death, and we need to recognize that reality Now as we come to gospel thought number 17, we want to think about forgiveness a little bit more. And gospel thought number 17, as you see in the notes there, is that forgiveness takes place in the context of prayer. Before we even get to the situation where we are forgiving someone verbally, we're having a transaction of forgiveness where they've asked us for forgiveness and we grant it, first forgiveness should take place in prayer. So again, we've we've seen two significant lessons on forgiveness. The fact that in light of the forgiveness we have received, the only option for us is to forgive those who have sinned against us. And then again last week we saw that forgiveness is suffering, that it is death. That forgiveness is absorbing in your person, at least in some way, the consequences or the wrongs that others have committed against us. And so as we come to this gospel of thought, that forgiveness takes place in the in the context of prayer, what we want to observe as we spend time at the cross Is we want to observe the fact that Jesus practiced what he preached when it came to forgiveness So let's observe what Jesus did, and then we'll go back to consider what he preached. Turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 23. In Luke chapter twenty-three, we find ourselves uh in the scene of the crucifixion. And in verses thirty-three to thirty-seven, uh the uh uh author of Luke, Luke himself describes for us what he saw as as he stood or not sorry, not what he saw, but what uh what others saw which he recounted through his investigation of what took place there at the cross. I want to read Luke 23, verses 20 excuse me, 33 to 37. It says, now when they came to the place called the skull, there they crucified him and the criminals, one on the right and the other on the left. But Jesus was saying, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. And they cast lots, dividing up his garments among themselves. And the people stood by looking on. And even the rulers were sneering at him, saying, He saved others. Let him save himself. If this is the Christ of God, his chosen one The soldiers also mocked him, coming up to him, offering him sour wine, and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself So here we have this scene where Jesus is hanging on the cross. And Jesus himself is saying certain things, and other people are saying certain things as well. Well the first thing I want you to notice just as you look at the text, keep your eyes there on the text, is not what Jesus says, but first, notice The tense of the verb that describes what Jesus says. There in verse 34. It says, but Jesus was saying. That's significant. It does not say, as it says with all of the other sayings of Jesus, it does not say, Jesus said. It says Jesus was sane. It's it's actually the imperfect uh tense, because it's it's the past. It's a past, but it's a repeated action. It's a continuing action that happened in the past. The other verse that describe the the sayings of Jesus in the other passages, like uh in fact if you look at verse uh forty-six Jesus crying with a loud voice said. Okay? The word said there. That's in the aorist tense, which uh just implies that he just said it one time. But by saying Jesus was saying, what Luke is indicating is this is something that Jesus said repeatedly. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they're doing. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they're doing. Now this is some sanctified imagination, okay? I readily admit this. But perhaps As he hung on the cross, he looked at the Jewish leaders who were sneering at him. And again, they were saying to him, He saved others, let others save himself, if this is the Christ of God, his chosen one. Perhaps he looked at them and said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they're doing. Perhaps he looked at those Roman soldiers who were gambling for his clothes, and who themselves were mocking him, again saying in verse thirty seven, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself, and he's he's saying, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they're doing Perhaps he looked at the crowd who we're not told what they were saying here, but they were certainly those who gave him up, that they were um compelled by the Jewish leaders to ask for Jesus' crucifixion. Looks at them and says, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they're doing. Right. Right. However, it happened, Jesus repeatedly prayed to the Father, asking him to forgive those who were responsible and complicit in his death. Now, this is stating the obvious, but Jesus said this as he hung on the cross In other words, he said this while they, that is, the Jewish leaders, the crowd, the Romans, were actively putting him to death. He did not wait For them to say, Oh Jesus, we're so sorry, to forgive them. He prayed for their forgiveness while their hearts were still filled with hatred toward him. Now, friends, while Jesus was the first to practice this kind of extreme forgiveness, it was not his will that he would be the last. We ought not to be in awe of Jesus' magnanimous forgiveness here and think, well, I could never do that. I'm so glad Jesus doesn't ask me to do that. Because Jesus' words exemplify what he taught us in his life and ministry. Jesus saying, Lord, I forgive them, he's actually saying, Father, please forgive him. So he's sort of requesting of the Father to Yeah. Yeah, no, that's exactly right. And again, that's where uh first Peter two twenty-three comes in as far as he entrusted himself to him who judges righteously. that he handed over the judgment to the Father in in what was taking place and so because he handed the judgment over, he was asking the Father to deal with them in forgiveness rather than in justice. Um and so that's obviously is different in in terms of uh he wasn't himself forgiving them. And again Because he's saying this out loud, he's not he's not telling the people, I forgive you, I forgive you, because they're not asking for forgiveness, so it's not his It's not right to forgive them and and tell them I'm forgiving you when they haven't sought his forgiveness. So this is not a transactional forgiveness here. This is an attitudinal forgiveness And that's what we're gonna continue to see here in terms of what Jesus teaches that uh that we ought to to imitate. And gave it seems to imply that when Jesus was asking the Father to forgive him, that she Jesus would be taking that path upon He was taking that that breath that breath upon his hell. And it actually was your thinking about it. Well that That would remain to be seen depending on one's view of the atonement. I if you believe that Jesus paid the penalty for those who would believe then you could say that perhaps the centurion who came to realize truly this was the Son of God, and if that was a statement of profession of faith and we will see in h him in heaven then yes Jesus absorbed his wrath but for those who don't believe they will continue to receive the wrath uh for their sins So yeah, there's there there there's a there's a thought there. It it seemed like season when he was being stunned he said to the father, Don't hold this thing against them. Yeah It's hard to teach when you guys just teach my lesson for me. No, I love it. I love it. Well, near the beginning of his ministry, Jesus taught what we consider to be called the Sermon on the Mount. And in that message, you recall, Jesus said some pretty mind-blowing things. The religious establishment was telling everyone, love your neighbor, hate your enemy. It's okay. In fact, you should, you must love your neighbor, because that's what the law of Moses says. That's the second greatest commandment. But they also taught that it is it is right and it's appropriate to hate those who hate us. And we see that today, right? That is the worldly perspective. That is the perspective that is unlike God. You know, we see uh today, right now, all kinds of uh statements being put out on social media. Uh pray for Ukraine, pray for Ukraine, and absolutely we should pray for Ukraine. You know what I'm not seeing? Pray for Russia. Now we had a our corporate prayer time here at nine o'clock and one of the young men uh prayed for Russia and I was so grateful to hear him say that. But I haven't heard that from anybody else, at least in my social media circles. And so what the world says is yeah, love your neighbors and your friends and your allies, but hate your enemies View your enemies with hatred and speak against them. But contrary to every natural fiber of our being, when there is someone who has made it their purpose in life to bring suffering into our life, Our disposition toward them should be to love them. And at least one action out of that love should be to pray for them. Right? Jesus says, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Now, when we pray for our enemies, and Jesus tells us to pray for our enemies, he's not suggesting that we pray in pregatory prayers. to call down the fire of heaven on our enemies. That's not the kind of prayer he encourages us to pray. In fact, listen to what Jesus says on another occasion that has implications for what kind of content should fill our prayer space. This is Mark 11, 25. Jesus says here, whenever you stand praying, forgive if you have anything against anyone. So that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you your transgressions. So if you're standing, or I think this would certainly apply if you're sitting as well or laying down And you're praying, and in your mind, you recall that you have something against someone, that there's an enemy in your life, someone who has sinned against you Jesus says, in your prayer, forgive them. Forgive them, so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you of your transgressions. Now, we're all familiar, I think, with the acronym ACS for prayer, you know, adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication. We should probably turn that into FACS. Forgive and then m move on. Again, notice that when Jesus says there in Mark 11 25, when you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, notice That Jesus does not say, pray that the Father would forgive them, but rather you forgive them. You forgive them in your prayer. In other words, if you're praying to the Father, make sure that you are not harboring bitterness and anger in your heart. Rather, forgive them in your heart. And if we forgive them, then it's only right that when we pray for them, we pray a variety of requests. But significantly request that um pray for God's uh goodness in their life and if God is going to demonstrate his goodness in their life, we ought to pray that the Father Himself will forgive them. Because just because we forgive them in our heart That doesn't absolve them of their responsibility before God, so they still have to deal with God. So we can forgive them in terms of our attitude towards them But they still need to be forgiven by God. So we can we are told to pray or we're told to forgive them in our prayer But certainly one of the things we can pray for them is that the Father would forgive them as well. So I think by that admonition to pray for our enemies, to forgive them. Jesus is also including the principle of praying that the Father would forgive them as well. So During his life, Jesus taught us to pray for our enemies. He taught us to love our enemies. He taught us to forgive them. And during his death Jesus exemplified this teaching and showed that no experience of being wronged is beyond the scope of this instruction. Right? By praying that prayer on the cross, Jesus is making it clear that there is nothing that you and I can experience at the hands of others that we would say, well This is beyond what Jesus experienced. So I don't think Jesus had this in mind when he told us to do this. No, what we experience will always be less than what Jesus experienced. And so if he did it in the in the most intense moment of persecution, we can do it at any moment. In Acts 7, as Anne reminded us, we read about Stephen, who was one of the ones chosen to serve the widows. Remember when there was the issue of feeding the Hellenistic widows? And because of the false accusations that were made against him, he found himself before the Sanhedrin. And without defending himself against the false accusations, he preached a message of rebuke to those leaders. And that caused them to drag him outside the city and to stone him. And as Stephen was being pelted by rocks, I mean just Imagine in your mind you're being pelt at I don't again I don't know what that's like. I can't imagine. I I've been hit by pebbles and that's bad enough And not for the same reason, you know. Um but you're being pelted by rocks and as you're going through that he says Lord do not hold this sin against them That's Acts 7 verse six sixty. Do not hold this in against it. Essentially praying the same prayer that his Lord prayed. Though he had delivered a singing rebuke to those Pharisees and those Sadducees, the Sanhedrin, with his dying breath he loved his enemies by praying for them, forgiving them. And praying that the Father would forgive them. Do you think uh or have an opinion on whether or not the forgiveness means Lord, please wait that this person is one of your elect, or please don't don't uh punish them as roughly in hell because uh Jesus at certain points didn't uh reveal himself to them for the purpose of they suffer less punishment in hell. Yeah. Yeah, I I don't know the answer to that in terms of what was in Stephen's mind, but I think the heart of God and the heart of God's people should always be Lord Save them. Savannah So whether whether Stephen had that in his mind I I I would I would suspect that he did. Um but um but I think that would be the heart of God For us to to have that attitude. So with all of this we see again that as as we look at Christ on the cross and we observe how He forgave in his heart and he asks the Father to forgive his enemies. We learn that forgiveness takes place in the context of prayer. And so in in your life and in my life, as we are sin against others and we will be Many, many times at various levels, we need to forgive others in the context of prayer. We need to have an attitude of forgiveness. And if you want to know more about that particular principle, we'll talk about that, I think, in week eight of the next class, Civil Reconciliation. But we need to have an attitude of prayer. We need to give uh our enemies over into the Lord's hands and not harbor bitterness and anger. So that's gospel thought number 17. So let's move now to our final gospel thought number 18, which is uh uh very similar, overlapping in some ways, but moves beyond forgiveness And that is the gospel thought that God loves his enemies and he calls me to do the same. God loves his enemies and he calls me to do the same. I think it would be appropriate to say that forgiveness is one of the highest expressions of biblical love. But with this gospel thought, I want us to zoom out from the particular expression of forgiveness and move to how the sufferings of and death of Christ is just an expression of the love of God toward his enemies. So pray for the last time here, just take a moment to picture yourself inside the gospel cyclorama, right, where you're seeing the images and the scenarios of the sufferings of Christ. We've spent a lot of time looking up at the cross of Christ. We've spent a lot of time looking at Christ in the garden. But this time I want you to do something a little different that we haven't done before. I want you, instead of directing your gaze at Christ, I want you to look to his right and to his left. And we see there two criminals who were crucified on both sides of Jesus. These are, according to Scripture, not just criminals in general, but specifically they are robbers, as Matthew tells us. These are men who have made it their life's work to take from others. They stole from others to benefit themselves. And now as a consequence of their Stealing, they are receiving the due penalty for their crimes, and their life is being taken from them Now, Scripture doesn't tell us about the crucifixions of anyone else. We don't have an explicit historical record. But we do know that the Romans crucified tens, if not hundreds, of thousands of people over the course of their reign. And they didn't crucify people for petty crimes. I mean it took a lot to crucify someone, and so they would do it for those who cr uh committed heinous crimes Or for those who committed crimes that Rome just wanted to make sure no one else followed in their stead, that they would strike fear into the hearts of people so they would crucify those whose whose actions they did not want repeated. And so when we say that the other two men are robbers, we're not talking about petty thieves here. You know, they ran through the market and stolen orange from time to time. Uh the term robber could be translated in such a way to refer to those who attracted uh attacked caravans on the road and stole goods and killed uh travelers But more than that, Scripture also tells us these men were likely insurrectionists. In Mark, we read about Barabbas, right, who was the third criminal who was supposed to be crucified that day but who was taken out of that position so that Jesus could be crucified. Barabbas is is, according to Mark, an insurrectionist and a murderer. But John, the Apostle John, calls him a robber using the same term that Matthew uses for the other two criminals. So again, these these two men were likely compatriots of of Barabbas, who was an insurrectionist, who was a murderer, and they s they worked together to do their wicked deeds. Whatever the case, these men committed high crimes against the state, and they showed no regard for human life and property. Hatred for others is what characterized their lives. So as you looked at the either either side of Christ, you were looking at two men who were despicable, who were wicked. And who deserved to be crucified, and now they were paying for their crimes. But then you have Jesus right there in the center Who was the least deserving, and even that is uh understating it. He did not live a hate-filled life. He did not take from others, he had never done anything wrong Unlike every person ever crucified, Jesus hung on the cross because his life and death was an act of love. His life wasn't being taken, as I noted earlier, it was being given. Jesus said in John 10. 18, No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. Why did he lay it down? Well, I remind you again of Ephesians 5. 2, which says, walk in love just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us. He gave his life for us, an offering and sacrifice to God Now, last week we meditated on the reality of God's love for us, and we saw that the suffering that we experience is not a reflection of the lack of God's love. But in this gospel of thought, we're talking about something else. The love of God put on display as he hung on the cross was not the kind of love that a father displays to their children. This love is God's inexplicable love for his enemies. For his enemies. Let me just remind you of three verses in Romans 5 that describes who we were when God died for us. Romans 5. 6 For while we were still helpless, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly And then verse 8 says, But God demonstrates his love, his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And then verse 10, for if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. So the three terms there are ungodly, sinners, and enemies. Those words describe our character and our relationship to God prior to him Redeeming us. In the words of Colossians 1. 21, we were alienated from God, we were hostile to God, and we demonstrated our hostility through evil and wicked deeds. Now think about the love of God here as compared to the kind of love that we show those that we're in conflict with. Just think about someone you've been in conflict with and think about the kind of love you might have shown them. We have a tendency to show love after the conflict is over. And after the person has recognized the sin they've committed against us or the wrong, the wrong opinion, whatever whatever it is and there's a res restoration to the relationship. That's when we start to show love. Right? We're grateful that we've now reconciled and now I I can love you. Now we can c have each other over for for a meal, go out to lunch or, you know, have a good time, talk. at church, but until then there's a separation. It's uncomfortable. I I I don't want to interact with that person in a in a friendly way because we're at odds with one another. Rather, we want in in some way for someone to earn our love before we are willing to show love. Or, just to put it another way, our tendency is to wait until someone can prove to us that they are worthy of our love before we will love them. Hopefully that's not the case all the time, but that's often what we do. But listen, God loved us while we were still his enemies. While we were still engaged in acts of hostility against him. And not only that, but he knew that showing the greatest act of love to us, listen would not change our disposition toward him. It's not as though God said, I'm going to send them my son. He's going to die for them. They're going to see him hanging there on the cross, paying for their sin. And that's going to change their attitude toward me. And whether we were there at at the scene itself or whether we find out that information in the future as we do now, as the gospel is proclaimed. It is not simply the proclamation of the love of God on display through Christ that somehow flips a switch inside of us That says, wow, God has loved me so much. I want to love him. God knew that his demonstration in and of itself would not change our disposition toward him. Instead, what he would have to go even further, not only to demonstrate his love, but to change our hearts, to remove our heart of stone and give us a heart of flesh, so that we would truly see uh who we are, our sin, our need, we would truly understand his love, we would believe. and embrace Christ. You know, the opposite of this uh works itself out so often. I think I've mentioned this before in various contexts, but uh often what I tend to see happen in a marriage counseling case is uh one spouse will uh make significant effort to show love to their spouse. They'll um they'll just do everything that that they're asked to do. They might even go above and beyond that uh but at the very least do what what what they're encouraged to do and they'll be putting forth effort they'll be speaking words of love they'll be doing acts of love they'll be uh putting in time in the word and just doing all that they can to show their spouse they love them. And then their spouse, who is the recipient of all of that love, doesn't reciprocate. Doesn't respond. Maybe he is even suspicious of the motives behind all of those deeds. And so the person who's trying their best out of their heart of hearts to love their spouse says, Well, forget it. If they're not going to change, what's the point? of loving them. Again, that's not God's kind of love. And that just shows uh a selfish motivation to say, I'm only going to love you if my love changes you. But that's not God's kind of love. God did not love us because we were lovable, nor did God love us again because he thought that somehow that bare demonstration would change our disposition toward him. Now he knew that our hearts would remain hard in the face of such love, and yet he still poured out his love for our benefit. Again, I remind you of Matthew 5, 44 to 48, where Jesus says, But I say to you, love your enemies. And pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he causes his Son to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? If you only greet your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same Therefore you are to be perfect as your Heavenly Father is perfect. Matthew five. Sorry. Sorry. Matthew five, forty-four to forty-eight. So though his enemies wanted nothing more than to get rid of God He loves them continually by doing all kinds of good things to them. I mean all around the world today, this wherever the sun is shining So I guess not all around the world. Wherever the sun is shining in the world today, it's shining on everyone in that part of the world. Right? There are not these pockets of darkness and then a little bit of sunshine and then pockets of darkness. Which God could do that. Did you know that? God could do that. You know what? He did that. He did it in Exodus, right? Where he divided divided light and darkness between Israel and the Egyptians. So God could do that. He could say, Only the people who love me, only the people, only my own people will get the light of the sun Uh you can think about the rain. You know, causes the rain to fall on the just and the unjust. Only the just will receive rain for their crops and for drinking and all of that. He could di divide the clouds in such a way that it would only rain on certain people. But no, he he sends it to everyone as a uh a demonstration of his goodness, a demonstration of his kindness, uh regardless of how people respond. He does it even knowing that it won't change people's hearts toward him. That is the kind of love that God has. Again, think about Titus 3, 3 through 6. I'm hopeful we'll get through this passage next week in the service. For we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another. But when the kindness of God our Savior and His love for mankind appeared, he saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness. But according to His mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that Being justified by his grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. If you just look at the different statements in that passage, over and over again, the emphasis is not on he did this so that we would respond in a certain way. He did this so that we would see how great he is and change and now, you know, uh do what he wants us to do. No, he did this out of his love, he did this out of his kindness, he did this out of his grace, he did this out of his mercy It's all out of who he is, and it is he himself that had to bring about that regeneration so that we would believe in him, uh, receive his justification, and be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. So our lives were characterized by hate, but God was characterized and is characterized by kindness and love. Now we can continue to go to passage after passage to show the love of God toward undeserving sinners. But let's transition now to talk about what this means for our lives. I want you to turn to Romans chapter twelve. We'll spend the rest of our time uh meditating on on Romans twelve here. As those who have received and benefited from the love of God, he now calls us to love others in the same way we have been loved. Again, not just loving our friends And family, but loving our enemies and those who are opposed to us. We've talked about this in terms of forgiveness, you know, forgiving uh our enemies, but um But this goes beyond that to how we are to relate on a continual basis with those who are our enemies. So, Romans 12, I I just remind you, we don't have time obviously to summarize chapters one through eleven, but Paul spends eleven chapters exploring the gospel of grace, talking about the sinfulness of man and the um uh the wonderful grace of God, his plan of redemption, salvation, ultimately talking about uh God's plans for Israel in nine ten eleven. And then he ends in verse thirty-four, uh excuse me, verse thirty-three with uh the the great explosion of praise. Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and unfathomable his ways. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who became his counselor? Or who has first given to him that it might be paid back to him again? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory for ever. Amen. So that explosion of praise, especially that last statement in verse 36, is to say, everything is from God, everything is made possible through God, and everything exists and takes place for the purpose of bringing glory to God. Now with that in mind, he moves into verse 12 as to, okay, now here is how you can live to God. Here is how you can live for the glory of God in light of what God has already done. for us. So follow along as I read verses 14 to 21 as we'll just skip down to that section He says, bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Be of the same mind toward one another, and do not be haughty in spirit, haughty in mind, but associate with the lowly. Do not be wise in your own estimation. Never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. Never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink. For in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head Do not become over do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good So having spent all of that time in chapters one through eleven talking about how God loved his enemies, it should not surprise us that when Paul turns his attention to how we ought to live Among the first um exhortations that he gives after talking about the body of Christ and and serving where the gifts were given in the first nine verses or so. He moves to how should we, like God, interact with those who are our enemies? And the first thing he says, as you see there in verse 14, is bless those who persecute you. Bless. The word eulogyo, from which we get eulogy, uh specifically refers to how we ought to speak to those who mistreat us. And you can think about blessing in terms of uh actions, but this is a uh uh a word that primarily refers to speech and we know that Because he contrasts it at the end of the verse with cursing. And that's not cussing, but cursing, speaking against someone. Paul writes in Colossians 4, 5-6, Conduct yourselves with wisdom toward outsiders, making the most of the opportunity. Let your speech always be with grace, as though seasoned with salt. so that you will know how you should respond to each person. So in other words, our words should be tasty. When when you speak to you to those who are opposed to you, whether you consider them an enemy or or they just have made themselves your enemy Uh does your speech uh cause them to want to hear more from you? That's that's what we should be thinking about when we speak to those opposed to us. Our speech should not be repulsive But rather attractive. Our words should enhance those relationships, as difficult as they may be, not cause greater division. Now how the other person responds obviously is between them and the Lord, but in from your part, from your standing point, you should seek to speak in a way that enhances the relationship Or consider Ephesians 4 29, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification, according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear. In other words, even toward those who've heard us, our speech should build them up rather than tearing them down. Our speech should extend grace to them. That's one of the things Paul says. The second thing is we should not curse. There in verse 14. To curse literally means to declare someone evil or detestable. We're not to slam the gavel down and judge someone in our hearts, sending them to hell and making that determination. No are we nor uh sorry, no, we are to bless anyone who stands in opposition to us. We're to be agents of God's grace and kindness and love. to them through our speech. Now look at verse 15. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. We typically think about that. In the context of the body of Christ, brothers and sisters, those who were, again, those who are our friends, our family, our neighbors, those who love us, those whom we love. But given the context here that both the verse before and in the subsequent verses, that it's all really in the context of those uh relationships that are difficult, that are strained, that are even re uh defined by being enemies. It would seem as though Paul is admonishing us by the Holy Spirit that we should rejoice when our enemies rejoice. Now we should weep when our enemies weep. Now that doesn't mean when our enemies rejoice because they've beat us down that we should be happy along with that. But rather that when the Lord does something good in their life, that we can rejoice in that. Or when there is suffering in their life that we can weep with them and commiserate in their suffering. When they get the promotion that they've been wanting, even though we're at odds with them, we can congratulate them even if we're the one who we we think should have gotten the promotion. So we should rejoice with our enemies when there's something to rejoice in. We should weep with our enemies when there's something to mourn. Verse 17. Never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. Note there the first part, there are two evils. First is the evil, well it's chronologically uh it's second in in the verse, there's the evil that someone has done to us. But there's also the evil that rises in our heart out of our flesh that we want to throw back at them. So there's the evil they've committed against us There's the evil that our flesh wants to send their direction. What Paul's saying here is being struck in whatever way Does not make retaliation the right and justified thing to do. Evil is evil no matter what causes it, what the source is, or what it is responding to. Who started it? It doesn't matter. Evil is evil. And so when evil is coming at you, we need to make sure that we're not throwing evil back Instead, what he says here is that we should think about what others would see as That's what the other half of the verse means. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. Very literally, it means think about what is good in the sight of others. The word respect means to to dwell on, to think about, and then the word right is the word for good. And what he's saying here is, when someone does evil to you, rather than responding in some knee-jerk reaction, take a moment to think. If there was a third-party observer to our situation, how could I respond in a way that that third party would say, wow, that was really good? That was really kind. Yeah, Anne. I'm trying to think of that in regards to Ukraine. Okay A big evil is coming at them with bombs and guns and weapons and destroying and killing And this says that they shouldn't see that in the trend? No, I I th yeah, I think that the um when we're interpreting passages like this, we need to recognize it's talking about personal relationships. And when you're talking about nations battling against each other, there's just a whole different set of biblical principles. Yeah, sure, sure, I understand. But yeah, I think what what Paul is is narrowly talking about is just personal one-on-one relationships. So persecute when we're being persecuted, are we are are we saying that we are wrong for Christ's sake or when we are just wrong Uh that's one question. Second question is um it sounds like it's applicable principle or applicable to combinations with the reasons and memory. Sure. Yeah Yeah, so as to the first question, is this, you know, they're they're your enemy because they don't like the fact that you're a Christian, that you believe in Christ. And I think the answer is uh it doesn't matter. Because often what happens is When we respond in a Christ-like way, just like Jesus did, um it's th that response tends uh might have the the um effect of uh escalating their hatred. Uh because again Christ was hatred hated. And so because we bear the image of Christ, because we're trying to exemplify the character of Christ, it does not matter if they Yeah, because they're obviously not gonna look at Stefan Stefan, right? They they're not gonna look at Stephan and say, That's Jesus, and therefore I'm gonna persecute Jesus. But they're gonna look at someone who is seeking to honor God in his life and again whether or not they're having that conscious thought and I don't I don't like you. I don't like that you're so kind, I don't I don't like that you're not hitting me back. Like you should be hitting me back And so that makes me even more angry. I mean sometimes. Not that's not always the case. But um but it it doesn't I don't think it really matters why people have made themselves your enemy. Now, if you've sinned against them and they're responding in a sinful way uh you know you need to repent and and uh make sure that you restore that side of the equation. But um yeah if someone's just evil and wicked and they've made themselves your enemy for whatever reason I think the principle still applies. And yeah, same thing with whether it's with a believer or an unbeliever. The principle still applies. Whatever And whoever has sought to make themselves our enemy, we need to respond in this Christ-like way. And certainly, uh if If they are a believer and there's being sin coming our way, then there's other principles that also put come into effect. You know, if your brother sins against you, go and show him his false. So it's not that um this is the only thing that applies, but when there is a believer there's additional principles, there's church discipline if if need be and whatnot. Um, but fundamentally our disposition and how we respond to those who sin against us, believer or unbeliever, is to say, I I want to do good to this person. I want to show the the grace of Christ, I want to bless this person. And uh if they're a believer, hopefully the Spirit will use that to convict them. Uh if they're an unbeliever, hopefully what will happen is in 1 Peter 3. 15 that they will ask you why are you responding this way? Because that's not how people typically respond and there's an opportunity for the gospel there. So hopefully that's helpful. So again, we need to think about how would a third party judge our action Would they say, wow, that's that's amazing. That is a really good response. That was a really kind word. That deed, that gift, that that ministry, that service that they performed in response to the evil that was thrown at them. That was that was incredible. That's the kind of thing we should be thinking about toward those who sin against us Now look at verse 18. As far, if possible, as so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. You know, when when when we're walking according to the flesh, our mode of operation is typically something like this. As far as it depends on me, I will win every argument. I will be proven right. I will make sure that everybody does what I want them to do. I will be listened with or listened to, I will be agreed with, I will be respected. And we can be confident that every impulse in that direction is going to be of the flesh and it's going to be destructive to the relationship. What the Spirit would have us do is everything possible to cultivate and maintain peace. puts it strongly in Ephesians 4. 3, where he says, be diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond. of peace. The verb to be diligent means to hurry, to put forth every effort. Make peace and pri and and unity a priority in your life. Be zealous. Take great pains. So we should exert whatever energy and whatever time we have to try and restore the relationships that are broken in our life, especially if it's a believer and there's hope for reconciliation and full unity in Christ. But we should we should look at all of the obstacles that are preventing us from having that relationship. And again, as far as it depends on us, because it it there's things outside of our control, but as far as it depends on me, I'm going to overcome every obstacle to the best of my ability. True peace in the church, in the relationships. Don't just sweep things under the rug. True peace seeks biblical unity and harmony with others in Christ. Now look at verse 19 to 21. Never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him, if he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you will heap burning coals. on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So verse 19 there gives the negative command, never take your own revenge Verse 20 gives example applications, and then verse 21 gives the positive command. So again, remember as we talked about that because God owns you, God has purchased you, He owns not only the debts that you have committed against him, and He's wiped those debts clean But he owns the debts that others owe against you. He owns your accounts receivable. And it's not that he is selfish and he wants to get after the people in your life that have sinned against you. He wants to exact his revenge. Uh because he just enjoys revenge and he doesn't want you to feel any of that satisfaction. No, that that's not it at all. Rather He knows that whatever revenge you and I might try to exact in a relationship, it's not going to make you feel any better. It's not going to help. In fact, it's only going to add to your own personal sin debt that God has to forgive. And you're not going to have any meaningful effect on the sin debt of the other person. So if you try and deal with another person's sin debt through uh revenge and vengeance, you're actually not gonna have any effect on it at all. It's kind of like sending a a t baller uh to the plate at a major league baseball game You know, if they even get lucky enough to hit the ball, it's gonna do a lot of damage to them. It's gonna hurt them badly. Now, if you want to have an impact on a relationship that is at odds with you, there's really only one productive thing you can do, and that is, verse 21 Overcome evil with good. Overcome evil with good. Do good to the person. In other words, disarm them with your acts of kindness and care and compassion. Find ways to meet their needs. Or if they don't have any needs, find ways to serve them and do something unexpectedly good for them. And you know what? He says, not only will you overcome their evil, but you will also be overcome your evil. You will overcome the evil desires in your heart that the flesh wants to repay. Mill and Vincent tells a story of uh counseling a woman whose husband has committed adultery and uh the the wife did not know the adulteress, uh didn't know who she was, but she did happen to have her name and address. And even though he did not counsel her to do this at all But as they were talking about this principle, as they were doing what he calls a 360 around the cross, which is similar to the Gospel Cyclorama. Uh they were talking about this principle as he was trying to help her overcome her own sense of evil and and whatnot. She decided on her own I'm that she was going to, and she did, put together a gift basket and and write a note of encouragement to this adulterous woman who had uh slept with her husband. And she went to the woman's house, rang the doorbell. The woman didn't know who she was, never seen her before, so there was it was a complete Blind, good deed, and handed her the gift basket. Didn't say who she was, didn't say why she was giving it, but just did a good, kind act toward her. And by doing that, by putting the gift basket together and by handing it to the woman, and personally doing that, not just sending it through some courier, the anger in this woman's heart melted away. Doesn't mean that every problem was solved, but the anger and the evil that she desired to to throw back melted away. You know, if if we're honest with ourselves, we we feel like when we are angry and bitter towards someone, we feel powerful. We feel like, man, if if I could only express to them what is in my heart, that would be powerfully effective in dealing with this situation. Right? We rehearse speeches in the shower of I'm gonna give them a piece of my mind, here's what I'm gonna tell them and I can't believe you y you know, we we we think of these things that we want to say and we know that if we could only say what's in our mind to say that maybe they would collapse in repentance and everything would be restored. We think we're powerful. And the reality is that never works. It only makes things worse. And so what the Holy Spirit is telling us here is if you want to have a powerful impact in a broken relationship The way you do that is by overcoming evil with good. In fact, it's so powerful he compares it at the end of verse 20 by uh with a word picture of heaping burning coals on his head. Now, there's a variety of interpretations of what does that mean? What does it mean to heat burning coals on his head? And for the sake of time, I won't uh go into that. But burning coals are measured at around 1800 degrees. And we can all agree on this. If someone poured burning coals on your head, that would be a memorable experience. Right? You you would never forget that the rest of your life. In fact, not only would you not forget it, but it would change your life in a in a variety of ways People might remember your tongue lashing. They might remember you saying things to them out of retaliation or deeds of unkindness. But if you keep burning coals on their head, you will change their life and you will change yours as well. And so we ought to consider Is it as simple, can I do something as simple as feeding my enemy? Can I do something as simple as buying my enemy a Starbucks? Giving them something to drink? Can I do something good to the person who is opposed to me? Can I bless them with an encouraging note, whether it's identified as coming from me or as whether it's anonymous How can I do good to this person who is at odds with me? That's how I overcome my evil, and that's how I overcome their evil. When God calls us to love others the way that He has loved us, He doesn't call us to love others in a childish, weak, lame kind of way. He calls us to a kind of love that actually has the power to change the world. That's what the love of Christ did. It changed the world. But remember that the goal of love, loving like God, is not to change the other person. Again, uh you have no control over what's going to happen in their heart and in their life. The goal of love is to glorify God and to overcome the evil in your life, the anger and the bitterness. And then how they respond is between them and God. And so as we close for today, just To restate the point, when we look at the cross, we see that God loves his enemies, of whom I was one, and he does good to them. And now he calls me to do the same. Okay, well let me pray and we'll move to corporate worship father things