He was risen. Indeed. Let's open the word of prayer. Father, we do thank you for the joy of meeting together each week, but particularly today as we uh uh uh remember the resurrection of Christ and its impact on uh the payment for our sins, the the certainty of that payment, and our future with you in resurrected bodies ourselves. What a wonder that is. Lord, we pray that our time together this day, uh, in our worship, in our Fellowship in our study of your word would all be honoring and pleasing to you For your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Well, we are on lesson five in our notes. Everybody have a copy of the notes? Last week Pastor Gabe uh looked at various references in both the Old Testament and the New Testament Of God's um use of the marriage relationship to convey a lot of truth about his relationship with his people, both the nation of Israel in the Old Testament and even the church in the New Testament. And that's a good segue into our topic today. We're going to be looking at Ephesians 5, 22 to 23. Actually, um I want to begin with more of a stepping back and looking at um what leads up to that in the book of Ephesians. So I've got many of the verses in the notes here, but if you've got a copy of the scriptures and want to open to Ephesians, it might be helpful. So chapter five obviously is deep into the the book of Ephesians. The book of Ephesians, like many of Paul's epistles, Covers a lot of doctrine in the early part, in the case of Ephesians, the first three chapters, and then the latter part is devoted to the application of that doctrine and exhortation and Christian living and so on. And our text in Ephesians five is in that second section of course. Um so um chapters five and six Um maybe back up. Ephesians four, the the fourth chapter uh highlights the uh the need and the uh the how to's of becoming mature in Christ and uh Paul then moves directly in chapter five to um fleshing that out. What does that look like in the context of And so, for example, he begins chapter five by saying, therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children, and walk in love, just as Christ also loved you, and gave himself up for us, an offering and sacrifice to God. as a fragrant aroma. So the um the the whole point is God is making it possible for us to be like him to have his character um to be godly. And the earlier part of Ephesians five emphasizes the need to walk in Christ or becoming godly, becoming like Christ is not um it's a process. It's not God doesn't just snap his fingers. Boy wouldn't that be nice. God just snaps his fingers and immediately we're holy. We're we're like him and righteous and so on. But it's a process and he uses that process sovereignly, you know, according to his timetable Uh but um I've got printed here uh chapter five verses fifteen to twenty-one. which is immediately introducing our passage of interest here today. Therefore be careful how you walk, not as unwise men, but as wise. in making the most of your time because the days are evil. So then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation. But be filled with the Spirit, speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Always giving thanks for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God, even the Father. And be subject to one another in the fear of Christ. So this process of becoming Christlike and uh uh exhibiting his character, his attributes, moral attributes, not his divine attributes like omnipotence. Um but becoming Christlike is a is a process, a walk, a getting from point A to point B kind of a walk. And the point B is the the becoming like Christ. Central to that, he says, is being filled with the Holy Spirit Now, every believer we see from Scripture is indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Uh Paul says in Romans 8 that if you're not if the Spirit doesn't dwell in you, you're not even of his. But we're commanded here to be filled with the Spirit. Now that's an interesting I find it interesting anyway that we're commanded to do something that we can't do. We can't kill ourselves What is the command? To be filled by whom? By the Holy Spirit. But who who does that? God does that. What is our role then? If if we're comm we're commanded, what are we actually commanded to do? We can't fill ourselves What are we commanded to do? Basically to submit. He gives a counter example of being um uh controlled by alcohol, wine, right? Um do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation. What happens when you're drunk with wine? It's it's taking over your your decision making, your abilities, it's controlling you And likewise, or as a contrast to that, being filled with the Spirit is being controlled by the Holy Spirit, which requires one of us. Submitting to him, right? Following him, allowing him to do his work of of Sanctification in our lives. So it's a command, but we're somewhat passive in it. The active part for us is Submission. Make sense. Um so the basic command there is to be filled I understand that the Greek grammar there could more accurately be translated being filled, be continually filled How is it that someone might be filled with the spirit one moment and not filled with the spirit the next moment? Sin. Exactly. So um If we're filled with the Holy Spirit, does that mean we're sinlessly perfect? No. What does it mean? We're actively submitting to the Holy Spirit. So anything that He has convicted us of that needs work, needs repenting of, right, we have responded to Faithfully. We're not uh greeting him as he says in uh chapter three. Um we are Um submitted to him, obeying him, following him, allowing him to have full sway in our lives. That doesn't mean we're sinlessly perfect. My observation, anyway, looking at Scripture, examples of Isaiah 6 Where Isaiah is confronted with the holies of God. And how does he respond? It like you know Lee falls down. Um he's overcome by the the contrast between the holiness of God and his own sin, right? I think prior to that, if you were to ask Isaiah Is there much sin in your life? He might be honest, but it at that moment he was especially aware of how sinful he was because of the the ho the presence of the holiness of God. You know, when when Jesus and his disciples uh were out in the boat and Jesus um I think it was the example of when he told them to put the net on the other side and they got this big great Catch and Peter well maybe it was a storm, I forget. Anyway, Peter's response to recognizing, hey, this really is God in the flesh. He has power to do those kind of things. And what was his response? Depart from me, Lord, for I'm a sinful man. He was confronted by the holiness of God in a very real way. He finally, his eyes were open, and his immediate fault was how sinful he was. Uh you you look at the um the Apostle John in uh Revelation 1, he's confronted with this vision of the resurrected Christ in all his glory. Now here's John, the one who arguably was the closest to Jesus while he was on earth, fell down like a dead man. Why Because again, the closer you get to God's holiness and comprehending it, the more you're aware of your own sinfulness. Well, I'm convinced that if God were to reveal to any of us this morning, right now, the extent of our sin that's still resident in us We would react the same way. We'd be overcome, outdone. We would be uh falling down in A lot more humility than we typically have. Because we recognize how far off we are from God's holiness. But God doesn't do that. What does he do? He convicts us progressively. He chips away the things that need work on according to his s sovereign timetable, and what's our responsibility? To respond in confession, repentance. And if we continue to do if that's our character, if that's our We're characterized by responding that way as he convicts us of sin. We're not giving him the, you know, don't bother me now response. But we're we're broken by it and we're responding appropriately. We're turning away from the sin, forsaking the sin, and putting on Christ. We stay filled with the Spirit It's when we don't respond that way that we're no longer yielded to his control. We're not filled with the Spirit. I say all that because that's his introduction to this very important passage on marriage. What it really means, what it should be like. And it's it's one of three Um well before I mention that, um Paul gives evidences of what it means or the effects of being filled with the Spirit. What does he say? Speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, if that worship is coming from the heart and it's God directed, God focused That's evidence of being filled with the Spirit. Always giving thanks for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God even the Father. and being subject to one another in the fear of Christ. So he uses participles here, the things that are descriptive of someone who is filled with the Holy Spirit. And um that leads us to his Um reference to submission. First we're to submit to the Holy Spirit, but then he says um submit one to another in three ways, three contexts in which you see that and ought to be happening. Uh the I don't know what translation of the Bible you Usually use um Naswe says um In verse 21, be subject to one another in the fear of Christ. Grammatically, it's another participle Being subject. But it's not subject to one another like it's a mutual thing. It's being subject one to another. And you see that in the uh examples that he gives. His first example is being subject to another light. The church is subject to Christ. That's not a mutual submission. That's one to another, not one to many. Then in chapter six he follows with the example of children being subject to their parents, right? Again, that's not a mutual submission that uh submission one to another. And the word here to um to submit Uh or the word for one another there can be translated as a mutual submission or a mutual one another And uh I think I give examples of it here in the text. Uh or it can be used, the very same term, can be used for a one-directional uh one another. And that's how it's used here in both chapters five and chapter six. You know from the context. So what I'm going to do. Technical uh challenges here to so here. Death Hutter? Okay. Okay, so let's go ahead and read then that passage from verses twenty-two and twenty-three. Again, it's he's he's given an example of what the submission would look like if people are filled with the Holy Spirit. Wives, be subject to your own husband as to the Lord. For the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, he himself being the savior of the body. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives ought also to be to their husbands and everything Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself up for her, so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the Word. That he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing. But that she would be holy and blameless. So husbands ought also to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it. just as Christ also does the church, because we are members of his body. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Quoting from Genesis 3, uh 2, actually. This mystery is great, but I'm speaking with reference to Christ and the church. Nevertheless, each individual among you also is to love his own wife as himself, and the wife must see to it that she respects. her husband. So um we see some commands here, some God's design, if you will, for marriage. He says, wives be subject to your own husbands, but he gives several examples of What that looks like. First of all, he says, as to the Lord. So you submit to your husband as you would to Christ. He says, as the church is subject to Christ. Again, corporately was subjected to Christ who was our head, the head of the body. And he says also in verse twenty-four, submit in everything. Now that submission Uh when it says everything, it doesn't say if if your husband is is um demanding that you sin, either by what you don't do or what you do um that you would submit in that. Uh but that's the exact same relationship that we would have with any authority. If, you know, where does any authority come from? From God. And if if the one who is to exercise that authority is abusing that authority to cause someone or to try to force someone to sin by doing something or not doing something they should be doing, then we as believers are We have examples in Scripture, and Scripture encourages us to not obey the sinful authority, but rather To obey God, first and foremost. But when we do that, we need to be ready to suffer the consequences. Right? You see countless examples of that in Scripture. And God Often lets those consequences or uh our standing firm in obeying Him rather than a sinful command, uh, as a testimony. And God can use that. Well the same is true with with a husband and a wife. A wife has to submit to her husband, but if if he's if he's commanding her to sin She serves a higher authority than him. And the same thing is true. However, that's usually a rare case. Right. Thankfully. Alright, there's um uh reference here at the end of this passage, verse thirty three, with uh sincere respect. Part of that submission is offering uh respect. But it also now says how it should look like, but why That should happen. Why should the wife submit to her husband? He says, For the husband is the head of the wife. And that's not a result of sin. That's God's original design. We went over that from Genesis, right? But he also says As Christ also is the head of the church. So it's it's true of the marriage relationship, that the husband is the head of the wife in that marriage, but it's it's um symbolic, it's also true of uh Christ being the head of the church. There's hierarchy there by God's design. Okay, so We'll come back to that, but he says that's not all. God's design is not just that the wives would submit to their husbands But he says specifically, husbands love your wives. And when he says love here, he's referring to God's Unconditional love, agape love. Not loving because the person is Lovable, but loving because of your own character, like God's own character, is loving. He says specifically, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her, what was the condition of the church when Christ gave himself up for her? Ungodly, Romans five says, right? Christ died for the ungodly. It has everything to do with God's character. not the character of the one being loved. He then uses the example of loving your own body. Uh if a husband loves his own body, he should love his wife in the exact same way. with care, right? A high priority. Um and then he says in verse thirty three You love her as you love yourself. Now this is probably the foremost example of how to uh fulfill the second greatest commandment. You know, the first commandment is what? Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And the second is like it, which is what? Love your neighbor as yourself. Now who is your closest neighbor? If you're married. Where is that love going to be demonstrated most and most regularly? But in the marriage, right? And so he says here, love her as you love yourself. Like he did with the Command to the women, he gives us the reason why. Why a husband would do that. Verse 26, he says, so that Speaking of the example of Christ, so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of the water with the Word. And so that's a model for how husbands should love their wives, be concerned not just with external things for them But with their own sanctification, their own development in their becoming Christ-like. That's a a um responsibility that husbands have to their wives The second reason why is that, um, again with the example of Christ as the model, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing. So again, the the the whole goal of this whole context is becoming Christ-like. Right? And um if you thought about it this way But God designed our marriage to be sanctifying, that we would become more like Christ because of our marriage relationship. And to the husbands, he's saying, particularly, you need to have a role here, you do have a role here, in helping your wife to become more Christ-like. It's sanctifying. Think of a practical example of that. Um husband and wife, uh they're both Let's say the Christians, they're redeemed, but they're still sinners. And um there will be times when they have conflict, disagreement, um maybe even arguments, shut it apart. Um how should we respond in those cases? We should husbands um treat your wives your wives just like yourself. Right? And so if we're if both the husband and the wife are ultimately filled with the Holy Spirit Submitted to God, submitted to Scripture, committed to each other, what kind of resolution to that conflict would likely happen. They would come to their senses and begin having perhaps confessing what they said was was wrong it was sinful. Maybe what they did or didn't do was wrong or sinful. And then they're they're dealing straightforwardly with Um let's think this through together in a God-honoring way Right. It may be that the wife will reveal to the husband something he's been blind to in his life. God will use the wife in conjunction with the Holy Spirit ministering in his heart to point out those areas that he needs to repent from. But the same could be true the other way around. The husband can use can um point out something in his wife's life that uh needs to be more Christlike. And in in a humble, gentle, loving way Serve her, love her enough to help her see that. Right? The opportunities are endless for sanctification in marriage. The need comes up quite often for sanctification in marriage And that process is what he's referring to here. Ultimately, it's helping each of us to become more and more Christ-like. And he puts it another way in verse 27, that she would be holy and blameless. This is the example of Christ working on us as the church, but uh it's that same process that can happen within a marriage by God's design. Now of course when he originally designed it, there was no sin. But he knew that there would be sin. And um This relationship is ultimately among Christians to be sanctifying. Now, what does that look like for non-Christians They're not submitted to to God, they're not submitted to Scripture, they have those conflicts and so on because it's all about me, not about us or you And so they bang heads and you all know what happens. It's unpleasant at best, right? Not so among Christians. We have the opportunity, in fact the duty To be sanctifying, mutually sanctifying. And we all need it. We all need it. Okay, why? Well he goes on It says for no one ever hated um well because you you need to love your wife Like you love yourself. It's it's it's a blessing. But then he says, No one ever hated his own flesh. But nourishes it just as uh Christ does also the church. So we do that because it's it's like what we naturally do for ourselves No, usually. Sometimes we don't take good care of ourselves either, right? And we need a spouse to kind of convict us of that. Um But loving our neighbor as ourself, we usually don't have the problem with not loving ourself. Usually the problem is loving others. We love ourselves too much. And uh what he's saying here is that in marriage You need to be loving your wife just as much as you love yourself, if not more. Right. And then in verse 30 he says, why? because we are members of his body. She's a member of his body too. This is a Christian marriage he's referring to. And um She's your wife, but she's also a child of God. That's what he's saying. And so God is using Um that marriage relationship to further the purpose of each spouse becoming more and more like him. Then he he kind of wraps that up in verse thirty one. Where he quotes from, particularly Genesis 2, for this reason a man should leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife And the two shall become one flesh. What's interesting about that is his his uh commentary sort of commentary after he refers to that and quotes that verse in verse thirty two he says this mystery is great But I'm speaking with reference to Christ and the Church. What mystery is he referring to here? The mystery that was not explicitly uh taught in the Old Testament, but to a mystery that by God's design, right from the very beginning Marriage, which God instituted on day six of creation Marriage is a reflection of and points to the relationship between Christ and his church. That was a mystery in the Old Testament, except The very concept of the church was a mystery, right? Um but it's always been God's design, and now we're fortunate to actually put it in perspective We understand what Christ did. We understand the relationship of Christ and His church. And therefore we ought to, more than anybody Understand God's design for that marriage relationship. And it all uh Points to God and glorifies God. Okay, before I go on to some lessons Any thoughts, questions so far? What page are we on? 34. Top of 34. Yeah. That's an easy question. Any other easy questions? Yeah. So I think there's mutual sanctions where each of those words like parables with a man all terms of sanctity. Yeah, so the the observation is that the the the uh responsibility ultimate res responsibility within the marriage for that sanctification to happen is for the husband to be very active in nurturing and in that sanctification process for his wife. Um the practicality of it is it works both ways. But the roles are different. Um just because a wife is to be submitted to her husband and his leadership Doesn't mean that she can't in a loving, gentle, um and godly way Make him aware of sin in his life. Right? Um much like You all familiar with the um church discipline process? What is the first step in church discipline You go directly to the person alone in private to not necessarily point out sin But probe in the event that maybe that was sin. Okay, so you're going with a humility, with love, with a commitment to the the the person's sanctification Um and it really works the same way in marriage, that we we approach our spouse in um humility, in love, uh in um obedience to God. The point is, you whether it's just church discipline and and interactions you have with with other believers or within marriage, it works the same that um you love the person enough To help them overcome sin. And uh to ignore that sin particularly when it becomes obvious it actually is sin, to ignore that is the least loving you can be. Right? But it all depends on your humble loving, sensitive interaction. You don't go in with boat gums ablazing, right? And you're You condemning and and so on. Um you need to be uh Firm but gentle, if you can be that balanced. The wife, being submissive, needs to definitely approach that as a as a loving uh confrontation, a loving um uh an expression of her love to be so much loving of him that she cares for his holiness, sanctification. Um but by the same token, uh a husband who is her head Doesn't want to just command her and be uh um authoritative and and uh demanding But needs to be equally gentle and uh understanding and probing, but um consistently focused on what would glorify God the most. What is holiness to look like in this context. Every couple has their own personalities, their own personality as a couple That may look different from one family to another, but the basic principle is you love your spouse enough to not allow them to wallow in sin. It's not just that they've a confront they've affronted you and they've offended you, but um you're observing each other and ought to be holding each other accountable to what is biblical, what is godly and so on. Does that help? Good question. Any other Yeah. Yeah, when you were talking about whether uh this show things is the more visual with the world came to mind where you're Show love to your spouse based on the condition, based on how they're acting. So Romans 5. 8 came to our mind, you know, while we were yet sinners, what could Christ do for us? Ultimate is. of the love that Jesus had for the church is right so based on that we love that he showed as unconditional as the God of love You know why, husband, everything was perfect, but That's not the case most of the time. And once the husband is trying to spread love to the wife, vice versa, the wife is making insane possible. Possibly doesn't want to separate by showing love or accepting the unconditional love that the husband is showing. But it doesn't change the responsibility that else has in the relationship if any of our um The word was submitting. They're submitting to Jesus and his word and his wisdom. They're supposed to be implying no matter what. Right. No matter how they're spouse is that you know. situation as to where you your life at some point will see that you are shown up just like Christ in Christ. show us perfect love toward her. And hopefully God will use that to like strengthen marriage, and marriage can be more of an example of Jesus in the church. That makes sense. Yeah. Yeah, your your even your relationship and your marriage can be a testimony. Should be a testimony. Um A couple of things that you reminded me of, not not really touching on what you said, but um I I perceive that it's somewhat easy for husbands to think that the way I need the the way I the best way to love my wife is to Give her what she wants. Basically to placate her. That's not what love is. That's not what Jesus is in the church What did Jesus do to the church? He sacrificed himself to give the church what the church needed, forgiveness of sin, not what the church might have asked for. And that's what the church might have asked for before they were saved. But anyway, um as husbands, yes we need to be gracious and giving and sacrificial Um, but we have to have in the back of our mind, even with all the gifts we shower on our wives, what does she really need? inner sanctification. Um and sometimes it's obvious, sometimes it's not. But it ought to be a driving force in our application of that command to love her the way Christ loved the church So when Eric shows me something on sale at whatever store, let's sell sale, let's get this what Eric really don't need that's okay. I think you're looking for excuses there, right? No, the point the point is um w what is ultimate in your in your um Exercise of your love for your wife. What is ultimate is her well-being, right? Her cleansing, her sanctification. And uh loving her in a way that would um um boost that, accommodate that Um yes. Which word? Yeah, is a copy. So then with first Rinki and Firstine and First Joan both talking about like if you you don't have love, like we're supposed to have that love 'cause God is wrong. And if God is in us then we have that love. Then the perfect picture of how to love your wife would be first Christians thirteen as it goes down that list of what love is and it's actually kinda funny because in there it's actually the the the noun is functioning as a verb. throughout all that entire baggage. I know that's something great back in that. So I should sharing the information the same story. Yeah, it's it's all it's all the same So it's God's God's unconditional love that we are to have for spouses and and for others But it needs to be true in spades with our spouse, right? Uh number lesson number four. You know the the common concern over the headship and submission issue is that um As some people think it oppresses women by elevating men over women, and that is far from the truth. God has designed Marriage he like he's designed other spheres of life with um roles with accountability to him, with authority structures that ultimately are um uh demonstrating or or being stewards of the authority that God has delegated And so in in any authority submission relationship, whether it's to spouses, whether it's to the government, whether it's to church leaders, or whoever has authority over us. That has nothing to do with with ultimate uh value. It's only about roles. So the the favorite example I like to give, some of you probably have heard this a dozen times. over the speed limit and a police officer pulls me over. Was he just in doing that? Yes. He comes to the window of my car and I realize this guy is younger than my son. And yet I refer to him as sir, officer. Why? I'm to submit to someone who's exercis lawfully and and correctly exercising his authority. That God ultimately is given to him. He might not realize it, but I need to recognize and s and his authorities submit to him in the right way. Now, if that same officer were to come here to church To become a member of Hope Idol Church, he would need to submit to me as an elder. Now hopefully I'm exercising that authority with the same love and gentleness that God has designed. Um but it's all about roles. And those roles can change as quickly as, you know, going from the side of the road to It's the church. But it doesn't change anything about the value of either of the people. And for a wife to submit to her husband isn't is God created an equal. Equally sharing his his um um image, right, bearing the image of God But right from the very beginning, before sin, he created them with roles. Now, what is the role of the husband to lead the wife? What is the role of the wife to submit to her husband. If she submits to her husband and she gives him Wise advice about a decision they're making, it's not a thin issue necessarily. Um but he chooses to do something other than that, which turns out to be unwise What's her responsibility? Her responsibility is to submit, not to say, I told you so. Right. Uh God's gonna hold her accountable for the extent to which she fulfills her role, which is to submit to him. Um what she can do if it's an unwise decision is rather than I say I told you so Hopefully he'll realize that anyway, but together they can debrief, evaluate, learn. and make better decisions in the future, right? Um what's the husband's role or responsibility You know, a decision has to be made and the buck stops here with the husband. Who is God holding accountable for that decision? The husband. He's not holding the wife accountable for that decision. He's holding the wife accountable for making wise um providing wise advice uh and and whatever but her responsibility is discharged when she submits. Unless it's the sin issue. If she's if he's insisting that she sin, then we'll we've talked about that. So think about this. To say that Um for a wife to submit to her husband means that she is inferior to him That's identical to saying that Jesus Christ is inferior to God the Father because he submits to him And that's heresy. It's roles, God's design, for God's purposes, and some of that is this mutual sanctification. Um okay. We might have a minute or two, yeah. I I uh I think about this 'cause I know like with family people on the workplace this especially being in the workplace. Um it is so frowned upon as far as women and the ideas submitted. But understanding what God holds man accountable to, a wife would say, Wow, I I won to submit to him. I want to help him in this. And I I even think at like let's just say it'll work if your boss is, you know, under the microscope where he's very visible to to those who are both him if you get there before him He shows up late to work here. Okay, what can I do? Not not let me sit to the side and kind of watch this unfold to see his destruction, but what can I do to kind of get get everything going, get things ready and just to assist as best as I can for his health and for his clear mindedness. And I and I can just say for sure just with my wife um I mean Rosie I she does a great job at getting tasks on things done and I'm just like she's very effective, uh a lot more effective than I could be, I would say it's um But that is to speed that her submission and love towards me is gives me such conviction to want to continue on and want to do What's right, it's it's very it's very um I thought I had the this note here, but maybe I don't. Um That's maybe a good way to wrap this up. That um is it easy for a husband to love his wife as Christ loved the church? No, it's pretty hard. It's very hard. Is it easy for a wife to submit to her husband this sinner? No, that's hard. Both of us have a hard task. However, if we're both submitted to Christ We're both submitted to Scripture. We're both committed to each other's sanctification to the extent that a husband loves his wife as the church, as Christ loves the church, even if he's just approaching that, that makes his wife's job easier. It's harder to submit to someone who's being um an a sinful ogre, right? But if he's if he's making progress and becoming Christ-like, it's easier to Submit to him. Likewise, if his wife is submitting to him as best she knows how It makes his job easier to be her head and to love her as Christ loved the church. So you can each make each other's job Easier. Does that make sense? And that's a privilege. That's less than two. Um and a blessing. Sorry? Oh it is. It is less than oh seven Second lesson. Right, okay. It's harder to read it with my uh glasses here when I'm standing up. So there you have it. Lesson number two on page 34. But with that, I think no, I've got three minutes. That clock is fast. I guarantee you that clock is fast. Any other questions or thoughts, observations? Yes sir. This concept of world language is popular. I think it has to be popular in some circles. Do you suppose you could speak to it for just a little bit and address uh um why it is wrong and Why is another common situation in the Greek? The love language thing? Um what's interesting, the question, you presume that it's wrong Yeah. Um if you're not familiar uh is anybody not familiar with the whole concept of love language I don't have to explain what it is. Okay, the idea is that there are various ways to express love. And there are various ways you can interpret actions toward you as being loving. Um I actually agree with you um that That can be misinterpreted and misapplied very easily. The presumption for those who teach this love language stuff, in all those ways are biblical. Expressing love in this particular way, expressing love in this particular way. They're all being others oriented. And so there's nothing wrong with any of those, but I think we're called to love in all those ways. And not just tailor our love to meet the presumed need of the recipient. Um and as recipients of love, we need to be gracious enough to understand that someone was really trying to love me, even though uh i it didn't really connect with me as much as I think that person thought it did. Um so we need to be gracious as recipients of love, just as we need to be um broader in our thinking about what it means to show love. Even if we maybe have a sort of a bent toward a certain expression of love We need to love other people as well, even if they don't have that same kind of thing. So i it's tricky because I think the the The examples that are given are all excellent examples, but narrowing it to me or narrowing it to a certain person may be doing everybody a disservice. We need to be broader thinking And show love in lots of ways. Now, if you happen to know that your spouse really recognizes love only in one way A, uh y you need to be a master at doing that. But B, you may want to help your spouse think more broadly too. and see that the there are other ways people are showing you love that maybe you don't recognize. I hope that helps. So let's close in prayer. Father, thank you that from the beginning you have designed marriage to reflect the relationship of Christ and His Church And that we um have the great privilege of understanding that more than those who preceded us before Christ. I pray that with that deeper understanding, we would also have a deeper application a more consistent application in our marriages. So that you would be glorified, that um we as spouses would be Sanctified, and um that we would be a testimony to the world out there that is clueless. About all that. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen