Welcome to our class on what the Bible says about marriage, divorce, and remarriage. This um uh this class was sort of motivated by the fact that We've noticed for a long time that our doctrinal statement didn't really address many of these issues. And so when we updated the doctrinal statement recently, we uh addressed that and wanted to be sure to walk through these issues more carefully with people in more depth. And hopefully that will be helpful. Uh so Pastor Gabe and I will be kind of team teaching back and forth and um Hopefully it'll be a learning exercise for all of us. So we can't really start a class like this. Without really focusing on the foundational aspects of marriage Uh you know, there's a lot of confusion out there, even among Christians and denominations and so on, about uh issues certainly about divorce and remarriage. But I think a lot of those confusion the the the foundation or the the reason for a lot of those misunderstandings and uh differences is Not a complete understanding of how God designed marriage. And so we want to start focusing on that here today in the next few weeks. and then move into the divorce and remarriage topics as well. One of our um One of our aims is to have clearer teaching as a church that would be a a a help, a blessing, a guidance to our discipleship and particularly our counseling. And so that we would all be of like mind of what the scriptures teach and can apply that well. So God's design for marriage. Is there anybody who does not have a PDF or a hard copy of the notes at this point? Okay. Um the PDF is code. Yeah, but if they haven't signed up for the class, they're not a part of that group. So could they borrow a hard copy today? Yeah. So yeah, raise your hand if you need a hard copy for today. If you're If you're taking one for today, be sure not to write in it or buy it for five dollars. Okay, so we're on lesson one, God's Design for Marriage. You're all familiar, I'm sure, with the account of the creation account in Genesis one and two. Um When it comes to the topic of marriage, we're directed clearly to Genesis 2, 22 and 24, where It says, Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and cleave to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked and not ashamed. The context there, of course, is that God had created Adam on day six of creation. And in the second chapter of Genesis, God expands on that sixth day and he had Adam name the animals. Uh and all those animals come by and I think my picture is that um it was like when the animals came to Noah on the Ark They kind of came male and female, male and female, male and female, and he names them. Um and it said very clearly, but for Adam there was no one Corresponding to him. None of these were cor uh they had corresponding within each other, but none of them were corresponding to him. And so God created Eve. He says it's not good for man to be alone. After each day of creation, God said it is good, it is good, it is good. And then he says it is not good For man to be alone, I will make him a helper suitable for him. And so he created Eve. And in the latter part of Genesis 2, we get the first marriage ceremony, the wedding of Adam and Eve. And summing all that up here in verses 24 and 25, it gives a principle, a set of principles going forward about the nature of marriage. And so we want to look at that. First, marriage begins a new family, leaving father and mother. By the way, um A lot of couples uh after they're married say something like, We think it's time to start a family. Exnay. No. You start a family when you say I do at the wedding. You are a family. The children add to the family, but you are a family, just as Adam and Eve were. God said it is very good. There were no children around. And the reason it was very good was not because there were no children around, but because that's what God created. The family unit would be um the basis for all future uh relationships and and so on, including children within their own family. So um Marriage involves leaving. It says a man shall leave his father and his mother. There are several aspects of this leaving that I think we need to understand. Clearly, it means leaving the authority and oversight of one's parents. And That responsibility and oversight of parents is crucial in the development of the children and getting them uh developed and ready to be off on their own. But when it comes time for them to marry they leave, come out from under the oversight and protection and guidance and responsibility of their parents. And related to that is the second aspect of leaving is leaving um One's dependent on the parents. They become increasingly independent as they grow older, but they become formally independent when they establish a new family. Um and then third, leaving typically involves leaving Like establishing a new household, a new home for the new family And as we mentioned in the notes here, there may be lots of situations and even cultural differences here as to the extent of the physical departure But it's still true that there needs to be a a leaving in the sense of um independence and and and if if the uh original parents were still dictating life for the new married couple who are under their house, under their roof, not under the house. then that's going to create lots of problems for both sides, both the the parents and the the new couple. There needs to be that sense of independence uh cooperation and and uh friendship and even counsel on the part of the parents But the new couple, the new family needs to understand, they all need to understand that they're now independent and separate Okay. Make sense so far? So I have a definition here. This is not inspired Word of God, but as we walk through it, we're going to see Key principles from Scripture that are reflected here. So God designed marriage To be the exclusive union of one man and one woman in public covenant before God To enjoy a oneness in all its dimensions, not appropriate in other relationships, lasting until the death of either spouse And culminating in the glory of God and the reproduction of godly offspring. There are probably lots of ways to define marriage, but I think this pulls out a lot of the key principles from scripture that are important. So it's an exclusive union. Genesis 2 refers to Adam cleaving to his wife, and the the man just generally as a the precedent was set by Adam and Eve. the man would cleave to his wife. You've probably already heard it explained that that cleaving is is you know cleaning is one of those English words that can have opposite meanings. You know? There's several like that that are just kind of conundrums. But in this sense, the cleave is the sticking together, the cleaving together. It's not cleaving like a with a meat cleaver and separating, right? But a a cleaving together. joining together. And Christ, of course, refers to this. He quotes that that passage, Genesis 2. And he says, what God therefore has joined together, let no man separate. Right? What God has cleaved together, let no one cleav separate. Anyway. So it's an exclusive union, and that exclusivity, of course, is brought out in that term one flesh. The two shall become one flesh. I'm on the top of page six if you're following there. The significance for Adam, of course, personally, was that Eve was created out of his flesh. And in marriage they join back together. And we're gonna focus on that more uh uh uh more completely on point four in a few minutes. But the idea here is that uh this This one flash is an indication that this is a a um unique uh exclusive relationship. It's not just a casual relationship. Okay, so secondly, of one man and one woman, that of course means God's design was not polygamy. We'll address a little later, well, why was there so much polygamy in the Old Testament? But uh for now, clearly we see God's design is for one man and one woman. In Genesis 2. 18, I made reference before, the Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper, singular, a helper. suitable for him. By the way, those of you who know me, know me I have a few pet peeves. This is one of them. Often people use the term help meet or helpmate. It's kind of a derivation of that. Where does that come from? It comes from that passage in the King James Version. I will make him an help known. Meat adjective for him. Two different words, help and meet. A noun and an adjective. What does meet mean? It means corresponding to, appropriate for, um Related to. It was obvious that the animals were not meat for Adam. But when God presented Eve to Adam, Adam said, wow, this is now flesh of my flesh and bone of my bones. She is meet for me and E E T means means um Suitable, corresponding to. She fully corresponded to him, complementary to him, and designed for him. That's what meat means. So unfortunately the King James has been um I guess misunderstood but also mis It it the the term evolved so that help meet in many people's minds today is a single noun word. But in the King James it was a noun help meaning helper and meet meaning suitable corresponding to. Make sense? So if I catch you saying help me watch out. Anyway, uh We see, of course, in the New Testament, qualifications for elders and deacons, it's very specific that they should be the husband of only one wife, uh uh one woman man. We'll talk more about that in weeks to come as well. So God's design was for one man and one woman. Not only the one and the one, but two different genders, right? Man, woman. We shouldn't have to apologize for that. I mean that's God's creation. Always has been, always will be. Third, in public covenant before God. So there's three aspects there: the public, the covenant, and the before God. Several references in scripture make it clear that the marriage relationship is established by a Um joint covenant. We promise, right? We're committing to each other Malachi, for example, the Lord through Malachi is chastising the Israelites, and he says This is another thing you do. You cover the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping, with groaning, because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. Yet you say, for what reason? Because the Lord has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have dealt treacherously. Though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. So the context there is that Uh it was very common for uh some of these Jewish husbands to want to trade in their old wife for a new model. And God said this is just an ab uh this is uh absolute uh Debauchery. And putting away divorcing your wife Just for your own selfish reasons, undermines his whole reason for marriage. But in the process of of of uh Chastising them in that regard, he makes it very clear that she's your wife by covenant. You've promised to her. Don't treat that lightly. Right? That's the responsibility. Now, some covenants are unconditional and even unilateral. Can you think of any covenants like that? How about the Abrahamic covenant? God said, this is what I'm going to do. There was no strings attached for Abraham. I'm going to bless you. I'm going to give you lots of children. I'm going to give you this land. And he repeated that multiple times to him and to Isaac and to Jacob. It's unconditional and unilateral. The Noahic covenant God made with Noah. No strings attached. I'm not gonna flood the earth by water ever again. More important for us maybe is the new covenant. That uh was fulfilled, of course, in Christ. And um were the beneficiaries of that. Anyway, unilateral, just declared by God, it's a covenant No strings attached. It wasn't a let's agree on the terms of this. It wasn't mutual in that sense. It was completely unconditional. But there are some covenants that are conditional. Can you think of any in Scripture? The Mosaic Covenant If you do this, I will bless you. If you don't do this, I will curse you. That's what Deuteronomy 28 in its entirety is all about. Um the law was a covenant God's covenant with the nation of Israel, and it came with very specific terms, both in terms of the blessings and the curses, if it was violated. So God designed marriage to be a mutual covenant It wasn't a matter of a man finding a woman and dragging her from the hair, you know, and stuff. This is the one I claim, I stake my claim. It's a joint Covenant with each other. And um yeah. So it's it's and and because of that Um it's not only not unilateral, it's also conditional. Promises. Both the husband and the wife at the wedding ceremony make promises, right? Promises of of covenant That is um both publicly proclaimed and uh officially recognized by uh the families, uh by God, and it's a serious thing. Marriages must be legitimized publicly. Do you imagine what might happen if that was not the case? What would happen if um marriages or any marriage was simply declared by the two people and not Endorsed legitimized publicly. Doing public things from different people. Okay, there it could be Um sequential marriages without really a firm commitment. Yeah, it's a brings a lot of accountability when you're declaring certainly before God, but before family and other people in public. uh to uh hold you accountable for the promises that you're making. They're serious promises, right? Um Frankly, I think that the that's a huge benefit to women who otherwise might be subject to unscrupulous men Um and it it brings accountability, which is healthy. And it's also a reminder, it ought to be a reminder, that the ultimate accountability is to God Himself. What God has joined together, let no man separate. Okay. Um the top of page seven, we make the point there that um It's natural that different cultures have developed different um standards or practices and procedures and most of those things are are fine. Um Even though every marriage is made before God, whether the people recognize that or not. Um it doesn't mean that a wedding ceremony has to take place in a church. But if the basic principles are in place, it could be before, you know, uh Justice of Peace or whatever cultural and and public uh accountability is is uh normal in different cultures The benefit of having it under the auspices at least of a church, it doesn't have to be in a church building, is that it it's a public testimony that this is before God So as a believer, that's an important testimony, right? Um We've mentioned already that God ultimately is the one who joins a man and a woman together in marriage. And Jesus, of course. Challenged people that if God has joined these two together, it's not right for man to separate them. Okay, so the fourth aspect we pointed out was to enjoy exclusive oneness. The marriage relationship involves exclusive oneness. And that gets us back to this one flesh. Um Concept. Clearly, God, when he said it's not good for men to be alone, what he had in mind here was companionship. uh a particular kind of companionship that's that's suitable for him. Not a a companionship of that you might have with your pet, dog or cat or whatever, but a companionship that's that's suitable, that's that's um uh closer than any other relationship can be. And so Let's take a look here at that um that concept Proverbs 2. In stating the um uh some of the reasons why he's collecting these various words of wisdom Since the purpose here of this book of Proverbs is to deliver you from the strange woman, that is the um the one who's not your own. Strange woman, from the adulteress who flatters with her words, that leaves the companion of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God. The the emphasis there is that marriage relationship is for companionship and a companionship that would not be compromised, slighted in any way. Uh we already mentioned uh in Malachi II he also referenced the uh She is your companion and your wife by covenant. So becoming one flesh is talking not just about physical union. within the marriage, but an intimacy that's like soul to soul, right? It's it's uh a growing um Oneness. You know, it it sometimes includes you know what your spouse is thinking just by looking at them. Right, and that comes with relationship. Um but it also has to do with common Commonly shared values, commonly shared commitments. Um and Yes. On the top of page eight, there's an extensive quote there from Ephesians five, where I'll just go ahead and read it. Husbands, love your wives just as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless So husbands, in the same way, ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church. So there's this aspect of cherishing and nourishing and um um being completely given over to the priority and the quality of that relationship Um that you know, you can have a close friendship with lots of people But to have this kind of relationship, that you care for someone as as well as you care for your own body Because you're one flesh, that's unique. That's exclusive. And that's the point. Make sense? Okay. Fifth, lasting until the death of either spouse. Um Several places in scripture make that clear. Jesus, of course, when he was refuting the Sadducees who don't believe there's any resurrection and they concocted this scenario that tried to prove to him that there would be complications if there were a s uh uh uh resurrection because These seven brothers all had the same wife, according to the law. And Jesus said, of course, um, you don't understand. Because there is no marriage in heaven. Actually there's one marriage in heaven. What's that? Christ and church, right? But there's no marriage between people. Marriage doesn't continue after the death of either spouse. And Romans and First Corinthians uh affirm that as well. Uh it's it's nice kind of Expected and touching for a widow to be longing to see her husband of many, many years again in heaven, but the relationship's going to be different. We don't know exactly how, but they're not going to be married in heaven like they are married on earth. Make sense. Okay. And then to the glory of God. You know, God created Adam and Eve in his image. What does that mean? He gave them unlike the animals, he gave them personhood. God has always existed in three persons. And when we say persons, we don't mean that God is Human people. People are persons because they're created in God's image. Our personhood means that we address each other with personal pronouns, he and she, right? We are persons because God has eternally existed as three persons. Um but that personhood carries with it attributes of uh intellect, emotion. Will and a spiritual dimension giving us the opportunity to have a relationship with God Completely unique, uh not like the animals because and and so those animals were not corresponding to Adam. Eve was, because she had these these qualities. Um and so It says in um Genesis one, the actual uh uh summary of the creation account God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over the cattle and over the earth and every other creeping thing that creeps on the earth And so God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. Adam and Eve each bore the image of God. Animals don't. Trees don't. They reflect his wisdom and his creativity, but only human beings reflect the image of God. And I would argue that neither man nor woman can reflect the image of God independently as well as the two of them can together. And we're going to talk a little bit about that, I think it's next week. We talk about the complementary nature of male and female. It's also glorifying to God in the way that the marriage of a man and a woman Illustrates and reflects the relationship of Christ and His Church, which in the Old Testament was a bit of a mystery. But Paul writes in Ephesians five that this mystery he's basically R revealing that mystery that's been true all along, but now we can make sense of it, basically, is what he's saying. And so, to the extent that the relationship of a husband and a wife is consistent with God's design, That's glorifying to God. It's putting God's um nature, his certainly his um his image On display. And as we're going to find out, I guess in two weeks, um When sin entered into that relationship, Adam and Eve's relationship and every other marriage ever since, that complicates. are glorifying God in our marriage. But it's still the point of the marriage is to glorify God. And so we need to work harder at it, given our sin. Okay, um and then number seven here, reproducing godly offspring. You see that of course in the Genesis accounts and various places throughout Scripture that emphasize the need for the parents to build godliness in the life of their children. Um God could have chosen to create Adam and Eve and to create their kids and have everything just done for them, but from the very beginning the design was that the parents would raise up, train up the children to be glorifying to God as well. Uh and a point we want to make here is that God in his sovereignty It still has control over the womb. And It's not a necessity that a family, husband and wife, have children. It's certainly the norm, and it's certainly God's original design, but there are certain circumstances and situations where by God's Wisdom and will. A couple doesn't have children, but um that doesn't undermine the fundamental design. And as we see in scripture, there are times when uh the barren, and often um even in prophecy, it refers to the barren um By God's grace, finally having children. And there's certainly examples of that in the patriarchs and so on. Okay. God's perspective on marriage, given that that uh uh those basic principles of design. First, his design for marriage is very good. That's what he said. Everything he created now, but now that he's created Eve and he's married them, now everything is very good. Proverbs eighteen twenty two, he who finds a wife finds a good thing and obtains favor from the Lord. Secondly, because of that, we must uphold the sanctity of marriage We'll talk later about boundaries that God has put around marriage. But we definitely need to Emphasize, maintain, and respect the sanctity of marriage. God designed it. And it's designed to honor Him. Hebrews 13, 4 particularly, is a good good reference there. So marriage should be encouraged as normal. That doesn't mean that everybody must get married, but it's God's design for the normal situation. In fact, the New Testament makes it clear that celibacy, uh remaining signal, single, uh It's often a gift from God. He gives someone that gift to accomplish some special things. Um But the the normal gift is marriage. And we also want to make it clear that um Catholic Church notwithstanding, marriage is not a sacrament. What is a sacrament? It's viewed as a means of obtaining more grace from God. And in the Catholic Church it's called the sacrament of marriage, uh because it's believed that uh that's part of the process whereby Catholics will get more and more of God's grace and favor and merit. We don't see that in Scripture. However, because of God's design for marriage and the sanctity that we just referred to Marriage does need to be held in high regard. Right? It's not a means to an end in terms of our salvation or anything like that. But it needs to be exalted as God's design, God's very good design. And of course, the only merit that can justify a sinner before a holy God is the merit of Christ. And uh his shed blood, which is applied to us when we come to him in faith. Uh so marriage is not a another work that we would do to become acceptable to God. Okay. Top of page 11. Biblical guidelines for marriage. Look first here at the Old Testament and then some things in the New Testament. There were some very specific boundaries and requirements for priests under the law. Uh for example, Leviticus 21, if you look at this the middle one there in verses 10 and 13 through 15. The priest who is the highest among his brothers, on whose head the anointing oil has been poured, and who has been consecrated to wear the garments, shall not uncover his head, nor tear his clothes. Verse 13, he shall take a wife in her virginity. A widow, or a divorced woman, or one who is profane by harlotry, these he may not take. But rather he is to marry a virgin of his own people, so that he will not profane his offspring among his people, for I am the Lord who sanctifies him. And this is repeated uh several times under the law and even at Ezekiel. Um So the point there is that this wasn't a rule for everybody, but it was a rule specifically for those who were set apart. to be God's priest than to serve before Him directly. We'll talk more about the implications of sin, and of course this is dealing in the context of sin, right? Um in uh in a couple of weeks. But then God also gives wisdom, some of which we've already cited. But look at Psalm 128. How blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways. When you shall eat of the fruit of your hands, you will be happy. It will be well with you. Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine within your house. Meaning what? Fruitful. Many children. Your children are would be like olive plants around your table. Behold, for thus shall the man be blessed who fears the Lord. And so the picture there is of uh family life that people would um aspire to, uh enjoy, very pleasing, very blessed. And it's all built on what? The fear of the Lord. God In his wisdom brings much blessing within the family if it's conducted according to his design. And um of course the opposite is true too. If we violate his design, what does that bring? Not blessing, but headaches, for sure. Proverbs 12:4. An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, but she who shames him is like rottenness in his bones. So that both exalts the the blessing of a godly wife, but also admits the opposite is true when No, that's not the case. Proverbs nineteen fourteen House and wealth are an inheritance from fathers, but a prudent wife You're lucky to get. Is that what it means? Is that what it says? A prudent wife is from the Lord. This is God's design. This is God's um Blessing on those who fear him. And it's it's an example of his grace for sure, but Ultimately, it's a a family, a marriage in a family that um honors God is glorifying to God to others. Right? God is glorified by that. And of course, Proverbs thirty-one, an excellent wife who can find, for her worth is far above jewels. The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and evil. She she does him good and not evil all the days of her life. Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, but A woman who fears the Lord, there it is again, a woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her the product of her hands, let her works praise her in the gates. The wisdom, literature, psalms, proverbs are just replete with examples of God's blessing on marriages that seek to please him. It's his design and he uh nourishes and blesses Um marriages, families, like that. Okay, so in the New Testament, I'm on page twelve Mostly what we find there is some boundaries, some rules around Christian marriages. And so one of those is to marry only a true Christian. Um We see in several places there, Paul refers to uh having a believing wife. And in 1 Corinthians 7 uh marrying but only in the Lord, meaning what? A fellow believer, right? And the general principle of not being bound together with unbelievers certainly applies to marriage. It's not the only application, but it's a major one. Why would that be the case for Christians? To be married only to Christians. Because it's a rule? Why is it a rule? So it has implications on the next generation? How God honoring is this enterprise going to be if the husband and the wife are not like-minded, the chances are basically zero that the children are going to be godly. Now God In the sovereignty, you know, he um he can uh and is very pleased to honor and care for Widows, and sometimes Christian wives seem like they're widows spiritually, if their husband's not a believer. Um, but the general rule is that if the husband and the wife are like-minded in their devotion to God and their devotion to raising up a godly uh family, conflict children, um that's going to be pleasing to God. Any other reason why it makes sense that the husband and wife should be both believers. Well, I mean if it's a picture of Christ in the church, there's a spiritual aspect to it as well for unity that they're gonna be one not in body but also in their soul and spirit. Right. It's hard to be one flesh as God designed it. If they're not even on the same page spiritually, for sure. You can't experience the joy of the Lord together because someone who's not a believer doesn't understand that with you. You can't express that and share that with you So part of being one flesh is enjoying the Lord together, growing in the Lord together, for sure. Yeah. And maybe in the context of the broader context of our class With regard to not just marriage but divorce and remarriage, what is the likelihood of an unequally yoked marriage? persisting. Much lower than if they're committed, they're both fearing the Lord, as it says. Um they're both committed. To the Lord. And the way that works, of course, is if, and you see this all around, if a husband and a wife are They enter marriage with the idea of what's in it for me. Is that pretty typical, you think? Mm-hmm. Yeah. If they both enter it from the point of view of what's in it for me, it's not going to take long before there's conflict. Each of them wanting to get their their say, their their will, right? And and yet if both of them enter into it as believers With the idea, not what's in it for me, but what's in it for each other, and even more importantly, what's in it for God If they're both of the same mind on that, what's going to happen? The closer they get to God, the closer they get to each other. And it's not that there won't be uh conflicts that need to be resolved and uh sometimes misunderstandings and challenging things, but they're both committed. To pleasing the Lord, which means that even though there's sin in each of them If we have if we each have um a commitment to the Lord and a commitment to the welfare of our spouse, Then that relationship in marriage is going to be sanctifying. What do I mean by sanctifying? Becoming more and more holy, more and more like Christ, more Christ-like, because of the influence we have on each other. Right? You can't do that with an unbeliever. There's just no way. But with believers, the two of them become more and more Christ-like. More and more glorifying to God, um, and that even in the context of sin God is glorified by that process. Can I add something? Um think about if if we were unbelievers, I could easily say where my wife would be like, you know what You sinned so much against me, I I'm done with you. Like and I would and I would be like, Yeah, you know what, that's fair. Um, but it's it's beautiful that we can look at our lives and when we get sinned against and we're like, Man, look how much I've sinned against the Lord and he's forgiven me And now I look at her and I'm like, yeah, I can use the free of you. And so in God's uh great love towards us. It uh Yeah, it causes us to be humble, to forgive, and to continue on. I I don't know on believers Yeah. Well they don't. Yeah, yeah, good point. Uh but it's not just forgiving the other and being long suffering with each other But it's actually holding each other accountable to God. Um which can involve and often needs to involve Um addressing sin in a humble, gracious, committed to you Um attitude, but I love you enough that I want to make sure that what I perceive to be sin here doesn't flourish in your life. Right? I'm committed to you, not just to forgive you, but to actually help you. You know, if that's why we do church discipline with other people, how much more should we hold each other accountable in a marriage? Right. And that's sanctifying. Both grow as a part of it. And um You know, we uh I often ask people in membership interviews after we go through a summary of what the church discipline process is like and say, well, what do you think the relationship between these two people is? When there's a confrontation of sin and a humble repentance of that sin What about what happens to that relationship between the two of them? And people realize, well, it's got to be stronger. You love me enough to hold me accountable, right? And to be God pleasing. Well it's the same thing. We get opportunity to do that very often in our marriages. And if we're both committed to the Lord and fearing the Lord We're not going to be offended, we're going to be appreciative. Right? Diane? Um now we're trying to not make someone with a portion of the spirit in their union. And what was the one God speaking by the offspring. This I've always wondered about that portion. If you're married to another 40 person. Married to an unbeliever? No, married to another believer. That seems to be in the context. But I wondered what does that mean? Uh let me study that myself so I don't just shoot from the hip. Uh Malachi II. Um Fifteen, okay. Good. Any other thoughts, questions? I just I I know it's probably a given for everyone, but I just wanted to acknowledge that there are cases where there can be a believing spouse. who is sanctified by the marriage in a different way than two believers sanctifying each other and that it is possible to raise children for God's glory as a single a not a single b as a A believer. Unequally yoked spouse. Yeah. It's harder. It is harder. And God shows grace in those situations. Um but the less and and typically they're someone who has come to Christ after the marriage and so God gives grace there and And 1 Peter 3 says that, uh, who knows, maybe God's going to use your example to win him over for the Lord. But it ought to be a a warning to us before getting married to be very careful. Yeah. We'll be around to answer some questions after Sure. Yeah. Yeah, it's uh well according to the clock it's nine thirty five. I've got another hour to go here. So um let's close a prayer though Father, thank you for your design for marriage. It's not a cultural derivation convention It's not something that we just thought up in our own minds. It's your created order. And therefore it's very good. And you've given us plenty of both good examples in teaching, but also bad examples in scriptures as warnings. To help us understand your design. May we be faithful to that design. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.