All right. Got some challenging things to think about uh today. We need God's help, so let's ask for it. Father, we thank you for for this day that we can uh gather together. Um we can remember along with The nation that has set aside this day as a day to remember the gift of motherhood. We thank you for the moms in this room and in our church. And the mothers that we have, that uh you have granted us much grace through them, and uh we pray that you would help us to honor them uh appropriately and in a way that glorifies Christ because of how you have shaped them. Lord, as we talk about this topic of abuse in the context of divorce, this is uh a very a heart-wrenching uh issue and uh I know uh many in this room have uh various levels of connection to uh this issue uh some very personal And so Lord, would you just give us the grace to think vividly about these things and to conform our minds to the teaching of your word for the glory of Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Okay, uh so as we get started, uh just a couple uh uh introductory thoughts before we dive into the notes that you have on page, starting on page 62. So this is lesson 10. Is abuse a permissible reason for divorce? So before we dive into that, I just want to set the overall context. Oop, I don't know if I click here. And uh just a super quick review of 1 Corinthians 7 that Alan went through last week just to get that back into our minds as we think about this issue as to how uh abuse relates to uh the dynamics of an unbeliever leaving and what it means to leave. So just really two things I want to highlight as a r reminder from last week from 1 Corinthians 7. And that is how Paul instructs in 1 Corinthians 7, 10 and 11, that if the believer, or he instructs believing spouses not to divorce one another. He doesn't give any qualifier there. He doesn't give the qualification for pornea. But what he does do is say, hey, this is what the Lord taught, which so we know that he's thinking about what Jesus taught, the qualification that Jesus gave, that fornea sexual immorality, uh that's unrepentant, that's ongoing, that that ultimately breaks and destroys the covenant of marriage, that that is a possible reason for divorce, a permissible reason for divorce and ultimately remarriage. And so Paul reflecting on Jesus says, hey, remember Jesus taught this If you're married to a believer, you should not get divorced. He says, but if you do, if you do, then either stay single or be reconciled to one another. So that's the simple principle that Jesus gives there in 1 Corinthians 7, 10 and 11. And maybe just before that, let me back up and say As we read through 1 Corinthians 7, and I'm sure you've gotten a hint of this, uh when we when we read through Scripture, we're often reading it in the context of uh clarity as to An objective standard of righteousness, right? God is revealing his will to us as to what is right And what is wrong, what is righteous, what is sinful, uh what are you supposed to do? What are you not supposed to do? And and there's usually pretty hard lines that separate those things and make them very obvious to us of how we should live, how we should not live, you know, and therefore when we think about, you know, growth in Christ, well these are the things that should not characterize our lives And then these are the things that should characterize our lives and so forth. But we also know as we uh uh read the scripture that there are many passages where wisdom is conveyed to us uh that isn't a hard line of right and wrong. And of course Key passage or key book for that is the book of Proverbs, where we have basically rules of thumb that all things being equal, this is what's better and this is what's worse, this is what's good and right. But they're not universal, absolute uh rules. And we see that kind of language in 1 Corinthians 7. There's certain portions of 1 Corinthians 7 that seem pretty clear in the command aspect of what it's saying. Again, if you're married to a believer, do not divorce one another. But then even in saying that, he he gives a not a qualifier, but a follow-up statement. But if you do, if you do, then we'll stay and say go or be reconciled. But then later on, as he gets into talking about those who are unmarried, those who are widows, and those who are virgins He gives a variety of statements like, uh, I have no command of the Lord, verse 25, but I have an opinion. I have an opinion as one who by the mercy of the Lord is trustworthy. And then he gives a situational context to what he's about to say. He says, in view of the present distress And then he goes on to talk about uh if you're single, stay single. That would be the best thing for you to do. So in that uh area, he's giving wisdom not a command of absolute universal standard. He says in verse 32, hey, what's driving my counsel is I want you to be free. from concern. Or verse 35, I say this for your benefit, not to put a restraint on you, not not to give you a command that you must universally follow, but rather to promote what is appropriate and to secure undistracted devotion. Verse 37, he says, But he who stands firm in his heart, being kept under no constraint but has authority over his own will. And then he goes on from there. So he he qualifies a lot of what he is teaching by giving wisdom And counsel, as certainly as an apostle, is one who uh knows uh the the standard of righteousness, righteousness from the Lord, but not necessarily universal uh hard line commands. And so that that kind of demeanor, if you will, from Paul is different here in 1 Corinthians 7. than than what we read in in m uh many other of his uh of the letter portions of the letter itself and other letters that he that he has. And so again, uh in 1011 he says if you're a believer, if you're married to a believer, don't divorce, but if you do stay single or be reconciled. And then in verses 15 and 16 and so forth, he says, if you're married to an unbeliever, and that unbeliever leaves, uh which is uh uh we'll talk a little bit more about today to expand from last week. Uh if they leave, then let them leave, right? That's That's the principle. In fact, in the Greek uh the word leave is charizo, and so quite literally the phrase uh that that he uses there is if they charizo, then you charizo. In other words, and the first one is active. If they actively leave, then you, and the second one is passive, then you let them leave. So there's a principle there that uh uh you are not to you know fight hard to keep the marriage uh if the unbelieving spouse has made it clear that they have no desire to stay in that marriage. And that just kind of helps us uh think about what is What is the covenant of marriage? What is it that breaks the marriage? And that's where we see the starting point in our notes here. We have the two categories, the two permitted bases for divorce. You have Pornea on one side, the unbelieving spouse leaves on the other side. Both of those, scripture makes a very clear statement that there is a loosing from the covenant of marriage. when the sinning spouse has uh not just violated the covenant of marriage, but where they have broken and they have uh deserted the covenant of marriage But that then results in not only ending the marriage, but allowing the quote-unquote innocent spouse, the one who was sinned against, to remarry in the Lord. And with Cornea, clearly that is bounded by the nature of that sense, sexual immorality that breaks the one-flesh relationship. But then with the uh unbelieving spouse leaving, it doesn't give the specific thing that they do to leave. It just says if they leave. And so that's what we'll think about a little bit more today of what what might that include. Um let's see. Let me skip down to uh when does the marriage really end? Well the marriage legally ends a divorce, but really the marriage ends when the sinning spouse demonstrates that he or she has forsaken the marriage covenant with no hope of repentance. That's the same in both cases. Again, it's not just a violation of the covenant, it's not just a I sinned against the covenant, it's a complete forsaking of the covenant where even attempts to restore and reconcile that forsakenness uh is uh is uh unresponded to. The believing spouse is on the first hand to forgive where there is repentance, seek reconciliation, when the unbeliever leaves, after attempts to reconcile the unbeliever is or the believers to let the unbeliever leave. And really in both cases either spouse can file for divorce because as Alan Pastor Allen said last week Filing for divorce is not the actual uh divorcing of the marriage covenant. Divorce is just uh the legal process of divorce is simply a finalizing of what's already taken place in the heart of the uh of the spouse who has departed from the marriage. Now, just want to remind you again, as we even think about those things, there is no situation, no circumstance that carries throughout time. where the scripture commands divorce. The only actual commandment to divorce is in Ezra and Nehemiah when the people of Israel have been have married the uh the foreign wives and in order to preserve the purity of God's people, uh God commands them to uh to divorce their foreign wives. But apart from that particular situation There is no situation that we can face where the Bible says, you must divorce in this case. And so as we talk through all of these things, we are not talking about situations where As let's say we are ministering to someone in shepherding or where you might be talking to somebody in your relationships where we would ever say out of our mouths You just have to do this. You can't not divorce your spouse, right? We're always wanting to remember that the priority as Scripture conveys to us is to uphold God's standard. uh and and preserve a marriage whenever and as much as possible. But in the mercy of God There are situations where the Lord would convey to the spouse that has been sent against, you are free in Christ. to be released from this marriage that your spouse has forsaken. And there's language there that I think is helpful, and that is that Divorce is both a judgment and a mercy. It's a judgment in the sense that it's a judgment against sin, right? The marriage covenant is designed to be a lifelong commitment, but when that commitment has been forsaken and divorce takes place, there's a judgment against the sin that says, okay, if you've forsaken that covenant, you can no longer be part of this relationship. But it's also a mercy for the one who has been sinned against. That the Lord, uh, in his kindness does not, even though it's his design for marriage to be lifelong, he does not force a spouse that has been sinned against to remain in that condition uh uh uh for the rest of their lives. There is a mercy that comes And so that's going to really be a significant principle as we think about how abuse relates to that today. I'm not going to walk through the A to the A and B. Those are things that we've talked through just in review. But actually, let me just read B just as a summary point. So instead of two rationales for divorce, pornea and the unbelieving spouse leaving, there's really just one. One spouse forsakes the marriage covenant in some way that has demonstrated no hope of repentance. Any differences have to do with the different formalities? In the case of a professed believer, number two there, right above there, talks about how if a person is professing to be a believer, they can put themselves in the position of uh being an unbeliever through the process of church discipline. In fact, I would say, just uh r uh uh repeat what Pastor Allen talked about last week, that one of the reasons we get into such complicated situations of How do we apply the scripture? Because it seems like we have two believers here. One of the reasons we get into such complicated situations is because we don't apply the rest of scripture, which is to say the process of church discipline. to discern what really is going on here. What what's the reality of the situation? If we simply take the words of a person of yes, I'm a believer, and we ignore how they're living and the fruits of their life then we will find ourselves in a in a conundrum. But when we say, all right, well here's the situation, let's apply all of the biblical principles and how to deal with it. Not just the issue of divorce, but also how to disciple and call a person to repentance and all the rest, then we will find ourselves at a point of greater clarity Okay. So when we prepared uh these notes, um we didn't have very much in there about abuse. There's obviously a statement there. about physical abuse, but it kind of assumes that we understand what what abuse is, what physical abuse is. And one of the challenges with this particular topic is as we all know, uh or at least It's often said that as soon as you raise the topic of abuse, then the question is, well, what qualifies as abuse? Because anybody can claim that they've been abused. But what qualify when my spouse yells at me once, uh can I not claim, oh, he he abused me or she abused me? Now I'm you know able to divorce. What what qualifies And so to help us uh think through that a little bit more, uh I uh printed out, or actually Jeff did, but I asked him to print out A framework, and this comes from uh ACBC, the Association of Certified Biblical Counselors They put together what they call their commitment to care, which is how biblical counselors should think about and go through the process of ministering either to those who uh uh commit abuse, who use abuse if you will, and those who are on the receiving end uh of abuse. And I think their framework for discerning what abuse is It's helpful for us because it kind of cuts through the uh uh quandary of defining what constitutes abuse and seeks to put these things in more of a biblical Framework. So I just want to read through this with you because I think it's helpful just to to get very specific about it So it begins. The discerning abuse framework is intended to provide a biblically informed lens through which we can best define, understand, and categorize abuse and its effects. Thresholds regarding what constitutes abuse are often vague and confusing. The framework is arranged to capture, in principle Biblical words and concepts in order to identify acts and the effects of abuse Effects or symptoms of abuse may vary in degree depending on a variety of factors and are an unreliable and inconsistent threshold. for labeling abuse. And just to highlight that a little bit, what that's conveying is that what a person uh experiences uh emotionally particularly the effects that they uh experience as a result of being sinned against uh differs. Uh two people can go through the same experience and respond very differently and and be affected very differently. Just like two soldiers can go through war and one experience PTSD and the other one not. And so What that's saying is just because a person is affected in a particular way doesn't necessarily mean that what has happened is uh would qualify under abuse per se. So we have to be careful as we think about those things. This framework is critical since the way one defines a problem narrows the direction in which solutions are sought and found. Alright, so definition and parameters. Abuse is a pattern, okay, that's a key word, it's a pattern of sinful, selfish mistreatment of another made in God's image. Whereby moral agency, freedom of conscience informed by God's Word, and God-given human dignity is violated by harmful acts, physical, sexual, verbal Or schemes to perpetuate oppression and unbiblical control. Acts of abuse are vile practices arising from selfish ambition and bitter jealousy born from selfish desires. of the heart. So those are that's just an overall kind of framework with one of the keywords there being a pattern. And not only the acts, but also the schemes and the intentions behind those acts. So let's think about what constitutes physical abuse. This is somewhat obvious, but it encompasses actions that harm the body, including but not limited to beatings, sexual assault. physical or sexual coercion, sleep deprivation, starvation, or confinement. So anything pertaining to the physical body, physical movement, health. That's all of course all falls under physical abuse. Verbal abuse involves patterns of degrading and dehumanizing communication in all forms, including threats of violence to spouse or child. threats of continued abuse, threats of suicide and self-harm, lying and manipulation. Spiritual manipulation may happen when misuses or misinterpretations of Scripture are enforced in order to be stumbling block, oppress, or control another person Okay, so uh with those two categories, those are two uh functions of the will exercised with words or with with the body with the intention of oppressing, controlling another person and bringing harm to another person. And you know, there's endless ways in which this can manifest in a person's life uh and you know the more you uh are in a position to uh minister to counsel to to work with people It's tragic, to say the least. It's probably a much stronger word we can use. It's horrific. How sin in the heart can manifest itself With these forms of abuse. Alright, now scheming includes intentional efforts and plotting by the abuser to inflict harm by threatening future abuse. continuing abusive behaviors, concealing past abuse, or hiding the scope of the abuse. Scheming against another can consist of limiting access to material assets, isolating from social relationships and controlled monitoring of the individual. While scheming can take many forms, it is marked by evil intentions and using resources to inflict harm. And then a little bit more specific, restricting material assets in order to perpetuate abuse may include, but it's not limited to intentionally cutting off access to finances, neglecting family fiduciary responsibilities, limiting ability to communicate and travel, and blackmailing This obviously does not include the biblical stewardship of resources like budgeting. In other words, just because your spouse wants you to stay within a budget, it doesn't mean they're being abusive by trying to control you. Restricting relational support in the order uh in order to perpetuate abuse may include, but is not limited to isolating the abuse from family, church, friends, and other social connections, and deceiving outsiders for the purpose of concealment. This does not include the clear biblical principle of leaving in cleaving, right? So uh if if a spouse is trying to encourage you to be less dependent on your parents, you know, don't call uh your parents whenever you have a question, like let's let's talk about it first. You know, that there's a biblical principle there of leaving and cleaving and and being your your own family rather than constantly uh depending on uh parental authority. Uh so uh there's just that qualification. And then finally monitoring the abused in order to perpetuate abuse may include, but it's not limited to, surveillance through cameras, cell phone activity, tr financial transactions, other technology. or to conspirators, you know, asking somebody else to um to follow or or check on somebody. And this does not include the use of technology for safety or proper stewardship of things such as security cameras, cell phones. basic uh bank statements, etc. Okay, so all of these things uh are actions that are done again with the intent to oppress uh to control and to harm uh another person. And uh they are done in a pattern So uh if if your spouse um you know looks on find my phone and says, oh hey, I see you're on your way to the grocery store, can you pick up some milk on the way home? That's not them controlling you, monitoring you, you know, trying to oppress you. That's that's fine. It's not a big deal. And you know, we we I think when you put Put it in this context, it's pretty straightforward. It's like, yeah, that makes sense. If somebody's doing this by a pattern of behavior and it's never just one thing, it's always a combination of things. then it's it's pretty clear both in on the experience in the experience of the person who's receiving that and for somebody who's looking on the outside that this is uh this is not a way that spouses love one another. Obviously the basic, most basic principle of how to live in a relationship with anybody, but especially your spouse, is love. Love one another. And what does love do? Love seeks the good. Love seeks the best. Love seeks to care for. Love seeks to cause, put the person in a position to flourish in life. And abuse in all of its form is the exact opposite. It's the intent to harm. It's the intent to break down. It's the intent to control and to oppress. And so when you think about the marriage covenant being a covenant of love, a covenant of commitment for the good, the welfare, the provision, the flourishing of the other person. Abuse, when it's a pattern of behavior, violates and breaks and sh tears to shreds that covenant. Let me just pause there and see if there are any particular comments or or questions at this point. Okay. Somebody calling in with a question? Okay. All right, so that's that's uh on the part of the person who uh one counselor uses the language of using abuse, uh which I think is helpful. You know, we often use the language of abuser, which is not inherently wrong, but um I've come to appreciate using the language of somebody who uses abuse because when you use the word abuser, you could take that in the wrong direction of making that a person's identity, which is ultimately unchangeable Right? And some would say, if a person is an abuser, they can't change. The world would say that in many cases. But if we say, no, this person uses abuse. Then we're saying this person is intentional. They have a heart that is responsible. They are culpable for their abuse. It's not just something that's wrong in them that they can't control. It's like, no, they are choosing to use abuse. uh toward uh another person. And so that's something of responsibility and something that requires transformation. So let's think about the effects of abuse. While the terms emotional and spiritual abuse can describe genuine, evil, and real experiences. These are better thought of as effects of abuse listed above rather than distinct categories of abuse for four primary reasons. First, since each individual is impacted differently by their own experiences, the labels of spiritual and emotional abuse are inconsistent ways to measure abuse. We talked about that earlier. Identifying objective acts of abuse enables more precise ministry of the word to individuals in order to help them respond to those sinful acts in faith. Second, people may experience deeply abusive behavior without displaying severe emotional or spiritual distress. Likewise, people experience emotional and spiritual distress when intentional and severe harm has been done to them. But some may experience similar distress when there has been little to no harm Therefore, measuring abuse by the effects of distress is an inconsistent threshold. Now, if you can forgive the silliness of this example, if you have kids, especially little kids, But you know that sometimes you spank a child and they act like you just brought the greatest harm in their life, right? They scream, they cry, they they writhe in pain You know, like I just slapped your hand. So that's just a simple example that sometimes a person Whether because they're trying to manipulate a situation or just whatever's going on in their soul, they experience something in a way that is much more significant than what the act actually was in itself. And so we don't want to use a person's experience, their emotions, how their thinking has been changed, as the guide or the measure of what actually happened in the situation. Third, emotional distress is a normal response to abuse and should not be viewed categorically as pathological. Distress and sorrow can be godly responses to suffering and being sinned against, which mirror God's posture towards sin. These emotions should be expressed through lament before God rather than losing hope or considering those emotions as the problem itself. And then fourth, abuse certainly influences the inner man of the abused, but abuse does not keep one from being obedient to God and joyful through the power of the Holy Spirit and His Word Labeling emotional and spiritual symptoms as abuse rather than the effects of abuse concedes power to the abuser and dismisses the responsibility of the abused for their beliefs thoughts and emotions before God. An abuser can control the body, what one hears, resources. and may attempt to deceive through twisting thoughts and beliefs, but he or she cannot control the responses and emotions of the victim. One important way to remove the harmful or demeaning manipulative control of the abuser over the victim is to restore the victim's freedom of the conscience before God. Acknowledging the moral responsibility of the victim before God restores human dignity. And then so this is a final word here to those who would be counseling those experiencing abuse. Along with the emotional and spiritual symptoms of abuse, biblical counselors must be ready to address physiological symptoms. which may include anxiety attacks, post-partum stress uh post-traumatic stress, sorry, uh restless sleep and more. These effects have a connection to and are perpetuated by the inner man of the abused Emotional, spiritual, and physiological problems can potentially point counselors to an abusive situation, but they are best considered symptoms as opposed to distinct categories of abuse. Counselors must use discernment. Uh sorry. I must use discernment because these symptoms may or may not be related directly to abuse. Okay. So this is the the framework. And uh again we need to hear this not as a hard, fixed line, clear definition, but as a framework, knowing that the destructive power of sin The heart of man is able to produce incredible acts of evil and sin toward others And also those who are on the receiving end of sin and evil have the responsibility before the Lord to maintain a right heart and right mind, right? We we are each driven by our heart, we are controlled by our heart, and so what we think what we value, what we prioritize, what our commitments are, we are responsible for those things. Nobody, no human person can reach into our heart and change our thinking. Nobody can reach into our heart and say, no, don't value you can't value that thing. Now you value this thing. Now people can speak to us and they can act toward us in ways that We receive and then we do respond by changing our thinking and changing our values, changing our will. But that's on us And granted, because of the reality of the fact that none of us are glorified, we're all sinners, we're sufferers. Uh I mean manipulation is a thing because it works, right? It does have the effect when a person is is weak when they've been uh worn down over lengthy periods of time on uh in receiving abuse, uh it does have effects on people. And so we we want to um have incredible compassion and patience. And you know, it's it's not, I know he abused you, but you know, you shouldn't think this way. No, we We come alongside and we walk with love and gentleness to minister to those who are who have been so pained and hurt and affected by abuse. But uh even still, uh just as that person, just as the the the person who uses abuse can't themselves change our heart By God's grace we can learn to think rightly and respond in a godly way to the sin that's committed against us. So uh what what thoughts or questions does does all of that raise just in terms of thinking about what constitutes abuse and the effects of abuse? Yes, go ahead. So I'm actually really thankful for this handout, which is one of the places it that I've been struggling with is this concept that's even in the class notes for say on the chart where when there's no hope of reconciliation restoration that's when divorce is supposed to be allowed. This speaks to the fact that the you know we can't necessarily go by the emotions that are involved as Even it might be symptoms of abuse, but it's not the actual itself. I'm not even sure how to ask it Who are we to judge when hope is lost? Yeah. Because we serve a God who is so much bigger than any situation. I know we all have situations that we're thinking of in our minds where we've seen I mean you've got one directly, right? See how bad things can be and how interesting things and yes there's hope. Even so, because while there's still breath, yeah, things can be restored. So that's I think that's one of the biggest places I struggle is who are displaying just around the corner. Yeah. Yeah, and that's one of the great challenges with this situation is I totally agree. In Christ, because of the power of Christ, no sinner is too far to save. Christ's arm is never too short to save And there there in that sense there is always hope. But at the same time, uh in in the I think in the wisdom and the kindness and the mercy of God uh he uh gives permission that if and how he works in a person's life who has been on the receiving end of abuse Uh if they uh uh forgive me if this sounds squishy, but if they feel like I I just I can't take this anymore. God says, you know what, that your spouse has already forsaken the marriage, and I free you. You are freeing Christ. And um there are there are so many situations, and we've already acknowledged it, where a person is on the receiving end of abuse, and I know many of us who have counseled here at the church. I have experienced this and we as we're hearing the testimony and the experience of the person who's received abuse, we're thinking, like, what in the world? You need to get out of there. Why are you staying? Uh and we you know we don't say you must leave, but but you know in our mind we're we're thinking how is this person being sustained as they're staying in the home with somebody who is whether it's physical, whether it's uh verbal, you know, whatever kind of abuse. And yet God can give a person the grace to endure in incredible suffering. and fortify them in their soul. But he, for whatever purposes, he doesn't do that for everybody. Some are so broken down. that uh I think that gives them the freedom uh to choose to move on. And so uh it you know the um As we incorporate the rest of scripture and we're thinking through these things, it's not just on the the responsibility is not just on the person themselves who's on the receiving end of abuse. to make the determination in their own heart, you know, without any consultation, without any counsel, without any outside wisdom. But rather uh using the resources that God gives us, not only in His Word, But in the church, potentially civil government, which by the way, most abuse is perfectly legal in the sense that it's not technically illegal So most of the time when a person is experiencing abuse of various forms, it's not something you can actually file a police report for. But sometimes obviously it is. So whatever the situation is, at the very least, for a believer, we are to use the resources God gives, his word, and especially his people, those who who are there in our lives to shepherd us. To help us think through these things and to assess, is this a situation that I should stay in or that I can leave and flee from And so that this requires shepherding in that situation because there's no uh you know universal uh standard for that works for everybody Uh every situation has its unique components because there's two unique people, two souls that uh need to think through uh everything that's taking place. And what, as Alan has uh repeatedly said Asking the question, what would glorify God the most? And some, again, are just given the grace by God to say, you know what? I think I can endure. I think I can stay. I don't feel the need to leave. And others, again, for Whatever purposes, the Lord doesn't give that grace, and yet He does give them the permission to leave. So yeah, no. Just to build on that. I would think and I would I would hope that in a Christian home or at least we're um The the abuse files were presumably a views files to the Christian. First thought would not be should I divorce? Right. The first thought would be can I just help? Yeah. And part of the help for certainly the the the church member is the church discipline process. And that if there's sin there that needs to be addressed then um without any thought about divorce or you know long term just can can I get help to and can my spouse and and we together get help. And that process is likely to be fairly prolonged. just to get all factor and you know the responsive like clear and some um And then if at some point it's very clear what what the sin is and that there's no repentance. Um that church discipline process would result in actually removing the um center. And that puts us in a whole different situation Which is very similar to the expass we call. So I'm still struggling with a step back from that where you say that the sitting spouse demonstrates that he's forsaken the marriage covenant. Can you explain again to me how you take the too clear, you know, if there was cornea where they're allowed to divorce and where an unbelieving spouse leaves and they're allowed to divorce How how you're getting that you can just summarize that into a forsaking of the marriage covenant flat out however you want to describe that is a reason for the Like I'm still struggling, like I don't see the first staking of the marriage covenant as the reason. So divor of uh abuse falls into a different category. It's not one of those things listed. You're summarizing something else and then putting that in there since you summarized it. So where are you getting the summary of Just explained again how forsaking the marriage covenant is a reason. Where does it say that? So um I think the best way well I don't know if it's the best, but um the way I'll try to uh address that is We see in the Old Testament the pattern of Israel's relationship with God and how Israel through repeated violations of the covenant that they had with God, that God had with them, uh that God ultimately said, okay, even though he had been patient, many times he had forgiven, but ultimately he finally said, That's it. You have violated the covenant so much that I am divorcing you. And he uses that exact language. And he's not saying, I'm choosing to break the covenant now. He's saying you've already broken the covenant. I'm just choosing no longer to endure and remain in this covenant with you because it was a conditional covenant It was a covenant conditioned on Israel's obedience to the law. We see that in Deuteronomy chapter 28 And so that being a pattern of how the Lord treated Israel uh then I think uh makes sense of the instructions of Jesus when he says, hey, if your spouse, because of the way in which the sexual relationship uniquely separates marriage from every other type of relationship you can have. Uh it's not the only thing, of course, but it's it's the one of the exclusive uh or ought to be, by God's design, uh dynamics of a marriage. If that has been is broken, violated uh you know torn up to shreds and uh you know i I no longer consider uh that, you know, us to be of of one flesh. Um then The spouse that has been sinned against is simply acknowledging what the other spouse has done. And same with uh other forms of behavior where, again, it's not simply that a spouse has sinned, that they've committed some sin, but they've done something wrong, that they've brought some particular harm to their spouse, but that there's been a pattern, a consistent heart manifested in actions and words where they say, uh, I don't want you to be my spouse. I want you to be my slave. I want you to be my object of pleasure. I want you to be something other than my spouse. I want to control you. I want I want to treat you however I want because of my sinful intent. When the sinning spouse communicates that again through words and actions on a repeated basis, they have said, I don't want marriage. I don't want to be your husband. I don't want to be your wife. And so the person on the receiving end of that is simply saying, okay, if you don't want that, I won't force you to be. And by God's mercy, he's releasing me from being your slave. uh and being under your control. So no, there's not an explicit uh statement that I that it sounds like what you're looking for, but I think there's the the heart of God, yes in the original design, but recognizing how sin has broken that design in many situations such that God does not force a spouse that is being uh controlled and violated and harmed to remain under that condition And I I guess the most explicit statement we can look to is simply that 1 Corinthians 7. 15. Where again there's that active passive if your unbelieving spouse actively leaves, and we we should not I know we hear that and we think physical departure But as Pastor Allen noted last time, that's not exclusively what it means. It's not used exclusively in physical geographical terms. Uh the at the heart of it, it's if they've left the covenant of marriage, uh then you as the one who has been left are simply to let let them leave uh in that passive sense. And even though divorce legally may require an active step You know, say well for example, uh I'm in church of a woman many years ago when we lived in California, who was uh Russian, and when she lived in Russia, her her husband literally walked out the door never to be seen again. And if we were to, well, let me put it this way, I don't think the scripture would say, oh She's just, that's it. She's just married to this non-existent man, even though you know no way to contact him, no way to hear from him Uh I don't think the what God has revealed would lead to that conclusion as an application of of wisdom. And so um She took you know steps to file for divorce and because he was a wall, you know, had to do that alone, uh, couldn't get a signature or anything Um but then she had the from my understanding of scripture a freedom to get remarried to a believer and by God's grace she did. How would you apply Hosai's example to that? So uh that's where there are situations where obviously there God is intentionally calling Hosea to that uh approach to his marriage. Because God has a purpose. He wants to use Hosea as an illustration. But even ultimately, as we know, God ultimately does divorce Israel But at least in that period of time, the Lord was trying to communicate to Israel, hey, though you sin, I'm still going to keep coming back to you, and I'm still going to be bringing you back to myself. And that that is an illustration of a point the Lord was trying to communicate at a particular period of time for Israel, not a pattern that's binding on all people. Uh everywhere. Yeah. With that, yeah, that was actually my question I asked. How can we then say that the example of God divorcing Israel isn't what you just said about Phasea where it was for a specific time for Israel award. So here's where I would connect those two things. I I think both of those provide a an example of how God works differently in different situations. And so, I mean I I have situations in my mind right now of uh the kind of situation where uh where like Hosea the the person who has sinned against the spouse who has sinned against besides, not because they heard a voice from God, but despite because of their own heart commitment, they decide, I'm gonna stay, I'm gonna remain. My spouse has even left physically They've separated, you know, they're doing their own thing, but I'm gonna stay committed to my marriage, even if they don't. And God gives them the grace to endure. Uh and and then there's others who experience, you know, s a sin of their spouse that's broken the covenant of marriage And um they choose not to. And uh after you know a period of time. And in our council, as as we minister to people And this is in the notes, so uh given the time we're not gonna uh cover this in order, but we're basically covering all of this, or at least most of this, um uh in what we're saying here. A divorce is never the first thing. It's often, I think Alan mentioned this, it's often the first thing people think about. But because of the nature of divorce, you know, it's a legal process, depending on the situation, it can become very complicated. If there's active abuse, divorce itself doesn't actually provide protection. Uh y you can, if needed, get a protective order without getting a divorce, if if there's potential harm that's that needs to be protected from. So I think God's treatment of Israel and Hosea and God's calling on Hosea are two examples of there are some situations where after it's clear that this person does not want to be married to me The Lord says, you know what, I'm going to release you from that. And then there's other situations where the Lord puts it on the heart of a person to stay and continue to call that person back. And there's no definitive everybody has to stay no matter what. Lauren. Sorry to give out Isaiah. But in Luke 4, 25 when he said This fucking about how Elijah, there were like many ways if it's remotely drought and famine that was that was shadowing but Elijah's only sent to the one. There were many lepers but only like you heal. Is that also fine with that with link to the situation of there are some marriages, some situations where there will be healing and restoration, and there are some where there won't based on divine providence. So it's It's it's like yes, there are examples like for Jose. Jose was commanded by God to take those the Lord the harlot back and to have children with her. But then there's also marriages where prayer and and and repentance and reconciliation is is just not in in Yeah. Yeah, I think there's just not sufficient clarity to say that in every case this is how God wants the sinned, the person sinned against to respond. We just have these different wisdom principles and uh again with counsel thinking through the different uh aspects working through one's own heart and how their experience has affected them. Uh Again, with Council One can really think through what is the best path for and how can I glorify God in this, Daniel? I want to jump back just a little bit from before we were discussing today. Is it correct summarizes what you're saying in that? The marriage covenant is broken in case of a thornic. We see that in the teaching of Christ. And you're saying that also the unbelief of Israel shows us an example of how something that is not necessarily explicitly sexual It's also inflatable in that same idea where we see with Israel's unbelief, their idolatry is equated with adultery. Correct? Yeah. So so we're taking that principle up the One that was an unbeliever now being yoked unequally. Right? That is equated with adultery and is thus a permissible reason for is that fair stuffery Uh I don't know that I had put it that way, but as you're explaining it, I think that there's uh there's a um That's a helpful way to articulate what even is in the notes in terms of, hey, there are these two things, cornea and unbelieving spouse leaving. But they are ultimately one thing, and that is the fortaking of the covenant. So what you're expressing is that same principle, Al. Just building on that again, um When a Strauss commits cornea, it's that's really clear Taking all the biblical um instruction and wisdom that we have, our counsel to a uh a the s spouse who's sinned against in that is Work on that relationship, seek reconciliation. The cornea itself ought not to say, oh well, no, I'm free. But there's a process there where They're intentionally working on the relationship, seeking to discern is this a momentary lapse of good judgment, or is it deeper than that? Are there other uh evidences in this person's life that it's it's now more of a habit or more of a um And what are you getting at is where is that person's heart? And if that person's heart is I'm giving myself over to this That's to the exclusion of my heart to my original heart, to my marriage coven. And um that takes time. And it takes time because we're probing the heart. Not only to discern it, but also to see if we can minister to it. And if the person is repentant and forsaking that sin then the Christian has no business for say for divorcing them, even though technically they have a legal biblical basis for it. But taking all scripture into account, they don't because they need to be working on that relationship and healing that broken uh heart that the sinful spouse has. And the same is true with with um leaving You know, some a spouse could storm out the door in a in the heat of an argument or something like that. And we might interpret that as leaving, but where's the heart really? Is that a momentary uh reaction or is it something more fundamentally going on in the heart that that's ingrained and demonstrating outwardly what's happening inwardly in the heart as opposed to human marriage Yeah. Margo. Instead of notes in Red Oak Cover. Um can we talk a little bit about Kelly so that we give particularly women in another men who are abused by their wives does work that way so but cases where I have counseled women who've been basically If you I mean obviously I'm talking drag by fear cross or things like that. Um does counsel to give them about putting themselves in speech spot. It doesn't mean that they need to maybe they do, maybe don't. Um they don't necessarily want to and they don't necessarily have to never counsel somebody to do that. But I have counseled them to put the Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so obviously, you know, abuse is a huge topic in terms of how do we minister to both sides. But um uh just to quickly uh address that, um Proverbs says the prudent sees danger and hides himself. The Lord doesn't command somebody who's being physically attacked, whatever form that physical attack might be. to just continue to uh put themselves in that position. There there is wisdom in seeking safety and we see the example of that, you know, through Paul uh leaving uh cities where he was g being persecuted, David of course fleeing from Saul. Well we that that's just a broad principle. And so uh the the reality of a marriage covenant does not um undo or cut off that reality. And so uh the the the wisdom through you know many people who have worked in these situations is not you must leave, telling somebody you must leave. But hey, I would really encourage you to consider that you, you know, you might consider um fleeing to safety if that is something that that you're facing if there's danger there, or being prepared to to leave, uh even if temporarily for the sake of safety. Uh that's a much larger discussion of, you know, what are the practical steps to do that, but Uh you know, it's certainly good to be clear about that, that separation, whether it's for a day, whether it's for months, whatever it is, but even as it says here in the notes, is separation an option? The purpose of separation is first of all safety. But also, hey, let's give this, let's kind of lower the temperature and give an opportunity for care to be brought to both parties. uh if if both are open to it. So uh yeah absolutely um you know the heart of God for the oppressed is for their care not for their destruction. Scott So in in the case of Cormia and an unbelieving spouse, it's fairly objective. And when we start introducing other things, it becomes a little bit more subjective. How do we avoid the slippery slope? I I think your language you use in the notes are is carefully crafted, and I appreciate that. But yeah, what are the guardrails that we put in place to avoid that slippery slope wherever divorce being? Yeah yeah. Well again that's where I think the the counsel of the word and and the people of God, you know, often through either a counselor or a a shepherd is essential that as as we're seeking to see what is the heart of the person, both the person who's been sinned against and the person who's committed the sin, what what is the heart that's driving this situation? Uh with the always with the mindset of God's standard, of God's design. That's what we always want to aim for. That's what brings God most glory. But again, because of the realities of sin, we recognize our that there's uh potential for freedom from uh an oppressive marriage. So the only guard is to always keep in mind the highest of the highest level of God's design but recognizing uh God's part for the oppressed. And that that's okay. That God is merciful. And again, under no circumstance does the Bible say you must divorce. So we never want to tell somebody, hey, you've endured all this, you know, I I think you need to get divorced now. That should never be our counsel. We can we can always counsel. In fact, there's somebody that I've ministered to who whose spouse left them for several years. And you know, they were committed, the the one who was sinned against was committed to being faithful on their side, even though their spouse had already physically departed. And even in the midst of their commitment, they still struggle because all of their attempts at reconciliation failed. Uh and yet um after several years uh the the spouse came back. And I mean there's there's so many examples we could give of restoration, of incredible uh stories of grace. But um I don't think the word uh would tell us uh that a person who is being so oppressed and harmed and violated needs to stay with uh potential hope. And you know, going back to what I said about divorce being a judgment, it's a judgment against the person who has sinned. Hey, if you're gonna treat your spouse this way You can't do that without consequence. Now, obviously everybody will face judgment in the end, but the Lord doesn't command that everybody stay in that. All right, we're over time. Thank you for the conversation. So again, just want to encourage you to remember that these are difficult things. We want to remember the heart of God toward sufferers and sinners. And We don't want to take these principles and say, here are the hard lines that apply in every situation. We want to discern in every situation the individuals, the heart. that is there and seek to minister wisely. So apart from fleeing for safety There's no reason to go fast with any process of counsel. We always want to go slow in ministering. Because even if there's apparent Repentance. In fact, let me just end with that last, very last statement, number five under E. There are some situations where even if there is apparent repentance, The nature and extent of the abuse may require an extended separation and divorce may be permitted. We don't have time to go into, but there are there are situations where the sin that has been committed has been so egregious that even if the person says they've repented That the violet has been so broken and that the relationship cannot continue. So We want to be compassionate. We want to be gracious. We want to be careful to minister with the heart of God and not with a mind of kind of a a law-based orientation. All right, let's pray. Father, thank you for these things. Do you have given us wisdom, incredible wisdom from your word. And in addition to the direct statements that pertain to these things, you've revealed your heart throughout all of Scripture And you've given us your spirit and your word to help us think through the complexities of life and how sin can so uh bring destruction that um that that we need to wrestle with how to apply your word Uh uh thank you for the wisdom from above that you grant us in our time of need and help us to grow in clarity and compassion. So that both in our own lives and in our opportunities to minister to others, that we would uh e exhibit the the grace of Christ uh in the face of egregious sin. In Christ's name I pray. Amen.