Alright, so we are on page 26, lesson number four, God's relationship with his people. I didn't turn it on, this is one number. It is recording, yeah. It is recording. Yeah. Let me pray and we'll dive in. Father, thank you for this morning. Thank you that we can gather together once again as your people to look at your word and consider what you have revealed to us. Uh and especially this morning as we think about your relationship with your people and how that serves as a model for us. An example of how you think about uh relationships such as marriage. Give us wisdom from your word. Help us to uh um understand what you have revealed and the implications that that has for our most intimate relationships and even prepare us to celebrate your goodness uh because of what you have done in bringing us to yourself as your bride. Okay, so in the course of thinking about marriage and ultimately divorce and remarriage, one of the things that is kind of a foundational issue that It doesn't really get talked about too much is how God's relationship with His people, both Israel and the Church, plays a very significant role in our understanding. We think about marriage, divorce, and remarriage, we kind of narrow our focus to those particular passages like Matthew 5. Matthew nineteen, Mark ten, uh and so on, first Corinthians seven, that you very explicitly address uh the issue of marriage and and divorce. And when we think about God's relationship with his people, we certainly think about Ephesians chapter five, verses twenty-five and following, where uh Paul talks about the role of the husband to be uh following after the example of Christ and how Paul reveals there that it's Christ's relationship with his church, which is the ultimate model, the ultimate blueprint, uh off of which marriage itself was designed. But there's more that we can say uh uh about uh that relationship between Christ and his church and and even broader than that Christ and his people that helps us think about marriage. In fact, even this week uh I heard uh somebody say in a conversation uh or repeat the the well-known phrase God hates divorce Right? God hates divorce. Anybody know where that comes from, off the top of your head? Malachi three sixteen. Malachi three sixteen. Not John three sixteen, Malachi three sixteen. Uh interestingly there's actually a translation issue, not a not a text issue, but a translation issue where it probably doesn't say that at all. But that's where the King James and New King James and some other translations will include the phrase God hates divorce. And that's this kind of a well-known phrase that's been kind of baked into the consciousness of of believers that God hates divorce. And some people take that to mean, well, if God hates divorce, then that means that there's no biblical basis by which anybody should ever get divorced. And that's just a you know aside from the translation issue, that's that's a logical leap that uh is far beyond what the scripture teaches. Because, as we'll see today, God Himself, we could say, is divorced. Uh and so it's really helpful for us to think about uh God's relationship with his people uh and some of the implications that that that has for marriage divorce. and remarried. So that's that's kind of the overall theme that we're gonna be working through today. Now when you think about the uh God's relationship with his people, God engaged and interacted with his people, both his creation in Uh in general, in total, and his chosen people by means of covenants, right? We have what's the first covenant uh that we find in scripture explicitly? The Noaic covenant, right? Uh some would say that there's an Adamic covenant, but that's an implicit at best uh covenant uh in Genesis. But the first explicit covenant is the Noaic covenant. covenant whereby God promises never to destroy the earth and um and and you know so on. So there's the Noai Covenant that's a universal, unilateral unconditional covenants, not based on whether or not humanity continues to obey God. He knows even after the flood that his uh creation, his uh the epitome of his creation, mankind made in his image, are still uh sinful to the core. And yet he makes this covenant, I will never destroy the world again by water. He will destroy it again by fire. But that's later on. After that is what covenant? The Abrahamic covenant, right? And that too is a unilateral unconditional covenant that God makes. He plucks Abraham out of his people and he makes this promise to him that through him Uh he will make nations and he will bless all people through Abraham. And it's not based on Abraham's obedience, it's not based on anything that Abraham does. It's simply the The purpose of God to use and work through Abraham to uh create for himself a chosen people and through those people to bless the nations. What's the covenant after that? The Mosaic Covenant. And the Mosaic Covenant is where we first encounter a conditional covenant So that's where we want to start this morning. The Mosaic Covenant, as it says here in the notes, that God made with Israel was conditional With faithfulness resulting in blessings from God, and unfaithfulness resulting in God's curses. We won't take the time to read Deuteronomy chapter 28, but if you've gotten there in your Bible. Bible reading plan, you know that after working through the repetition of the law in Deuteronomy, God reiterates all of the curses that will come upon his people if they do not obey. And all of the blessings that will come upon them if they do obey. And that's what just screams this is a conditional covenant That the outcome, the result of what happens is dependent on whether or not the people obey or disobey. Uh and that's unlike the previous covenants. In Exodus twenty-four is where we really see you can turn there in your Bibles if you don't have the notes, uh where we see the language of God establishing the covenant and the people responding by saying, yes, we will uh do all the words of this law. Exodus chapter 34, starting in not 34, 24. Exodus 24 Starting in verse 3. It says, then Moses came and recounted to all the people all the words of the Lord and all the ordinances And all the people answered with one voice and said, All the words which the Lord has spoken we will do Moses wrote down all the words of the Lord, then he arose early in the morning and built an altar at the foot of the mountain with twelve pillars for the twelve tribes of Israel. He sent young men of the sons of Israel, and they offered burnt offerings and sacrificed young bulls as peace offerings to the Lord. Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and the other half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar. Then verse 7. Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people, and they said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do And we will be obedient. So Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people, and said, Behold, the blood of the covenant, which the Lord has made with you in accordance with all the Lord. these words. Now it's hard for us to fully imagine, but gets get the get this picture in your mind. Here's Moses with a mass, you know, over a million people standing in front of him He reads the book of the covenant that the Lord has given him. And this is Exodus twenty four. So this is kinda a shortened version 'cause not all of the the law had been given to Moses yet, but uh at least the initial, you know, covenant of the uh Ten Commandments in Exodus twenty plus other laws. So Moses gives these laws to this massive people, and all the people are crying out, yes, what the Lord has spoken, this we will do And so with the sacrifices, Moses takes a bowl, I don't know how big it was, but probably a large bowl of blood, and it says here that he sprinkled it on the people. Now, obviously he can't go to every individual in the nation and kinda sprinkle them individually. The the the language, the idea here is kinda like he took this bowl and he threw it not not through the bowl bull But through the blood, and some people got a whole lot of blood on them, and other people just got a little and many other people none at all. But it's a powerful visual demonstration of you are binding yourself, the people were to the Lord, agreeing to submit and obey the covenant that the Lord has made with them. So that was the the making of the covenant and it has similarities, not exactly the same of course, but it has similarities to the covenant that the Lord made with Abraham, right? Where Abraham basically was put to sleep by the Lord. And the Lord, uh or sorry, Abraham had prepared the sacrifices and the the animals that were cut in two, and the Lord by himself walked through uh the the pieces or what walked between the pieces. Uh that that's what made that unilateral that only the Lord was involved in the actual uh walking through the pieces. Here the people are involved in uh experiencing the the blood of the sacrifice. And so that's that's the that's the ratification, if you will, of the covenant between the Lord and the people. Deuteronomy chapter five later on after the people have made their way through the wilderness, they're now standing at the doorway of the promised land Moses says, Go near and hear all that the Lord our God says. Sorry, no, this is the people speaking to the Lord, and then speak to us all that the Lord our God speaks to you, and we will hear and do it. So this is now the second generation. Basically saying to Moses, hey, we we are binding ourselves to the covenant that our parents agreed to. And so all of that is to say that the covenant that the Lord made with his people The Mosaic Covenant was a conditional covenant that they agreed to. And in that sense, that's very similar to the covenant of marriage, where two parties agree together The second point there in the notes then is that God characterizes unfaithfulness as forsaking the covenant. So the covenant was established by people saying, We will do everything the Lord tells us to do And then when the people disobeyed, when they rebelled against the Lord, the Lord considered that forsaking the covenant. In Deuteronomy 29, uh this is kind of future uh looking and um the Lord anticipating what may happen or what will happen when the people disobey. It says in verse 24 of Deuteronomy 29, All the nations will say, Why has the Lord done thus to the land? Why this great outburst of anger? Then men will say, Because they forsook the covenant of the Lord the God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt. And that language, that terminology is used all throughout the Old Testament as a as a way of describing what was happening when the people were rebellious. against the Lord. It's not just that they were disobeying. It's not just that they were violators of the law. It's that they were forsaking the covenant that they had made. So that's kind of the fundamental nature of God's relationship with Israel, His people, Israel. It was a covenant relationship. Where disobedience to what they had committed to do, obey all the words of the Lord, was a way of breaking the covenant, forsaking the covenant. Now in other passages, particularly in the prophets, the Lord repeatedly describes this Covenantal relationship with his people Israel as a marriage. The first place we see that is Jeremiah chapter 2. In Jeremiah chapter 2, starting in verse 1, it says, Now the word of the Lord came to me saying, Go and proclaim in the ears of Jerusalem. Saying, Thus says the Lord, I remember concerning you the devotion of your youth, the love of your betrothals You're following after me in the wilderness through a land not sown. Israel was holy to the Lord, the first of his first uh the first of his harvest. All who ate of it became guilty Evil came upon them, declares the Lord. The key word there is betrothals. You see that in the molded uh line if you have the the notes. He refers to their relationship as a betrothal And then in Jeremiah 31, the Lord says, Behold, the days are coming when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the house. out of the land of Egypt, my covenant which they broke, although I was a husband to them. So there clearly is the language of marriage that the Lord says, I was a husband to my people Israel and he's describing that very covenant which was established in uh the law of Moses. But perhaps the most uh picturesque uh passage would be Ezekiel sixteen. If you have a Bible, I'd I'd encourage you to turn to Ezekiel sixteen just so you can It's it's metaphorical language to be The literal aspect is what we read in Exodus and what you can read in many other places in the law of Moses. But in Ezekiel 16, what you What you start to see is how God thought about his relationship with his people as a relationship of marriage, as a re relationship of love and affection, not just a a relationship between a God and his creation, not just a relationship between a king and his people, not just a relationship between a lord and his slaves, but a relationship of a husband and a wife, uh which uh elevates the uh the significance of that relationship. Just follow along here in Ezekiel 16, starting in verse 1 It says, Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Son of man, make known to Jerusalem her abominations, and say, Thus says the Lord God to Jerusalem Your origin and your birth are from the land of the Canaanite. Your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite As for your birth, on the day you were born your navel cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water for cleansing You were not rubbed with salt or even wrapped in clobs. No eye looked with pity on you to do any of these things for you, to have compassion on you Rather, you were thrown out into the open field, for you were abhorred on the day That you were born. When I passed by you and saw you squirming in your blood, I said to you, while you were in your blood, live. I said to you, while you were in your blood, live. Let me just pause there to say all all of that, the Lord is again using um very vivid metaphorical language to describe the fact that when he chose them uh They were not a fully developed nation. There was just this one man, Abraham, right? And there was nothing about Abraham that was desirable. God didn't choose Abraham because he was the smartest and the best and the most faithful of all the people of the earth Now he chose Abraham simply because he decided to choose Abraham by his own choosing. There was nothing attractive in Abraham. That's what that vivid language is intending to convey. So then it goes on in verse seven, I made you la uh numerous like plants of the field. Then you grew up Became tall and reached the age for fine ornaments. Your breasts were formed and your hair had grown. Yet you were naked and bare. Then I passed by you and saw you, and behold, you were at the time for love. So I spread my skirt over you and covered your nakedness. I also swore to you and entered into covenant with you so that you became mine, declares the Lord God. Then I bathed you with water and washed off your blood from you and anointed you with oil. Also clothed you with embroidered cloth and put sandals of porpoise skin on your feet And I wrapped you with fine linen and covered you with silk, I adorned you with ornaments, put bracelets on your hands and a necklace around your neck. I also put a ring in your nostril, earrings in your ears, and a beautiful crown on your head Thus you were adorned with gold as with silver and with silver and your dress was of fine linen, silk and embroidered cloth. You ate fine flour, honey, and oil So you were exceedingly beautiful and advanced to royalty. Then your time went forth among the nations on account of your beauty. Sorry, then your fame I should just zoom in. Then your fame went forth among the nations on account of your beauty, for it was Perfect because of my splendor which I bestowed on you, declares the Lord God. So again, vivid metaphorical language, just to say he's describing there the Mosaic Covenant, how he blessed them, how he cared for them. how he provided for them, how he shaped them and and established them as the kind of nation that would be attractive to the world, right? And that's ultimately what happened most vividly in Solomon's reign. That they were the the the wonder of the world, that people would stream from the nations to see what kind of nation this was and what kind of wisdom ruled them as a people and what kind of prosperity they had That's that's what God did when he blessed the people and he considered them his wife. We won't read any further from Ezekiel sixteen at this point, but Uh if you're familiar with that chapter, from there he turns to describe their unfaithfulness as acts of adultery, of sexual immorality So their idolatry, their going after false gods, forsaking the covenant that the Lord had established with them was an act of uh idolatry which the Lord referred to as adultery. And as a result of their unfaithfulness, uh after you know many repeated cycles of that unfaithfulness, not just one But many, many times, finally the Lord said, I've had enough. I've given you so many opportunities. I've drawn you back to myself. I've forgiven you so many times, and yet you keep going after these lovers. And so he issued a certificate of divorce. The next point is that God divorced Israel due to her harlotry. She forsake forsook Yahweh and went after other gods. Isaiah 50 verse 1 uses that language of divorce. Thus says the Lord to Judah, where is the certificate of divorce by which I sent your mother Israel away? Or to whom of my creditors did I sell you, Judah? Behold, you were sold for your iniquities, and for your transgressions your mother was sent away. Now did the Lord actually put together a certificate of divorce, you know, sign it and hand it to Israel? No, not exactly. This is again metaphorical language where the Lord is saying, Hey, I promise you way back in Deuteronomy twenty eight and twenty-nine that if you rebelled against me, if you forsook the covenant that we made together, this is what I would do. I would basically send you away to the nations. I would have nothing more to do with you. And that is what he's describing here as a certificate of divorce, which the people understood that that's how you Divorce. You uh the the man writes a certificate of divorce, heads it to his wife, and sends her away. In Jeremiah chapter three, verses six and ten It says, Then the Lord said to me in the days of Josiah the king, Have you seen what faithless Israel did? So Josiah was the king of Judah in the south. He says, Have you seen what faithless Israel did? She went up on every high hill and every green tree, and she was a harlot there. I thought after she has done all these things she will return to me But she did not return. And her s treacherous sister Judah saw it. And I saw that for all the adulteries of faithless Israel I had sent her away and given her a writ or certificate of divorce. Yet her treacherous sister did not fear, but she went and was a heart harlot also. Because of the lightness of her harlotry she polluted the land and committed adultery with stones and trees Yet in spite of all this her treacherous sister Judah did not return to me with all her heart, but rather in deception. So the Lord is is uh describing the distinction between Israel and Judah. Israel was The nation that was far worse, right? They were the ten tribes in the north. They were the ones that just kept going after false gods. Uh they worshipped uh on the high hills, they worshipped uh created things rather than the creator. There was, to my recollection, not a single good king in the north throughout uh the history of the northern tribes. And so the Lord divorced them. He sent them away through Assyria. Right? They were exiled. Judah, he he makes a distinction. He didn't say he didn't say here that he divorced Judah. But rather that he sent her away. So she was taken away through Babylon, uh, into exile. But the distinction is that the Lord kept making promises to Judah of restoration so that it was not a final divorce that was issued to Judah. But basically he's saying there that Judah was looking at what Israel was doing. They were looking at how the Lord judged Israel and yet they s they still did the same things themselves. And then of course there's Hosea, the prophet whom the Lord used to illustrate his relationship with his people, by telling Hosea to go marry a prostitute, and even though she would be unfaithful to him, to keep going after her and bring her back and go after her and bring her back. Back. And so in Hosea chapter two, verses one to thirteen it says, Say to your brothers, Ami, which is the uh a word that means my people, and to your sisters, read the people. Ruama, which means she has obtained compassion. Contend with your mother, contend, for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband And let her put away her harlotry from her face, and her adultery from be between her breasts, or I will strip her naked and expose her as on the day when she was born I will also make her like a wilderness, make her like a desert land, and slay her with thirst. Also I will have no compassion on her children, because they are children of harlotry. For their mother was uh has played the harlot. She who conceived them has acted shamefully, for she said, I will go after my lovers who give me my bread, my water, my wool, and my flax, my oil and my drink. Therefore, behold, I will hedge up her way with thorns, and I will make I will build a wall against her so that she cannot find her paths. She will pursue her lovers, but she will not overtake them. She will seek them But will not find them. Then she will say, I will go back to my first husband, for it was better for me then than now. For she does not know that it was I who gave her the grain, the new wine, and the oil, and lavished on her silver and gold, which they used for Baal Therefore I will take back my grain in harvest time and my new wine in its season. I will also take away my wool and my flax given to cover her nakedness. And then I will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and no one will rescue her out of my hand. And I will put an end to all her gaiety. Her feasts, her new moons, her sabbath, and all her festival assemblies. And I will make them a forest and the beasts of the field will devour them. I will punish her for the days of the Baals when she used to offer sacrifices to them, and adorn herself with her earrings and jewelry, and follow her lovers. so that she forgot me, declares the Lord. Again, very vivid language uh that explicitly expresses the way in which God thinks about the uh idolatry of his people. Just as we would take this if it was an actual recounting of a man and a woman, their relationship the adultery that uh a wife carried out, going after her lovers, thinking that all of the blessings, all of the the jewelry, all of the provision that she was receiving was coming from her lovers when it was really coming from her husband and so she would keep going after her her lovers, even though it was her husband that was caring for her. That betrayal, that forsaking of the covenant is how God thinks uh about his people Israel And it's amazing that God uses that language and yet it was hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years of him enduring the unfaithfulness of his people. Again, often judging them but then ul ultimately bringing them back to himself but then repeating that cycle. And he was extraordinarily patient with them until finally He said, That's it. I've had enough. I divorced you. And so he exiled his people and sent them away. So God's relationship with his people is that it is a Covenant that was agreed upon by both parties, by the Lord and by the people. And God told them in advance, here's what's going to happen if you obey me, and here's what's going to happen if you disobey me Ultimately the people disobeyed and repeatedly went after the false gods and eventually the Lord fulfilled his promise and divorced Israel. So some notes there at the bottom of the page. Note that while God divorced Israel, the northern ten tribes, he merely sold Judah, the southern two tribes, into temporary Babylonian captivity. with David. So we mentioned the unconditional covenant, uh the Noahic covenant, the Abrahamic covenant. There's also the Davidic covenant, which of course the Lord made with David that he would establish David's throne forever Uh so that there would always be a king on his throne. And that covenant too was unconditional. It was not because of anything David did, it was in recognition the Lord in the Lord's mind. He knew what David would do, how he would, you know, sin against Bathsheba and Uriah and how he would uh caused so much destruction in the nation of Israel itself. Lord knew that David, even as a man after God's own heart, would ultimately be unfaithful to him in significant ways, and yet the Lord still established that covenant with him and and didn't say that it was based on his obedience or not. So that was an unconditional covenant, and on that basis, uh this is saying that that's Probably why the Lord didn't divorce Judah, but just sent them away temporarily, ultimately bringing them back. Even though it's true that many of the northern tribes would eventually come back there wasn't a formal return like there was with regard to the southern tribes. So that's the first note. Note also that God's use of divorce, rather than stoning Well then we'll