Let's go ahead and and open in prayer. Father, thank you for this day you've given us to worship you together, to uh be fed by your word. to encourage one another to rejoice in the salvation that you've given us. Pray that this hour we would uh spend profitably in your word. that you would use it to nourish us and encourage us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so we are on uh lesson nine in the notes. But before we begin, s uh since last week Pastor Gabe didn't have enough time to finish, I would I just just wanted to say that if you haven't read through the last section that he didn't cover, I would exhort you to read it. It's pretty self-explanatory. And the reason it's interesting is that while it's not covering new ground particularly Um it's unique in that um there are two passages that are recording the same event from two different perspectives, two different gospels. And y pretty much always when various commentators commentate comment on these passages, they don't recognize the fact that there are two passages of the same event. And that has implications for interpretation. And often those are overlooked. Anyway, read through that. I think it'll be a help to you. So we're on lesson nine Finally, we're into 1 Corinthians 7. It seems like we've already discussed this, right? Because these passages are so interrelated in their application and our understanding of what God is teaching us. But let's walk through the entirety of 1 Corinthians 7. And as you can see from the The overview um Paul somewhat methodically looks at um a sequence of of uh cases, if you will, categories of people, categories of situations. And so he starts out with general principles And then works through a sequence of specific issues. And here he's touching on Marriage, divorce, and remarriage, all three or are here together. But even in Paul's treatment of these He's not covering every possible situation, and so we need to learn from what he is saying to be able to complement with other passages in Scripture to have the big picture. So he begins with some general marriage principles. I'll go ahead and read this from the text on page 55 in the notes. if you're following. But it wouldn't hurt to have your copy of God's Word and open to 1 Corinthians 7. Now concerning the things about which you wrote. In other words, he's indicated here and I think even elsewhere in this epistle that much of what he's covering throughout the epistle is related to questions that they've risen, they've raised with him. And uh these in chapter seven are particularly in response to that. Um so concerning the things about which you wrote It is good for a man not to touch a woman, but because of the immoralities, each man is to have his own wife, and each woman is to have her own husband The husband must fulfill his duty to the wife, and likewise also the wife to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. And likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Stop depriving one another, except by agreement for a time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer. And come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. But this I say by way of concession not of command. Yet I wish that all men were even as I am myself. However, each man is to have uh each man has his own gift from God, one in this manner and another in that. So right from the very beginning it's clear that Paul in this chapter is mingling um good sound advice and opinion, sanctified opinion wisdom and yet he's also including as we'll find actual commands and he's got a mix of the two of these that we'll we'll notice back and forth here Mostly what he's saying here is by way of general principle and advice and so on. Yes. That's a good question. So um my version, the first source said, not what it matters you wrote about. It's it's good for a man not to marry. Um what version is that? NIV. NIV. What does ESV have? So the the idea is uh and the context of course is dealing with Um in the absence of marriage dealing with sexual temptation. Right? And so that's sort of the context of the gate. I mean what you read there in the I don't know if that's NAS or LSP, but uh not to touch a woman do the most literal translation. Yeah. So the NIV is just interpreting that as marriage. Yeah. This is NASB. So yeah. I think they're all in agreement. I mean the context is clear that he's speaking of In the absence of marriage, there would be a temptation, right, for immorality. And so because of a lack of self-control, he says, uh marriage is a good thing But if you have the gift of being able to be celibate, uh from Paul's perspective, that's good too. Right? Yes. Right. Right. Okay. So he's affirming that marriage is normal Um and if you're married then there are responsibilities and and um uh uh duties within marriage. Um but then also um some people Are actually gifted to be able to remain celibate and not be married. So that would not be the norm. It it's a special gift that God gives to some. And apparently that was the case with Paul. That's a good thing. Okay. So he's starting off just generally with the the marriage situation but then very quickly he gets into specific cases, specific categories of of people. And so in verses eight and nine he transitions to the unmarried and to uh widowed believers. And for the most part here, he's definitely addressing the church in Corinth, and so he's addressing believers And that's sort of presumed here throughout, unless he says so uh as an exception explicitly. But in verse 8 he says, But I say to the unmarried and to widows that it is good for them if they remain even as I am, which means what? Not married. But if they do not have self-control And this is reflecting back on the previous verses. If they do not have self-control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to hurt, or to burn, with passion. Now, um it's important to observe that Paul uses this term unmarried in a very specific way that's not necessarily what we would normally think of as uh unmarried. That term is used only four times in all the scripture And all of them are in this chapter by Paul. And uh where we see his thinking and his use of that term is uh how it's being used here. So in uh uh the four places by the way are are here in verse A little later in verse 11, and then verses 32 and 34. And so here, in verse 8, he distinguishes the unmarried from widows. Well that makes sense. Uh widows are those who were married but because of the death of the spouse they are not. But he's distinguishing them from the unmarried. Here. And then in verse thirty-four, he distinguishes the unmarried from virgins, people who have never been married, where he says, the woman who is unmarried and the virgin is concerned about the things of the Lord. That she may be holy, both in body and in spirit, but the one who is married Is concerned about the things of the world, how she may please her husband. So there's a distinction between the widow and the unmarried and the virgin and unmarried. So this unmarried person isn't just single the way we would think of single, because that would be the virgin as well, right? The only category left is someone who had been married. But isn't, and yet is not a widow. Which means what? Someone who had been married but is no longer married because of Divorce. Yeah. Uh yes, unmarried in the way we think of it, but more in the sense of unhitched rather than single and never married. That's how he's using the terms here. And it's clear that he's speaking of Christians. He's he's addressing the letter to Christians. And so the kind of scenario would be someone who is a Christian who was um divorced by her husband and it doesn't really specify the nature of the divorce here, it just says she's unmarried. Um and his his principle there is it's good for them to remain as I am that is not married. But if they do marry, it's okay. It's better to marry than to burn with passion. We'll come back to that. He doesn't give all the possible uh scenarios here, but the general principle is that there are categories of divorced people for whom it's okay to be married. And we can look at specific examples later. Yeah. Um the definition for that word unmarried at the same definition we should use in verse thirty two. Verse thirty two, yes. Yeah, all four yeah. Verse eight, verse thirty-four, verse thirty two. and verse 11. So in verse 32, that's on page 60 if you're tracking in the notes. But I want you to be free from concern. One who is unmarried is concerned about uh the things of the Lord. How he may pre-please the Lord, but one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife. And his interests are divided. The woman who is unmarried And the Virgin is concerned about the things of the Lord and so on. So it's using it the same way consistently throughout the chapter. So it so we're saying it's a vegetation unmarried woman cannot be a virgin. Right. That's how he's using the term. He's making the distinction. Yeah. That's the way he's using the term. Now would the principle apply? Yes it does. In fact he says so later on. that the virgin is better off remaining unmarried in his opinion. Forty isn't specifically dealing just with divorced people though, right? Yeah. But the idea is his his his general advice is if you're not married for whatever reason, uh there are advantages to remaining uh not married. Uh and he repeats that in various contexts here. Matt. The text is used in the notes. NASB. Okay. The New King James read significantly different. I think that's where I was confused at first. Okay. It doesn't um what does it say? It says there's a difference between a wife. and virgin. The unmarried woman carries about cares about the things of the Lord that she may be holy both in body and in spirit. But she who is married cares about the things of the world how she may please her husband. So it doesn't necessarily draw that same distinction in the New King James because you could read it you would have to read it as there's a difference between a wife and a virgin. The divorced woman only you know and then follow on from there if we were to kind of take it into that Okay. So Paul would be kind of like bringing up, hey, there's a difference between a wife and a virgin and then completely shifting topics and talking about a divorced woman is what it would seem like in the Yeah, I'll have to look at that. But uh he's he's using that term Um pretty consistently throughout the whole chapter. And this is the only place it ever appears. At the top of page 56, the interpretation. So Paul says it's good for those who were previously married. married not to remarry. But at least some of them are permitted to remarry And he doesn't address what those cases might be here specifically. Uh we can infer that from the body of other passages uh which we'll do in due course. But given the context of all he's saying here, the unmarried in verse eight must have the same freedom to marry that widows do and that virgins do. Which means that if indeed they were previously married and divorced, um they must have the right to remarry, which is not always the case for those who are divorced, and he's gonna Be talking about that next. Um in verse ten, beginning of verse ten But to the married, I give instructions, not I, but the Lord, that the wife should not leave her husband. But if she does leave, she must remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband And that the husband must not divorce his wife. So when he says, I give instructions, not I, but the Lord, Um what's he saying? He's covering ground here that Christ included in his teaching. And we went over that last week where we looked at his his dealing with the applicability of Deuteronomy 24, what that really meant that um uh there's really only one exception to the general rule that that marriage should not break apart Uh, and that was the exception of pornea, sexual immorality, which didn't require the marriage to break apart, but if it was persistent and unrepentant for sure, It could be the cause, the ultimate uh reason for that marriage ending. So Paul's not going over that ground again Except that he's he's saying the application here is in the case of Christians, don't divorce. Now this he says here, uh he uses the word to leave. And he uses the word divorce. And it seems pretty clear he's using those terms interchangeably. That word leave is used total of eleven times, I guess. Yeah. Uh two of which are here Uh yes the young here in this passage, but also in verse uh fifteen If the unbelieving one leaves, let him leave. And in the passages we looked at last week from the teaching of Christ on this point, the word actually is translated as separate. Elsewhere in the New Testament It and they're listed here, it it's pretty clear that it's used to mean sometimes a physical leaving. And sometimes a relational leaving or maybe some combination of both, particularly in the case of uh Uh the Faleman passage. So um the bottom line here in this passage is that he seems to be using it interchangeably with leaving the marriage, um uh whether it's uh physical leaving or relational leaving or Both. So this is a case, in contrast with what he's going to be speaking about next, where you have Two Christians and they have this troubled marriage and Paul is applying the the teaching of Christ to say Don't divorce, don't leave. That would be a bad thing. But if one of those spouses does leave He says, um, don't remarry. Remain unmarried. Why? Because it's a priority to try to Do whatever is possible to reconcile that marriage. Yes, there may have been a divorce But um and that did end the marriage, but in Christ there's still hope. There's still the possibility of restoring that marriage. Actually it would mean it would require a new marriage, but restoring the relationship And not sin by uh marrying someone else That's his his advice, his teaching here. Okay. I'm on page fifty-seven. I think we covered one through three there. Point number four, the scenario must be speaking of a hypothetical, a prospective, unpermitted divorce. There would be no need for him to say, well if the the person is divorced, um you've got this Christian couple and one of them one of them uh commits uh pornea is unrepentant and so on. Uh there definitely is a basis there for a divorce. That would be a permitted divorce. But here he's presumably n not addressing that. But all other cases, which would be unpermitted divorces, he says, don't remarry somebody else. Work on that reconciliation. Work on restoring the marriage and actually getting married again if that were if that restoration is is possible. Okay. First uh point of application on page 57 Is that and and this comes up all the time, and that is the question they should be asking is what would glorify God the most. Would it glorify God the most to just go my own way and and start from scratch. And the answer here pretty universally is no. No, what would glorify God the most is the reconciliation, the restoration, the the um uh storing of uh the relationship and marriage. Um and the reason is particularly because it's all in the box. Sorry? Yes. But they're both believers. But as it turns out, I think the general principle would be true even if they're unbelievers. The the thing that would honor God the most, whether they realize it or not, would be the reconciliation. Yeah. But specifically with with believers, yes. Yeah. A lot of times when we decide that we want to go our own way is because we are looking at self and to glorify God as Christian talks about that we should submit ourselves to Him. Absolutely. So it has an effect on on us, certainly the best thing for us, although it's hard. But having gone through it and looking back, you realize it was worth it. But first and foremost, even more than that, It brings glory to God to see him work in the lives of individuals to do something that's not normal, but is God honoring. It's God's design. It's elevating God's Design. But realistically, if I'm hearing you correctly, this really only applies to believers. Uh to one believer and one that's not. We're getting there. That's right. So if it's a mix, marriage, a believer and an unbeliever. Um there's a s similar principles, but that's our next one. Yeah. Um in fact That's a good segue. Let's just go to that. Top of page thirty eight. Now Paul is saying, um, what about everybody else who wasn't covered by those scenarios. But to the rest, I say, not the Lord. Now what's he mean by that? I'm just spouting off here. This isn't from the Lord. I'm not speaking on behalf of the Lord. No, it's actually is hearkening back to what he said earlier, where he was restating and applying what Christ had taught about. But now he's covering a topic that Christ had no no instruction about. And it wouldn't have been uh possible, even relevant In uh before the beginning of the church, where Jesus was talking about the application of the law to Jews. And there wasn't an issue of Jews and non-Jews, believers and non-believers. That wasn't the context. Whereas now, in the early church, and even particularly in Corinth, you've got People who are married, one of whom comes to Christ, and the other is still an unbeliever And they're asking questions, what do we do about this? And he's trying to answer that question. And this is not a question that the Lord had to address. Nor did he address. So um he says, if if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to live with him, he must not divorce her. Why? A, that would bring God the most glory. B, that's God's design. That the marriage should continue, right? And the woman who has an unbelieving husband And he consents to live with her, she must not send her husband away, which is another way of saying divorcing him. Same thing. What would bring God the most glory? If there's a an agreeable relationship that marriage should stay intact, becoming a Christian doesn't negate that. Right? For the unbelieving husband is sanctified through his wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified through her believing husband For otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy. Now there's an interesting concept. When we think of sanctify, what do we mean? Set apart, holy. The word sanct means holy. Um does this mean. mean that if she stays if he stays married with an unbeliever or she stays married with an unbeliever, they're gonna be saved? That's not what he's talking about What it means is being set apart in a particular way. Um let's continue reading Yet if the unbelieving one leaves, let him leave. The brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases. But God has called us to peace. For how do you know, O wife whether you will save your husband or how do you know, oh husband, whether you will save your wife. So we're saying it's not about salvation, it's about influence. It's about well in my in the middle of the page there under interpretation. The sanctification mentioned here doesn't mean salvation will necessarily result, but rather the presence of the believing spouse or parent will have a restraining effect on the influence of sin in the rest of the family. So there's a positive testimony there. Um not with the certainty that there would be salvation among the unsaved, as might be the prayer, but there's there's a a godly influence in the home, which uh can have positive effects Um that's that's the gist of what he's trying to say. Uh it's it's possible that it would lead to the salvation of the unsaved, but it's not guaranteed, but at least there's a positive testimony. It's somewhat similar to what uh Peter says in 1 Peter 3 to a believing wife who has an unbelieving husband. And that the the behavior there, the testimony ought to be one of attractiveness, godliness, basically. Now sometimes that godliness is going to be repulsive to an unbeliever And sometimes by God's grace that godliness is going to be attractive to the unbeliever. But our responsibility is that godliness, that positive testimony and influence, and let God take care of the rest. That makes sense okay. So The scenario has two parts. One is if if if there's consent, then while it would normally not be the case that a Christian would marry an unbeliever. If an unbeliever who is married becomes a Christian, don't end the end the marriage because of that um have this positive influence on them. But if on the other side of the coin, if that unbeliever no longer consents to stay in the marriage. And he doesn't elaborate on how you would know that Um but he says uh if the unbelieving one leaves Let him leave. And so that word uh leave again could very much mean divorce. It could very much mean leaving physically, just departing, uh, but it could also mean leaving In terms of leaving the marriage commitment, forsaking the marriage commitment the marriage vows. Um and so the advice here to the The Christian would be don't be overjoyed that your unbelieving one seems to want to leave. Maintain your godly testimony. But if it's very clear the the unbelievers to even taking steps to show that that he's just forsaking that marriage covenant completely. Uh presumably, but not necessarily, because the spouse has to become a believer. Um then if it's clear Let him leave, he says. Why? Um God has called us to peace. So if a if a Christian Uh understands that their unbelieving spouse wants to leave or has left and is just forsaking the marriage covenant. And the the Christian um bends over backward to to maintain that marriage It's going to produce conflict, a lack of peace. And Paul's saying if if if it's clear Um let them leave. God has called us to peace. I think I covered the first uh application point there. Uh the a second one on page uh fifty-nine, the believing spouse should appeal to the unbeliever who wants to leave. Um not rejoice that they want to leave. but appeal in a godly, humble way that, you know, um I'm not seeking for you to leave. If your heart's set on it, I can't stop you. But um please reconsider because this is serious before God. Um that's an appeal. Another another scenario That may seem different is where you have someone who is married, a Christian who is married to a professed believer. Thought they were a Christian. But that professed believer, um let's say they um Sin grievously. Maybe it's pornea. Maybe it's um they just get so angry and upset They just want to forsake the marriage and so on. If there's sin there, that sin needs to be dealt with as sin. As a believer, which i if um if it's not an immediately resolvable within the couple, then the couple needs to take advantage of uh the counsel uh of the church and the whole church discipline process. And what is the point of that? of the first discipline process is to restore, right? To bring um someone who has sinned To repentance and restoration and walking faithfully with Christ. And if that fails After repeated attempts and pre uh repeated uh stages of church discipline, and there's no repentance at any stage and no indication of it The church is instructed by Christ to remove them from the church and treat them like an unbeliever. So in that particular scenario Uh even though this passage was addressed to those who are Christians and have an unbelieving spouse from the get-go, if it's pretty clear And well definitely clear from the church discipline process that someone who had professed Christ isn't uh living for Christ, is not repentant, and uh the church needs to to the church and the spouse needs to um view that person as an unbeliever, then this passage here in 1 Corinthians 7 Would apply to them as well. Okay. Any questions there? Yeah. Can we talk a little bit about that second sentence? If that doesn't happen, meaning the unbelief Leaving South additional board. The leaving south the conversation with the process would be permitted to do it to bring closure into the situation. Can you explain where we're getting that instruction from when It's telling uh the believer, let them leave, not and if they don't you can choose to end it. Um letting them leave is an indication that it it it's ended. by the unbelieving spouse. So the unbelieving spouse has forsaken the marriage covenant. I'm out of here whether they actually leave physically or not as an uh as an evidence that they have forsaken that marriage covenant in their heart, um it's the unbeliever who is taking the initiative to break the marriage bond. That doesn't necessarily mean that that unbeliever will go through the formal proceedings for a divorce. Sometimes they don't. But they have broken the marriage by their forsaking the marriage bond and their Not budging. So in that case, um and it'd be uh through a process it makes is this clear that that um the the innocent spouse, the Christian, is in limbo here If they're an unbeliever, and that's affirmed whether well everybody knows they're an unbeliever or it's affirmed through church discipline, then um the only way to bring peace in that situation is for the divorce to be recognized publicly, legally. And so there's no ongoing commitment on the part of the believing spouse. Um so the initiative was on the part of the unbeliever, but the uh picking up the pieces and making it formal could be by either one, either spouse. That's particularly important capable use other than that. Yeah, that's going to come up next week. Yeah. Um so I'm sorry. If I could work on these by saying that they can marry it, now I can get remarried. Yeah. That's that's why it has to be a careful process. Um and if we're talking about believers here, it'll be through the church. discipline process, biblical counseling over an extended period of time. Well even with the unbeliever, if if the unbeliever has Um see the the the point of the forsaking the marriage covenant is that it will show up in one's actions, right? And those actions may or may not include um uh physical leaving the home. It may not include uh formally Instituting a divorce proceeding, but it's very clear that they have abandoned the marriage. And so what is the Christian spouse to do if their spouse has is an unbeliever and has abandoned the marriage? Can I give you a good example of that? This really applies to Catholics. Um speaking personally from experience, they will they will leave the marriage. They will not be able to say that it's over, but they will not initiate the debate. Happens a lot in Latin America as a state. So you have so and so and they're dating other women and so forth and you ask them, they're like, uh, yeah. Then separate or whatever, X amount of years. Yet they continue because if they don't, they break the sacraments and they're excommunicated. So that would be a good example why you wouldn't you would have to the believing party initiate the divorce. In Catholicism, that's the thing works. But it's it's not so much initiating the divorce, it's initiating the formal proceedings that make it formal. Yeah. The initiating of the divorce is is always sin which is in the heart of the unbeliever in this case, who's given up on the marriage, forsaking it. Um I don't want it anymore. But they may have other stipulations I want to leave the marriage, but I want this, this and this. And that's not bringing peace either. Right. Um and it's it puts the innocent spouse in a very terrible situation that needs to be resolved. Um I don't I can see like the reasoning for it. I just don't see that there was a background for it. Like like I understand like yeah that makes sense, but I don't see it written out like but in this case the leaving spots can all cross by There are lots of scenarios people have um encountered over the years that are not specifically addressed as a scenario in scripture. And there are more of them nowadays. I mean with transgender stuff going on and and all sorts of things. But what are the principles? That's the issue. What are the principles? And how do they apply consistently across all the scenarios? That's where we're at. which is a marriage that's more than just file and paperwork. The husband has made it very clear that he doesn't want you and that he's not going to participate in this marriage, that he has absolutely zero interest in any sort of reconciliation. whatsoever and is off going off and doing his own thing because that's what he's wanting to do, that's not letting him go if you're staying married to him because there are now like if we're talking about being held to peace, there are consequences to his actions if you guys they're still married because whatever financial decisions he makes or anything like that you become liable for. And again there's still this legal attachment there. There may not be a physical one, there may not be a there could be emotional, but it doesn't matter. But at this point it's not fully letting them go go. If he wants to go but he doesn't want to file the paperwork because for whatever reason he doesn't want to file the paperwork, that is not peace for the believer. You are stuck in limbo. That's not peaceful. Just because you filed the paperwork does not make you a sinner. Is that Fair to say. Yeah, the sin has already been committed by the unbelieving spouse. Exactly. At that point you're just setting a free cleaning things up to the after extensive attempts to keep the marriage. And extensive effort to properly understand the heart of that unbelieving spouse who is forsaking the marriage. That's not a quick and easy thing, it takes time. For sure. Okay. Um his last section, um which really is two sections here, uh starting on page fifty-nine advice to remain in the condition in which you were called to in Christ, and then later his opinion on marriage perversions and the unmarried They're both centered on this principle that Christians need to be content. Uh becoming a Christian doesn't mean things like uh marriage are um you start from scratch, not at all. Um but the general principle is you you stay in the uh situation, the status, the um um he mentioned several uh scenarios, but uh you you stay in the condition in which you got saved. Uh unless it becomes obvious that that's untenable. Um but the presumption ought to be that you live out your your your Christian walk in that context, you don't switch to another context. And depending on your situation that may have a variety of of uh may look in different ways in different contexts. Uh so He applies that, and I'm here on page 60, uh his uh opinion on marriage for virgins, and again he mentions I'm married here. Now concerning virgins I have no command of the Lord, but he says explicitly, I give an opinion as one who by the mercy of the Lord is trustworthy. I think that this is a good this is good in view of the present distress, that it is good for a man to remain as he is That is in the situ like he's been talking already, uh, in the situation you were in when you got saved. Are you bound to a life? Do not seek to be released. I mean the fact that you're a Christian now and maybe your wife is not doesn't mean that you should just abandon that and and and um start from scratch. No, he says don't Don't seek to be released. Uh are you released from a wife? Do not seek a wife. That's his advice. I mean th without being married you've got more flexibility, more time, more ability to Serve the Lord. But if you marry, you've not sinned. If a virgin marries, she is not sinned Um yet such will uh have trouble in this life. I'm trying to spare you. Now it's it's important here in this passage particularly Starting in verse 27, are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be released. When he says bound to a wife, what does he mean? You're married. There's a marriage bond, right? The covenant of marriage joins the husband and wife And Jesus said, let no man separate. The Apostle Paul in Romans 7 uses similar terminology, but a man is um uh bound by the law to his wife as long as she lives. And vice versa. But then he uses the term release. If you're bound to a wife wife do not seek to be released. Released from what? Released from the marriage, obviously. Um but given that um Jesus in the Gospels and Paul here even in uh verses um Uh, eight and nine here in First Corinthians seven says it is not good To divorce and then remarry someone else. Um the divorce ends the marriage But why is it not good to marry someone else? Jesus said if they do, they're committing adultery. And Paul says just ri stay unmarried and work on reconciling with each other Um what's going on there is that even though the divorce ends the marriage An unpermitted divorce doesn't grant the um freedom to remarry someone else. They need to work on that reconciliation. So being fully released from a marriage um includes the marriage ending, but also There being uh a right to remarry. Now that happens all at once if the spouse dies. Right? But if it's and it happens all at once, if it's a permitted divorce, like Pornea, or the hu the the spouse is an unbeliever and chooses to Take the marriage and just leave. In either of those cases, there is the right to remarry. In the case of an unpermitted divorce There is no automatic permission right to remarry. They need to work on that reconciliation. But then you get lots of scenarios. Well what if that doesn't happen? Right? Um we'll talk a little bit more about that when we get to um remarriage. But there are scenarios. And they're parallel in many ways to the simple scenarios. like deaths and and uh uh permitted divorces. Anyway uh as he concludes here in verses thirty nine and forty Um he sort of introduces this remarriage concept. If uh a wife is bound, and again he's using the same term he did before and what Paul uses uh also in Romans 7 uh 3. A wife is bound as long as her husband lives But if her husband is dead, she is free to be married to whom she wishes only. in the Lord. So he's speaking to Christians here, of course, you only marry other Christians, so that you're not unequally yoked. But in my opinion, she is happier if she remains As she is, and I think I also have the Spirit of God. So um I guess the the main point here is that he's he's Stating the same principle that he was stating in in Romans 7. But um he throws in the the suggestion, the the sanctified suggestion, his opinion, uh that she's happier if she remains But she's freed up in order to remarry if she would choose. Okay. Yeah, I wish we had more time. But we have to take this piece by piece. Uh next week, Pastor Dave is going to uh look at that situation where um uh believing of the one spouse Is manifested not in relocating and not in filing papers for divorce, but rather it's manifested in abuse. Just giving full indication that they have left They have abandoned, they have forsaken the marriage covenant. Um which raises all sorts of other questions, but I guess those are for the next few weeks. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word that you Give us very explicit uh instructions and commands, uh, but you also give us principles and um even in the case of the Apostle Paul here, uh good, godly Sanctified advice. Wisdom. Lord, I pray that you would help us to um apply the the uh things that you teach us in your word, the commands, the principles, the wisdom. in a way that would glorify you. And that all of us as we work through Our own marriages, our counseling of others, would be committed to a course of action that would bring you the most glory. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.