All right. If you have one of the binders, we are going to be on page forty-six. Lesson number eight. Jesus is tea or Christ's teaching on divorce. I guess it's Jesus' teach teaching too. All right, let's uh begin with a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for this morning and once again the opportunity to gather and sit under your word. Uh we thank you for the revelation you have given to us. Though on this particular topic it's uh spread out throughout uh the the scripture and there's a lot of things to consider We believe and trust that you have given us a sufficient word. So help us today to discern and understand And even rejoice in the teaching that Jesus has given us and um to uh align our hearts uh around it says that we would be committed to the truth that he uh proclaimed and that that would be um what we encourage one another with in our lives. In Christ's name I pray. Amen. All right. So we're now taking the next step forward in the pro progress of Revelation to see what Jesus himself teaches on the matter of divorce and remarriage. So we're just gonna keep saying it. Uh we're just taking this step Step by step, there's no one passage, uh, there's no one person, not even Jesus Himself, who says everything that there is to say. uh on this particular topic. And so uh obviously what Jesus teaches is significant. He is the Lord of all. He is the creator of marriage himself But that doesn't make his teaching any more important than the rest of Scripture because all of the scripture is inspired by God. So uh but but his teaching is relevant. Now, uh as you think about uh w uh Jesus' teaching in particular, this is always true in any passage of Scripture in terms of how are we to understand it, but we need to remember how to interpret the Bible. And and that is with a literal, historical, grammatical interpretation. We interpret it in on the basis of its uh literary uh uh nature, that it it is uh words, it's literature. Hey hey, good to see you guys Welcome. I didn't expect to see you this morning. I thought you might be in India or something. Next Saturday. Okay. All right. Great. Well welcome. Um we so we interpret the scripture based on its literary uh reality and really take a literal approach. Uh we we Take the words at face value. Unless there's an obvious metaphor or symbol uh or uh you know uh allegory if you will, uh we take the words at face value Historically, we understand that the scripture is written in a particular period of history, in a particular culture, in a particular language. And so we we can't assume that what is written is is written in our context. We have to understand the context in which uh the particular passages of scripture are written. And then of course grammatically understanding the relationship with uh of the words with one another. and what the author was intending to communicate by the grammar that that he used. Now in this particular uh area of Christ's teaching on divorce, you have There at the top of your of your notes on page 46, a little chart that just shows you the four passages where Jesus is recorded as teaching on the issue of divorce and remarriage. And notice that uh the the context there and the audience that he's teaching. The first one is in the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus is teaching his disciples and by extension a a large crowd of people and and we know that he uh offers teaching on a variety of different subjects in Matthew five through seven. And then the other two passages, Luke Later in Matthew and in Mark, Jesus is directly teaching or speaking to the Pharisees And that's critical because the context, the historical context, is that in this culture the Pharisees had largely embraced one of those particular schools of thought as it relates to an interpretation of Deuteronomy 24 that we talked about where you could basically divorce your wife for any reason at all Yeah, you just come up with a reason. Make one up if you want to. You know, she burnt my toe. She didn't make my bed. Uh I don't like how she did her hair this morning. You know, you can come up with any reason and as long as you found it to be an indecency in her you can write her a certificate of divorce. That might be a little over the top, uh might be a slight exaggeration, but that was the milieu in which Jesus was speaking. So when we come to these passages, we need to understand he's addressing a culture and really uh the leaders of that culture in most of these passages, who themselves had an incredibly permissive view of divorce. And in none of these passages is Jesus attempting to provide a robust, complete picture of all of the uh nuances, all of the dynamics of marriage, the potential things that take place in the home that violate or uh break the covenant of marriage. He is doing really one thing in all of these passages. If we just Combined all of these passages, we can affirm that they all communicate the same single point. And that is that he is affirming God's original design. Of one man and one woman for life. That is really what Jesus is teaching. He's just upholding God's original design. for marriage. That's the the main point in what he's saying. Now he does, as we'll see and you're familiar, he does give in some of these passages what's known as the exception clause that except for um the sexual immorality pornea uh that that's one case in which divorce is possible, but really his emphasis in each of these passages is upholding God's design. So um with that in mind we're gonna just walk through, uh Lord willing, uh each of these passages. Uh the the first one, Matthew uh five and then Luke sixteen and then a combination of Matthew nineteen and Mark ten because that's really the same account uh given in those two different places. And just kinda look at the simplicity, uh just walk through each of those passages. uh uh carefully to understand what Jesus is saying. And then next week Pastor Allen will come back and he'll work through First Corinthians chapter seven, where, of course, Paul expands on the teaching. Now another side note as we think about these passages with Jesus, remember again the historical context, Jesus is teaching these things before there is any distinction between believer and unbeliever. There's there's no church, uh there there's no understanding that that the people have of uh those who are regenerated by Christ, you know, forgiven saints, and those who are uh unbelievers. And so Jesus is really giving the universal standard, again upholding God's original design uh without making any distinctions between believers and unbelievers. So when Paul comes uh comes into the picture in 1 Corinthians 7, he's in a very different historical context because now he's after the church has uh come to be born, he's even writing in into a pagan culture. uh to the Corinthian church. Uh and so he's addressing issues that Jesus just doesn't address. So again, Jesus' teaching is uh really aimed at upholding the original design of God and addressing the permissiveness of the Pharisees. So with that in mind, let's dive into this first event, the Sermon on the Mount. And you might want to have your Bible because there's obviously snippets of scripture here in the notes, but it might be helpful to have your Bible so you can see some of the context around it. So in Matthew 5, 31 and 32, it says here, it was said, whoever sends his wife away Let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchasteity, makes her commit adultery And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. Now, let's think about the context. If you're familiar with the Sermon on the Mount, uh Jesus, um, if I can go a little bit um Well, uh he starts this uh section after the Beatitudes in verse 17 saying, Do not think that I have come to abolish the law of the prophets I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. For truly I say unto you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot will pass away from the law. until all is accomplished. And then he says, Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. And then verse 20, for I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom. of heaven. And so from there, he goes through a variety of different laws and traditions, and he says, you have heard that it was said But I tell you, right, you heard that it was said, sometimes he'll quote an Old Testament commandment, which was then practiced and interpreted in a very loose way uh by the Pharisees and the people. Uh or it was or he would quote a tradition that was not actually scripture But that became the the commandment of men that people would live by. And then he would uh address that by uh going to the heart of what God's law required. And so you see there starting in verse 21 how he addresses the issue of anger. That anger is not simply what you say. Uh or rather it's not simply the what you do with your hands in terms of taking the life of another person. It is what you say which is itself driven by your own heart It's a heart of murder that uh is expressed uh in anger and that uh can potentially result in actual murder. Or in verse 27 he addresses the issue of lust that it's not actual physical uh adultery that is the only thing that constitutes adultery. No, it's actually what is going on in the heart uh uh in terms of lush that is already a heart devoted to departing from God's design and seeking personal Pleasure that is an adulterous heart. And then he addresses, of course, divorce there in 31 and 32. We'll come back to that. But then starting verse 33, he talks about oaths And then verse 38, talking about retaliation, and then verses 43 and following, loving your enemies. In all of these things, Jesus is saying uh Jesus is getting at what is the heart of God with regard to these laws? What is God actually trying to communicate is right and just and good uh a way to live and uh a righteous standard. And so Jesus is not really creating, he's not at all creating a new structure Uh on top of the law, that's what the Pharisees did. He's going back to the law and even going deeper in the sense of what is the heart of God behind the law. And so that's what he's doing here in Matthew 31 5, 31 and 32 with regard to the issue of divorce. And so when he says there, whoever sends you have heard that it was said, whoever sends his wife away Let him give her a certificate of divorce. He is clearly not quoting from Deuteronomy chapter 24. We saw that when we walked through that passage. He's not quoting what that verse says He's quoting what the tradition what the traditional interpretation says. The passage, which you have written here in the notes for you. is when a man takes a wife and marries her and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some indecency of in her and he writes her a certificate of divorce and s and goes on from there. That's setting up a case, a situation uh it's not giving a command. It's a series of if statements uh in the uh original text there. And so what the people did is they translated that or they They applied that in saying, aha, when we find an indecency in our wives, Moses is commanding us to give her a certificate of divorce. So Jesus is quoting their reinterpretation, their false interpretation, and ultimately their permissive practice of divorce for pretty much any reason. It's helpful to note that uh when he when Jesus says here uh whoever sends her away, uh that that language is the same as divorcing. There's uh one of one of the common words for divorce is a fiami, which means to to send away. Uh and I think I mentioned before that's interestingly the same word that's also translated forgiveness. But it's just the idea of sending away, either sending away a person or sending away a sin that somebody has committed against you. Sending away and so in in this context clearly it refers to divorce. Now uh the bullet point four here uh says the action that gives rise to the exception is unchastity as it's translated in the NAS or uh pornea in the Greek. As we've heard before, that's not the same as adultery. That's not the specific sin of adultery. Pornea is just a broader term, refers to sexual sexual immorality of of virtually any kind. It certainly includes adultery. Um and many interpreters assume that because this porn happens in the context of marriage, it must be adultery But there are other forms of sexual immorality that obviously can take place in the context of marriage, and you see them listed here, perversions. uh such as bestiality, um uh s uh sexual uh sin that doesn't involve another person, um and lust and uh pornography and whatnot. So Pour ne as Jesus is speaking here about what is it that uh would be an exception to his statement, uh, is just any unrepentant uh sexual sin that breaks and uh discards the covenant of marriage So again he says, but I say to you, in contrast to their permissive statement, whoever divorces his wife except for the ground of sexual immorality makes her to commit adultery. Now, uh bullet point number five, it's significant that Jesus gives the example of lust as a form of adultery right before he gives the example of remarriage as an of an after an unpermitted divorce as a form of adultery. Both examples highlight God's design for and the boundaries around marriage and the violations of those boundaries. Always start in the heart. There's uh different ways that people have interpreted what Jesus is saying here. To what extent should we view somebody who has divorced uh somebody for reasons apart from pornea uh as an adulterer. But the that bullet point there, uh number five, is uh highlighting the fact that in the same way that Jesus says just before this in in regard to lust that you've committed adultery in your heart, that Jesus is not necessarily establishing a new law and creating new uh ways in which somebody commits adultery. He's really getting to the heart of the issue. And when you think about adultery, Uh we certainly understand that that is a uh a departure from God's design, God's design of one man, one woman for life. And so when a person, whether in their heart or with their actions, departs from that design and seeks to fulfill themselves and seek sexual uh activity outside of that context of that committed relationship, that is adultery. It's discarding G the covenant of marriage, setting it aside and seeking sexual uh activity apart from that covenant And if you kind of broaden that out, it's it's just a violation of the covenant of marriage. Just thinking about what adultery is in its broadest sense. And in that sense, that's why lust itself is said to be an act of adultery because it's a discarding of God's design and a seeking of self-fulfillment. And so it may be that when Jesus says that a man makes her, makes his wife to commit adultery He's not saying that the community should treat her as if she's violated his law and and has herself become an adulteress. In fact, it's been pointed out, it doesn't say that he makes her become an adulteress. But rather that he makes her commit adultery in the sense that, again this is one potential interpretation, in the sense that she is no longer living in the context of God's design for that marriage. That he is that the man who unscrupulously, sinfully divorces his wife has now put his wife, his now ex-wife, in a situation where she is forced to live outside of God's design. And there's both her own personal life uh reality of that and then there's the community perception of that. Uh and and then there's the final statement, whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. And again in that same sense where now there's a new marriage that is outside of God's original design for one woman and one man for life. So th that seems to be what Jesus is saying here. Let's walk through the uh the interpretation uh uh section. In contrast to the prevailing interpretation of Deuteronomy 24, Jesus explains the intent of the law overall. He affirms, of course, the basic principle that marriage was designed by God And is intended as a permanent covenant of a one-flesh companionship between a man and a woman But he also affirmed that the prevalence of sin, because of the prevalence of sin, some marriages are forsaken by a sinful spouse. The only sin Jesus names here is the legitimate basis uh for a man to divorce his wife is presumably uh or sorry I um Lost my place. To divorce his wife um was sexual immorality committed by the other spouse? I'm just trying to ignore the um parentheses there. Any other rationale for divorcing a spouse is sinful in what Jesus is saying here. But there's there is no other uh possibility. Again, Jesus is upholding the original design of God that marriage is intended to be lifelong and not to be broken. But he does clearly affirm here that there is One way, at least, that that marriage covenant is broken, and that's through uh Cornea. Note that this addresses only under what conditions someone can end the marriage without sinning. That is, the sin is on the part of the other spouse, and that leaves open the possibility that one's unbelieving spouse can sinfully end the marriage. But Jesus doesn't address that here. In other words, the exception clause allows for the fact that if one spouse violates and ultimately breaks the covenant in an unrepentant way that they have no desire to restore that covenant and continue to live in that covenant of marriage, then the one who has been sinned against can legitimately uh divorce uh because th they're simply recognizing that the covenant has already been broken. Uh see the letter C there, Jesus states that illegitimately divorcing one's wife makes her commit adultery. He's presuming that she remarries, which would be the normal expectation. Uh however this raises a potential interpretive dilemma when considered in light of 1 Corinthians 7, 8, and 9, which allows some divorced women to remarry and verses 10 and 11, which prohibits remarriage after a sinful divorce. But again, Paul and Jesus are speaking of about different matters in different contexts. So we need to remember that and make those uh distinctions carefully. So the question is, does an unpermitted divorce that is one that takes place for reasons other than Uh sexual immorality, does an unpermitted divorce end the marriage, or are they still married because the divorce was not permitted? In other words, why is it that Jesus would say that a husband who divorces his wife illegitimately, that he commit makes her to commit adultery, and that one who would marry her would also commit adultery. Why would Jesus say that if in fact their marriage is no longer In effect. Well, the answer is that an unpermitted divorce did end the marriage. But it didn't confer the right to remarry. Paul will address this a little bit more in 1 Corinthians 7. Again, Alan will talk about this next week, where he says uh repeating the commandment of Jesus and he and he says I'm I'm repeating what Jesus says that a man should not divorce his wife and a wife should not divorce her husband but if they do they should either remain single Or remarry one another, or reconcile. And so what Paul is affirming there is this simple understanding that If you divorce for reasons that are illegitimate, anything other than sexual immorality, then That divorce is real. It has truly broken the marriage. There is no marriage there. But there's not a freedom to remarry in that situation. Letter D there, Jesus went on to say, whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. And in the context, he's referring to a woman who is divorced illegitimately. Since her illegitimate divorce did not give her the right to remarry, her marriage to the second man is adulterous. And um I would personally define that language of adulterous in the sense that it is outside of the will of God. Not to say that it is a a case of ongoing perpetual adultery. I've heard that teaching before, maybe you have too, that when someone divorces illegitimately and therefore remarries illegitimately, that there is a that they are in ongoing perpetual adultery and that the only solution to that is to get divorced from that subsequent marriage. And I don't think that reflects the heart of Jesus in his teaching at all. I think it's just recognizing that this second marriage is not part of God's design and it's not the way that God would have us uh respond to an illegitimate divorce uh in that case. Now interestingly and this is just kind of something to tuck in the back of your mind uh I came across a uh Greek scholar who argues that when Jesus says here that um uh that whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery that the the phrase a divorced woman or what's really just one word in the Greek that it could be translated a woman who obtains a divorce And by translating it that way, the implication would be a woman who who forces her husband to divorce her. So in that culture, uh men divorced their wives. Wives could not divorce their husbands. So how do you, if you're a wife and you want to get out of the marriage, how do you divorce You make it really hard on your husband and make it may like increase his desire to want to divorce you. And so this particular Greek scholar argues that here and also in uh 1 Corinthians 7 uh or not not first corn uh Luke chapter sixteen uh which you have here in the text right there that with re that that language of a a woman who is divorced is one who kind of caused her husband, forced her husband in in a situation where he wanted to divorce her, and so she obtained a a divorce kind of got what she wanted so that she could go off and be with another man. But he admittedly says that that's not an absolute uh clear cut uh r reality is just a possibility of of the language there. So either way, the I d the the reality is uh the scenario Jesus is portraying is an illegitimate divorce, a divorce that is not on the ground of sexual And again, in that context, they were so used to divorces being for all kinds of reasons. And so Jesus is just upholding the standard. He he's teaching the law He's teaching the law of God as the standard. He's teaching the norm. He's not trying to get into the nuances of, well, what about this and what about that? What about that other situation? He's not getting into that kind of teaching I mean that's not his purpose in the Sermon on the Mount or in any of these other passages. So his um his teaching focuses on just upholding God's standard of righteousness And uh including that uh one exception uh for the the disciples and the crowd here. Yes, Henry. Um you don't believe uh remains in a state of adultery as If you said you don't think that that's the case. So that means that means that the bus is just one event That obviously it can be repent at all, although I I don't know what the fence that means, but it it can be It's that's that's a one time event. Presumably not happening. Um the other thing that I remember happening If a man or a woman marries an illegally divorced person but did not know that that person was You think that I'll not act for an American So uh yes in the sense that uh let me back up uh answer according to the order that you asked. Uh Right. I I don't think that a man and a woman who are married who have a uh let's just say in a second marriage, uh that was that the where the first marriage was not uh biblically um uh reasoned and uh permitted, um that second marriage is not an ongoing daily act of adultery. Uh if it was, I think the The scripture would have to give us some clarity that would require uh how do you deal with this ongoing sin? Well the only way to deal with that is uh to divorce and bring that to an end. Um but there's I don't think there's any any sense where that's communicated. Um it i it is in in that sense a unique kind of situation, uh as in in the sense of uh that Jesus used the language of adultery for a subsequent marriage, which uh how did that come to an end? Um and um I I think it's one of the just the aspects that he's not trying to give us all the nuances and all the details to that and and frankly we don't even we don't get that from the rest of the scripture either. But Jesus is affirming that the second marriage is out up outside of God's design for what marriage is intended to be. Um aga again, without having from Jesus more nuance as to the the heart behind those things. But if if i if the situation is That the husband, because of an adulterous heart that he already has, divorces his wife so he can marry somebody else Or that a wife, because of the adulterous heart that she already has, causes her husband to divorce her so that she can marry somebody else. If if that's the the two scenarios that Jesus is referring to, then he's simply expressing the same reality as the person who has an adulterous heart and manifests that through their lusting. And so the the repentance in that situation is to repent of your adulterous heart and from that day forward walk in obedience uh to the Lord in faithfulness to your spouse. Um So that's one thought on that. Uh your second question was if if the if one of the spouses in a subsequent marriage didn't know about the previous marriage, um well first of all Oh man, they got married quick. And they didn't shame on them for not knowing. But that you know, and these days it's not entirely unreasonable, especially if But uh it yeah, I it's in the sense that it's still outside of God's purpose and intention for what marriage ought to be. then yes. Um but you know then you work through that because there's deception there that's taking place. That's almost the bigger issue uh for the part for the person who didn't know, you know, that they've been deceived into that relationship but um but still it's in in the end it's still a relationship that wasn't originally God's design. Alright any other questions or comments Yeah, nate. Um in uh application. talk about you bring in the word unrepentant. Yeah, yeah. Which is obviously my explicitly unrepentance. That's right. I guess that's where does that come from? And I got my my part two of that question would be does unrepentance does unrepentance apply to all forms of A? Yeah. So uh great question. Um I I realized that I didn't even mention the applications here. So let's just walk together and then we'll uh uh address that So application number one, all divorce involves sin. You can't divorce. You can't there can't be a divorce and nobody's sinning, right? There has to be sin somewhere. Either the person has violated and broken the covenant of marriage through pornea, uh and therefore a divorce is biblic biblically permitted, uh or somebody has uh pursued divorce without that, and so they're s sinfully pursuing divorce, somewhere someone, if not everyone, has to be sinning uh in order for divorce to be a reality. Because if that wasn't the case then we would be faithfully loving one another and there would be no divorce. So just that reality that all divorce involves sin And then number two, because lusting for someone who is not your spouse is tantamount to adultery, and unrepentant addiction to that const to that constitutes pornea and could be the basis for illegitimate divorced by the innocent spouse. So here's where uh we have to understand what Jesus is saying, but not pull it out and treat it as if it's the only thing Jesus has ever said on any topic uh or on the topic of sin uh and and as well as the rest of the Bible. We have to put put it in the context of everything else Jesus has written uh uh and uh what's in the gospels and what's in in the bible. And even just within the Sermon on the Mount, we see that there is a principle that when sin is committed There's two ways to respond to that that pleases the Lord. The first thing that needs to happen is repentance, right? That a person acknowledges, confesses their sin, changes their mind, reorients their heart away from their sin and around the purposes of God and seeks to glorify Him from that moment forward. So repentance is the first uh response that pleases God in response to sin. The second res uh response to sin that pleases God is forgiveness. And that's on the part of the person who has been sinned against. In chapter 6, verse uh 14, after Jesus has uh given the uh disciples prayer, you know, the model prayer, if you will. Jesus says, For if you forgive others their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive. your trespasses. So setting aside the question that that raises about you know eternal security or whatever. Uh the point that I I bring that out to emphasize is when a person repents The standard that God gives us is we must forgive. And of course, excuse me, Jesus teaches that in Matthew chapter 18 And that after person uh sins against you, uh you don't just uh forgive, forgive, and then on the third time or the seventh time, okay, that's enough forgiving. I'm I'm done. Uh you Uh I I don't need to forgive you anymore. No, he says just keep forgiving. You've been forgiven an infinite amount. When somebody sins against you uh then you continue to forgive them. So that means that when any sin is committed, even violations of the marriage covenant, and there is repentance God's standard is to forgive. And we need to distinguish when we think about the marriage covenant or any covenant whatsoever, there's a distinction between a violation of the covenant And a breaking of the covenant, if you will. There's a difference between a person not fully living up to the the the covenant that they've made and the person who picks up that covenant, tears it up, throws it away, you know, burns it up, you know, and says, I want nothing to do with that anymore. Um Uh pornea in its all of its forms, uh from lust to uh physical adultery. and all the different forms of sexual immorality that that one person uh can commit, those are clear violations of the covenant. But they are not in and of themselves individually ultimate uh uh destroyers or or uh breaking of the covenant, per permanent uh breaking of the covenant. It's when a person commits those sins in a way that they communicate, I want nothing to do with this covenant anymore. That Uh I think Jesus is saying that's when there's a clear um uh permission to divorce and ultimately what the spouse who is being sinned against is doing in that situation is simply acknowledging and affirming what the other person has already done. You know, they themselves are not breaking the covenant. They're saying, Okay, you don't want to be married, I d I won't force you to be married to me. Um in some ways that's what Paul teaches in First Corinthians seven with regard to the unbeliever who leaves uh the marriage. And so um all all that's to say that when we sin I mean all of us here who are married have in various ways not lived up to the covenant we made on the day of our marriage, right? We we made our vows and we have imperfectly kept those vows. But if your heart is, I want to keep those vows, I want to love my spouse, I know I'm going to sin against my spouse. I know that that whether with my mouth or with my actions or my attitude, my heart, somehow I'm gonna fall short. I know I'm gonna fall short, but I I want to live up to those standards. That is a heart of commitment. That that's the heart that God wants us to have even though we have sin in our lives. But that's again completely different than the person who says, I want nothing to do with this covenant anymore. So so that's why we say unrepentant uh addiction or unr unrepentant commitment, uh whatever word you want to use there. uh to pornea uh is a uh basis for legitimate divorce Any other questions or comments or follow up? Yes. So that that breaking is that person most likely like a non-believer is that breaking them the spouse is if the unbeliever needs in that breaking she's um able to remarry, right? Or separate. Unless there's a rediputation. But in the other cases of both believers, I think I have that last Yeah, so that's really getting into what Paul teaches in First Corinthians seven and uh Patron's gonna walk through that next week. Can you hold on to that for next week? Alright, very good. Alright, let's let's look at uh Luke chapter 16. Uh we won't get through all of this, um all all these passages, but again Jesus is really just saying the same thing in each of these passages. He there's there's isn't any additional teaching per se. It's just slightly different context, but he's effectively always saying the same thing. So in Luke chapter 16, verse 18, Jesus says, everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery. And he who marries one who is divorced from a husband and again there's that possible idea of a woman who has kind of gained a divorce by manipulation, anyone who marries one who is divorced from a husband commits adultery. So the context j Jesus is teaching his disciples about um temporal things, you know, he talks about love of money. Let me see here. Luke chapter 16. You have the larger context actually there on the next page. So you have Jesus is addressing the matter of wealth. Uh the Pharisees who were lovers of money, verse 14, were listening to what Jesus was saying. They were scoffing at Jesus. And Jesus said to them, verse 15, You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men. But God knows your hearts for for that which highly is highly esteemed among men is detestable in the sight of God. So again, Jesus is addressing Pharisees in this particular passage, whose hearts are lifted up, who you know claim to be adherers of the law, but whose hearts are far from God. They have so created a system that enables them to live out of their own flesh while appearing from the outside to be righteous. And so Jesus then uh addresses this particular issue which is one of the areas that they can claim righteousness because of the system the extra biblical system that they have built for themselves. Starting in verse 17, but it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away. than for one stroke of the letter of the law to fa to fail. And again, j everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery. And he who marries one who is divorced from a husband commits adultery. So he doesn't quote Deuteronomy 24 here, but he's speaking to Pharisees whose uh thinking about marriage and divorce is shaped by their false interpretation of Deuteronomy 24. And so he again effectively says the exact same thing. Skipping down to the observations, Jesus says everyone who divorces his wife, and so on, from the context, what's in view here is ignoring what the law actually says and means. In other words, having a temporal man-centered approach rather than an eternal uh God-centered uh approach, divorcing a wife for illegitimate reasons. That was their practice, that was their interpretation of Deuteronomy 24. Number two, he also structured the scenario to focus on the person initiating the divorce. And saying that there's no way to do that without sinning. Now here he doesn't give the exception But he's he's not again trying to give a robust view. He's addressing the heart of the Pharisees who are bent on uh twisting the law to serve their own desires And so he just upholds God's original design. And I should note, I forgot to mention this with r regard to Matthew 5, that the the the focus of Jesus' teaching is not on the I'll use the language of innocent spouse. You know, we understand that in marriage we're all sinners, but the the one who doesn't necessarily want the divorce, the one who has been who uh uh who's been sinned against because the the covenant that they desire to keep has been violated and and broken. Jesus does not focus on that person in his teaching He focuses on the one whose heart is bent on breaking the covenant. And so even in Matthew 5, when Jesus says that he causes his wife to commit adultery. Uh the language there really implies that the culpability for that sin of adultery is not on the wife but on the husband. And it's you know, I think about how Jesus says in Matthew 18, uh the beginning of Matthew 18, um, you know, whoever causes one of these little ones to sin It's m referring to one of his disciples. Uh it would be better for him to have his, you know, neck tied to stone and thrown into the ocean, basically. And so uh Jesus is addressing the one whose sinful heart then puts a person in a position where they are now outside of God's design. And he does the same thing here. Number three, complementary to what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount, here he affirms that because the ill illegitimate divorce didn't convey the right to remarry The man's marriage to someone else constitutes adultery. And consistent with Matthew 5. 32, he affirms that whoever marries his first wife also commits adultery because her divorce didn't convey the right to remarry. So In Matthew 5, Jesus focuses on the wife's remarriage, which is assumed that's just what would happen. She would get remarried. Here he uh focuses or emphasizes as well, balances that out with a man who divorces his wife and remarries So in the interpretation here, page 50, by characterizing both the men in this scenario as adulterers Jesus means, even though he doesn't have to state explicitly, that both of the women in the scenario are also committing adultery for the same reason. The divorce was not permitted and so didn't convey a right to remarry No also, uh note however that the sequence of events, which Jesus didn't specify, is important. If the husband divorces what his innocent wife is blocked from restoring that first marriage. Um Because his wife remarries, uh, she is blocked from restoring that first marriage. Sorry, I think I read that wrong. If the husband who divorced his innocent wife remarries Before that divorced wife remarries, she is blocked from restoring that first marriage so she can remarry someone else without sinning. So again, the the idea is when there is an illegitimate divorce, and Paul would affirm this in 1 Corinthians 7, the Uh ideal is that the couple reconciles and that they stay single with the hope that reconciliation can happen But once either one of them remarries, that reconciliation is no longer possible, and so the other is, in a sense, free to remarry. And then the last sentence there, but if she m remarries first, she is the one who blocks all possibility of remarrying her first first husband, so her second marriage would amount uh to idolatry or adultery. Yes. Um that telling us that it's okay for the innocent spouse to remarry or whether it's all like because of the meeting. So So there's a couple things. Number one uh in that culture, uh for a woman in particular who's divorced, the assumption is she would get remarried. You know, the culture was such that uh unless a woman was particularly wealthy, uh which obviously was not usually the case. But uh uh usually a wife or a woman who was divorced would need a husband uh for her own uh care welfare. That was to assume that she would get remarried And so that was just what was expected uh would would would happen. Uh but uh the the Uh idea really comes back to Deuteronomy chapter 24, where the the actual instruction and the teaching that Jesus gives there is that uh if uh a man divorces and his wife remarries uh and then uh either divorces or becomes a widow, that the first man uh can't remarry her. And it's just the the principle that Uh as long as they remain unmarried, there's the possibility of reconciliation, but once that remarriage takes place Uh there's there's no possibility for reconciliation. Alan, I think I might have not answered your question, so I just wanted to build on that. We're gonna cover this next week. But um uh there's two two indications from scripture elsewhere. One is Romans seven where Uh Paul confirms or affirms very clearly that after the death of the spouse the widow or widower is free, is no longer belongs to the original marriage. So that word bound, uh or the marriage bond which we all think is one concept. In First Corinthians seven, Paul uses the term being released from a marriage. uh released from all the obligations of it and so on. Yeah, so that comes into play. Does that answer your question? Okay. Feel free to ask it again. Yes, Diane. In today's culture, we have a situation um where people are um let's just say the husband initiated into divorce and the wife is still single But the husband is living with the person that he's gonna adult you with. And there's no intention of marriage, we're just So yeah, that's where First Corinthians seven comes into place because it I think it it brings greater clarity So how do we think about scenarios where somebody has clearly left the marriage? Uh and the the language in First Corinthians seven, Alan will uh deal with this more uh uh uh extensively next week. Uh the scenario is th a leaving, uh a leaving of the marriage. And um that's not necessarily a geographical departure uh but uh it's uh at the uh at its root a heart's uh departure from the covenant of marriage. And th in that uh particular case in verses uh 14 Uh 15, it's referring to an unbeliever if the unbeliever leaves. And I personally think that we in the church we have complicated so many scenarios because of our lack And I'm not speaking about Hope Bible Church specifically, uh, but because of our lack of practicing church discipline that uh The process of church discipline is intended to obviously call a sinning believer back to faithfulness. And Uh if a person refuses to walk faithfully and repent of their sin and walk faithfully with the Lord, then the ultimate end of that process is for the church to say, we can we can no longer affirm your profession of faith. And so even if a person is claiming to be a believer uh and they depart uh the the from the covenant of marriage in an unrepentant way and the church calls them to repentance and they refuse Ultimately the church is saying, no matter what you say, we can no longer affirm you're you're a professing believer. And so that that allows um uh the First Corinthians seven fourteen scenario of the unbeliever leaving and that then looses uh or releases, Alan said, uh releases, uh lets the the believing spouse uh be free from that commitment, even if that person hasn't remarried, because they've already departed from the marriage. Alright, so uh you we have these uh two applications and we'll wrap up with that. Uh again, all divorces involve sin There's no way to sinlessly divorce your spouse unless your spouse has already forsaken your marriage covenant and rebuffs your sincere and patient attempts to forgive him or her and to restore your marriage And then number two, it would be wise for couples, before getting married or even engaged, to examine whether any divorce in their past this speaks to Henry's question, I guess. Uh to examine whether any divorce in their past was not permitted, meaning that one or both of them did not have the right to remarry. If so, they should first see whether reconciliation with their previous spouse, if a Christian, is feasible. and desired by the former spouse. Now obviously in the course of life there are all kinds of very uh nuanced situations that take place and Well yet what we what we always want to do is see how can we uphold God's design and our purpose Uh as as believers as we uh walk alongside each other in the challenges of life and marriage and divorce, our purpose is not to um uh bring people to judgment for the sins they've committed or the sins that have committed against them. But to continually point them to God's design and walk with them to walk faithfully uh in God's design. And sometimes that because of the the the dynamics, the challenges, the The brokenness, uh the the um uh the sin, the sorrow, the suffering that's tak I mean just uh everything that kinda gets mixed into so many situations. It can take time. It can take time for our heart to heal, to process, to think, to re- to be renewed Um and so uh as long uh uh as long as we are being faithful to call people to God's design and walk with them toward that design, uh I think we are being faithful to the Lord extending grace, not in not in the sense of you know just permissiveness, that's what Jesus is teaching against, but in the sense of uh w uh drawing people closer uh to God's design. And only when there is a clear heart attitude that is um in opposition to God's design and God's will and God's standard, uh then do we, you know, take the steps that we need to take in in that process of calling people to repentance. But uh we all know that there are some very, very challenging dynamics. Some of you have experienced those in your own life and uh we just praise the Lord for his grace and his mercy and even when we have made decisions in the past ourselves that have violated God's design and God's standard, uh God is merciful and God is gracious, and when we repent, He forgives us of our sin and gives us the joy of being able to walk forward in that forgiveness. So All right. The the final section there, Matthew 19 and Mark 10, longer sections, and you can walk through that yourself. But again, there's really no new teaching there Uh the notes just kind of um uh parse out some of the the nuances, but effectively Jesus teaches the exact uh same principles. All right. Thank you for um uh being here today. We'll uh look forward to First Corinthians seven next week. Let me pray. Father, thank you for your word. Uh we uh know, Lord, that these things Uh the in in some ways it's it's a beautiful thing to consider your design for marriage, but it's hard in this world where sin has brought so much destruction and distortion and brokenness. And so many of us have seen that. Some in our own lives, some with our own families, some uh with others in the church. Uh we've seen the effect of sin and it's it's painful, it's confusing, and sometimes it's hard to know how to Handle those situations. We need your wisdom. Lord, help us to be committed above all things to your standard. to your design uh in our own hearts that if you have put us uh if you've given us the gift of marriage that we would live faithfully uh uh according to your design. And that as we minister to those who have experienced brokenness, that we would uh point them to the beauty of your design. Lord, give us grace uh and wisdom to know how to faithfully uh live out these truths in our church family. In Christ's name I pray. Amen.