All right, well, we're on lesson three. Uh the first two lessons were kind of the easy stuff. God's design for marriage and God's design for men and women being uh different, complementary, together, reflecting God's image. Unfortunately, today we start with the bad news. The bad news, of course, is that things are a lot different from when God created everything because of the introduction of sin, right? And when we're talking about marriage, of course, uh sin is a problem And we want to understand it well and then provide a foundation for what we're going to talk about in weeks ahead. So the impact of sin. We go back to creation, of course. Not that we uh point fingers at Adam and Eve, but we need to understand what happened. Um before sin, of course, they had um a perfect marriage. Right? They um uh it says they were naked and not ashamed, there was no fear, no shame, no sin. Um completely vulnerable to each other and transparent and all that. Um But of course, sin immediately upon their sinning, they felt that shame and distance from God, as rightfully they should have. And and yet God's design didn't change. Things just got harder because of sin. And so um I'm on page nineteen in the notes, if you're there. Um Item B, sin didn't change the responsibilities, uh God's design and uh God's assignments and responsibilities that he gave to Adam and Eve But it made them much harder. So take Adam, for example. Before sin, he was responsible to cultivate the land for food. Yes, God created work. It was a good thing. Work is not the result of sin. Of course, work became a lot harder because of sin, and that's what the point is here. But uh God created us for work and responsibility, but it was enjoyable work, it was uh fruitful, literally fruitful work And God honoring. So after sin, how did God um sentence him in chapter two? He said, um You're gonna need to cultivate what is very hard and thorny and bristly soil And it's by the sweat of your brow that you will eat. Um the basic responsibility and task wasn't changed. It just got harder because of sin. God created him also to be a leader for his wife, who was his helper And again, that was not a result of sin. That was part of God's design. But it got a lot harder because of sin. And we'll talk about that in a minute. Looking at Eve, of course, God designed her to bear and nurture children and commanded them to be fruitful and multiply. But when he sentenced Eve, he made it clear that that was going to get harder. Harder. And um She was also to submit to her husband as her head, her leader, and turns out that's going to be harder for Eve. Everyone ever since. So let's talk about that in uh Genesis three sixteen. I'm on uh item C here, the conflict in marriage that resulted because of sin. So you're familiar with that passage where God said Um in addition to the childbirth thing, he said, your desire will be for your husband and he will rule over for you. He will rule over you. And I think most of us when we first look at that we think, oh, that's nice, isn't it? Your desire will be for your husband. Well, turns out that word for desire, as translated into English from desire as desire, is used only two other times in all of the Old Testament. Other words for desire are used elsewhere, but this particular word is used only three times, one of them here. The next time it's used is in the very next chapter, chapter 4 of Genesis, verse 7. And you will remember this. God was interacting with Cain, kind of warning him, right? And what he said in verse 7 was, Sin is crossing at the door, and its desire is for you. But you must master it. Now is desire there a good thing or a bad thing? A bad thing. In what way is it likely to mean a bad thing? Its desire is for Cain, but you must master it. Satan must destroy it. Yeah, it it's it's it's an opposition. Satan is trying to um Cause him to stumble, oppose him. His desire is to control you, Cain. And this is a warning God was giving, of course. Kane did not pass the test, did he? Um so it turns out that those two um Warnings, those two in those two verses, they're structured exactly the same in Hebrew. And I've got that little chart there. The Hebrew, of course, normally is read left or right to left, but I've arranged it here left to right to align with the English, which makes more sense for us. And in the light gray, you've got the words in Hebrew that are exactly the same in both verses. Same structure, same syntax. And what's different is the context. The first context is Eve, the second context is Cain and his relationship with Satan. And so one basic principle of biblical interpretation is that um We start with passages that are clear to help us understand passages that are not so clear. Context, of course, is important. But of these two uses of that very rare word, which one is clearer? Chapter 4. Right? And it's clear there from the context that this desire is a desire of an improper desire. To bring around improper results. It's it's a way to control and uh influence wrongly And so what would that mean in the sense of in the context of Adam and Eve? You could translate the Hebrew here, in fact people have, I'm just quoting them. Against your husband your desire will be, and he will rule over you. So Eve's desire, because of their sin, was to exert Overdue influence, even to control her husband. And then what does God say? Actually, he is going to rule over you. Do you see the potential for a tug and war there? Conflict? That's what sin does. It brings conflict. Right? Turns out the only other time that word for desire in the Hebrew is used in the Old Testament is in Ecclesiastes, I'm sorry, Song of Solomon. Seven verse ten. I am my beloved's and his desire is for me. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? It's a good thing. How could that be good and these other ones not be good? being used in the sentence. Sorry? How it's being used in the sentence? Context. How it's used in the sentence. Um is it a good thing for a husband to exert influence over control control might be the wrong word, but um lead and and influence his wife for the better, yes indeed. But the other way around is contrary to God's design. It turns out the use in Song of Solomon Also has a different structure in the sentencing, different grammar, different prepositions, and so it's not as close a uh precedent or interpretive verse as is Genesis 4. 7, which is right in the same context directly the very next chapter And structured exactly the same as Genesis three. So here's the the first Hint, I guess, God is giving to Adam and Eve that because of this sin, there's going to be a A tension in the marriage relationship, a a struggle sometimes, which Um when you think about it, what does sin do? It it expresses, you know, it's it's me first. kind of thing. And we have two people coming together in marriage and they both have a me first heart attitude, that's going to cause tension, it's gonna cause conflict, it's gonna cause fighting and and all that. Um moving away from God's design that there would be um loving headship and uh submissive submissive help on the part of the wife, so there'd be complementary and God honoring relationship which It's still his design, but it doesn't come as easily because of sin. Yeah. Um the question I guess is this Um we used the phrase tug of war that came about because and and we spent right, we talked about how um from the woman's perspective Uh the tugging exists now. I guess the end of the verse, um, but he shall rule over you. Do you do you see any um in that phrasing. Negative aspect there, um also as a result of the fall in that phrase, like he will rule In a way that's not healthy, or do you view that as just a simple statement that that's how God set up marriage in the beginning? Um yes and no. Or both. Um I think what's going on here in the verse itself, literally what he's saying to Eve is that um The r the complementary nature and the roles I've given you as man and woman haven't changed. So he's going to rule over you. That's his job. However, although that verse I don't think speaks of it specifically, we see plenty of evidence in Scripture and in regular life. That men abuse that role, for sure, because of sin. Yeah. So there's automatically a tendency toward conflict because of sin on both people's part and exercising the right roles, the God's designed roles is going to be harder. Still the design, still the intent, but harder. They have to work at it. And apart from Christ, it's real hard to attain it. Right? But something else that someone was asking, if if we're gonna use um Genesis four seven as like a helpful context with the the desire words being being bad, with Mashal, what kind of rule was this was the Lord commanding Cain to do and how does that verb work the same way in first in chapter three? Like that might be a little gene there. Yeah it's translated in in chapter four as master. Meaning control, having don't don't um don't give in to uh stand your ground, that kind of thing. So like not letting the woman necessarily like railroad Yeah. Like that he's actually going to rule over you that you're going to try to do it. Which is the original design. He isn't he is it it may be I'm not sure about this, but it it may be a a hint about what was going on with Adam and Eve at the time that they sinned. It was very clear that uh from all of Scripture that Eve was deceived, but there's no mention in Scripture that Adam was deceived. Exactly. Yeah. But you've got to be stating right there. But and so what's going on in that dynamic between them? We don't have all the gory details, we'd have sort of the result. But it's incumbent on him still to maintain that role, that responsibility God's given him, in the context of now both of them are sinners. And it just makes things harder. Yeah. How do you do or do compare it with the idea of the sacrificial The next part like in the easy side and all the other parts that focus on servant, uh servant leader. Yeah, uh the question is, uh is the what's the relationship between the word rule here in Genesis three? and the concept that we see from the broader context of scripture of um servant leader and head and and so on. I don't think there's anything inherently in the word. that um undermines that goal, that design that God has for the husband to be the the the head of the household and make decisions and And be accountable directly to God for those decisions. It's sin that causes someone in that role to abuse it. And I don't think that that sin to abuse that responsibility is embedded in that word rule. We often we use, I mean scripture uses the word of elder rule. In 1 Timothy 5. The word rule itself is not evil. It's not negative. It has to do with responsibility and authority, God-given authority. Um but it's far more common that someone with that authority and rule abuses it. And so unfortunately we have that connotation of abuse that necess isn't necessarily there. The desire though has The desire does. Well, the desire the the way the word desire is used in Genesis three and four seems to be clearly negative. The way the desire is used in Song of Solomon is not, because you know from the context it's a good thing. Because it's it's being exercised by the right person. Um so yeah, I wouldn't read too much into that word rule. Yeah. Good questions. Any other thoughts? Questions? Yeah. So I think of uh you're submitting to one another and as elders you're teaching us and equipping us and Preparing us, the layman, to go out into the world. But at the same time, um, if there's something that the elders say that we know is against God's word We have responsibility in a loving way to go to them and speak God's word, exhort them And iron sharpening iron and make sure that we're all growing in Christ. In the marriage, the husband is supposed to be washing his wife with the word, but also submitting to one another. So if there's something that the husband is saying or doing it's like El Doing that's wrong. The wife knows that it's against God's word. The wife has the responsibility in a loving way to present God's word. just like me coming to you or one of the elders. Right. Right. Um However, the role of anybody who is to submit to an authority Whether it's in the marriage, whether it's in the church, whether it's in society, when we submit to an authority uh we submit to the extent that we're not being uh called to sin. Right? And if we are Our first response ought to be to make an appeal to that authority, saying, hey, wait a minute, and explain why we understand that to be a wrongful exercise of authority. That doesn't change who's in charge, it doesn't change who's submitting to who, but that appeal gives the authority the option or the opportunity to Readjust, maybe even change. And if there is no change, what should the person under that authority do? Do the right thing, being willing to bear the consequences. But who's being held responsible for that sinful exercise of authority. The person under authority. The person exercising the authority. So if if if a wife um perceives that her husband is compelling her to sin, and she appeals to him saying, wait a minute Um that's not consistent with scripture. It it would cause me to sin, either what I do or what I don't do. She appeals to him And if he insists anyway, who does God hold accountable for that? The husband. Adam uh God said, Adam, where are you? See now that our wife is in here now. She just came in. We have conversations like this all the time. If there's something that I'm struggling with Or maybe something I said with Erica knows that's not right. Yeah. She does let me know what God says. Oh yeah. of what I'm studying or what I'm trying to apply to my own life. And and it's it's a uh a necessary uh loving input that a husband receives from his wife to either be challenged in his thinking or to have a perspective that is Something he never thought of. Maybe it is a biblical point that he's forgetting or missing. Huge benefit To the family for that to happen. That's what is submitting to one another in my mind. No, no, scripture does scripture does not say submit to one another. It says submit one to another. And it gives three examples of that in Ephesians five and six. The first one is what? Marriage. Where it's very clear that the church submits to Christ in the same way the wife submits to the husband. Chapter 6 gives two more examples. of children submitting to their parents, not not a mutual submission. Right? And then uh slaves submitting to their owners or masters, that's not a two-way submission. It's one submitting to other. Now the the Greek word there for um One another to one another, the phrase, can be either a two-way thing or a one-to-another thing. The same word. And how do you know which is the intent? The context. And if you look at the context in Ephesians 5 and 6, it's very clear it's always One submitting to another. It's like us submitting to the government. It's not a mutual submission. Same thing. Make sense? But the point is great that that the role of a wife is to lovingly, humbly Even correct her husband when it's clear that he's not thinking right, or it's certainly unbiblical, or he's asking her to do something that's sinful, whatever. And even uh you know, using scripture to clarify her her reasoning and and that kind of thing. Who's responsible for making the ultimate decision there? It's still the husband, and he's the one God's going to hold accountable for whatever decision he makes. What's he hold the wife accountable for Well the submission and that interaction she has with him to help him to make a better decision. If he makes the wrong decision That's not on her unless she gave him false information. It's on him. And so God calls her to provide that wise counsel in a humble, loving way. I've seen a couple of hands here. Do you still have a hand up? Yes. So in um In I think it's first Samuel, um David comes across Abigail and Cabal are the other name. Um Cabal is Uh his name is the fool. Nabal I think. Nabal, Nabal, his name here was a fool, or foolish. And he basically tells David I'm not giving you anything and I don't care that you help my I don't know you can be a runaway slave. Like basically like flat out unfolds David after David did all of this stuff and so Dan's like, Okay, I'm just gonna come wipe you out and um I get I feel like she comes out regardless of what her husband says, she actually comes out with a gift and actually asks for the punishment to be put on her for Naval Sin. Um that kind of submission she didn't go against her husband like in front of him, but she she still did like what is right in the eyes of the Lord, right? Or is that she can't because her circumventing what her husband said is not what I what I would understand submission, but she still what she was seen as doing was seen as doing right in the eyes of God and the one was actually killed within like twenty four hours. Um so is that when you're saying like the submission part, like obviously it has to do with like the interaction with the wife and the husband is is the wife being respectful and not being combatative in in that interaction, but still honoring the Lord if she does what the Lord says but not what the husband says to do Is that kind of what you were saying, or were you thinking it's the wise to do the thing that was actually the end? Yeah, I I'm I'm not sure That example really helps us to understand the dynamic God would want us to follow. But um She did succeed in getting David to cool off not do not do something hasty, which I think was the main thing that that was honoring to God. God took care of Nabal himself. Yeah. Um I don't think we can learn uh uh to follow an example there necessarily because it was a very unique example and it it wasn't a teaching exercise. Um so it's not like something we can do like, okay, what sh but could we evaluate was she writing to do was that the right thing. It was it ended up being the right thing to do to stop David from you know putting blood on his hands he wasn't supposed to have. But then of course it led to him marrying her, which couldn't have been the right thing. No, yeah, to be like, so it's it's a messy situation. Yeah. Okay. as regards to a wife submitting to a husband who characters to do something wrong and sinful. I think that the clearer example that we could point to is the apostles when they were told not to preach Saying, you know, what should we do? Should we go obey God or man? Use God. Right. I I think that that's a clearer example of submitting to authority or not when it ultimately is against our ultimate authority. God. And of course in their situation, they couldn't obey the s the civil authority. They have a higher authority, but they were willing to suffer the consequences. Yeah. And of course God was sovereign over all those consequences. Since that's not like a direct kind of like how Ephesians I was talking about how God is the head of the church, Christ is the head of the church, and Men are supposed to price just try to change the head. The civil leadership was saying we're supposed to submit civil leaders to That's not exactly the same kind of like line of definitions. in that that is commanded. It it it you are supposed to follow leadership but but your your first line of authority is God. Yes. Whereas with in in a marriage for a woman according to basically what you're saying, her first line of authority is her husband. And and obviously ultimately the Lord because that's where the line should be going. So is that is the civil leadership for men the same situation where women are supposed to follow their husbands, but ultimately God? Yes. For every kind of submission to authority that exact same principle has to apply. That all authority comes from who From God. Therefore, if we have in following someone who for whom God has delegated authority If we are to obey them, and it if we're to obey them and thereby disobey God, then we're doing the wrong thing. That's the same in all those relationships. And certainly in marriage. Um, this may not be time to address this because it's gonna go out like um but as a counselor, you know, you want into change about physical And I know I usually address that speaker, but I don't have anything, so let's forget about that right now. That's true, yes, but not now. It's coming. It's definitely coming. Um We're going to give a little highlight of some of that here in the next few minutes, but go into a lot more detail later. Exactly. Okay. Well Uh topic page twenty My bottom line in understanding this changed dynamic between a husband and a wife because of sin. And looking at the rest of Scripture, my bottom line is that husbands need to make it easier for their wives to submit to them How? By loving them as Christ loved the church. And wives need to make it easier for their husbands to lead them. Why? How? By submitting to their husbands as the church submits to the headship of Christ. Neither of those is easy Is it easy for a husband to love his wife as Christ loved the church? Are you kidding? That's hard. Is it easy for a wife to submit to her husband when he's imperfect? He's not like Christ? It's hard. But we can make it easier on each other the more we're Christ-like. And biblical in our relationship. Make sense? So it's still the the the effects of sin are still there But as believers, we have the opportunity to mitigate those and become more and more like Christ, and therefore more and more like his design for the marriage to begin with. Make sense? It's hard, but is it worth working toward? You bet You bet. Lots of dividends from that Okay, so we're going to introduce here a variety of ways that God's design for marriage has been uh corrupted, perverted, violated. Um And this probably is not an exhaustive list, but it's some of the things that that just jump out at you from Scripture and some of the the fallout of sin I I just to kind of start that off, in uh 1 Corinthians six, you might be familiar with this passage, nine through eleven, or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers, will inherit the kingdom of God That's the bad news. The good news is verse 11. Such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified. But you are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ in the Spirit of our God. We're going to talk more about the impact of salvation later But I think it's somewhat telling that four out of ten specific examples of sin, egregious sin which I the four that I highlighted there have to do with sexual sin that have a bearing on the marriage relationship. Um that's how pervasive it is. Alright, so let's look at some of these. Uh everybody's favorite is polygamy. Um it's such a good thing let's have more than one wife, right? Um And so the first example that we see is in Genesis 4. It doesn't take long, right? Lamech took to himself two wives. And of course, as you read through Genesis, you see that becoming more and more common, even with Abraham, Jacob particularly. The law, which came later, you see in Leviticus and Deuteronomy, said specifically, you shall not marry a woman in addition to her sister Who do you think that was pointing to? Jacob. A lot l after Jacob's time, of course. Deuteronomy 17 Uh in the context here, well let's go ahead and read it. When you enter the land which the Lord your God gives you, and you possess it and live in it, and you say, I will set a king over me like the nations that are all around me, which in fact is what they did. Right? Verse fifteen, you shall surely set a king over you, uh, whom the Lord your God chooses, one from among your countrymen, and so on. But then it says in verse 17, he shall not multiply wives for himself, or else his heart will turn away. And several places we see in scripture where God warned not to multiply wives. And uh Arguably the wisest man who ever lived was a fool because he violated that, right? Do you know how many wives and concubines he had? If you add together seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines, that's a thousand. I can't even remember a thousand names. Anyway, and you see what it did to them. What what it did to him, what it did to the nation of Israel, because of his poor example We're going to come back to that. Well no round the topic. Flip over to the FAQs on page 24. Down at the bottom, why didn't God prohibit or punish polygamy in the Old Testament? That's a common question. Um top of page twenty nine. The answer basically, I believe is it's very similar to what Jesus said to the Pharisees who came to him and asking about Why does God permit divorce? Actually, they didn't use the word permit. Jesus did. And his answer was because of the hardness of men's hearts. I think that's what's going on here. And I think what God was doing in permitting these sinful Polygamous marriages for a time was showing very graphically how idiotic the idea is. So if you look at the examples of it in Scripture, what do you see? Conflict. Jealousy. And yet, God in his wisdom that's beyond any of us Was able to work through that idiocy to bring about the twelve tribes of Israel, which helped to fulfill his plan of salvation. He didn't endorse it. He worked through it in spite of the sin to accomplish what he wanted to accomplish. Um so I think the answer is if if if you want to look to the Bible For a reason not to have polygus polygamous marriage, what you're going to go to is all the examples where it just doesn't make sense. It ought to be a warning to us, because the people who thought it was a good idea probably regretted the idea. So um that's the answer to that one I guess. Alright, so we're back on page twenty. Adultery. Lots of examples, of course, of adultery, commandments against adultery. including in the Ten Commandments. Lots of case studies, if-then kind of things that you get in the law, particularly Deuteronomy. One of the ones I like is in Proverbs 7, which goes on at quite some length. talking about a nitwit who walks in the wrong part of town and gets um seduced by uh someone else's wife and uh It the terminology here is is amazing. Um with her lips Flattering lips, she seduces him. Suddenly he follows her in, he follows her as an ox goes to slaughter. Or as one in fetters to the discipline of a fool, as a bird listens to uh hastens to the snare Not realizing you're gonna get caught, you just ruff fly right into it. So he does not know that it will cost him his life Now therefore, my sons, listen to me and pay attention to the words of my mouth. Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways Do not stray into her paths. That's what he did. He strayed into her path. He should have known better. You know? Um You know, in the Christian life we have three major categories of battle we do. Foes, which are what? Well pride kinda goes with all of them. But um the world, the flesh, and the devil. Right? What is our what should be our response to the enticements of the world? The world meaning the world value system. Do not be conformed to this world but what? Transformed. Transformed by the renewal of your mind. How do we renew our mind? Scripture, what is true, right? The flesh. Well no the the devil. What's our what's to be our response to the temptations of the devil? Do what? No. Stand firm, therefore, with the with the armor of God. Multiple places in the New Testament, particularly, it says to stand firm and he will flee from you. Why? He's defeated. Right? But what is the admonition when we're faced with temptations of the flesh? To flee. Flee. Make no provision for the flesh. What did this Nitwit in Proverbs 7 not do? He didn't flee. He made provision for the flesh Because he didn't flee. Anyway, the sin of adultery has been around for a long, long time. And again, you would think that people would learn the lesson that it doesn't pay. Well it pays. It just pays in grief and further problems. Okay. Let's go to the next one. Incest. That's um Well, in Leviticus eighteen, none of you shall approach any blood relative of his to uncover nakedness, that is, to have sexual relations with a a blood relative. And he goes on with lots of examples and so on there. That's just not God's design. Now, the obvious question is well where did Cain get his wife? Where where did Abe uh yeah, where did Cain get his wife? Wouldn't that have violated this? Well, I would say half of the things that I think. A distant relative, yeah. All these preceded the law. Cain's wife was his sister, had to be. Lots of unnamed brothers and sisters, according to Genesis 5. And so early on the gene pool was such that that um intermarriage within close relations and so on was not a problem, biologically even, but by the time of the law, God says, don't do that Right? And um people who are more medically inclined can Tell me about the the problems with I mean you see it even in in breeding uh animals, dogs, that you want diversity, you don't want to narrow the gene pool Anyway, um incest is probably not a huge problem, but it's right up there with with adultery, right? It's not good. Uh on page twenty-one again, uh the fornication that's like adultery But it's um not necessarily done by a married person. That's really the only difference. Um and so uh sometimes The Greek word pornea is translated in English as fornication But that word pornea, as you'll see in Appendix 1, really means any kind of sexual immorality. It can certainly include uh fornication. It can include adultery as well. It's any kind of, and it's used this way in scripture, any kind of sexual immorality And so here again in uh Romans thirteen make no provision for the flesh. Right? 1 Corinthians 6, flee immorality. And on the next page, 2 Timothy 2. 22, flee from youthful lust. Our the admonition to us is to flee. Make no provision for it. Homosexual behavior. Notice it's characterized as behavior. It's not an inborn trait. God didn't create anybody. To be a homosexual. People conduct themselves with homosexual behavior because of a perverse way of thinking God was very clear in Scripture that that's anunna. And and um It's too often misunderstood in our context, in our culture. Uh you're all familiar with Romans 1. How God gave them over to a depraved mind, and so on. Okay, bestiality That's probably pretty rare these days, but it was specifically outlawed in in the law. Gender dysphoria. What is that? confusion about your gender. God made male and female to be complementary, not interchangeable. You didn't used to have to explain that to people, but our culture is just so deviant in his understanding that we have to be more specific today. Um Pornography. You know that word I mentioned earlier in Greek, porneia? That's where we get the term pornography. Now that's a big problem, even among Christians apparently. Job famously said, I have made a covenant with my eyes. How then could I gaze at a virgin? That is lust after her. Right? And of course Jesus said, just the lusting is as bad as adultery, because it's all happening in the heart, regardless. Um and let's not let's not fool ourselves. Um And then the next chapter on the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 6, top of page 23 Jesus said the eye is the lamp of the body, so then if your eye is clear your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, does that mean you need glasses? No, it means you're taking in the wrong things with your eyes. Um your whole body will be full of darkness If you're looking at dark things, what's going to be filling your heart and your conscience and your values is dark things. James 1. But each one is tempted when he's carried away and enticed by his own lust. Thus, when lust is conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. It's quite a contrast, right? It brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Jesus said that as I said, um that lusting is morally equivalent to the act of adultery itself. It all starts in the heart. So what's the lesson for us? We need to train the heart according to what is true, what is right, what is good, right? And not focus solely on the actions, but let's get our heart right. So those actions aren't going to be an issue. Right? Okay, there are a couple more that that often crop up in marriages. have to do with neglect and verbal abuse. Um The idea with neglect here is responsibility of the husbandman to provide for his wife. And when he's deficient in that, Exodus says Uh you know, y where the boundaries are here, you you've got to provide for her in these very tangible, realistic, necessary ways. Um and Paul has this in mind, I think, when in 1 Corinthians seven he says, stop depriving one another. Um he's meaning that that um marital intimacy that both the husband and the wife enjoy and it's their um exclusive um responsibility and joy and not to deprive one another So neglect can touch lots of different dimensions there. Um Verbal abuse is is something that we term it as these days. Scripture tends to use the word reviling. Um and so in First Corinthians five, um I am writing to you not to associate with any so-called brother if he is a sexually immoral person or greedy or an idolater or a reviler. Or a drunkard or a swintler, not even to eat with such a one. Uh a reviler is Um someone who is abusive in their speech intentionally. Um And you can just imagine what that does to a marriage, right? Um okay I've got some FAQs here. Is a wedding necessary? I'll let you read that. The answer is yes. But the format of it is often It depends on culture, you know, there's traditions and and so on. The key is that a marriage needs and we're going to talk about that a little bit more. We talked about it the first week a little bit, that it's a it's a um a public covenanting together before God. And the public part of it is important for accountability purposes. And this is what we see in Scripture. And, you know We've got the example of Isaac marrying Rebecca. She's brought to him. He brings her into his mother's tent and they get married. So that can be as simple as that, right? Well, I don't think you're gonna want Isaac and Rebecca's method of courtship. It's it's an arranged marriage. And uh neither one well, she had more say in it than he did. Right? Um but the families were involved. And it was a it was a publicly arranged marriage. Anyway, more principles in there. And um The last one on page twenty-five, why does God or why does the New Testament prohibit polygamy only for elders and deacons in the church? Well, mostly it's because It was counter-cultural even then, and these were people who needed to be examples to the church. And Still is the case today. Anyway, we're just about at time. Any other thoughts, questions, clarifications? Wouldn't it be nice if there weren't any sin? So we're going to talk about various um various ways to navigate marriages and conflict in marriage given sin. But that's s certainly how it gets hard. Definitely. All right, well let's go ahead and pray. Father, thank you for your word that you give us Explicit commands, you give us principles, you give us examples and counterexamples in Scripture, all for our benefit. We acknowledge that even we who are your children are still beset by sins. We still have baggage that we're carrying. But we thank you that you are progressively making us more and more like Christ. Help us in our marriages, in our our relationships, to be growing in Christlieness. Lord, we know that would make life easier for us and those around us, but we also know it would bring you the most glory. And that's what we pray for. In Jesus' name. Amen.