Well good morning everybody. Uh let's open the word of prayer. Father, thank you for this new day that you've given us and the opportunity we have to gather together in your name to worship you, to be fed by your word, to encourage one another, and pray that our time here, even this hour, would be Honoring to you that it you would use it in our hearts to strengthen us and that you would be glorified We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Does everybody have a copy of the notes? Jeff has a few extra if you need some. We are on On lesson seven in the notes. Last week we um Started our discussion of divorce, having laid a foundation of what the biblical understanding of and God's design for marriage was. Um and so last week Gabe surveyed the Old Testament. Um although, as he said, there weren't a whole lot of verses in the Old Testament, uh passages to focus on. Um that's as we're now turning to the New Testament, that's not um as much of a problem. There are lots of passages that are very relevant to our topic in the New Testament. And that's both a good thing and a challenge. The good thing, of course, is God's revealed more. The challenge is it's easy to get stuck on one passage without taking into account all the other passages. And Unfortunately, I think a lot of people have done that. And I think we're all prone to that. We need the big picture, we need to see what God has revealed, uh, and very often that's going to um affect our interpretation of any single passage. Because nowhere did Jesus give everything that is to be known about divorce. Nowhere did Paul give everything that was to be known about divorce. And we're going to do neither of those today. What I want to do today is answer the question. What ends a marriage prior to divorce? And so the problem, the challenge we have is that We would like to be able to just zero in on on on some passages, which we're actually actually going to do next week and the following week. But before doing that, we want to step back and take a bigger picture, kind of set the context, and then see where this comes from over the next couple of weeks. See what I mean? Um we've also, I don't know if you've noticed, we've provided in the bibliography, a list of sources uh that uh we're familiar with. There are others as well Uh but just by way of warning, not all those uh resources, books and so on um are in agreement with each other. In fact, I'm not sure I completely agree with any of them. There's so many views out there even among very very dedicated Bible believing evangelical in the very conservative use of that term uh people um which ought to alert us to the need to be very careful about everything Scripture is saying to us, right? And not just run off with um a favorite interpretation or relying just on one passage. And so because it's going to take us multiple weeks to process those various passages carefully, um you're not going to be able to get the full picture until we've done that over the course of several weeks. But I wanted today to provide sort of a um a introduction that's going to depend on things we're going to be studying learning the next couple of weeks. Okay? Just to kind of put that in context. Okay. So the problem. To answer this question What ends a marriage prior to death, you would think that would be a simple thing, simple question to answer But it turns out it's not, and we've got a problem here at the very least. For example, if divorce ends a marriage, then why would remarrying constitute adultery. And you see various passages that indicate that that is at least a possibility. But then on the other hand, if divorce doesn't end a marriage, then why is believer any believer free from the marriage bond? after a divorce. And we see examples of that of course in 1 Corinthians 7, which we'll look at in a couple of weeks. So you've got this conundrum. Does a divorce end a marriage or not? If not, what does end a marriage, if anything? And so let me offer a couple of potential solutions here. His first solution is that, well, only divorce on the grounds of pornea ends a marriage. But what is pornea? Punea is the the Greek word that's used throughout the New Testament to refer to What most translations refer to as sexual immorality, or just plain immorality It's used in these key passages like Matthew and in 1 Corinthians. And Jesus provides that as an exception to the general rule that he's giving in both Matthew five and Matthew nineteen. Um by the way, a lot of people um when they're discussing exceptions or permissible uh r biblical biblically permissible reasons for a divorce They often cite the shorthand adultery and desertion. Well, what they mean by adultery is cornea, because that's the word actually used in scripture. Um in both Matthew 5 and Matthew 19, where Jesus provided that exception. The word adultery is also in the context But the w the exception itself is not the word for adultery, it's pornea. What is pornea? It's generally any kind of sexual immorality. And we have a An appendix, uh appendix one on page seventy-six of your notes, that goes into the the New Testament usage of that word and how uh uh how broadly it can be understood and how what what are the uh uh examples of its use in the New Testament. Okay. So the idea here with this first solution that only divorce on the grounds of pornea ends a marriage is that it would seem to explain Christ's uh statements in the gospels. For example, on the previous page, page 42, I'm not gonna go over All of these things today they're basically there as a reference. Kind of a shorthand uh overview of the key New Testament passages. But when Jesus, for example, says in Matthew 5, 32, everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchastity, That word on chastity is pornea, makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. Um and likewise with uh Matthew nineteen. So one way to interpret that is that Um any divorce other than for Cornia um doesn't end the marriage Uh one way people describe that is they're still married in God's eyes. Because in God's eyes, that marriage is still a valid marriage. even though they've divorced each other, they've done so sinfully, improperly. Well there's a problem with that explanation. In fact, that used to be my understanding until I studied further. Um one problem with that is it doesn't explain that second part of our original problem. Why a divorced person and one whose unbelieving spouse leaves are permitted to remarry very explicitly. Um after those kinds of divorces. Freeing up the the believing spouse from the bonds of marriage. And so if uh that impermissible or even permissible divorce, but particularly the impermissible ones, did not end the marriage, then um we wouldn't be able to explain Why with this proposed solution? Also, if two Christians divorce on grounds that are not permitted They're considered unmarried in 1 Corinthians 7. Now, Paul uses that term unmarried. Not the way we would normally use it, because in 1 Corinthians 7, he speaks of several kinds of people, those who are married. those who are widowed, those who are virgins, and those who are unmarried. And he distinguishes between those unmarried and widows Inverse five and seven. Seven um anyway, seven uh eight and 8 and 9. An unmarried person is different from a widow, and then later on it he distinguishes the unmarried person from a virgin. So if they're unmarried but they're not a widow or a virgin, they're previously married And none of those categories, all that's left is they're divorced. And so unmarried in that sense has the meaning of unhitched. Unmarried, unhitched. essentially. Um get into that more in a couple of weeks when we get into First Corinthians seven. But the point is They're not still married in God's eyes. They're unhitched. So simply saying that only divorce on the grounds of pornea ends a marriage Isn't the complete answer. It helps us to understand some of the passages, but doesn't address everything. So a second solution is that all divorces end the marriage, but only a permitted divorce gives the innocent divorcing spouse the right to remarry. That is an unpermitted divorce doesn't change who someone should be married to. And I've noted several authors who uh proposed that solution. So claiming a right to remarry or assuming a right to remarry when in fact their impermissible divorce doesn't give them the right to do so, ends up in adultery if they remarry. So that's still consistent with Christ's statements in the Gospels. And the right to remarry after an unpermitted divorce. Is possible in this view only when one of the following things happens. So if the other spouse remarries then the Divorced spouse, the one let's just take a quick example. Let's say the husband divorces the wife for an impermissible reason And the husband remarries. Is the wife Free to marry someone else. Well first of all, is she free to mar remarry her original husband And the answer is no. That's pretty clear from the example in Deuteronomy and um so that that prevents her from reconciling with her original spouse. As we'll see in a couple of weeks. Uh in 1 Corinthians 7 The Apostle Paul addresses two Christians who have divorced, separate um permanently separated, they've divorced. He cautions them not To remarry, either one of them. But rather to pursue what? Reconciliation. And this would be consistent with that. Um another reason a spouse who is uh divorced for impermissible reasons is freed to remarry is if the other spouse dies. Again, precluding the possibility of that reconciliation. Right? And so at top of page 45 Four. What that means then is sort of what I explained earlier that that illegitimately divorced people should remain unmarried seeking to reconcile if they're both Christians. Now what if one of them is not a Christian? Is that reconciliation Because the divorce ended the marriage. Any reconciliation that actually happened would require, in their case, remarriage. But if one of us is an unbeliever That would violate if the their remarriage would violate uh the passages later in 1 Corinthians 7 about marrying only in the Lord, believers, right? So you can see how this can get very complex very quickly. So this explanation, this solution, solution number two uh presumes that the divorced woman, let's assume it it's a woman, in 1 Corinthians 7, 8-9, was already freed from the bonds of marriage. Because in that those verses eight and nine. It refers to the widow and the unmarried, but doesn't give any background at all on why that person is unmarried divorced. Uh it's just silent on it. But there are here's some possible scenarios. That would fit that kind of person. So as we mentioned, her previous husband has died after the divorce. She can no longer pursue reconciliation with him. Or this unmarried, that is divorced, woman divorced her husband on grounds that are permissible. She was the innocent party. Right. Or C, her husband divorced her sinfully But he remarried, again blocking her from reuniting with him. Or her husband who divorced her or whom she were do uh divorced, uh was an unbeliever. And so They're unmarried. He's an unbeliever. She's blocked from remarrying him. Now she can pursue um reconciliation on on um personal interaction kind of terms and forgiveness and the benefits of Christ and and Reach out to him, evangelistically still, but while he's an unbeliever, she's blocked from remarrying. him. So she's very much like the one whose unbelieving husband left, who is explicitly given in First Corinthians seven uh the freedom to remarry. Okay. Lots of scenarios But I just want to give you some overarching themes here, trying to answer that question, what actually ends in marriage? Before we go into that in more detail, I wanted to highlight a couple of considerations here on page 44. In a divorce on the grounds other than Pornea, where we've got very the explicit instructions. The the spouse who is put away which is sometimes the terminology used, which means divorced, um, but put away unilaterally by the divorcing spouse, um, that person has not necessarily con consented to the divorce. We often use the term innocent spouse. Innocent in the terms of not being the sinning cause of the divorce. Every divorce is initiated because of sin. Right? God's design is that marriage ends only in death. So any any divorce happens because there has been sin somewhere It could have been on the part of both of them, or it could have been on the part of only one of them. And in this case, if if the the wife, for example was divorced sinfully by her husband, in other words, for an i illegitimate reason, then um It is a good likelihood that she disagreed with the reasons for divorce. If she really is innocent, she's not the center here in this case. Um she didn't consent to the divorce. Except perhaps in some cases under duress and there's no option. He really wanted out that kind of a thing. But after that divorce, if she Fairly soon marry someone else. What does that suggest? She really has bought into that divorce, agreed with it, and just moved on. But if she hasn't, and particularly um if she's been pursuing uh you know um reconciliation, forgiveness, uh even evangeliz evangelizing her her ex husband And she's um not taking any initiative to say that I agree with this. Uh that's different From um agreeing with it and um moving on in life, getting married again, uh which after an unpermitted divorce would not be um God's will. God's will is for them to reunite. But if her divorcing husband himself remarried And the divorce wasn't her idea, it wasn't her um uh she wasn't supportive of the whole idea, she just Had no choice. And he remarries. Then she's blocked anyway at this point from reconciling with him. And um so the timing of any and the remarriage there influences what options are still open. And so Paul's advice in First Corinthians seven is if particularly if they're both Christians, um, don't remarry. Work on the reconciliation. So let me give s give a summary here. on the bottom of page 44. Again, all divorces, and by the way, of those two solutions Um my current understanding of scripture leads me to agree with the second one. So the summary of the solution is that all I'm sorry, yes. I have a question about that one. Yeah. Um we there's a lot I'm not gonna be able to give you examples at the moment, but aren't there a lot of Old Testament rules and laws that we don't follow anymore? So why are we pulling this one Old Testament law of remarry your spouse your former staff that you were some other reasons. Like why are we pulling that one and saying this one needs so many uh if there's so many other rules and laws that say they're on applied. Yeah, good question. Um in case the recording didn't capture it. The question is, yeah on page 44, the reference to Deuteronomy 24 that we talked about uh last week. Um why do we lean on that as governing our decision making and the facts of the case today when we don't follow the law. I mean we're freed from the law Right. Well the answer I would give is that passage as Pastor Gabe described it last week, is not so much a law. You must do this. And Jesus actually uh in in responding to the Pharisees who wanted him to take sides on what that passage in Deuteronomy twenty-four really means said um Moses didn't command anything there. He was permitting divorce. Divorces were happening anyway. But the point of Deuteronomy twenty-four was there are circumstances when If there is a divorce and there are complicating factors like remarriage, then there are consequences. And the consequences cited there are extreme. Terms like abomination and um what's the other term there? Evil in the in the land. Um and so at the very least People should understand that that's a s an extreme departure from God's design. And not uh not a good thing. And so what principles, I mean there are plenty of principles that we glean from the Old Testament that um that we don't forsake, right? And When Jesus provided that explanation in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew five He prefaced all that by saying that he didn't come to abolish the law, but to fulfill it. And not one jot or pitl is going to be um fall away But rather fulfilled. Um he fulfilled not just the ceremonial aspects of the law, which we don't need to follow. But he's also the fulfillment of the moral aspects of the law. And um So is there a principle in Deuteronomy twenty-four that supersedes the the confines of the law? And I would argue yes. There's something very significant about remarriage after an unlawful divorce that God calls an abomination. that we would be very wise to avoid. Yeah. Um and not every rule that's listed in Litigas and equal and purpose. So like when you just talk about the genus initiative. And so it's like what are the purpose of these laws? What are what was their goal? Why were they made in the first place? And marriages were being treated as something very like not sacred. They were they were divorces being given away for no reason and like why did Christ make this statement? with it in the context of. So for the deuteronomy deuteronomy reference from what I'm understanding is that this isn't just like one rule in a list of of many. This is marriage has always had a specific place. And so we're using this as evidence of, okay, you you you've divorced, but now you married someone else, then you decided you wanted to go back to your wife. Is that okay? No. Like you you have done this thing. if you do this this is even more evil because it violates the purpose of marriage. And that has to do with what is the purpose of marriage, what is the the the image and why was it created, was it a reflection of just like what were the sacrifices reflection of what was their purpose, why were you know why don't we do the drink off? Well because Christ participated, you know. Yeah, no, I I agree. Yeah. Um lots of um alternate views of deuteronomy or yeah deuteronomy twenty four. Um Pastor Gabe mentioned three of them that were popular among the Jews uh covering the wide range of possible explanations. Um but all of those were neglecting the main point of that thing, which was the abomination that was so much of a concern and what would cause that abomination. Yeah. Yeah. Do you want to explain that a little bit? Sure. Uh so one of the things we didn't get to last week was uh one way another way of understanding the actual law that's being put on that is that um uh there is in in the unwritten law that that at least as far as we have it There was a uh a loophole in the law that legalized adultery in the sense that you can be with any woman you want, just as long as you file the right paperwork. If you can divorce your wife Marry another wife and then when you're tired with her go back to your former wife as long as the the paperwork is right, you know, you've s uh submitted the issue the uh certificate of divorce, then you're good to go. And so what Deuteronomy twenty four verse four seems to be doing is saying, no, no, no, once you divorce your wife, that's it. You can't go back to her. And so it would kind of close that loophole and and cause, hopefully, a man to think seriously and not treat marriage so flippantly. And And Alan was mentioning the principle. Is there a principle we can derive? And I think a very significant passage in our understanding of Deuteronomy 24, verse 4, is Jeremiah chapter 3, which says, if a man divorces, his wife and she goes from him and becomes another man's wife, will he return to her? That's the same exact scenario as Deuteronomy 24. If you divorce your wife, become another man's and and she the wife becomes another man's wife, will the first husband go back to his former wife. And then the Lord says, Would not that land be greatly polluted? And then he applies this to Israel, saying, You have played the whore with many lovers, and would you return to me? And so again, there's this principle of legalized whoredom to use the biblical term there, uh, that Deuteronomy 24 is trying to cut off And so the principle, the higher level principle that I think is consistent between the the entirety of God's revelation is his design of one relationship, one marriage for life, uh, and if if we treat it as if you know, as long as you file the right paperwork, you can go back to you know one or multiple former lives, then we are uh implicitly undermining God's design. And so I think that's that's the underlying principle that um Is is being don't there in Jeremiah twenty four and then affirmed there in Jeremiah three, uh applied to God's relationship with his people. But I mean we still have the temple at Jerusalem, so you know we're still sacrificing what's the price? unthinkable. So it's it's still like you're still breaking that that promise, that vow with the Lord, which is the whole point of the reflection on the shadow of marriage, that's the man entitled by the Lord with the church. So it's like why is this an abomination because we all do that with God. Yeah. Yeah, good way to put it. Thanks. I love the discussion. So back to the summary of the solution here. Um all divorces and the marriage Whether the divorce is permitted or unpermitted, it ends the marriage. That's what a divorce does. No divorce, though, is required By Scripture. No divorce is required. In the case of an unbelieving spouse leaving his or her marriage with a Christian The Christian is in is no longer bound by the marriage and is free to remarry a believer. Paul deals explicitly with that scenario in 1 Corinthians 7. Divorce on the grounds of pornea frees the innocent spouse to remarry. But uh we provide More information in lesson 13, that's at the end of our class, about the importance of first seeking repentance and reconciliation. Come back to that in a minute. And then E, on top of page 45, divorce for any other reason among believers Does not give either spouse a right to remarry. They should rather seek to reconcile with their former spouse until it's clear that it's not possible to um but as long as it's possible and not blocked That's what they should pursue. If they do remarry someone else when they have no right to do so, that's what constitutes adultery and blocks any possibility for reuniting. with the original spouse. Yeah, question. So children be both um inside school and then they can't be married? If two believers divorce divorce, thermometic babies should not remarry They should not remarry anybody else. Yeah, that we'll cover that in 1 Corinthians 7. Okay. So what Paul instructs them to do is to work on that reconciliation with each other. And we understand that to mean that if at least one of them doesn't do that and remarries somebody else then the other one who is left holding the bag has no option to reunite with the first one. And so they're free to marry someone else at that point because they have been blocked from doing what God would prefer. So um and if I'm jumping down here that you're gonna discuss this in future weeks, that's fine. But so I I see the references of being free from from the bonds of marriage. And and our take here is once you're free from the bonds of marriage you have the right to remarry. It's not I I can see where if you're free from the bonds of marriage, you're free from your commitment to your spouse or former spouse, but I don't see the permission to remarry. First Corinthians seven. In the particular example of um an unbelieving spouse who leaves, um no longer bound to that original spouse, is free to remarry only in the Lord. Is the stipulation. So that's that's considered the permission. Okay. Yeah. Which verse of that? Two believers divorce for un permissible reason and one of them remarried you? and still can't remarry because wouldn't that make her an inlitrous wouldn't that the whole point of that works? Um that's where there's a lot of um uh different views are actually believers, not people who claim that they're believers. Yeah. Actual believers. Yeah. And one of them remarries. And if that woman does get remarried to the man leaves, then wouldn't isn't that first saying that that woman would become an adulteress if she were to be married? We're gonna get to that in 1 Corinthians 7. But uh that is where a l uh there's one place where there's a lot of um uh uh uh different views, even among um uh solid Bobble believing Christians. And so we need to take the entirety of Scripture into account. Not just working each case by case in one little verse. And Yeah. So I I a second ago someone asked about first nineteen seven and the topic of remarriage in a case of um spouse walking away. And someone asked Where does it mention remarriage? Someone said verse fifteen, but I don't see it in verse fifteen. No, it's it's later. So I guess when I read twelve through fifteen, I don't see anything in marriage. That's one reason why well no hang on, twelve through fifteen. That's specifically addressing those who are married to unbelievers. Christians who are married to unbelievers, right? And so hang on here's possible. Are you taking the not under bond as permission to remain or is that how you it's certain it's certainly consistent with that, but I'm trying to find the verse And we're good there we're gonna get there in uh two weeks. I just can't find out my notes real quick. Um Yeah, it could be thirty-nine. What's that say? There it is, yeah. Yeah, on page sixty one of the notes if you're interested. A wife is bound as long as her husband lives. But if her husband is dead, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. But in my opinion, she is happier if she remains dead. She is sort of like Paul is. And so that's that's um clearly the case when a spouse has died. And the question becomes, does that become the guiding principle also when a um An unbelieving spouse leaves, divorces a Christian, and that frees her up She's no longer bound by that marriage. And she's no longer bound by that marriage. What are the implications? Well the implication is she's freed up to marry someone else. Because she's she's blocked from reconciling with him. He's an unbeliever. So are we equating uh being blocked from reconciling as free to remarry? Is that is that a one for one is that what we're saying those two things are equivalent? I think maybe that's my fundamental question. Yeah. Or are there cases where someone should just stay on there? Yeah, the rationale there you've got those two different possibilities. The rationale typically given for that person needs to stay unmarried is that she's still married in God's eyes. But that can be true because divorce really does end to marriage. The question is, does she have permission to remarry after the death of her spouse? Absolutely. After a divorce from an unbelieving spouse, that's a an inference drawn from the broader scope. Well specifically from a crisis that and some are not very easily a person that marries for any other reason other than you know, country or uh Yeah, but he wasn't talking about remarriage there. Well he was what he was talking about if it is remarriage it's considered adultery. So it's it's like what is considered of an abomination and stuff, you know. 'Cause it's like it's 'cause then it's addressing two beliefs. believers instead of or a believer in an unbeliever, are they bound as a pass to say if they leave, is reconciliation a part of it? Isn't that what Paul is talking about in this passage? Is the reconciliation part so what makes a person Yeah. Um so the the the question the specific question was are we interpreting or are we equating being blocked from that reconciliation to being um free to remarry. And I guess the practical answer to that question is yes. That's how I would understand it. But not every Bible believing Christian would answer that, yes. I would admit that. Okay. Real quick. Uh yes. Are you also when you get to first Corinthians seven, are you is it gonna how the last part of 15 and 16 is going to tie in. Because if we have the you know, if we're equating she's not under bondage bondage with me, she can be married, how does that marry in to how God has called it to peace, how do you know whether you'll save your husband or your wife? But if you go and remarry, how is that going to create any kind of peace? And the the goal of bringing your husband or wife to salvation. That usually a lot like they last years. And then you're like, well, okay, I'm done with this. That's not gonna tie in with our sixteen. Would you mind holding that until we get to the first Corinthians silence? I think that would be helpful. Thanks. Um but this is good. It's it it it shows why you really need to Understand all the va all the passages in the context of all the passages rather than just jump on it in one verse or or a small number of verses. Anyway, um now I lost my place. So what I want to do in a couple of minutes We have left is actually answer the question more explicitly, um, which is what really ends a marriage. So remember that Marriage is a covenant, a mutual covenant, very specific, and it's it's a solemn Covenant. It's um um it it it's because of God's design, it's uh according to his uh blessing and what God joins together, Jesus said let no one separate. It's a commitment, a marriage covenant to each other. Where does that commitment take place? It takes place in So if that if that commitment is broken, If the marriage covenant is broken, and it is if at least one of the spouses completely forsakes the promise they once made. And the commitment that it was made. Um A formal divorce merely puts that on record. But what initiates it really at its heart. The forsaking of the covenant, of the marriage covenant. And on point C there The observation here is that that operates very similar to how repentance happens. So what is repentance? And I'm not talking about repentance. from any marital sin, but just generally. What is repentance? Okay, we give it the connotation of turning away, but why So it's it's uh r it's a confession, a r an acknowledgement that we've sinned, right? That's essential. But um at its root, what is well the word repentance in the Greek is metanoia Sounds a little bit like paranoia. For good reason. The noia part has to do with your mind The metanoia is a change of mind. Meta change. What's going on? Scripture uses the terms mind, heart, soul, interchangeably. It's the real us on the inside. Right? Um and so when someone repents they change their mind about that sin. Which means what? They're forsaking the sin. I'm no longer clinging to it I'm forsaking it and substitute that with latching on to Christ. That's what gives it the connotation of turning. It's forsaking The sin. Turning away from it. Um confessing it is one thing, but confessing it and going on to do it again Suggests there's what? No repentance. Right? So it's the forsaking of the sin. Um it doesn't mean you'll never do that sin again But what? I don't want to. I want to leave it. I see it's evil in God's eyes I want his help to avoid that. That's repentance. Right? But at its core, it's happening on the inside. But genuine repentance How do we know someone has repented? There's evidence of it on the outside, right? And so depending on the nature of the sin, um those outward evidences could be whatever's appropriate example of turning away, repenting from that sin. Well, that same process is what happens when somebody forsakes their marriage covenant. Where does that happen? In the heart. And um what's needed Well, genuine repentance, just the opposite, right? Forsake the sin. But when someone forsakes that covenant Like Israel forsaked her covenant with God, that broke the relationship. God was long-suffering with Israel, but eventually he divorced her, he said, because she had forsaken Her covenant with the Lord. And like in the case of repentance, when someone forsakes their marriage covenant That happens in the heart, you don't see that. But you will see evidences of it. It could depending on the the situation um any number of things. But it's not the actions that are the issue. They merely reveal what's already happened in the heart the forsaking of the marriage covenant. Does that make sense? Yeah, I think we'll see that that's what's happening in both um the the gospel text that we'll look at next week and 1 Corinthians 7 As well. Okay. Final related question. Does the act of pornea end the marriage? No. Does some kind of sexual immorality uh necessarily mean that the person involved has forsaken their marriage covenant. No, it could be an it could be an indication But what do you need to do? Check. Is this really a forsaking of the marriage covenant? Or is it something that they're repenting from? And reconciliation is possible. Right? So while Ponea, according to Jesus, is a permissible basis for salvation. or f for divorce, sorry, permissible basis for divorce, it's not it doesn't necessarily lead to divorce. It doesn't certainly require a divorce Because what would Jesus prefer? Reconciliation? Well and and maybe this is a good time to to say that in all of this What ought to be on everybody's mind is what would glorify God the most. If both parties, if all the parties, would just answer that question honestly. I think it would solve a lot of problems. What would honor God the most? Um Okay. I think we're out of time. I'm out of breath. Uh let's close in prayer. Father, we do thank you for your word. Um often we we um would wish that uh you were more detailed and and clear in every single passage, but uh you've called us to understand your word in its entirety And we pray that you'd give us uh the patience and the the diligence to do that. And again, Lord, so that all that we say and do would in fact Be what would bring you the most glory. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.