So last week we worked through just a basic outline of what God's design for marriage is in its broad strokes. There is no way that we can cover every passage and every facet of marriage that Scripture teaches. In fact I think it's two weeks from now that Pastor Allen will be maybe it's next week, I can't remember exactly. You can see it in your outline. Uh that we'll we'll do a whole class session on Ephesians 4, 22 to 33. Sorry, Ephesians 5, 22 to 33. But I don't think we really even touch, for example, 1 Peter chapter 3 verses one through seven in this course. That's the passage that speaks to wives who are married to either unbelieving or disobedient husbands and then husbands how they are to love their wives in an understanding way. I just in the scope of the of this course, we're not going to cover every single passage that there is uh in the Old and New Testament that speaks to marriage. We're really just trying to provide in the context of a 13-week class, the broad strokes of God's design for marriage. And then again we'll look at the what the Bible says about divorce as an outflow, as a as a consequence of sin in this world. Uh and then talk about remarriage and under what circumstances uh is remarriage something that we can um engage in for those who have been uh divorced. So uh our aim is to just walk through the scripture as carefully and and faithfully as we can. Recognizing that uh in every community of people, including Hope Bible Church, there are all kinds of circumstances, all kinds of of pasts, of suffering, of sin that people have experienced. And um when we get to those more challenging topics of um divorce and remarriage Our aim is to just look at what the Scripture says and compass compassionately recognize what God's design is, how sin has distorted that in our lives. And uh what do we do with that? How how do we honor the Lord in the face of the consequences of sin So that's kind of an outlay for the the rest of the class. But for today, we're in lesson number two, God created men and women to be complementary. the spelling there is really important. Uh it's not complementary with an I, it's complementary with an E. Yes we are to compliment one another and say nice things to each other But the point here is how has God designed us to fit together where strengths are matched with weaknesses, where we have different tendencies that when joined together are a blessed combination uh for the fullness of what God has designed marriage to be. So that's we're gonna what we're gonna look at today. And we're gonna recognize, as it says there in that middle of that first paragraph But the traits listed below do not necessarily describe all men and all women, but are valid generalizations. So we know that uh with every individual there's uh varying degrees of expressions and tendencies. of masculine traits and feminine traits, right? And so the point here is not to draw hard lines that only women are like this and only men are like this No, there's all of these matters are a spectrum and based on how God has designed each one of us, uh we are all different in our manifestation of these traits. But I think we intuitively know that there are some categorical uh um traits uh that are masculine and feminine that are still overlapped between the two sexes And frankly, that transcend culture and time. So let's begin with the masculine traits. First of all, one of the more obvious Ones is that uh God designed males to be physically stronger than females. Uh now there are many women that are stronger than some of us men because of their exercise routine and their involvement in various um, you know, uh exercise competitions and and and whatnot. But as a whole we understand that biologically male males have more muscle mass than female, which is what makes the the whole transgender sports uh issue and issue. And you know the Bible doesn't explicitly say this in terms of the biology, but it speaks of the reality that men are more involved in war, in in battle than others, that there's strength in men that is unique to males. Second Kings 24, 16, all men of valor, 7,000 and the craftsmen and the smiths, 1,000, all strong and fit. for war, right? So that's just a description of men who are strong and fit for war. And that's you won't find a statement like that in the scripture About women, right? That's just not the way that God has designed women for the purpose of engaging in battle. Or Proverbs twenty, verse twenty-nine, more of a principle there. The glory of young men is their strength, and the honor of old men is their gray hair. So we just understand that intuitively, that men on the whole, generally by God's design, are designed to be stronger physically than females. Secondly, there is a sense in which men have a d a tendency to be more exhortative and disciplinary for children. 2 Thessalonians 2 says, You are witnesses, and so is God, but devoutly and uprightly and blamelessly we behave toward you believers. Just As you know how we were exhorting and encouraging and imploring each one of you as a father would his own children. Proverbs 4 speaks of the instruction of the Father. Hebrews 12 says, furthermore, we had earthly fathers to discipline us. And so on. Now, obviously, many of us here are parents, and we know that both mom and dad are very involved in exhorting and disciplining our kids. But The scripture seems to place the responsibility, at least the oversight, if not the direct responsibility, to uh do those things uh with uh children. Part of that is the inherent or the perceived authority that men have or that fathers have in the eyes of their children. Right? Rachel has said to me many times You need to talk to the kids because they listen to you. And that's just, you know, y you could say that's the result of the curse of sin, that they don't listen to their mom as equally as their dad. But whatever the case, uh fathers have Have an authority, have a level of authority. Maybe it's the deep voice, maybe it's the facial expression, I don't know, but whatever it is, God has given us uh uh a level of authority over children that makes discipline uh our responsibility. Third, again as a general tendency that uh men are responsible to provide for the family. It's interesting there in Genesis chapter 2 that uh as he's about to describe the creation of Eve, uh or Adam and Eve, that he he uses the language there that you know there is no uh plant of the field that had sprouted, the Lord God had not sent rain upon the earth, and there was no man to cultivate the ground. The implication is there that men were the ones who were to do that hard work of cultivation And then it says, then the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to cultivate it and keep it. So that's the the task that God gave Adam to cultivate the garden and keep it. Ultimately, of course, he made Eve to be his suitable helper. So it's not that he used to do this alone, but he used to do this with her. But the initial responsibility is given there to the man. And then ultimately in Genesis chapter three, because of the curse of sin, the Lord makes work hard for man and specifically highlights the difficulty of work on the man and the difficulty of childbirth on the woman. So the assumption is the man is the one who's out there doing the hard work, providing for the needs of his family. In the first Timothy five eight, but if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. And the language there assumes that it's a man who is the head of the home who is to provide for his own This of course does not deny the involvement that wives and women have in the workforce and of course Proverbs 31, which we get to later. uh has a lot of uh economic activity that wives are involved with or can be involved with, but it is to place this is to place the responsibility, the overall responsibility on the husband to provide for his family. And then next, uh males protect their family as a good shepherd. Similar to the first point of being physically stronger, there is an emphasis in scripture that men are the ones who do the work of fighting against those who would bring harm to the family, bring harm to the society, and so they are to protect. They are protectors. Uh you know, the u the language there of Isaiah thirty-three, seven, referring to brave men, uh or Isaiah forty two, the Lord will go forth like a warrior. uh just using an anthropomorphism, you know, speaking of God as if he were a man, because this is what men do. They are warriors, they are men of war. And while you can obviously do war to conquer and whatnot, you also do war to protect your own So men are the protectors uh by God's design. All right. So those are just a handful of broad brushstroke generalities that are true for men. And then here are some feminine traits that are generally true. In contrast to the first uh women are weaker physically and again just speaking to the physiological way that God has designed a a woman's body 1 Peter 3. 7, you husbands in the same way, live with your wives in an understanding way as with someone weaker, since she is. a woman and show her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life so that your prayers will not be hindered Or Jeremiah 51 is more of a mocking passage, mocking men, saying the mighty men of Babylon have ceased fighting, they stay in the strongholds, their strength is exhausted, they have become where they are becoming like women. Just referring to the fact that they're supposed to be strong, they're supposed to be warriors, but no, they're now weak. They're becoming more like women Women have a tendency more to be timid against attack, against adversaries. Again, speaking of men who will become like women, Isaiah 19 says, In that day the Egyptians will become like women and they will tremble. and be and be in dread because of the waving of the hand of the Lord of hosts, which he is going to wave over them. Same thing in Jeremiah fifty, sword against their horses and against their chariots, and against all the foreigners who are in the midst of her and they will become women. So the the point here is not that it's wrong to be a woman, it's that it's wrong for a man to become like a woman when you're supposed to be protecting and fighting and engaged in battle. Third, women, uh more on a not that the previous two are negative, but on a very positive side, but God's designed women to be more affectionate and c uh compassionate to their children. Isaiah 49, 15, can a woman forget her nursing child and have no compassion on the son of her womb? If that's possible, even these may forget, but I will not forget you, the Lord says. So it's unlikely, it's highly unlikely that a woman would look at her child And say, nope, I'm going to forget to feed that child. I'm not going to be compassionate toward that child. Yes, there are very, very rare situations where that happens, right? But we know that the exception is the exception, and God says, even if there is such an exception, I will not forget you. But that really proves the rule of how God has designed women. Now here's an interesting passage. I have to comment on it because it's here. But when I was preparing, I'm like, oh, maybe that one's not a good one to include. Lamentations 4 10. Forgive us for this. The hands of compassionate women boiled their own children. They became food for them because of the destruction of the daughter of my people. So if you know anything about lamentations, that's what Jeremiah wrote, at least we believe it's Jeremiah, after the destruction of Jerusalem And he's writing about what he saw. And what he saw prior to the destruction of Jerusalem was there was a multi-year siege where the city ran out of food and people had to resort to cannibalism. And he writes uh talking about how women would eat their own children and they would even hide their own children in order to eat them so that others um couldn't eat them And his point here is that women who otherwise would be compassionate toward their children were were so destitute that they were brought down to this level of eating their own children. So maybe we'll strike that one for the next round of class. But again, it proves the rule that women are supposed to be compassionate by God's design. Isaiah 66, just another affirmation, as one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you. And you will be comforted in Jerusalem, right? So uh multiple times the Lord affirms that He treats His people in the same way that a mother has compassion and care for her children. And so that's Just a reflection that of course women in their strengths, in their particular ways that God has designed them, reflect the image and the nature of God in a beautiful way that men don't tend to do. Or in the language of 1 Thessalonians, but we prove to be gentle among you as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children. Alright, next we have uh this uh interesting reality that women broad breast stroke here, literally, are fun I should have said no pun intended, but it actually was intended Uh you did you get that? Yes. Alright. Oh sorry. That joke, I guess. Uh fond of adorning herself, right? And so we have multiple passages here. I won't read them all But with just this assumption that uh women have this tendency, this this preference, this desire to adorn themselves, to kind of elevate their their presentation, whether that's through jewelry, whether that's through what they wear, whether that's through makeup, whatever it is. And that's just part of God's design. It's always been that way, right? From from the beginning of creation. In fact, it's interesting that in Ezekiel chapter 16, this one's not included, but um I thought this would be an interesting addition to the list here Ezekiel 16 is a very horrible chapter because it speaks of the idolatry in the form of adultery, uses the language of adultery. and whoredom uh that God's people practiced um against the Lord But it begins by God affirming how he had come upon Israel and chose them and made them his own. But he uses very vivid language. And so I'll just read here from verses ten to fourteen, uh, which is part way into uh the lank the description of how God uh chose Israel and made them his own. He says, I clothed you with an embroidered cloth, which is to say it's it's not just you know, sackcloth, it's it's actually a beautiful cloth, and shod you with fine leather, I wrapped you in fine linen and covered you with silk, and I adorned you with ornaments, and put bracelets on your wrists and a chain on your neck. And I put a ring on your nose, biblical basis for nose earrings, nose rings, and earrings on your ears, and beautiful crown on your head. And thus you were adorned with gold and silver, silver, and your clothing was of fine linen, and silk and embroidered cloth. You ate fine flour and honey and oil. You grew exceedingly beautiful and advanced to royalty, and your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty, for it was perfect through the splendor that I had bestowed on you. So to me, this is God affirming the goodness of a woman adorning herself in a way that uh um manifests beauty, that that conveys and reflects beauty. That's not a vain Dynamic, right? God Himself said, I did this for you, Israel. Obviously, the New Testament would address that in terms of don't let that be your only adornment, right? Be adorned in the heart But uh there's nothing in the scripture that would say that uh uh trying to, you know, dress beautifully and and and look beautifully and all of that is is wrong in and of itself. It's just the way that God made women. Alright, so there are four male, four female traits that are broad brush strokes that are repeated throughout scripture uh that we certainly see in the world today. And then we have this chart where uh it's not so much that you know most of these don't have a specific passage But these are just things that we naturally see in life. You know, as as we grow ourselves, as we are in relationship with other people, we we see these kinds of tendencies and distinctions between males and females, again on a broad brush level. And so if you to to understand the chart, you have to start in the middle. The middle of the chart are the different uh categories, the different areas of distinction. To the left of the chart are the feminine tendencies. To the right of the chart are the masculine tendencies. And then on the extremes on either side are the the way that those tendencies can be manifested in a sinful way. Okay? So that's how the chart is oriented. So if we start there on the first one. When you think about how men and women communicate, women tend to be much more, and again broad brush stroke here, but tend to be much more personal uh in their communication as opposed to men who have a tendency to be more substantive. You can almost say logical, but uh that tends to be in the area of solving problems that's as it says further further down Um with a sense of worth, women have a tendency to define their sense of worth based on their being, who they are. Whereas A man tends to div uh d uh define his sense of worth based on what he does, right? What he does for work, his accomplishments, uh, and so on. Women have a tendency to focus on maintaining, preserving, working in the home, maintaining the home, whereas men have a tendency to create and conquer. With regard to initiative, God has designed men to have more of a leadership personality and take initiative, whereas He designed women to be helper, of course, as He designed Eve. And when it comes to solving problems, uh tend to be more logical. Let's just give me the facts. Women to be m tend to be more intuitive, you know, they have a sense of things and that comes goes along with a personal aspect of communication. There's the woman's intuition, if you will With social interactions, men have a tendency to be more competitive, whereas women tend to be more cooperative working together. Uh sense of beauty, uh men are all about the function, and women tend to be more about the form. Um Of course, emotions uh as a broad brush stroke tend to be men tend to be more controlled. They're able to compartmentalize and and uh control their emotions because they're not thinking about a thousand things at once, whereas uh women are more transparent and they they wear their heart on their sleeve With regard to duty, men are duty-bound to provide and protect as a tendency, whereas women are more in the nurturing realm. Men to tend to be more big picture oriented, whereas women tend to be detail-oriented. Of course the physique there, uh strength versus beauty, and then love men to be tend to be more sacrificial uh in in a certain sense, whereas women tend to be more tender. Of course there's a lot of sacrifice involved in being a mother. But again, these are broad brush general tendencies, and I won't go through all the uh sinful manifestations of that, but uh you you get the idea, I think those things are are pretty uh uh uh intuitive to to see in life. Consider the note here. It says these generalizations are not true for all male and females. Indeed many of these positive traits should be true of all mature people to some extent. So it is normal for someone to exhibit both masculine and feminine tendencies in a given area. And not strange for a man to exhibit some traits that are normal uh normally stronger for women or for a woman to exhibit some traits that are normally stronger for men. Consider, for example, that how the arm of the Lord Is both strong and gentle. And you see that passage, Isaiah 40. Behold, the Lord God will come with might, with his strong, with his arm ruling for him. Behold, his reward is with him and his recompense before him. Like a shepherd he will tend his flock. In his arms he will gather the lambs and carry them. In his bosom he will gently lead the nursing yews. So when you think about these tendencies, and what that note there is saying is as men and women who are made in the image of God We are designed to reflect different degrees of that image as men and as women, but ultimately there ought to be quite a bit of overlap. And when you think about the Lord Jesus Christ, as a man, he demonstrated a lot of feminine qualities, uh not all of them, obviously he didn't have children and things like that, but uh his way of engaging with people, his care, his nurturing, his concern, his compassion, uh his um just being very personal with people All of those kinds of things, his tenderness, uh, convey uh the kind of the full breadth of how God has designed uh men and women uh to live at least in terms of their character and interactions. And so that means that as we grow in Christ as we mature in the Lord, that rather than standing firm saying, I'm a man and I'm going to be a man and nobody can tell me to be compassionate and cut and tender because I'm a man, no, we should be more and more like Christ. We should exhibit those qualities that reflect the fullness of God's design uh while recognizing that we we do have limitations, right? We Just by the way that God has wired us, He's wired men uh to be strong in certain areas in certain areas, wired women to be strong in other areas. And that's a good thing. And that's why marriage is such a beautiful relationship, because we bring all of those strengths together and work together to fulfill God's purposes. Those are all the tendencies that are listed there. You know, perhaps there's more that one could come up with. Any any particular thoughts or comments? or questions about what we've covered so far. Nobody's thrown anything at me, so I think I'm okay so far. Alright. Um let me say this about this. One of the imp uh impacts of sin in each of our hearts Is that when we're in the dating stage, engagement stage, you know, getting to know one another stage, maybe even early on in marriage We see these differences and we appreciate them. And we like that our w that our girlfriend, our fiance, our wife you know, is this way, that she's really different than me in this way. She thinks about these things different than I do. Or we like that our boyfriend, fiance and husband is is like that. But as you live together, sometimes those differences can become frustrations because why don't they think like me? Why don't they they uh you know work through problems the way that I do? Why don't they communicate the way that I communicate? And w that the the uh challenge the opportunity that we have in marriage is to say no no no we are different and we need to understand and continue to appreciate those differences knowing that God has made us that way so that we can glorify Him more completely than if it were just me and somebody exactly like me. Right, I think most of you husbands know or at least sh should know if you don't already, that uh the way that your wife thinks about things, whether it's problems, whether it's people just her perspective on uh all kinds of things in life. You need that perspective. You need to listen to uh how she thinks about things so that um you have a a broader understanding and can make wiser decisions. You know this whole idea of being a a suitable helper that God made Eve to be He designed her differently so that she could uh aid Adam uh as they worked together to fulfill the mandate of creation. Uh and he could be wiser and um lead more effectively uh for the purposes that God has. And same thing for you wives. You need to be patient with us husbands and uh consider the different ways that God has made us as a good thing. Of course, unless it's uh in a sinful expression, but at least where it's in its godly expressions, it's good that we are different and we need to cooperate and work together in those things and not fight against each other. And of course, wherever we see any of those sinful expressions of tendencies, then that's part of where we need to be sanctified and grow to overcome those things Brian, were you gonna say something? I was just gonna say even though you know your wife is different. Is it okay to cock your head over on the Really? So you so I'm not the only one that cocks my head over? Yeah, no. Alright, so next let's move on to the complementary roles. So first we looked at kind of how we're wired. Now let's talk about roles uh what God has designed the man and the woman again in broad brush strokes to uh to do in this relationship And this is an interesting thing because apart from the natural design that you know we just generally observe in one another Uh apart from what Scripture says, one would have no other way to know how each um spouse is to function in marriage. Right? So, you know, up until God revealed these things in the scripture, uh there was there was no clarity to our understanding of uh what is a husband supposed to do and what is a wife supposed to do. And that's why we see throughout the world and in all different cultures significant distortions of God's design. Right? There's those Many cultures where the man is not just the head of the home, he is the dictator, he is the king, and he has absolute authority. He even has the authority to kill his wife if he wants to, in this worst expressions Uh there's those cultures where the the matriarch is the queen of the home and she has all the authority, right? And so there's significant distortions from God's design, largely because The design of God is contained in the scripture and really nowhere else in terms of the actual roles themselves. And so this is one of those areas where as the gospel has spread around the world throughout the last thousands of years, uh not only does the the truth, the forgiveness of sin get proclaimed, but as people believe, then the design of God for marriage starts to become known, starts to become practiced, and then society begins to change. And so we'll talk later uh with some brevity of why is it that God Doesn't condemn polygamy. We see polygamy all over the scripture. Going all the way back to Genesis chapter 4. Why does the Bible never say, Thou shalt not marry two wives? Well, there's various reasons why that might be the case, but one reason is because God never gave the design, at least as it's laid out uh in the New Testament, for the roles of husbands and wives, and so mankind in their uh rejection of God uh practiced whatever they thought was right in their own eyes But as the Word of God spread, then the truth of His design also spread in that over time transformed cultures. So, having said that, what is the husband's role? First, the husband is to be the servant leader, the head of the home. uh he is to manage and oversee uh the home. Genesis two eighteen, of course Uh the Lord said, Is it not good for the man to be alone? I will make him a helper suitable for him. He didn't make Eve as a uh as a complete equal, as an exact replica. He made her as a suitable helper And it's been well said. I think it was Matthew Henry who might have been the first one to say it. You know, he didn't make Eve from the bone of Adam's skull for her to be over him. He didn't make Eve from his toe for him to uh you know uh stomp all over, I'm paraphrasing, but he made her from his side to walk alongside him and serve alongside him uh but a suitable helper where he is the leader. And then in the as a result of the s of sin, the Lord said to Eve, I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth, in pain you will bring forth children. yet your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. The language, yet your desire will be for your husband, means that her desire would be to rule over her husband. excuse me, over her husband. The Lord uses the same language in Genesis chapter four with regard to uh Cain and he says, sin's desire is for you, but you must master it and the the gr the Hebrew is exactly the same uh in those two passages, Genesis three sixteen and Genesis chapter four. And so what he is saying is because of the reality of sin, Eve, you're going to want to rule over your husband, but no, he is going to rule over you. And that's not a curse. That's just an expression of God's care for her that the husband will be the head of the home. 1 Corinthians 11 3, but I say to you, but I want you to understand rather that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of a woman, and God is the head of of Christ. And that's speaking of um not um uh not you know superiority uh not domin dominarance but uh authority and leadership uh if you will Ephesians 4. 23, the husband, of course, is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church. And what is he to do with that headship? 1 Timothy 3, he must be one who manages his own household well keeping his children under control with all dignity. So that's obviously out of the qualifications of an elder, but an elder is simply to be one who whose life aligns with God's design for his people So this is not limited to how elders should uh should manage their homes. All men who are head of their homes should manage their household keeping the children under control. And notice that it doesn't say keeping his wife and his children under control. Right? Doesn't say that, because the husband doesn't have that kind of authority, that kind of dictator rule over his wife. They are together in managing the household and keeping their children under control. Ephesians 4, or rather, 6. 4, fathers do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. So again, all of that as a servant leader. We provoke our children to anger when we act like a dictator. When we just say, I'm the man, I'm the head of the household, you have to do what I say, don't ask questions. You know, that kind of attitude, that that kind of uh dictatorial approach to ruling in the home provokes not only wives but children to anger And so instead he says, bring them up. Lead in such a way that they are drawn up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. And then finally Galatians 4 there, using the reality of uh the growth of a child uh to talk about the relationship between uh the law and um God's people. He says, Now I say, as long as the heir is a child, he does not differ at all from a slave, although he is owner of everything, but he is under guardians and managers until the date set by the father. And so the point there is that in certain homes in ancient time when you know a family was in a position to have caretakers of the children who weren't the parents, uh they would that the father was responsible to you know have those as it says here's guardians and managers who cared for, who taught, who who tr who uh raised the the children as it were. But the father set the date for when that transition would uh take place where the children were no longer under the guardian's managers. and where now the father would take over or the the child was old enough to um be an adult uh outside of under that authority. So the fact that it's the father that sets the date implies that uh the father is the one who is the leader. Yes, Henry. Uh and if it's just the first uh first is when the man is the head of a woman, is there something specific in that passage that would lead us to This is not talking about able to break. Um is there something specific about that passage? Well uh let me turn to it and let me see here. Before I get to the passage specifically, I would say that every other passage that speaks of the relationship Uh well let me put it this way, there is no passage that speaks of the relationship of men to women. So no passages say anything about men are over women or men have this relationship to women. Scripture has many passages that talk about husbands and wives. So when we come to this passage of 1 Corinthians 11 Of course he's talking about that very easy topic of head coverings. And so yeah, you all know what that means. Obviously you all have the right perspective because nobody here has uh cloth over their head. You all anyway Um so the ESV translates verse three Uh I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ, the head of a wife is her husband, and the head of Christ is God, and then um It says, Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head, but every wife who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head. And uh and then verse 6 for if a wife does not cover her head, then she should cut her hair short and so on. It goes on from there. Let me just check one footnote real quick Yeah. So the what the ESV translates as wife is just the word for woman, which is generally true actually in the passages like even in Ephesians 5. Probably the exegetical basis for saying this is a specific one-on-one relationship, man, husband and his wife is the possessive pronoun. Um that uh both both the singular nouns wife or woman and husband or woman and man, uh wife and husband And then the possessive pronoun, her husband, uh, if if you will, um the uh uh uh a wife uh or a woman of her man, if you will. And so that possessive pronoun would already be the clearest exegetical basis for saying this is a specific relationship. I had a man told me one time, I think, using this passage that because I wasn't in my father's household, so I didn't have like my father as head over. that I needed a man because I didn't like have access to God without that because Christ was his head so that this man would be my head so that I can have access to God. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and I'm sorry to hear that. I I really think that's a distortion of what this is saying. Uh, 'cause I don't think he's giving a broad, hey, this is what's true and every you know, every woman has to have a head. He's just making a distinction with regard to yeah, wives and husbands But you know, that is not true at all. And obviously so much scripture about our re in fact, you know, even uh as we look at Hebrews ten this morning in this in the service that by the work of Christ we all have access to cr to God. So any other thoughts or comments Again, there's so much we could go into in a lot of these things that we're in the course of this class, we're just not going to go into the extent of the details or or the nuances of things. Alright, so the husband is a servant leader. Secondly, he's a provider. We've talked about that a little bit already. Proverbs 13, 22, a good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children That's just a general rule of thumb principle. And by using the language of a man leaving an inheritance, the assumption is the man is providing for his family. He's the one who is storing up for the future. Jesus acknowledges the same assumption in Matthew 7, or what man is there among you who when his son asks for a loaf will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, well he will not give him a snake, will he? Of course he uses that to speak about uh the joy that we have to bring our needs to our heavenly Father who will give generously And s and yet he uses this illustration of a child asking his father for food as an assumption that the father is the one who is the ultimate provider Again, the man is the protector. The husband is the protector. Ephesians 5. 25. Husbands, love your wives. just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. So Jesus set the example that because of our sin we were destined for the wrath of God, but out of love Christ gave up his life to protect us from the wrath of God, obviously uniting us to himself as his bride, as he goes on to say, removing our sin from us. beautifying us uh without any spot or wrinkle or any such thing. We are now because of his work protecting protecting us from the consequences of our sin. Now, obviously as husbands we can't do that for our wives. That's not our role to to be the savior of our wives, but by implication, the love that we manifest for our wives should be aimed at protecting them against harm. That that is the role of the husband to sacrificially give of ourselves for the benefit, for the goodness, for the preservation, for the growth, and the flourishing of our wives. 1 Peter 3:7, you husbands in the same way, live with your wives in an understanding way as with someone weaker, in the sense of fragile or precious. since she is a woman. Right? So we need to consider our wives and consider how God has designed them and how we can protect them and honor the way that God has w uh wired them. You know there's been times where I've come alongside Rachel and pat her on the back Um like I would a a friend, uh a guy friend, and she's like, Oh, that hurt. And she'll say, I'm China. Be careful with me. And then Nehemiah 14 or 414, when I saw their fear and rose and spoke to the nobles, the officials, and the rest of the people, do not be afraid of them. Remember the Lord who is great and awesome and fight for your brothers your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your houses. So it's the men who are fighting to protect the the people against those who would stop them from doing the work of rebuilding the temple and the walls. And then finally, the husband is the nurturer of his wife. So moving on from or starting at verse 25, husbands love your wives just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her. so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing but that she would be holy and blameless. So, as a result of that example, husbands ought also to love their own wives, excuse me, as their own husbands. He who loves his own wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church. So again, the example of Christ is not just one of protection, but one of nurturing, of of cherishing, of of caring. He He's, you know, uh removed our sin from us. He's made us white as snow. He's, if you will, ironed out all of our wrinkles. He's removed all of the stains of sin from us. He's beautified us that we would be presented bef uh before him uh in all the glory that he has made us And so in a similar way, as husbands, we are to nurture and cherish our wives. We are to consider how can I bring my wife into a a greater um experience of flourishing. How can I encourage her growth? Growth in the Lord, growth in life? How can I bless her? How can I minister to her in her needs and weaknesses Um not in the sense that we are a savior, but in the sense of we wanna we wanna our wives to experience all of the blessings that God has for them in this world uh to the best of our ability. And so how can we care for them and minister to them? Alright, so that's that's again in broad brush strokes the role of the husband, servant leader, provider, protector, and nurturer. Any particular thoughts, comments, or questions? All right. Yeah about a few minutes here, yeah, Matt. And they always like tomorrow to go through seven. When we talk about uh I think a lot of topics we talked about what's descriptive description versus what's prescriptive. How do we sort through that in a lot of the things that we've talked about? A lot of the things seem to be descriptive, but there's also been patterns of creation. Commands given to us and someone's a new testament And then there's sort of that blend of descriptive things. Yeah. How do we um kind of fix through that? Because if we actually boil it down to the command, it seems like we're Somewhat limited, right? A lot of it ends up being descriptive of perhaps what was a cultural norm or things like that. Yeah. Well yeah, and that's especially true when we think about the Proverbs 31 women, right? And so and and many other passages as well. Yeah, so I think uh trying to distinguish that is we can look at obviously the commands, that's the prescription, that's ju usually easy because that's a command, it's an imperative Uh especially if it's in the New Testament written to the church at large, uh and the the people in the church, uh not just in that time, but for all time. But then you have the the Proverbs, Proverbs 31, other Proverbs that speak to the role of the husband, and uh other descriptive passages of how husbands and wives interact with with one another. Uh I don't remember if it's here or I think it's another lesson that we draw out Abigail's example of going around Nabal, right, the fool that he was. Um and so I think what we can do is when we see a descriptive passage, we can ask ourselves, does this reflect a principle of how God has designed men and women. And is there a way to kind of lift off of the or step back from the particulars of this example uh and draw and draw out a broader principle. So like for example in Proverbs 31, it it speaks about the specific way that in which she makes clothes for her household. So there is a very concrete actual activity that's happening there. Well, there's nothing directing a woman in by imperative, you must be knitting together clothes for uh for your family. But there's a principle of ensuring that your family is is cared for in terms of clothing that can be applied in terms of spending money to buy clothes and things like that. So uh looking for the broader principle that can then uh look differently and whether it's applied specifically like those who do make clothes today, seamstresses, or um just caring for the same kind of need, but in a in a different way. way. Um but we do need to be careful not to jump over from description and make those prescriptive as if because she did it this way she has to do it either that way or in some general way, right? So you know there's traditional roles that we can come up with of men and women. You know, men are the ones who work on their cars and mow the lawn and uh fix things around the house and women are the ones who wash the dishes and cook the food um and do the the the um laundry. Well, you're not gonna find any scripture about those roles or those specific tasks And when you uh get to know enough couples you realize some men really love to cook, uh some men really like to iron, uh some women really like to mow the lawn or really good with cars You know, and so that's where there's uh we have to step back from the traditional roles and and think about, okay, is this is this what the Bible is saying or is this just what people have tended to do and kind of distorted and confused principle versus prescription? I don't know if that's helpful, but all right, let me uh work through these. Uh so the wife's role is to be the helper of her husband, submitted to its leadership. I was uh looking through the rest of the course realized we don't really spend more time than this on the issue of submission. So forgive me for that if If you would like to think about submission more in terms of how to understand the dynamic of leadership and submission in the home, I can certainly point you to some resources But let me just use the language that I found helpful from a book called Created to Be His Help Meet. I think that's what no, that's not what it is. Helper by Design. Helper by Design by Elise Fitzpatrick And she uses the language of dancing with regard to leadership and submission. And that it's a dance where the man is the lead But the wife is working alongside with him following his lead, but they're both involved in the creation of that beautiful act of dance. And so it is in life. Ephesians 5. 22, wives be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also wives ought to be to their husbands in everything. And the language there is important. He doesn't use the word obey as he does with children. And I think also with uh slaves, if if I remember right. Uh he uses this word be subject, uh submit. And even that is brought uh forward from verse 21 which says be subject to one another. And so in the in the Greek verse 22 actually doesn't have the verb translated be subject. It's just brought forward for clarity. Which is to say that in society, we all find ourselves in roles where we are in uh following a leader or where we are in a leadership position. And what he does with regard to wives and husbands and children and parents and slaves and masters is he gives how we are to fulfill those particular roles. Um and he could have given other examples as well. He doesn't use the example in Ephesians about government, for example, being subject to government as Paul does elsewhere, like Romans 13. But there is this reality that God has placed the husband as the head of the home, and so the wife is to uh follow the lead of her husband. as they work together uh to fulfill God's purposes for their lives and family. Obviously there's a whole lot we could talk about there, but I'll leave it there for now. Uh women are to bear and nurture children. Again, by design, not necessarily in every instance. Verse Genesis 1, 27, 28, verse 28 specifically, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. Uh Eve was the mother of all the living and uh God obviously designed women to be the ke uh bearers of children. And so on. So that's part of God's design, original design, which has been affected by the curse of sin on our bodies and in this world. But that is God's blessing and gift to women to have that experience and opportunity and stewardship. And then women are to be the keeper of the home. 1 Timothy 5. Therefore I want younger widows to be married, or to get married, to bear children, to keep house. Uh another way of saying be a manager of the home and give the enemy no occasion for reproach. Uh Titus II, older women are to encourage younger women to love their husbands, to love their children, to be sensible, pure workers at home. And then of course Proverbs 31, kind of a summary, she looks well to the ways of her household. So again, we wanna as we as we even think about that dynamic We don't want to think too narrowly to say what that means is a wife needs to only be doing the dishes and the laundry and the cooking and be stuck at home all the time. That's Uh I guess you could say that's one way to uh apply the principle of managing the house, but there are so many ways for a wife uh to fulfill this um Design of being a keeper of the home, which can include working outside the home as a way of caring for uh family and working with her husband. But that's uh much broader discussion of w how do you think through those dynamics? When when is it uh faithful to work outside the home, when is it not faithful to work outside the home? In fact, uh notice the note there. Proverbs thirty one, ten to thirty-one indicates that this wise wife and mother helped to meet her family's needs by a variety of economic pursuits. But these pursuits were not career-minded. They never undermined her role as a wife and mother. And so just one categorical way to think about it is to be career-minded in the sense of which we're uh thinking about it here is to be s to be in pursuit of self-fulfillment Uh that I want to fulfill my own life, I have my own dreams, I have my own visions, I want to have these accomplishments for me, and so on. As opposed to being involved in economic activities, whether it's working outside the home or inside the home for the purpose of fulfilling the the design of God for the care of the family and provision of the needs of the home. So it's more the heart attitude that God is concerned about of are you pursuing a life of self-fulfillment or caring for the needs of the family? Don't we also see that for husbands as well? Yeah, absolutely, right? Right, right. So uh that that can obviously be distorted uh the other way as well, which I think it uh in the chart in one of the aspects of work was um workaholic that yeah, you that work. So Okay, finally there, the roles in marriage reflect relationships in the Godhead. By God's design, the husband-and-wife relationship is one of equality and unity in the context of a hierarchy of roles. This was patterned after the Godhead, in which Father, Son, and Holy Spirit share equally in all their divine attributes Yet the Son willingly submits to the Father, and the Holy Spirit is placed into service by both the Father and the Son. Therefore, to conclude that for a wife to submit to her husband makes her inferior to him is the same as concluding that Jesus Christ is inferior to God the Father by submitting to him, and of course that is heresy. So roles say nothing about inherent value. So all of this to say, I think what what we uh understand that God has designed each of us uniquely, differently, with different strengths, different weaknesses, so that when we come together in the bond of marriage, we bring those uniquenesses, those unique strengths and weaknesses together so that we can work together for the purposes that God has for us. And for every couple, for every home, that's going to look somewhat different because everybody has unique levels on the spectrum of differences. And that's part of what makes life so beautiful. All right. Let me pray. If you want to stick around and chat, I'll be here. Father, thank you for just this brief meditation. I know there's a lot we could uh say, a lot more, but um thank you for this general design that uh we've been able to walk through and Lord, I know that each one in this room, even as I look around, knowing so many uh to to a certain degree, uh I'm just so thankful for uh how you have made each one. I'm thankful for how you have made my wife to be different than me. and how you've used that uh to um bless uh me and encourage me and help me. And Lord help us as married couples to look at one another with gratitude. uh with joy and consider how those differences can strengthen our relationship and better enable us to honor you and as we serve the kingdom. In Christ's name we pray, Amen.