Good to see you all this morning. We made some adjustments with the microphone from last week, so hopefully it works out a little bit better without all the scratchiness. Alright, so we are beginning in chapter uh what's the lesson number? Um chapter six, lesson six. Uh what The Old Testament says about divorce. Before we do that though, I want to follow up with a question that was brought up a couple weeks ago from the notes, and then before we do that Uh, I want to pray. So let's do that. Let's ask for the Lord's help. Father, we thank you for this morning that we can meet together as your people to uh sit under the teaching of your word, to meditate together, to think. carefully about what you have revealed and ultimately to worship you in the exercise of our minds and hearts as we seek to know you and know your will. And sing praises to you and glorify you through our fellowship. Lord, there's so much we have uh planned today. We'll be here for several hours and we are excited for how you will work among us. I pray that we would even walk away from our time together with hearts full of joy and encouragement and strength. Because of what you have done. I ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so before we get into the notes themselves, I want to follow up from One of the questions that came up last week that Matt uh helpfully brought up, and that is as we looked at Jeremiah chapter three Jeremiah chapter 3, there was a statement made by the Lord here, uh starting in uh verse eight. Yep, verse 8. And yet there was a follow-up statement in verse 14 that I think would be helpful to think about. So Remember that in verse 8 of Jeremiah chapter 3, the Lord says regarding Judah, she saw, Judah saw that for all the adulterous adulteries of that faithless one Israel, I had sent her away with a decree of divorce. Yet her treacherous sister Judah did not fear she too went and played the whore. So The Lord, because of Israel, the northern ten tribes, because of their constant idolatry, the Lord divorced them. He gave them a certificate of divorce and sent them away, as it were, through exile. And yet, in verse 14, uh the Lord uh it says, Return, O faithless children. So this is now speaking to Israel, those same northern tribes, return, O faithless children, declares the Lord, for I Am, your, and then the ESV says master, the New King James and a couple other translations say husband, for I am your husband. And so the question was, w if the Lord had given them a s a decree of divorce, why would he say, I am your husband? How do we how are we to understand that? And so there's two things to to consider as I looked into that a little bit more. Uh first, uh the word husband, as I said, is also translated in the ESV master. And if you look at the use of the word Throughout the Old Testament, there's kind of a mix of uses and it's really just the context that determines whether or not it should be master or husband. uh or uh some similar type of word, one who is in authority and in that kind of a relationship and a husband in in many situations and possibly even here is an accurate translation So just recognizing that though that this the there is one possibility that the Lord is more emphasizing his uh position as Israel's master, as their God ultimately and appealing to them to return to him on the basis of his uh lordship over them. But even if we go with the idea that he is their husband uh and you prefer that translation. Uh in the Hebrew grammar this is what's called a katal uh form of the verb I am your husband which is a perfective uh gr grammatical term, which means it looks at the verb in its complete sense, not not necessarily in a present tense or even a past tense. Hebrew and even this is true of Greek don't necessarily have time bound up together in their gr uh grammatical forms of verbs, you know, where we would have past tense and we know that if it's in the past tense, this is something that took place. Go figure in the past and present tense and future tense. Hebrew and Greek don't really have time bound into their uh grammatical forms of the verbs. They have what many would call aspects, either a completed aspect looking at an action as a whole not necessarily in its progress, or looking at an action as as something that is progressive, something that is ongoing, something that m perhaps began in the past. and has continued or began in the past and was completed in the past, or something that has not yet come to pass, something that's uh future oriented. That would have the clearest time uh aspect to it. Uh but this is a perfect uh uh form, uh the Catal form. And it's exactly actually what is used in Jeremiah chapter 31, verse 32, where it says This is the new covenant passage, Jeremiah 31, where the Lord is declaring the new covenant, and he says, I'll start in verse 31. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when they uh when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant that they broke, though I was their husband I was their husband, declares the Lord. There you have the exact same verb and the exact same form, but it's translated in the past tense. And so even though it's true that every English translation that it that I had access to translates here in chapter three verse fourteen. In the present tense, uh it's the same form. And so it could be That uh what uh would be a better way to translate it is in the in the past sense that the Lord is saying, I was uh your husband But you know, now we are divorced. And this would be consistent with the idea that if divorce takes place, we'll talk about this a little bit today. If divorce takes place and there has been no remarriage, there is the opportunity for remarriage of that original couple that once a husband and wife divorce, as long as both of them stay single, there's the opportunity for them to remarry each other once again. But as we'll see in uh in one of the passages today, if either of them marries somebody else, then there is no possibility. So the Lord is saying, I was your husband, come back to me and I will remarry you. So those would be some considerations for what the Lord is saying there, that uh either he's just it's actually from our perspective past tense, he's saying, I was your husband uh or uh more emphasizing his present role as uh their master. But even in a present sense, uh because there has not been remarriage per se, and of course speaking metaphorically Um that there's still a sense when there's where there's the opportunity for remarriage. So I hope that's helpful. At least that's what I uh came up with in further study Alright. So we are now in lesson six, but before we get into the notes themselves, I have some introductory material, just to kind of frame what we're going to be talking about today. And just to remind you, uh we're asking you to be patient with this process because uh w we have to kind of lay down the building blocks as we build up. to what the New Testament teaches. And you know, just as there's uh this principle of progressive revelation that over the course of time God revealed his will uh to his people, um uh in a way that he revealed more truth uh uh over time and so people in previous times had less truth. Uh we're kind of uh doing that process of building out what God has revealed over time before we can kind of look at the full perspective of what the Bible says. This is what you might call biblical theology. where we're tracing the the revelation, the teaching of Scripture over the course of time, whereas systematic theology just kind of takes scripture as a whole and tries to categorize it all together. So we're doing more biblical theology in terms of building blocks uh over the course of uh time and what the scripture teaches. So we can't say everything there is to say all at once. And that's particularly relevant today because We'll look at Deuteronomy chapter 24, which has great significance for what the New Testament teaches about divorce in several places But we won't be able to comment on all that the New Testament teaches about Deuteronomy 24 today. We're just going to deal with what do we have here in the Old Testament, which effectively is what God revealed to his people. And so we're really thinking about today, what did God tell his people Israel about divorce. And we have to remember that uh marriage, as we've already seen, is a divine institution that is for all mankind. Right? This is not an institution, this is not a relationship dynamic that is limited to the people of Israel, to the church, to Christians. No, this is an institution that is universal And that was clearly laid out in Genesis chapters 1 and 2. What's interesting, though, is at least to our knowledge, at least as As much as we know because of what God has revealed to us, there has been no particular revelation or maybe I should say regulation of that institution. Similar to government. Government is a divine institution. God appoints leaders to rule over uh others. Government is appointed by God, we learn in Romans chapter 13. But you go back to the Old Testament and God doesn't regulate government for all of humanity. He doesn't tell all of humanity this is what government needs to look like. He essentially lets, as far as we can perceive, uh humanity discern How should we best manage people in a localized area? How do we do this government thing? And so we see all the different forms of government that we do. for good or or ill. In a similar way, marriage is largely unregulated God gives us his design at the very beginning, right? Before the fall, the form of his creation, he tells us, here's what this design is. But then all the particularities like how do you go from being single to being married? How uh do you decide who is married, who is not? What happens when Somebody dies. Uh and you know what is a person still married to that person? Are they free to a lot of those kind of particularities of how do we live this out in daily life the Lord does not give us, uh He certainly did not give his people Israel clear revelation. So um that's something to to to just keep in mind that it's largely unregulated. Also we want to kind of keep in mind what is the purpose of the Mosaic Law. Right? The Mosaic Law was given to God's people Israel as they came out of Egypt. to establish them as a distinct, unique people on the earth. The Lord could have said, hey, remember all of those laws that you had to live by in Egypt? Just do that. In terms of ordering of society, in terms of how do you handle all the different facets of of daily life, just do what you're used to doing, do what the Egyptians do uh look to the other nations and just you know figure it out yourself. No. He created the Mosaic Law in order to establish his people to be his own and he says to be a a light or a city on a hill. He wanted his people to live in such a way that the nations would look at Israel and see, wow, what a great God they serve. Right? And so everything that God reveals, even where there may be similarities with the kinds of laws that you see in the surrounding nations, there is uh usually an elevation of uh human uh dignity, an elevation of protection for the vulnerable. Uh there is not the kind of uh treatment of people that uh would minimize and demean humanity uh even like we have today with you know abortion for example. So the Lord always elevates the meaning and significance, the value, the dignity of humanity throughout the various laws that he gives, even when he's regulating slavery and facets of war and things like that. And so it's interesting to me that even though that is true of the Mosaic Law, and this is just a point of interest, there's can't really say much beyond it. I'm not implying anything beyond it It's interesting that there's so little regulation in the Mosaic law for marriage. If you think about it this way, Israel was born out of paganism, right? Abraham was called out from his people who were pagans. Israel grew up in a pagan environment. You know, they went from 70 persons to millions in the land of Egypt. Uh and has they come out of that, uh they are what do they know they know what their surrounding uh Neighbors did, how they lived, how they thought. It seems as though there's some measure of revelation that they had beyond what we have access to, that they knew who their God was. There was an oral tradition that was passed From Abraham uh down to even the time of Moses. Now what that is, what to what extent they knew uh God and to what extent they understood uh God's way of thinking about life as distinct from their neighbors? We we don't know. But we do know, just to give one example of that, that when Pharaoh charged uh the people of Israel to kill their children, their sons especially, uh, because he wanted to limit the population of Israel, they knew instinctively we can't do that. And the midwives, right, that they are called out as heroes, if you will, because they defied the laws of Pharaoh, because they knew, no, that's not right. And so the Lord blessed them And so there's some amount of revelation that they had beyond what is written to us to convey to us what they knew, but we don't know exactly what that is. And so uh it's just interesting that in the course of uh giving us the Mosaic Law with all of the details that we have on so many different facets of life Uh everything from you know how you should divide the land, how you should uh deal with uh slavery, a lot of dynamics with regard to that, of course all of the the ceremonial laws, the uh sacrificial laws, the feasts, uh so many different facets of life, how you deal with uh cases of uh murder and various crimes, you know, where uh mankind sins against one another. So much detail about life uh for Israel, but very, very little, almost next to nothing, as it relates to how should marriage be viewed among the people Now that's in terms of explicit uh laws that are given. There are certainly implications that we see in what is given. There's statements in other portions of the Old Testament where the Lord affirms the reality that that a that marriage is a covenant, as we've talked about. That is to be upheld. So it's not to say the scripture is completely silent or the Mosaic Law is completely silent, but it's relatively minimal in what it conveys. It's also interesting that most of what is written about divorce specifically is given in Deuteronomy. Which is, as you may recall, forty years after the uh initial law was given at Mount Sinai, right? Israel came out of of Egypt, they cross the Red Sea, they go to Mount Sinai. That's when the law is given in Exodus to numbers. It's forty years after that, after they've done their wilderness wanderings, as they're preparing to enter the land that Deuteronomy is given in Deuteronomy means second law. It's kind of a repeat of the Mesaic Law, kind of rehearsing back to the people what God had already revealed. But there's some laws that are in Deuteronomy that are not in Exodus to Numbers. And we'll see that with respect to divorce today. The law of Moses assumes marriage. It assumes that marriage is happening. It assumes that people are getting married. It assumes various dynamics within marriage. It doesn't really teach huge what marriage is, except for revealing the origin of marriage in Genesis chapter 2. But in terms of the the law portion of the Mosaic Law, it doesn't provide any details of how do you get married, right? What are the roles within marriage What are the dynamics that we should be thinking about marriage? It doesn't really give us any of that. The law also assumes divorce. It assumes divorce. Uh it it it it doesn't bring up divorce as if it's something that people have never heard about. It doesn't address divorce as if you know guys I I know you get married, but uh there's gonna be this thing called divorce that you're gonna have to start thinking about. No, it just assumes that it's happening And so that's one of the connections that we see with the New Testament is the Pharisees interpret Deuteronomy 24 as if the law is teaching, even commanding divorce And Jesus corrects them to say, no, no, the law never ever commands divorce. It assumes divorce. This is there. It's a present reality in society. And so think about these four different aspects of the law's relationship to divorce. Number one, the law of Moses never commands divorce. There's never a situation, and this would be true of scripture in general, but certainly true of the Old Testament, uh particularly the Mosaic Law, there's never a situation where God says, you know what, if you find yourself in this particular situation, you have to get divorced. Like that would be the righteous thing to do. So the the the law never commands divorce. We'll see in Ezra when we get to the end of our notes today that there was a circumstance when the people returned to uh Judah after the exile that there was indeed a situation where we're divorce took place as an act of righteousness. But in terms of the the normal course of life, God's standards for how we should be living, there's never a time where divorce is commanded, required, as an act of righteousness. Also, there's never a blanket prohibition to divorce. There's never a statement that says, you know what? uh by uh uh uh by the the design of god divorce is is generally wrong it's always wrong except for in these couple cases there's never a general blanket Prohibition for divorce. Now we'll obviously nuance that a little bit. But in terms of a blanket, broad breaststroke uh statement, there's there's no general statement uh against divorce. There uh w we can say there's uh the law only forbids divorce in a couple particular cases. So as we look at where where do we see laws about divorce, how does God regulate r regulate divorce? There's only a particular uh set of cases where the Lord says you cannot divorce. You're not allowed to divorce. And we'll look at those today And there's one, and depending on one's interpretation, a kind of a set of situations where remarriage is forbidden after divorce. So it it doesn't give a blanket prohibition, it only says there's only a couple situations where you cannot divorce. And if you are divorced, there's a couple situations where you cannot remarry. Just to put it succinctly, what we're going to see today, uh here's the summary of what the Old Testament gives in terms of regulations of divorce. Number one Priests cannot marry a divorced woman. Okay, priests, not everybody, just priests, priests cannot marry a divorced woman Number two, under certain circumstances, as I've already said, you cannot divorce. And then number three, under a particular circumstance, you cannot remarry. Those are the three categorical regulations that we see in the Old Testament with regard to divorce. And you know, with uh recognition of God's design that marriage is to be between a man and a woman for life. One would wonder why why there's so little? Why doesn't God say more to help his people avoid this situation and uh you know care for one another and and pursue um longevity in in their marriages. And I don't have the ultimate answer to that, but I think we w what we can say is that in the um In the mystery of God's revealed will, there are a variety of things that are realities in a fallen world And I'll just mention slavery is one of them, where God doesn't issue a blanket condemnation of those departures from his will But he does part uh provide certain regulations to protect those who are vulnerable in those situations. So we would wish that there would be more, that there would be more laws, more protections, more more care for so that uh these radical departures from God's will would stand uh or or w rather would be uh prevented. But uh w we have what we have and um again maybe there's more that God just hasn't revealed because it's not necessary for uh for all of time, but uh at least in terms of what we have, uh there's a very limited um amount of revelation. And obviously what we have in the Old Testament is not our guiding principles Our guiding principles largely come from the New Testament. And so that's where we'll get to here in the coming weeks. But this is the starting point in terms of how God revealed things to his people. Alright, so that's kind of all the preparatory pr uh preparatory uh stuff that I had. Any particular comments or questions about any of that? Amy. So we'll we'll we'll get there in the notes. Yeah. Any alright. So let's dive into the notes here that you have on page uh 36 So just uh stating uh what we just said, divorce was already practiced, it's already a reality. The law merely regulated it to a certain extent, making it unlawful for a priest to marry a divorced woman Suggesting that was not a limitation placed on every man, right? So we have Leviticus 21 and 22 But in 21, verses 1 and 7, the Lord said to Moses, Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say to them, You shall not take a woman who is profane by idolatry, nor shall they take a woman divorced from her husband For he, the priest, is holy to his God. So as as God is giving commands for how the priests should conduct themselves, how they should maintain purity to serve uh in his tabernacle and and to be in his service. Uh the Lord limits who are the women that the Levitical priests can marry and among The list are those who are divorced from their husbands. Now just for what it's worth, what we have here is the this is the NAS, right Al? Or is it LSB? Basically the same. Yeah. So uh the ESV uh translates this differently. The Hebrew you could translate it uh a woman who is a harlot or defiled. So here it translates the harlotry as uh kind of the method of pro being profaned. Another potential way to understand what's going on in the Hebrew is that there's a woman who's a harlot, and then there's a woman who is profaned or defiled Uh and those are potentially different categories. That's not ultimately significant in for our purposes. Um but uh if there is a difference, the The likely difference would be there's those who are pr uh harlots who you know have been prostitutes. And then there are those who, by no choice of their own, have been defiled through something like rape because the the word that means profane, it's uh largely translated slain, as in killed, uh in the Old Testament. Uh only here in Leviticus 21 is it translated defiled, uh, and especially with regard to uh a person. And so it may be that this would be a woman who was raped, who was uh who had her virginity taken from her by force and And so Moses is saying that the priest cannot marry a woman based. Ultimately he's saying, oh, a priest cannot marry a woman who is not a virgin. And that's ultimately what he says in Leviticus chapter one. I'll skip to verse thirteen there, that's bold. He shall take a wife in her virginity, a widow or a divorced woman, or one who is profane by idolatry, these he may not take. But rather he is to m marry a virgin of his own people. So that's one particular regulation. It doesn't speak to the legitimacy or illegitimacy of of divorce. It doesn't really even speak to the moral condition of the woman who is divorced. Because as you see, one of the other categories is a widow. And there's certainly nothing immoral or out of place for a woman who is a widow. Just the the common um principle there is that a priest can only marry a virgin. And so those uh those categories simply delineate the different ways a woman may not be a virgin. So that's one particular regulation. And that's the only regulation that really mentions divorce in the Exodus to Numbers portion of the Mosaic Law. Sorry, I shouldn't say that because the next one is in numbers. Divorced women here had the same standing as widows in at least some legal matters. This is a section in Numbers 30 where the Lord is uh talking about w what should happen in the case where a woman has made a vow and especially if Uh there's those situations where a woman makes a vow but then she gets married and now she's under the authority of her husband. Is she still legally bound to keep her vow if in fact her husband doesn't want her to keep that vow. And so that's what the general context is referring to. But here he says, but the vow of a widow or a divorced woman Everything by which she has bound herself shall stand against her. In other words, if if you're not married, if you're a widow, if you're divorced, whatever commitments you have made, whatever vows you have made, you have to keep those vows. And so that's just a very uh simple statement that uh there's this reality, that there are those who are widows, there are those who are divorced, meaning there are unmarried women who have no husband And that's their particular uh legal standing as it relates to vows that they have made. So again, not speaking to legitimacy or illegitimacy of divorce, it's just a reality that exists in society. There are widows and there are divorced women. Recognizes that, doesn't make a moral statement about that, it just acknowledges the reality of that. I'll just pause there. Any particular comments or questions about that? Okay. So then we move on to the more um particular uh regulations with regard to divorce itself. And remember, now we move into Deuteronomy where uh this is written after the wilderness wanderings. And I don't I don't know, this is speculation, but I wonder if uh you know forty years of living life as a nation apart from Egypt, maybe they realized, oh, maybe we need some more information about this. Uh and so the Lord uh gave this particular wisdom. But whatever the case The law that we see here is that there are times when a man is not allowed to divorce his wife. Okay, so divorce is assumed as a reality in their society. How common it was, of course, we have no idea. But the Lord says, you know what, there's some circumstances where you are not allowed to divorce So let's look at it. If any man takes a wife and goes into her and then turns against her and charges her with shameful deeds and publicly sh uh defames her And says, I took this woman, but when I came near to her I did not find her a virgin. Then the girl's father and her mother shall Take and bring out the evidence of the girl's virginity to the elders of the city at the gate. The girl's father shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter to this man for a wife, but he turned against her. And behold, he has charged her with with shameful deeds, saying, I did not find your daughter a virgin. But this is the evidence of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread the garment before the elders of the city So the elders of that city shall take the man and chastise him, and they shall find him a hundred shekels of silver, and give it to the girl's father, because he publicly defamed a virgin of Israel. And she shall remain his wife. He cannot divorce her all his days So I think that's pretty straightforward what that scenario is. Just a husband for whatever reason, for his own selfish purposes, decides, you know what, I don't like my wife, the this new wife that I have, so I'm gonna lie about her. I'm gonna pretend like she wasn't a virgin. And that'll give me the permission to get a divorce and I can move on with my life and pursue somebody else. And the the law here is If the parents can prove that he's lying, then he has to obviously pay this fine, and he's not allowed to divorce her uh the rest of his life for any reason. Now why would this uh law be put in place? Well it's obviously to protect uh women from unscrupulous husbands who are selfish and uh who don't care about the welfare of their uh wife. Uh giving a charge like this would, as we see uh there in uh verses twenty and twenty-one, if the charge is true, that's the death penalty for the woman. And so uh if in fact he makes this charge And even if it proves to be false, we all understand that once a public charge is made, there's a stigma attached to the person even if they are completely innocent of that charge. We see that for sure today in the realm of online. interactions, most people see the charge, very few people see the equittal. And so similar in any other context, uh that uh once that charge is made of a woman, her reputation is ruined. And so if he put her away, nobody else would want to marry her because of that ruining of her reputation. And so that's why he says he is not allowed to divorce her, because to do so would be to uh put her in a position of vulnerability where she likely could not get married again. So the Lord says you cannot divorce her all your days. So that's one scenario. A lying husband who um is wanting to get rid of his wife, but He's making false accusation. Another scenario is in Deuteronomy chapter 22, just a few verses later in verses 28 and 29. If a man finds a girl who is a virgin, who is not engaged, and seizes her and lies with her, and they are discovered Then the man who lay with her shall give to the girl's father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall become his wife, because he has violated her. He cannot divorce her all his days. It's not entirely clear if this is a situation of what we would consider rape. uh or if this would be a mutual consent. Uh there's other provisions in the law with regard to a woman if if a man uh takes advantage of her in the field, uh that uh she is not to be counted as uh uh uh Harlot or whatever, uh, because she had no way to cry out for help. There would be nobody to c help her if it if they were out, you know, far away from people. But if she was taken advantage of, if she was uh abused and and raped in the city, uh and she did not cry out, she didn't cry out for help, she didn't scream uh then she would be treated as an adulteress or um a fornicator and uh ultimately alongside the man liable to to death. So because this doesn't seem to kind of treat that that kind of a scenario, it seems as though there might be mutual consent conveyed here uh even though it places the the responsibility on the man for their sexual activity. But the point is if they are caught in having sex, now you have to marry the woman that you've had sex with. And you cannot divorce her uh all your days. So if you want to seek your own pleasure, you have to live with the responsibility that that brings into your life and you cannot ever go against that uh commitment. Those are the two situations Where the law explicitly says you cannot divorce your wife. For what it's worth, in the Old Testament the language, and this would be true in the New Testament as well Uh it there's two different concepts of uh divorce, from the man's side and from the woman's side. From the man's side, it uses the term translated divorce From the woman's side, um, actually forget that. I that I think I messed that up in my mind. Alright, so those are the two situations where the law says you cannot divorce your spouse. Any particular thoughts or comments about that? Yes, Marquita. What would be great for the generity if I would have to get the other thing? uh from my recollection of of the customs of the day. When uh a couple got married Uh they would uh on you know because of the extensive nature of the wedding ceremonies over multiple days uh the the night that whether it was the first night, whatever night it was, that they would go into the the wedding chambers for their first night of sexual uh intercourse um when um Uh and forgive me for uh if if this sounds crass. Uh but the how should I put this? Uh the um product of sexual intercourse with a virgin would uh b include blood. Uh and that would be captured obviously on a sheet or on a cloth. And they were intentional to uh capture that on a garment, which would then be brought out as a point of celebration publicly. And so that's why the parents would have that garment. Because it would be their proof that our daughter was a virgin and you know you cannot say anything against her. So um I think that's the right answer. All right. Any other uncomfortable questions. Alright. Now down to Deuteronomy 24. And I tell you, it it's i it it really is amazing. If you do a word search for divorce, you're gonna hit Leviticus 21 22, Numbers 30, and Deuteronomy 22 and 24. Those are the only times you'll find the word divorce in the Mosaic Law. And as we'll see, it's only a couple times in the rest of the Old Testament as well. So for something that is so uh significant in in the course of society. It's uh it's really surprising that we have so little that's recorded for us. But nevertheless, this is what we have. And uh as uh Deuteronomy twenty nine twenty-nine says, The secret things belong to the Lord, but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children that we might do all the works of this law. So what God has given us, what God gave his people uh he believed to be sufficient for their faithfulness to him. Now having said that, Deuteronomy 24 uh becomes one of the greatest interpretive challenges uh throughout history. Uh there have been a variety of ways, and we'll look at the three primary interpretations by uh the rabbinic uh leaders of of Israel that were passed down uh over time. But even down to today, you could read evangelical scholars who have different ways of understanding what is uh written here, what's the significance of it, what conclusions should we draw from it. So this is admittedly a difficult portion of scripture. So we're going to do our best. I'm going to give you uh two different ways of looking at Deuteronomy 24. Ultimately, I think that no matter how you take the nuances and the details here It doesn't really change our view of God's standard for or or God's um guidelines for divorce in the New Testament The New Testament, I think, gr brings sufficient clarity that it doesn't matter where you land on Deuteronomy twenty-four specifically. Um, but this is, I think, helpful for us to think about. So you can see this is the Legacy Standard Bible here. There's not really much difference between the different translations. They all essentially say the same thing here. But Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4 says, if a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some indecency in her And he writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out from his house. And she goes out of his house and goes and becomes another man's wife. And if the latter husband turns against her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, Or if the latter husband dies, who took her to be his wife, then her former husband who sent her away is not allowed to take her again to be his wife since she has been defiled. For that is an abomination before Yahweh, and you shall not bring sin on the land which Yahweh your God gives you as a as an inheritance. So we've already seen with Deuteronomy 22 that much of the law in many situations are what's considered case law. You have Things like the uh Ten Commandments, which are just statements, you know, do not kill, do not uh or do not murder, do not commit adultery, don't lie, don't steal, just statements of You know, do not, do not. You see that in various places. But a lot of the Mosaic Law is what's called case law, which means here's a case, here's a situation And here's how you should handle that situation. And that's certainly what we see here. We see a whole scenario portrayed. In fact, verses 1 through 3 are uh the the scenario. If this and if this is true and if this is true and if this is true, then here's how you should respond to that situation. And just to tease the look at into the New Testament, the New Testament does not deal with the law that is stated here, because the law is verse 4. The law is verse 4. The New Testament, as it looks back to this passage, only deals with verse 1 which some of the Pharisees took as a commandment, but as you can see, and what you see is faithful with the Hebrew, uh, it's not a commandment It's a case, it's a situation uh that that uh exists, and that's what uh Jesus uh implies in his response to the Pharisees. So just for what it's worth, uh that's one thing to keep in mind here. So, um note that this is not presented as a command about initiating a divorce, right? So Again, the Pharisees said to Jesus, why did Moses command us to give a certificate of divorce? Well that's not what the passage says. It doesn't say Hey, if you find some indecency in your wife, give her a certificate of divorce. That's not the case and the law that is here. It's just a man finds an indecency. and he gives her a certificate of divorce and then there's subsequent aspects to that case. It gives a hypothetical situation about a presumably common practice. And it forces people to draw conclusions about that practice, as we'll see. Now, uh th of course a key phrase there is indecency. What is this indecency that a husband would find in his wife. You see the Hebrew term there, Erwathabar. It's a vague term. It's very nonspecific. It's only used one other time in the Old Testament, and that is in Deuteronomy 23, which you have uh stated for you there and it refers to uh the visible presence of human excrement. And so it's you know what we can say for sure is that whatever this indecency is It's something repugnant, something repulsive, something that, you know, by your perception of it, uh, it's something undesirable to say the least. Now, uh as you think more in the context of marriage, what what is that thing that is repugnant? Well, there's a whole lot of room for interpretation on that, and we'll see those here in a second. But the the phrase simply means uh something that's uh undesirable, repugnant, in uh indecent as it's translated. Uh the uh the word divar just means thing. Uh If you the generic word thing, that's where what Davar uh means. So the combination, Erwath Davar, just means an unclean thing, an undesirable thing uh thing, a repulsive thing. And the word airwolf by itself uh is usually translated nakedness. So that's the basis in this particular case. That's the starting point of the husband's initiation. of divorce. Again, it's not endorsed by Moses. Moses isn't saying this is a good thing. This is why he should divorce. He's just saying this is a case that Out of this law there have been three primary schools uh in the rabbinic uh tradition that uh of how they are to understand w the legitimacy of divorce. The house of Shabbai interpreted this as a husband must not divorce his wife unless he has found her unfaithful, as it was said. because he hath found some uncleanness in her. So there's a stream of rabbinic rabbinic tradition that says what Moses is setting up here is a situation where a woman has been unfaithful to her husband, and on that basis he uh gives her a certificate of divorce, and legitimately so that tradition would say. Another tradition would say the House of Hillel Quote, he may divorce her if she only spoiled a dish for him because it was said uncleanness in anything So you go from she's been unfaithful to me, she's slept with with another man, to she burned my fish. That is a repugnant thing for me. I don't want to eat that thing. That's repugnant, that's repulsive Again. You better be careful there. So I mean that that that really goes beyond what we would you know, in our cultural context call um uh oh dear the statement just um faultless divorce, you know. Because faultless divorce, uh usually there's something significant, right? In our culture w a person would be hard pressed to say Uh, judge, the reason I'm filing for divorce today is because my wife burnt my chicken last night. Um you know, that that that's not the kind of thing we would typically think of. But there was a stream of rabbinic tradition that said, hey, you know, whatever your wife does that you don't like She doesn't iron your clothes well enough. You know, she doesn't uh do the specific things that you want her to do. Uh whatever reason, any uncleanness and anything, anything that that you don't like, you are allowed to divorce her. And then there's a third tradition, Rabbi Akaba, where he says, he may divorce her if he found another that is more beautiful than his wife. Because it was said, if it comes to pass that she finds no favor in his eyes. So there's a there's a NIV translation of uh Deuteronomy 24. It's not the NIV translation. It's a it's a translation Uh it's an interpretation of what Deuteronomy 24 says that you know he he they went from thinking, uh I know it says some indecency in her, but nah, I just I don't like her as much as I used to. And so if I find somebody else that I think is more beautiful, I can go ahead and divorce my wife. So you can imagine with these three schools you have one which would be probably more consistent with what we would understand the New Testament to teach But then you have these two other rabbinic traditions that just throw the floodgates open and say, man, if there's any reason whatsoever that you can conjure up in your mind you are able to divorce your wife. You can imagine the impact that would have on society. That would effectively render marriage meaningless. That you could divorce anybody for any reason at any time. And uh society would not look down on you. Well that seems to be what actually happened And that's some of what uh the Pharisees asked Jesus about, trying to get him to take sides with uh the whatever tradition he was gonna take sides with, so that they would have some reason. to turn at least some portion of the society away from Jesus. We'll look at how Jesus handled that in future lessons. Now, so that that's how it had been interpreted. Let's think about this a little bit more. Number five. Nonetheless, Moses did reveal some important things about how divorce was practiced. In particular, the following basic three-step process which makes sense. There was a written certificate of divorce making it a legal matter. So um you know you couldn't just verbally say I divorce and that's that's the end of it. No, there had to be a written document, a quote-unquote certificate of divorce. They would just go to mosaiclaw. com and download the certificate and fill it out And uh that would ensure, at least to some degree, that that decision to divorce was not going to be made in the heat of passion of anger and, you know, he could uh make a decision that he would regret. No, he actually had to think about it. He had to take time to To write something out and uh in that day you didn't just have paper and pen lying around as we we might Uh it was not an easy thing to write out a certificate. So it required a measure of of time and thoughtfulness uh in order to issue a certificate of divorce And that certificate of divorce would be critical not only for the husband to say that I'm no longer married to you, but for the wife to then move forward in her life. as a now divorced woman, to be able to show and say, uh I am no I'm a as I get remarried or as I engage with another man toward marriage I am not an adulteress. Here's the certificate. I am no longer married to my former husband. And so that would protect her. and in a sense give her that freedom to uh remarry somebody else. So it was vital for both parties that a certificate, a physical certificate exist. So the husband would write that out and he would then hand that to her, right? We see that both with the first husband and potentially with a second husband in this case that's been constructed. And then the final step after issuing the, or after handing her the certificate of divorce, he would send her away You know, you are no longer able to be in my house. So she had to physically depart uh from the home It's interesting that the one of the New Testament words for divorce is afiami, which means to send away. And it's actually in somewhat tragically the same word that is commonly translated to forgive. In the case of divorce, you're sending away your spouse In the case of forgiveness, you're sending away the sin that stands between you and somebody else away so that you can reconcile with one another. So it's the same principle as sending away, but in very different contexts. So that's kind of the d s the uh uh implication that we see in terms of Okay, how was divorce practiced there in the Old Testament? That's by Moses articulating the case, we we see those steps that would be taken Yes. So that would only allow for men to get the board based enough so women will allow to both of them. Based on what we have that is right. Yeah. It's a society that Not to say this is God's ideal, right? This is all under the context of a fallen world where people are sinners and and whatnot, but uh in that context uh women did not have the freedom uh to divorce because the right of ownership for like property and home and and possessions uh fell to the husband Uh women did not have their own inheritances that that they would have. They didn't have their own right uh to uh you know live on their own per se. And so um that's why uh the husband had the right to send his wife away, she wouldn't have the ownership of the property to send her husband away. Yeah. Again, not not at all God's design, uh not what God would want Okay, so uh any other questions or Tina, do you have a question it was about that same time for each talking? Extremely after that it's been taken so rightly to become the Yeah. It sounds like even the English indecency has nothing to do with something difficult like Yeah, well I I think the only answer to that is the to use the phrase Jesus used the hardness of your heart that, you know, you give a man an inch, he'll take a mile. And oh, it's you know, um, it's something that I don't like, something that's indecent What what can I throw into that category? I'll throw anything, you know, into that. So it's just the sinfulness of man that allowed them to go that far with it. Alright, so uh that that's kind of the case that that we have here, right? So we have this scenario, and so then we have here verse six. And again, this is one way Really from here on out, I want to present to you this main way that's here in the notes of how we can understand what is written here in Deuteronomy 24. So uh one way of thinking about it is that the main point of Deuteronomy 24 is to illustrate how and why typical divorces were not permissible. In other words, as the law is given in verse uh four that you cannot marry your spouse once they have been uh remarried, you cannot remarry your spouse once they have married somebody else, that that is uh ultimately revealing that the original divorce was not legitimate. That's one way of looking at it. So let's kind of dig into that a little bit. Uh clearly we see here in the subpoint A uh this is universally acceptable that uh or accepted that the wi if the wife remarries, then the original husband can't take her back again, whether she became available due to divorce Or to uh due to the death of her second husband. That's the law. That's the uh explicit uh emphasis of what the law is is stating. If you divorce your wife and she remarries somebody else, you cannot, no matter what the circumstances of her becoming available you cannot remarry her again. That's the actual law that is being taught here. This suggests that the original husband could take her back if she and he doesn't remarry And again, that would even be consistent with what we see in the New Testament, in 1 Corinthians 7, as we'll uh see a little bit later on, that uh divorce is not the ultimate end of a relationship. It's a clear end, it's a legal end of a relationship, but if neither party marries somebody else, if both stay single uh there is the possibility of re reinstating, uh reinstituting uh through an official marriage once again that relationship. And that that seems to be a clear implication here. At least there's nothing that would go against that that is stated in the passage. And so you see kind of this thought diagram. Yeah, this if then statements, the the case study, right? If if a man divorces her, finds some indecency in her, and if you write her certificate of divorce, she goes out from his house and then she marries another and that man turns against her issues her the certificate of divorce or uh he dies, then moving to the right column, then her former husband who sent her away is not allowed to take her again to be his wife since She has been defiled. Why is she not allowed to why is he not allowed to take her again? Well, it says that That is an abomination before Yahweh, and you shall not bring sin on the land which Yahweh your God gives you as an inheritance. So this is no light matter. The Lord says if you send your wife away, if you divorce your wife, you send her away, she remarries somebody else, which would be the normal expectation uh and she becomes available again through death or divorce, it would be an abomination before the Lord for you to take her back again. There's not a lot that the Bible says is an abomination to the Lord. Right? There are a number of things that are an abomination to the Lord, as explicitly stated in the Old Testament, but but not a lot of things And so for the Lord to say, this is an abomination, that's a serious matter. So this is no right issue in God's eyes. So that's what the the passage states. What you see there in the colored boxes is now our interpretation of trying to understand what's going on here uh to to see what uh what are the implications of this law. Well starting with the arrow going up Uh the phrase, she has been defiled, uh, implies potentially that this second marriage must not have been permitted. that uh she should not have gotten married again because the original divorce uh was not permitted and therefore the second marriage it constitutes adultery. The passage doesn't explicitly say that But kind of bringing old uh New Testament teaching into that, Matthew chapter 5, Matthew 19, that if there's a marriage after divorce, that that constitutes Adultery. Then the next box up from that, the original divorce must not have been permitted. It must uh it must not have given either of them the right to remarry, and then therefore this must not be a legitimate basis for divorce So it goes all the way back, you know, as we think about the potential implications, going all the way back to the indecency, that that must not have been a legitimate basis for divorce. That's one way of looking at the logic of Deuteronomy 24 here. So then looking at that box at the bottom. Rather than allowing divorce for the specified cause, this passage demonstrates that God placed boundaries around divorce, even though he appears elsewhere to have accommodated at least some divorce under the law. But the passage is silent on what the boundaries around divorce are It merely stipulates that a key boundary for uh around remarriage is that the prior divorce needs to be permitted Note that the specified rationale for the divorce in this situation, some indecency must not have included adultery. In other words, uh indecency likely doesn't include adultery because that is treated as a separate kind of violation under the law. Obviously the the penalty for adultery in the law is death. So um that's that's one way of looking at the logic Here, going on to letter C. However, in this scenario, the first husband can't remarry her because she has been defiled. And so that becomes one of the Is it? I'm glad I looked up. That becomes one of the great sticking points of this particular passage is what does it mean that she has been defiled? How did that happen? Yeah, it's a little bit fast, but still past the time. Okay, uh well we're we're gonna have to stop then. Um goodness gracious. Well, you can read the rest of the notes there. I think, you know, in terms of what the Old Testament is is saying overall, it's pretty self-explanatory. You can see the examples of bad and uh of a bad divorce from Malachi II uh and divorce as a necessary evil where be the because the people have married foreign wives, they've brought foreign blood into the lineage of of God's people that uh the the best thing in that particular scenario for the preservation of God's of God's people is to divorce the foreign wise. That's a very challenging uh thing to think about the larger implications of it, but the the narrative itself is fairly straightforward. Uh so I'll leave it there for now. Um Alan and I will figure out whether or not we need to say anything more about what's here in the Old Testament. But um I'll be up here if you have any questions. I'm sorry about that. I did not realize how much time was passing. So let me pray and we'll be done. Father, thank you for uh this time that we've had. Uh it's amazing how Even in these um fairly limited statements that your word has, there's still a lot to think about. uh to draw uh understanding and and wisdom from. Lord, we we know that this is not your design, that uh your design is for lifelong marriage, and yet in a fallen world Uh you um seemed to for so long uh allow people to go through divorce as painful and difficult as that reality is. And uh in various ways you protected the vulnerable uh such that they would not be taken advantage of. Um Lord, help us to have the same heart of upholding your design and recognizing uh your mercy and care for uh those who may be oppressed. I pray this in Christ's name. Amen.