Mayhem, chapter eight. We are week eight, um uh of what has for me been a really a wonderful study. I I have to tell you, I I'm enjoying uh teaching this class enormously just because of everything that I've been uh blessed to learn and and grow and and understand more of the Lord as I've been going through this. Uh I have to be honest with you uh I find myself going, Wow, I never knew this was in here. I never knew this existed. Uh I'm so fortunate that I get a chance to to then read and understand and go into these things. If I'm uh being honest It also tends to make me uh read ten times more than what I'm capable of delivering uh on on this day in an hour and a half time frame. So I have to make all of these decisions which I don't necessarily love to have to make, but uh Just updating the the prayers and introductions. I added a couple resources. I've been using Michael Barrett's series of the minor minor prophets. The link, if you go in and you download, you can click that. That'll take you to it. It's in sermon audio. though if you just type in like minor profits, Michael Barrett will come up. He actually does a really good job. He's very uh very good job in uh doing a summary of it. Uh also added uh you know these the voices of the 12 people Hebrew prophets which I just showed you. And then this one which I've started using, Nahem, Zephaniah, Habakkuk, the minor prophets of the seventh century, uh by Hobart Freeman. Um so yeah, just as I I said before, I'll say it a thousand times. So I'm just adding to this as I'm going through it. Uh if you want to you can go on to Hope Book and just if you're registered in the class you can go right in the messages. It should you actually receive it on email, right? If uh yeah, if you're registered for the class. So yeah, anyway, just wanted to do that. And today we are talking about the book of Nahum. Nahum is a prophet who is going to speak about the judgment of Nineveh. This uh book is called the uh sequel to the book of Jonah uh by many, many commentators because there's uh about one hundred years in between the time of Jonah's preaching when Nineveh repents. And the time that Nahum ultimately declares that judgment will befall them, uh and and finally, of course, in six twelve BC, uh they are sacked by the uh the Babylonians and the Medes team up. Um this was a um this was a hated people. They they earned the hatred that they had for themselves. Uh they were a hated people. They were a a uh an evil people. of wicked people who engaged in all kinds of I talked about this in Jonah uh engaged in all kinds of just awful treachery towards people whom they would do battle against uh if you found your fa yourself facing the Assyrians and you were a soldier uh and you were conquered, you were likely going to be either flayed, which means skinned alive, uh while they they were actually proud of the fact that they can skin a human being alive. Uh the before they died they would feel every ounce of the pain. Uh they learned ways of impalement that kept their victims alive longer. That of course allowed them to to to kill multiple soldiers in such a way they would you know, line streets with it, create, you know, uh they would create statues or not statues, pyramids with their skulls. Um there was no mercy. They would burn the women and children of the cities that they sacked. Uh zero mercy. And we know this because they were so proud of it, they would write it on the inscriptions of the kings who did the conquests. Uh so we have quite a bit of knowledge of this. This isn't some small this is uh their own testimony uh themselves and what they've done. Um so they were uh they were a wicked, wicked people. Frank. Yep. Question Do you get a censor doesn't tell you how long the degradation took? So you have this great repentance at Jonah and often we see in the Bible just takes generations sometimes. Right, right. You almost have two generations here. Right? Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah. And you can kind of time it because there's about a hundred years between Jonah and Nahum. Right? Right around 50 years before Naum, uh Assyria sacks uh Thebes, which we'll talk about that later. So uh within fifty years they had already returned to their ways. Right? Uh There's some I I I forget the king's name, but there was a king right around the time of Jonah's preaching uh that created a very famous library. Uh they think that maybe that was also part of the time after Jonah had preached part of that. period of repentance and and uh uh uh turning to the Lord that maybe that's also when that library was created and this particular king was not as evil as the other kings. Uh not to exclude him from his evil he had quite inscription as well, but just that he also engaged in some things that that that show that he was interested in education and these things. So all that to say, uh not very long. The the repentance did not last very long. Uh Um Nineveh, I I think I had mentioned this back in Jonah. So I'm not going to go over too much of this, but um uh they uh uh was established by Nimrod uh after uh after uh he was the uh son of Cush. Um so after the uh the Ark and then Cush goes out, he founds Nimrod. Uh or Nimrod founds Nineveh. Uh so it's been many, many years. I mean it's thousands of years that this city was there. It was a a humongous city for its time, uh between 150 and 200,000 people, which maybe doesn't sound like a lot for today's date, but back then that was quite expensive. Uh I I put this map on here because it becomes very important. It was situated On the Tigris River. And you can see that they had quite a wall around it. It was like a hundred-foot-high wall all the way around the city with a very large moat that also was all the way around it. And they had uh built a canal system going into the city, this is actually a river that goes through, and they had a a system of uh I think we would call them locks nowadays, but they're like gates that would hold back and create like reservoirs for and prevent prevent the flooding of the city because you can imagine if the tide was flooded with that river running through it, the entire city would also be flooded, right? So they had built this system of uh this complex system of dams that would allow it to you know to to preserve and not overflow the Tigris, or not overflow this little river that runs through. So yeah, you could see for for its time a very sophisticated looking city, right? Very sophisticated Sophisticated looking city. So ultimately it was sacked in 612 BC. You might recognize the King Nebopalasser. Is everybody familiar with Nebalasser Nebo pilasar, we should probably know that if we study anything. So who is Nebuchalasar the uh father of Nebuchadnezzar? Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar. Of course Nebuchadnezzar is of great fame within the the Bible. God makes him eat grass like a donkey and there's quite a bit about Neb uh Nebuchadnezzar. But his father, Nebuchalazar, actually, uh we don't have a great historical account of how Neville Pilasar even came to power. Uh he just seemed to come out of nowhere, uh is what one historical commentator uh said. He just kind of just appeared and suddenly took sort of center stage, you know. uh we can look back on it and say, Oh wow, God did this, right? God God made this happen but to uh secular historians are like, Yeah, he just kinda came out of nowhere uh and took that and he of course uh he uh formed a treaty With uh King I'm not gonna try that name, Sir I guess I am gonna try that name. I can't resist. Siet Cersees or something like that. He's the king of the Medes. So these two gathered teamed up and they sacked the city of Nineveh. Uh and Literally wipe it off the face of the earth. And when I say wipe it off the face of the earth, there was a battle by Alexander the Great, literally on top of this city, and Alexander had no idea. So this thing by 400 BC was gone. So much so that in the early 19th century, so early 1800s, Victorian Bible critics began to say that the city of Nineveh was a myth, uh that it didn't that it it never existed. Uh they were using it as a uh uh uh an attack against Scripture. So in eighteen thirty nine and then he finished the excavation in eighteen forty five, Austin Henry Laird uh found Nineveh. Uh it was a it was literally a hill in the middle of nowhere. And they, you know, near the tie exactly where the Bible said it was, but it was just a hill. And he began digging and they found all of this information, all of these things called obelisks, inscriptions on the walls of these palaces and all of this amazing stuff that he found which totally documented and validated the Bible. Um And uh it's kind of just as an interesting side note to this, um there is an obelisk that actually reaccounts the uh uh Sennacherib account in Second Kings chapters eighteen and nineteen. Is everybody familiar? With Sennacherib. Sennacherib was an Assyrian general, and he goes into Judah and right around this time, by the way, that we're talking about, during the time of Nahem, and he describes. destroys every fortified city in Jerusal or in Judah except for Jerusalem. And at the gates of Jerusalem, he begins taunting King Hezekiah and telling the people that your God will will not save you. And that night God sends the angel of death to destroy Sennacherib's army. And Sennacherib attend a returns home. That of course sounds oh well how How could that possibly be? Like, you know, this miracle. But in fact, the obelisk validate that that is exactly what happened. That he went, he conquered these cities, he got to Jerusalem, and he returned home. Doesn't say what happened, right? But he returns home. And then of course we know from 2 Kings and Chronicles exactly what did happen. The Lord spared him, uh, but literally was as an act of judgment. Against Sennacherib for his blaspheming of of the Lord uh at the walls of Jerusalem. So just as an interesting side note. Uh well it's actually not totally a side note because we're going to talk about that with Nahum. Uh notes on Nahum, I think I uh uh said most of this. I so I talked about the obelisk so I won't repeat that. Um the word the the the name Nahum means comforter. And um actually nobody knows where he's from. So he says he an Elkoshite and then there's of course all this debate on what's the what what an Elkishite is. There's four different traditional views. Elkash uh was in fact a city uh on the Tigris River in modern day Iraq People who support the theory that Nahum was from here would say that he was an Israeli exile, right? He was a member of the diaspora of Israel when Assyria captured them and took them away. That also makes sense because Nahum is is also pr uh uh prophesying against Nineveh. Uh so that would make some sense even though he's prophesying to uh Judeans. So he's speaking to people in Judah. So how he got from Elkosh to Judah would also would be something of a a problem. There's another that says that he was from a city in Galilee, Jerome. Uh the I think he's a biblical historian, Jerome, he's pretty well known. Uh he um uh believed that he was from a city in Galilee and I didn't write the names down, but they're not quite El Kosh. They sound kind of Elkash ish, but they're not actually El Kosh. Um third theory is that he was from the city of Capernaum. Uh Capernaum means city of Nahum. So that might be a big clue. Except that Nahom means comfort, so it could also just mean the city of comfort, right? But uh you know of course we have biblical And then finally uh the fourth is from the tribe of Simeon in a town of southern Judah. There's two towns in particular, El Sethi or Bir El Kaos. And you see in Ka. kind of hear the meaning there. But we don't know. Uh the the reality is it doesn't necessarily matter. Okay? I mean it it doesn't really affect how you interpret it one way or another. So maybe I just wasted a little bit of time on this, but it thought it was interesting. So uh Nahum was considered a poet the poet laureate of the minor prophets. This is some really great stuff in the Hebrew, which I unfortunately will never completely enjoy in person because I don't do the Hebrew, but But he was considered a great poet. I'll try and give you a sense of this as we go through it, by the way. I I I made an effort to try and highlight some of that simply to show you, you know. of the beauty of what Naam is saying, some of the depths of what he's saying. Uh because it's really fascinating how he puts some of the words together and these things. But uh he was considered an excellent, excellent writer, poet laureate. His the the the literature form is obviously poetry, uh very much like Isaiah who was his contemporary who would break out into into poetry uh throughout his his uh writings, uh Mahem was also doing such a thing. He was also uh doing a lot of uh writing in poetry. Uh but he was considered very, very good. Now um I will tell you. I was putting my notes together and I finished this this morning and I realized this is where I have to stop and say the main theme of man is the character of God. If there's one major theme and you have to write one theme down, this is far and away, one of the greatest pieces of scripture in understanding the full character of God. We get to see God in his wrath. We get to see God in his love and his compassion for humanity. You're gonna see uh God's uh Hasidic love for the Judeans. You're going to see aspects of God that are kind of put together in a wonderful sort of array. And I you know I think I should Probably mentioned this as part of the study of Hosea as well, because you know, we don't have a God who is cold and distant. Right? When we talked about Hosea and he likens the people of Israel. Israel to the wife that goes into harlotry. Right? And you get a sense of Hosea's pain, and what God is trying to communicate is it pains him when his children engage in such things. children went away from him w like like his bride committing harliteries. Well when we do the same thing, obviously it it troubles the Lord. It it grieves the Lord, right? And you get this sense of of God not just as This cold, distant, omnipotent, all-powerful thing, but this this God who knows you personally and who loves you personally and who has feelings personally. for what is happening in the world and has passion for you as a child of his who he's known before the foundation of the world. And you get that sense here also in Nahum. Uh uh that uh you You get it in a way uh that is with a poetry and a depth and and a and a color that maybe you don't see in other aspects of scripture. So I just wanted to point that out. If there's one major theme of the book of Nahum, the the overarching theme. Here is the character of God. We're going to learn today very much about the character of God. So, and I, you know, there's three chapters and it's very really quick. So we can kind of go through I like I prefer to do this this way is just to give you guys a taste of of the the the overall book and we can kind of run through piece by piece. So let's let's Let's do that. Does anybody have any questions before we get started? I guess I haven't asked that yet. Does anybody have any comments, questions, thoughts, feelings? Wish you hadn't come today. Where is El Creshite? We actually don't know. Oh, oh, oh. Yeah, we we actually don't know. Um there's four theories on There are people who think that he was a member of the Assyrian diaspora, the Israeli diaspora from Assyria. There's a place in along the town. Tigris River called Elkosh, so that's another option. Capernaum, city of Nahem. The theory is that it was El Kosh and then they changed it to City of Nahum in honor of the Prophet. Um and then there's uh some place in southern Judah that has a couple of little small towns that are similar. We don't know, it doesn't necessarily affect who like Mayhem's writing at all. It doesn't really have an interpretive it doesn't bring about an interpretive difficulty, right? Um We we talked a little bit about the interpretive difficulty in Hosea. Was was his wife a temple prostitute, which is kind of what the language of the Hebrew suggests, or did they he he marry her and then she fell into prostitution and I talked about how that might affect your view on on what God is saying about Gomer and who Gomer is. This no, it doesn't have any. It it it's it shouldn't affect it at all. Okay. So he starts off saying an oracle concerning Nineveh. That terminology, the oracle concerning Nineveh, is is probably more accurately and elsewhere in Scripture, by the way, when when such language is used, the burden of Nineveh of Nineveh. meaning that a a a uh oracle of judgment is coming against them. Um the book of the vision of Nahum of Elkosh or Elkishite, most most variants call it or most uh translations say Elkishite. And then he goes off verses 1 through 4, 1 through 7, I'm sorry. And he's going to he is going to lay out the foundation, which is a strong statement of the character of God. The Lord is a jealous and avenging God. The Lord is avenging and wrathful. The Lord takes vengeance on his adversaries and keeps wrath for his enemies. And then he says, the Lord is slow to anger and great in power, and the Lord will by no means clear the guilty. His and then uh so I'm gonna stop right there. Right there is a great depiction of the character of God. There's different aspects that you can take of this. You can look at first of all just the word usage, right? Jealous and avenging. In the Hebrew it says he's the master of wrath. That's the terminology. Also found elsewhere. in scripture meaning that he is holding his wrath. He's holding his wrath back. He's master over it. That doesn't mean that it's gone. It just means that he's holding it it. He's storing it up. Right? And so I'm sure if you know in your reading of the Bible you hear these accounts of the Lord storing up wrath, right? For th for the day of visitation, or storing up so he he uses that. Here, he's the master of wrath. And then he does something very interesting. Can somebody take Exodus 34, 6? Someone else take Numbers 14, 8. Someone else take Joel to thirteen. So who's gonna take who's first one to Exodus thirty-four? Raise your hand. Okay, go for it. Uh ending where just thirty-four-six. The Lord passes before him. The Lord, the Lord, the God, merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Okay, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Somebody have Numbers 14? If the Lord is pleased with us, then he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land which flows with milk and honey. Oh, you may need to read another fourteen oh eighteen. Yeah. I read eight. The Lord is slow to anger and abundant and loving kindness, forgiving iniquity and transgression, but he will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generations. Okay, perfect. Joel 2, 13. You scared me for a minute. And render your heart and not your garments. Now return to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger, abounding in loving kindness, and relenting of evil. Slow to anger, abounding in loving kindness. Did someone did I say Jonah 4 2 or did I stop with that? I stopped with that. Okay, Jonah 4 2 is going to say the same thing. But here Nahum says it a little bit different. See if you can hear the difference. The Lord is slow to anger and great in power, and the Lord will by no means clear the guilty. What was the difference? But now he's like, Okay yeah, a lot of anger. That doesn't mean that the anger's not coming up eventually, that you aren't gonna eventually get the result of your actions. So here you have it something that's repetit repeated throughout scripture, right? And when you see This should be just, and this is just an interpretive thing for everybody as a general rule. If you see it repeated over and over and over again, it's probably because it's something that is taught in the synagogue in this case. Right? They have taught this from generation to generation. Generation to generation to generation. Slow to anger, but abounding in steadfast love. Slow to anger, but abounding in steadfast love. Thousands of years later, Nahum is going to say, slow to anger and great in power. Power. And this is poet poetry here, because Nahum is doing something with this. The Hebrew difference between abounding in love and great in power is not significant. It's almost unnoticeable. if I showed you the two together. I don't know Hebrew. I'm just going off of the notes. But notice what Nahum is doing here. Right? Notice what he is doing. He is bringing this idea of slow to anger, right? But But great in steadfast love to saying great in power. Because he's about to talk about the judgment on Nineveh. And he's making he's making it clear that Yahweh has every capacity to completely wash the world clean of Nineveh. So there he's talking not slow to anger, or slow to anger, great in steadfast love, but great in power. He's slow to anger. He's storing up this wrath. Right? And he's great in power. Don't mistake. Don't mistake his mercy for weakness. That's the message here, right? Don't mistake. his patience for his inability to do what he says he will do. Don't mistake the storing up. And and don't mistake that that And his patience and his kindness, don't mistake that for ineptitude. Because he is great in power. And that is what Nahum is saying here. Slow to anger, but great in power. And the Lord will by no means clear the guilty. You heard that also right in the other verses. By no means clear the guilty. So he's calling back this common thing that they've probably said in the synagogue for thousands of years. He's changing it just a little bit to let you know and to remind you and to put emphasis on he will by no means clear the guilty. And then from there he goes into God's control of creation. Now do you guys remember? Remember back a couple weeks ago, I think it was during Jonah, when I was talking about how w God's sovereignty is often expressed by the prophets through his ability to control creation. Right? It's God is the creator. God has sovereignty over all creation. And what the lesson should be when you see this, okay, when you see this, is that God controls. the creation. He has complete control over it. He his way is in the whirlwind and the storm and the clouds are the dust of his feet. He rebukes the sea and makes it dry. He dries the Up all the rivers. Anybody else know of anybody who rebuked the sea and made it calm? Jesus. Yeah. Anybody else know anybody who could control creation at his word? You ever think about what a strong statement of Christ's deity that moment in the boat was? Do you think that escaped Peter's notice? John's notice? Do you think I've been learning this all my life, Lord, and all of a sudden Who is This that can even command the seas. Right? Who is this? So you want to know why that's such a strong declaration of Christ's theory? There it is right there. That is, in the prophets are repeated theme that you will find. We talked about it. I'm I'm sure we talked about it uh in Hosea because it came up in Hosea. I'm sure we talked about it in Jonah as well because he controlled so take that away from this class. He rebukes the sea. He controls. Bashan and Karma wither. Bashan and Carmel are in Judah, and they are. This is how, by the way, we know that Nahem is speaking to Judeans, right? Because I don't think anybody in Nineveh would have the first clue what Bashan is. Carmel were except that maybe he they stepped on it on the way to conquest of conquer some fort or something. But uh Bashan and Carmel were symbols uh in the Judean kingdom of fertility. Uh it was just a rich plush land and it w it grew. So I I I make that joke a little bit about uh about Maryland because you just stick something in the ground here in Maryland and it just shoots right up. Well he he makes it what he's saying is Bashawn and Carmel Wither. The bloom of Lebanon withers. So he controls the fertility. He controls growth of food and and and agriculture. Mountains quake before him. He controls the earth. The hills melt. The earth Earth heaves before him the world and all who dwell in it. Strong declaration of his sovereignty. Who can stand before his indignation, he says? Who can who nothing can withstand his indignation. Who can endure the heat of his anger? I should say here, uh he uses two terms here, fierceness and wrath. Both of those have a sense of burning. The Hebrew connotation is a sense of burning. Uh i it's this idea of you're you're just on fire. And here he says, his wrath is poured out like fire. So here if you go back, I'm gonna go back and I'm going to show you the connections here just a little bit. He talks about storing up this vengeance, right? Pours out like fire, and the rocks are broken into pieces by him. So you underst you see the literary devices. That he's using, he's created this image of this storing up of wrath, the storing up of heat and fierceness, and then it just pours out like a volcano and destroys everything in its path. That is the wrath of God. That is the wrath of God. Nothing can stand before the wrath of God. Because he controls all of it. Right? He controls the earth. He controls the wind. He controls the water. He controls everything. And when his wrath pours out, he just, everything in its path is consumed. That's the picture that Nahum is creating here. And this is the judgment that Nineveh is facing. So just take a second and just absorb that. The fierceness of his wrath. And hold on to that idea of pouring out. Right? Hold on to that idea of pouring out. out because oftentimes in scripture when when you hear them talking about the the wrath of God, it's described as pouring out, right? If you think about Revelation, the pouring out the bold judgments, the pouring out of his wrath on the earth, right? Each one is just this awful thing and the the the angel just pours the wrath out, right, from this bowl. Um it it's very frequently in scripture that you'll see his wrath being talked about as it's being poured. out because it's this idea that he stored up this wrath and like a dam that breaches and just pours out. Right? It just pours out. Nah is using it here, right? Uh For a very specific reason, and I think we need to go to the next. Mineveh's overthrow announced okay, so I mean we're going through this is then uh but with an overflowing flood. He will make a complete end of his adversary. So he's talking to Nineveh and with an overwhelming flood. I mentioned the series of gates, and I don't know what this were. So making sure I'm in the right spot because I Well, I'll do it anyway, that's okay. If I get out of order, you're gonna have to live with it. So um Ninevah Nineveh I told you had this hundred hundred foot high walls, right? Had the these great system of dams. When the Medes and the Babylonians came up against Nineveh, they it took three months to complete the siege. It's a long time to battle, right? It's a long fight. Okay, uh the first few attempts to to sack with their battering rams and with th they failed. Uh so much so that the Assyrians had become convinced that there was no way that the These armies could possibly penetrate their walls. And so while they were they were um uh waiting, uh they got drunk. The soldiers were drinking, eating, eating Mary, acting like there was no problem. Okay, this is instrumental because it's going to paint a picture. You're going to see this same picture repeated in Scripture. And so as they're drinking and and carrying on and doing their thing, it begins to rain. A whole lot. Until the dams burst and the Tigris overflows. And it destroyed the wall, broke open the wall, and flooded the city. Allowing the Babylonians and the Medes to march right in. So while they were eat, drink, being married, does this sound familiar? Eating, drinking, being married, there's nothing that can hurt me. Me and in like a flood come the Babylonians. In like a flood come the Medes, and they were destroyed. Killed the king. The king's brother becomes the king and flees and he manages to fight his way out. He goes. goes to a city called Haran where he's destroyed within I think it's a year or two years I think he lives um before they they sack him. And uh I was looking for this reference last night and I didn't find it. But I had read when I did jump that uh Nebu Pilasar makes the comment that the uh the bat uh the Assyrians had been destroyed. Are the the Assyrians yeah the Assyrians are destroyed and there is nobody who will miss them. There is no because they were such an evil people. And of course, if you keep reading here, he will make an end of his adversaries, he will pursue his enemies in darkness. What do you So here you see this fulfillment in Scripture. They are consumed like stubble fully dried. From you came one. Now here let's stop there on that. From you came one. Yes, I even have that in my notes. From you came one who plotted evil against the Lord. Who was that? Sennacherib. Right? He comes to the gates of Jerusalem and he he blasphemes the Lord and says, Your God can't save you. Your God can't save you. I can't save you. As a matter of fact, um Yeah, read if we go to Second Kings chapter nineteen, verse twenty eight. So I'm gonna flip to Second Kings chapter nine chapter nineteen. Amen. read verse twenty-eight. This is the judgments that Isaiah so, okay, so just to paint the picture. Sennacherib has come in. He's conquered every major city in Judah, except for Jerusalem. And now his army is sitting at the gates of Jerusalem. Hezekiah is holed up in Jerusalem, right? The king of Judah is holed up in Jerusalem. And uh he decides not not to surrender, which makes sense because we already talked about what happens when you surrender to the Assyrians, right? Bad things happen. You don't get saved. They will lie about you. They will, you know, they will say. But he begins, now Sennacherib at the wall begins to engage in psychological warfare, blaspheming the Lord. Your Lord can't save you. Their gods didn't save them over in Egypt. Their gods didn't save them. What makes you think your God is going to save you? That's really what he says. And Hezekiah goes to Isaiah, son of Amos, said to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, your prayer to me about Sennacherib, king of Assyria. Now did someone get to Second Kings, can you read verse 28? I'm not going to read The full the full prophecy, but this was kind of the meat and potatoes of it. 1928? Yeah, first twenty-eight. Because you have raged against me, and your complacency has come into my ears, I will put my hook in your nose and my bit in your eyes. So let me tell you why God tells him that. I think I mentioned this also before. When the Assyrians would conquer people, the people that they carried away, the people that they deported, they would take metal hooks and they would put them in their nose. And they would put strings around their necks and they would hold them and they would have to walk in a line. Just evil, diff like horrible people. So if I was to read it, it's because you have raged again Me and your complacency has come to my ears. I will put my hook in your nose and my bid in your mouth. I'm going to do to you what you have done to So many people, I'm going to do that to you. Right? And I will turn your back on the way by which you came. So this is God saying, I'm going to do to you the wickedness that you have. done to so many people. I'm going to repay you with that because you have blasting me. Right? His judgment. And so here, if I flip back to Naaman and he says, uh, one who plotted evil against the war Lord, a worthless counselor. So he's judging them partially because of Sennacherib, right? Here he's saying, You sent Sennacherib here and I sent him back to you, but you sent Senna Note Nahum's writing this about six sixty-three BC, so it's about fifty years before the fall of Between six sixty three and six twelve, so maybe six fifty we'll call it. Okay, so sometime after the city of Thebes has been sacked, but before obviously the city of Nineveh is sacked. But note that that Assyria has just destroyed the Egyptians. Okay? They have just conquered the Egyptians in the city of Thebes. So they are at the height of their strength. Though they are at full strength in many, they will be cut. Down and pass away. Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more, he's talking here to Judah, and I will break his yoke from off you, and I will burst your bonds apart. The Lord has given commandment about you. No more shall you be Shall your name be perpetuated from the house of your gods? I will cut off the carved image and the metal image. I will make uh your grave you are vile. So he's talking then back to Assyria. So uh so he tells Judah, Behold, upon the mountain. Mountains, the feet of him who brings good news and publishes peace. Keep your feasts, O Judah, fulfill your vows, for never again shall the worthless pass through you. Have you heard this beautiful feat reference before? Where else do you hear this in Scripture? Yeah, that's the right verse. That's the right verse. It's it's actually Romans ten, though. So Paul quotes this verse, but actually Hosea or I'm sorry, actually name. Is quoting this from Isaiah. Right? So he is quoting this from Isaiah, who is quoting it, who is then quoted by Paul. Right? So I think I have the references. Yeah. Isaiah 52. seven and Romans ten fifteen. So so that I don't run out of time. I will not go over that. Then starting is Chapter 2, the scatterer has come up against you. Um the walls of Nineveh will be destroyed by an overwhelming flood. Uh the scatterer is coming up against See that reference, uh there's the little debate uh are they talking about Nebuchadalzar? Are they talking about the army that's coming up against them? It's in singular little bit of a debate there. Uh probably didn't even need to say that, but okay. I did. Um i yeah, so it there's a bit of a debate there. Um so then he starts talking about the chariots race madly through the streets. So down to verse four chariots race madly. So this idea of these these armies are just walking all over you, right? These armies are just trampling over the top of you. Chariots are there, their spears are there, they're colored red. That could be either because he's depicting them with the blood of the Assyrians, or more likely the case that it was a form of psychological warfare that multiple armies would engage in. and they would paint their shields, they would paint their their clothes red as a symbol of what they're going to do. It's a a form of psychological warfare. So what what God is doing and how God is judging them is you've engaged in these brutal wicked activities. And this psychological warfare. Now you're going to be killed by the very same thing. Right? You're going to have an army that does the very same thing to you that you've done to so many before you. Right? This is the wrath. of God just pouring out his judgment on Nineveh. There's going to be confusion in the streets. They're not going to know he remembers his officers. They stumble as they go. They hasten to the wall. The siege of the tower is set up. Uh the river gates are opened again there. As a matter of fact, this prophecy so accurately depicts what actually happened or what we know actually happened, that after they said that Nahum couldn't be divinely inspired Because Nineveh never existed. Now they can't say that anymore. Then they turn around and said, Oh yeah, well, Nahum must have written that after the siege of of Nineveh. Because it's just too accurate. It just too accurately depicts it. So they must have made made it up. Right? So if you can't believe in the divine inspiration of the Word, then you have to like ignore every other fact and just say, okay, well it must be this then. Right? Just as a a quick little note to the Lord is good and His Word is is good uh that literally people have to make up reasons to think that he's not divinely inspired. You have to actually lie to yourself because we know we have very good textual evidence as to when this was written, right? We have very good textual evidence as to when this is written. And and dating scripture, by the way, is a science. This very sci there's textual analysis. We know from verbiage that's used, when they talk about the Hebrew, and I again I don't know Hebrew, but I know like what I've read is that they talk about like um uh phraseology is really important and it changes over generations. So they can accurately place based on these things. Like, for example, um You don't talk like the King James Bible. Right? If you pick up the King James Bible and you just started I mean started talking like that, people would think you're crazy. Right? Because people don't talk that way. Right? I mean you don't you don't Talk the way British people do, but you both speak English. Right? You have different accents, different phrases. So if if I wrote something down, and my friend in England wrote something down, and I just read the two them side by side, I could place them geographically, couldn't I? Just based on just simple word usage. Right? Same as with dating it. If if I write something in the King James and I write something in modern language, well I know I can date things based on when this type of language was was widely used versus when this type of language is widely used. We can date these things with textual analysis. Right? But hey this stuff is too accurate. Like he's talking about things that we No actually happened. Like we have documentary evidence of this. There's like scientific documentary evidence of this. He must have written this after 612. Yeah, but the textual evidence doesn't matter. Look, clearly, clearly, it it's ridiculous. Right? It's ridiculous to what depths people will go to deny the Word of God. But they have to go to deny the Word of God, because the Word of God is true. Right? So, um, a little side note there. Um see all these things are why I always run over time. I'm so sorry. The river gates are open. Flooding of the Tigwish River. This is where I was supposed to talk about that, but I'm not going to talk about it again since we did. We have employed a system of damage Dams and sluice gates, the control of the waters of the Tbiltu and Kozure rivers which flow through the city. I showed you that in that thing. Um so this is all just archaeological evidence, things that we already know. Okay, those dams brought And that is what shattered the wall, and that is what allowed the Medes to come in. Some will say that that was because um the Babylonians and the Medes figured that out. They said, Hey, we break this dam, it bursts that wall, it floods that city, they have to come out. And others say it was because it rains. I I personally think it's because of the rains. But either way. The devastation of Nineveh. So then turning then to chapter three. Uh oh, I'm sorry. End of chapter two. My bad. Desolation. Desolation in ruins. Hearts and melt and knees tremble. Anguish is in all loins, so this idea that they're weak. All faces grow pale, and then he begins to taunt. Where is the lion's den, the feeding place of the young lions, where the lion and Lioness went, where his cubs were with none to disturb. This idea and by the way, there's also a lot of artwork with lions in it inside that was serious. There's an element of that that Nahum is also incorporating. idea here is in the ancient world lions were thought to be an especially violent and unpredictable animal. So his depiction of the Assyrians as lions in this case, he's saying what kind of he's basically going You don't look like such a lion to me. You're looking kinda you're looking kind of zebra-ish today, now that you've been sacked this way, now that you've been destroyed. Right? And he's talking about it as though it's happened. What happened? Right? that it's going to happen fifty years later, right? But m but the idea is how how strong do you think you really are? Right? How strong do you think you really are? Right? Little lion, where's your where's your lion. You look like a zebra. You know, you look like a zebra. Just a little old zebra. So this taunt. And he says then the words that you never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever want to hear about you. I am against you. I am against you, declares the Lord of hosts. And I will lift here We'll talk about this too. I will lift your skirts over your face and I will make the nations look at your nakedness and the kingdoms at your shame. Does anybody recognize this particular verbiage from Hosea? Do you remember this? This idea, this is the um in the in the ancient Mideastern culture, or Near Eastern culture I I guess it's called, in the air ancient Near East culture Uh when a prostitute was found guilty, they would strip them down in the city to reveal their nakedness. It was a way of shaming them for their harlotry. So the idea here is is that I'm going to I'm just going to rip your I'm in it, yeah, I'm just going to you know, the the the Emperor has no clothes kind of thing, uh to treat you with contempt, to make you a spectacle. And all who look at you will shrink from you and say, Wasted is Nineveh. Who will grieve for her? Also what Nebuchadlesar said, right? He's They're gone. Who's going to miss them? God says, you're going to be gone. No one's going to miss you. You're going to be wiped off this planet, and nobody's going to miss you. Care. Where shall I seek comforters for you? And then he says, Are you better than Thebes? Remember, I talked about Thebes. This is the city in Egypt. Very similar city, who sat by the Nile with water around her. Notice a similar We talked about uh you know Nineveh. That was on the shore of the Tigris, this was on the shore of the Nile, her rampart a sea, and her water a wall. Cush was her strength, Egypt too, that without limit. And uh put and the Libyans were her helpers. Yet she became an exile. She went into captivity by whose hand? By their hand. Right? So he's saying, you crushed this city and This city is just like yours, what makes you think you're any different? What makes you think you're any different? And then he begins to he goes on. He's uh he pronounces he says, All your fortresses are like fig trees with first ripe figs. This idea of first ripe figs is another reference to their their actual weakness or how easy it will be for them to fall or how quick quickly it will begin to fall. I learned this about fig trees. Fig trees bare multiple times during the year. During the first fruit, you merely have to walk up and shake the tree and the fruit falls. Okay? Afterwards, the fruit sticks on a little more, you gotta go up and pick it. But for the first picking, you just shake the tree. And that's what God is saying. You just walk right up and shake them and they're just gonna fall. Alright, you're just gonna walk up and shake them and they're gonna fall. Taken they fall into the mouth of the eater. Behold your troops are women in your midst. The gates of your land are wide open to your enemies. Fire has devoured your bars, so there's no way you're going to You are just weak. You are incapable of defending yourself. And then he goes into this indictment of Nineveh. And that is oh beginning okay, I got a little backwards here. So woe to the bloody city. So now he's going to tell them what the reason for it is. You're a bloody city full of lies, plunder. There's no end to your pray, countless whorings. He he he gets he tells them they're idolatrous. So he lists out their sins, right? They're lying. And you saw we we talked about how Sennachib was lying to the people in Jerusalem. Come out Come out, he tells them. I'll I'll I'll say I'll let you you'll you'll keep your own farms, you'll have your own vineyards. We'll allow you to stay. We just we just want tribute. But he wasn't that was not his plan. His plan was to destroy them, so he was lying with them. about it. He was trying to plunder them. No end to the prey, and we've talked countless about that. And then he talks about their idolatry. And then when he talks about the betrayal of the fallen city, he he calls He says here, behold I against you, okay, I will throw filth at you, treat you with contempt. Reading down, he talks about piles of bodies that will be there. Draw water for the siege. Uh they will cut w they will there will the fire devour you. The sword will cut you off. It will devour you like the locust. Multiply yourselves like the locust, multiply like the grasshopper. Try and and strengthen. He is going to completely destroy them. And there's nothing they can do about it. And that is exactly what happened. Two thousand five hundred years, nobody New Nineveh existed. Two thousand five hundred years wiped off the planet. Literally, Alexander the Great fighting a battle over the top. of a city that was once the greatest city in the world. Pretty good picture of judgment. That's a pretty good picture of judgment right there. That is what happens when the wrath of God pours out. 2,500 years. Nobody knew it existed. It was a little tiny hill. Just a Hill along a dried river in the middle of nowhere. This once great city. Gone. Who will have been for her? Nobody. Nobody will amend. Uh talked about this to act like drunkards, twenty five hundred years, fortifications like fig trees, talked on that one too. Any questions on any of this? We just walked through we just read the whole book of Nahem. I feel like we're accomplished today. And I've got like ten minutes by the way. Sorry. I I think maybe Anyway, like I'm trying to figure out like my mental picture for how this works. So when Jonah was sent to Nineveh I don't know if people just never say this explicitly, so I'm just missing it. He was sent to an Assyrian city. And told that God was gonna destroy them. And then they repented, came back, figured themselves out for a little bit and then went straight back to what they were doing before. So how long exactly between It feels pretty quick, right? It feels pretty quick. It is. And it and actually this is one of the major applications. So I'm glad that everybody's kinda honed in on this idea, right? God will judge a wicked nation. Right? Will God judge a wicked nation? Do we have do we have uh evidence that God will judge a wicked nation? We have Assyria before them, Sodom and Gomorrah. Right? Sodom and Gomorrah. Moore, by the way, was the same thing. It was a hill in the middle of nowhere. They found it on an archaeological dig. Can you become a great nation? Can you become a great nation? The most powerful nation on earth, and within just one generation, can the Lord turn you into an archaeological dig? Can that happen? We've got lots of evidence. Right? We have Sodom and Gomorrah. We have Assyria. What about the Huns? Let's not even talk about the Near Medis. What about the Huns? Right? In Mongolia. Attila the Huns. Everywhere he went, right, his horse, everything that went behind him died. And his wickedness, he slaughtered people, gone, wiped off the planet. Rome Alexander the Great wiped off the planet. Will God judge a wicked nation? Will God store up wrath against that nation and then Pour it out like a flood and like a volcano, just eradicate everything that it ever was. Is that a lesson for us? Don't you think your country is so great? That you can continue in your wickedness, and God will not judge you. Don't become so haughty in your belief that you're the most powerful nation in the world, America. And think that you can't be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do Can continue in your way, and that God will not judge you for your wickedness, because He will turn you into an archaeological dig. And there will be people who will be sitting on top of it that never knew you existed. Can he do that? Yeah, go ahead. I just wanted to add, I think, as a response to Liz. Um we see that pattern in judges where one generation fails to tell the next of what God had done for them and it's possible that happens in innovative. They didn't tell about the repentance. that they experienced it. They went right back. It it does. It just takes and you see it also through Second Kings, the Judean kings, there were six good kings, but within one generation they turned right back to wickedness. Right? They would have a good king. And then that king would pass, and literally his son goes into wickedness. David, literally his son, went into wickedness. Right? So yeah, you're absolutely correct. But you can also just look in modern history that within a generation you see them go from here to here. What about Germany in the nineteen thirties? That went downhill pretty quick. Right? Did God judge them? Did it end? So yeah, you're right. There's plenty of examples in the Bible, in in ancient history, where just things are going great and then just bam, all of a sudden it all changes. Right? Because of their wickedness. So God will judge a wicked nation. Um Other major and I went to the bottom since yeah but um depiction of God. God's wrath uh a lot of commentators and maybe you've heard this term before because I I until I kind of read this week I I've always kind of disliked this term. But now I kind of understand what they mean by it. But the wrath of God is frequently called by commentators God's strange work. Have you ever heard that term? Just raise your hand if you've ever heard that terminology, is strange work. This idea that it's kind of foreign to his character. And I've always kind of re like not that's never settled well with me because God's character is God's character and there's no strange part of God's character. Maybe you don't see it. But what they actually mean by that and and I'll have to you know do a little bit of a mea culpa but i it's that it's foreign to his direct communication, his direct heart, like what what he communicates. It's foreign to his heart, it's foreign to his desire. He doesn't want to judge. That's why he stores his wrath up. He doesn't want to necessarily judge. He desires for everyone to be saved. It's foreign to his intention. Intention, uh, but there are conditions upon which his wrath is inevitable. Right? There are conditions upon which his wrath is inevitable. Why is his wrath inevitable? Anyone know why? He's holy. He's holy, he's just, and he's perfect. His justice cannot be perfect if he does not judge wickedness. Right? His justice cannot be perfect if he does not judge wickedness. He is not holy if he allows the corruption of sin and he doesn't judge it. Right? By definition, right? You have a perfectly white piece of paper, all it takes is one little speck and it's no longer perfectly white. Right? Just one little you know, I have a friend that one time tells us he he tells a story with like that he did with his kids. Um they wanted to do something and he was talking about God's holiness. He said, Hey guys let's make some brownies. And so they go and they get they make some brownies and they get it all mixed up. And then he tells the the youngest one he goes, I want you to go outside and grab a little piece of dog poop. Just grab a little piece of dog poop. We're gonna put it in here. No dad, no, I guess no, no, right? And we can't do that. Oh come on, just a little tiny piece. Just a little piece of that. No So there's one little fleck of filth, defile Right. Doesn't take much. It's one little piece of bug poop. A great illustration by the way. I thought that was a great illustration. No because Assyria is not Israel. It's not like they had the a working story of like, you know, God bring them out of like they weren't God's chosen people at all. So it's it's kind of remarkable to me that God sent anyone to work. Yeah. So you're I you get like you you're the student of the day because now you're giving me right where right where I wanna right where I wanna lead off. Why does God's care why is God's character patient? Are you glad that God's character is patient? I mean how many of you people are glad that Christ did not return before 1980? Right? How many of you are glad that Christ didn't return before 1990? How many are you glad that got that Christ didn't return before the year 2000? Yeah, definitely. Right? How many of you I'm glad that that Christ didn't return before two thousand and six? Because I wouldn't be standing here among you. Yeah. But I would be in a different place. I would be subject to the wrath of God. So are you glad that God is a patient God? Is God good for being patient? And still. And still, right? Who would be glad tomorrow? Who will be glad tomorrow when you tell somebody who doesn't know the gospel? Go make that person glad. That's what I'll send you off with. Because now you see the wrath that waits for them. Now you see the dam. And one day that dam is gonna burst and you don't know when that's gonna be. You have a brother that you love? You have a son that you love, friend, really dear friend, that you've known for years, and they don't know the Lord, any minute. Well, back to what you were talking about, is it only just one generation? Um, it's amazing to me that in my generation it seems that it's happened very rapidly, that we've gone very rapidly, like shockingly rapidly. to what was once considered like are you kidding? You can't define who a woman is? Are you kidding me that a man can have a baby? Or are you are you telling me that all these things that literally ten years ago or Maybe fifteen though. I'll tell you the I'll tell you the part that that really really gets me the most. The the fact that you often see it that behavior and the justifications Yeah, right. Yeah. Because what is a rainbow? It's the promise from God. It's a message of God's grace and God's mercy. And it's like they're just trampling on top of God's grace and mercy, it's like it's like they're daring God and it just and then you think about that storing up of the wrath and you're like, God is holding back, but oh my goodness you better hope that dam doesn't burst. Yeah, of cour of course. It's just there's this tremendous I yeah, ironic is the right word. It it every time I see that I think that. I'm like you are just spitting It's not just the rainbow. Real quickly I went to uh Annapolis not knowing that they had this the state fight thing happening that weekend. And everybody was dressed like in rainbow colors, like they had all the colors of the rainbow. throughout the whole you know, every decoration on people or their boost and things like that. So yeah, it's it was just amazing. And little children there with parents being taught you know that here's we have to have some passion. Yeah, I I I didn't talk about this and I won't because it but just very briefly, uh everybody likes to portray Christ as this meek and mild person. Um and and That's an accurate depiction. He was meek and he was mild and he was humble and he was loving and he was caring and he was gracious and he was merciful, all of those things. But did he did he hold back about the coming judgment? What happens to one of these whom who harmed one of my children. It'd be better for you to have a millstone wrapped around your neck and cast them at the bottom of the sea. Right? He wasn't mincing words. Don't you mess with my children. Don't you mess with my children. Woe to you, Jerusalem. I would have gathered you, I would have gathered you, but but you won't have it. Right? I mean Christ did not feign from from the honesty and the truth and the fullness of the character of God and and the coming and and the stirring up of the wrath. He he didn't fray away from it. And he's gonna come back and he's gonna be the executor. Right. He left as the lion or he left as the lamb. He returns as the the lion. Right. He returns as the lion. Alright. I can I get credit for three minutes? I feel like I was really close. Alright, let's pray.