Jonah. So probably uh the most well known of all of the minor prophets is Jonah. Uh in at least in name. Right, at least in name. I would also say um that it's also one of the most understood books of the entire Bible. Uh I think oftentimes we talk about the fish. Is it a fish Is it a whale? Is it a whatever? Uh I was actually gonna open up with a little video of veggie tails and we're slopping fishes, minorites, you know, I thought that might be fun. Um but uh but how many of you guys have actually taken the time to really study the words. Uh and and you know, to be honest, in my lessons and my studies this week, I f I was really blessed with the opportunity to learn uh things that, quite frankly, I had never even understood before. So I I'm excited about this lesson. As we get started, uh I told you I would continue to add resources. Um this is the same PowerPoint as last week, except I picked up a couple of other uh uh studies. uh Denton Bible has a sermon series on Amos that was really good. Um it's on video so you can see old man Tommy preaching which is kinda fun too. But um uh really great uh really great uh series if you have it's like four sermons on it I think it's four sermons. Uh also picked up uh Voices of the Twelve Prophets by G. Campbell Morgan, uh which is really great too. It's a very small book. Um so you can actually read like the entire coverage of the the entire introduction to the prophet and in it it took me like twenty, thirty minutes to read the whole thing on Jonah. Uh has some great insights, though I also enjoyed reading that as well. And then of course As I I mentioned before, I'm I'm reading this Ironside's Minor Prophets book, which has been great has been very uh uh rewarding to read as well. So just wanted to keep I'll I'll keep adding to that as I find different things that I'm using and uh also in in my notes. So I posted on on Hope Book the notes for this week as well as last week because I realized when I did it Oh my gosh, I forgot to put Amos up there. Uh but since we're posting and you know Elias has posted and I'm posting Uh I'm actually putting a lot more notes in the PowerPoint. So you won't see them on the PowerPoint, but they're on the the discussion notes. Anybody who knows PowerPoint knows there's like a section where only I can see as I'm presenting. Inside of that I put copies of of exegetical notes and things that I've read and and different resources that I've seen. So you can also go back and see some of the notes. It's it's scribbling, you know, kinda like these notes here. Because I scribble, that's what I do. But uh but hopefully they will also bless and and enjoy it if you want to take some time to go through those. Um Jonah, as I said it's one of the most well known books of the Bible. Um like even unbelievers know about the book of Jonah, right? I mean even like it's it's something that's even discussed among the unbelieving populations. Um what do unbelievers say? What what when you talk to unbelievers, what do they say about the book of Jonah? They submit? Yeah, because he got swallowed by a fish and he got v vomited out by a fish and I've re I've read some great uh scientific studies on how none of this is really possible. You know. Um so yeah, it's great to discredit but uh anything else that you've heard? A lot of people treat it kind of like fairy tales. They put it in the same have like boat with like Pinocchio and other things and Yeah, like a kid's story. Yeah, I that was the one that I was thinking too is that um you know people who are let's call them fringe fringe church goers that you know they they enjoy talking about Jonah and that you know and it they but yeah, it's really reduced to a child's story. Really reduced to a child's story, right? Um the disobedient little kid that runs off and you know and these things, right? So yeah that's that That was actually the one that I had come to my mind. Anything else? What about Christians? What do we know? What do you know about the book of Jonah? Running from what the Lord's telling you to do. Running from what the Lord's telling you to do, right? Great example of that. Yeah. Great example of that. Anything else? Wanting to exact your own judgment. Wanting yes, wanting to exact your own judgment. Nobody is guilty of that really, right? Nobody is really guilty about going, man, I want those people judged. Um Yeah, and and come on, the open discussion. Yeah. The abund the abounding grace of God, yes. The long suffering of God, I think, also in that, yeah. Anybody? What do you what are the key themes? So we talked about grace. We talked about the disobedience of Jonah Pocket of group today. Okay, no problem, no problem. We'll we'll move forward. Uh notes on Jonah. These are just um These are just the the historical things, okay, about Jonah. Jonah was a prophet from Gathefer. Uh that's in the uh uh that's in the area of Galilee uh around the uh um uh a around the Sea of Galilee. Um and of course this is also where Jesus was from, right? So when the uh when the Pharisees said that no prophet had ever arisen from Galilee, see and look, search the scriptures, no prophet has ever arisen from Galilee. They were wrong. Right? They were completely wrong in saying that. Jonah was, in fact, from Galilee. And when Jonah flees, this is the part everybody's He flees to Joppa. Joppa is in Phoenicia. Um so it's a uh it was a small port town. It was a small port town that was outside of Israel. So when Jonah fled the presence of the Lord, he got out as quick as possible. went he he immediately sought out the place where very few Israelite Israelites would be, uh in the town of Jopa. Uh and then he is trying to flee to Tarshish. Now Tarshish is an interesting city because Um we don't actually know where it is. We don't know what it was or where it is. As a matter of fact, a lot of people think that Tarshish was a um like a Hebrew term for out on the other side of the Mediterranean. So the idea was, and what you should understand from his fleeing to Tarshish was he was really trying to get as far away from Nineveh as humanly possible. Right? Uh this ship that he got on then, just for notes, uh and and kind of uh things that make you go, Hmm, this ship that he got on would have been kind of like a trader ship, right? It would have been to take cargo to one place, pick up cargo You know, it was literally doing like a a circle or around. It probably would have been uh a merchant ship of some type. It would have been quite large um for for ships of that day. Uh and he was literally just trying to get as far away from the what God had commanded him to do as possible. And that's the major takeaway from that statement. But in fact, yeah, some people think that it's uh most people believe that it is a a city in southern Spain. you can see the that's Spain there. Uh other people think that it was in uh north uh northwestern Africa, a a town near Carthage um would have been the other place that's also common. But most people believe That Tarshish was in fact in the south of Spain. So he was trying to get as far away as possible. And then he goes to Nineveh. Nineveh is an interesting city because it was founded. Anybody know the first mention? of Nineveh in the Bible and Scripture? You have it on the screen. Anybody know Genesis 10. It was founded by Nimrod. He was the great grand son uh Noah. Um uh Nimrod uh actually was a valiant warrior. He found it quite a lot of area in that in this part of I I don't know if I can use my pointer for this. Let's see if this works. He founded quite a lot can you all see that? Oh cool. Hey, this is fun. Uh he founded quite a lot of area, uh uh a lot of towns up in here, and then of course the largest one being Nineveh. Nineveh was one of the largest cities in the entire world at this time. It's a population of something like 100 to 200,000 people, uh which doesn't sound like a lot, but you have to realize back then towns were not normally very large. So 150,000 people in a town is quite large for this time. time, uh, requires quite a bit of logistics, quite a lot of building, those kinds of things, quite a lot of roads, infrastructure, those kinds of things that need to support a town. You can imagine they were quite advanced, right? We know a lot about the Assyrians, uh And I think I talk about this later so I won't jump too far into this right now. We know a lot about the Assyrians because they documented everything. They wrote a lot of things down, they put inscriptions on walls and palaces, they wrote lots of There's a lot of pictographs and graphic images of things uh that that represent the Assyrians. So we actually know quite a lot about the Assyrians, um, because they've left us quite a record. So um and and a lot of it's kind of interesting if you get into researching some of this, um uh so much of it it it coincides with exactly like a lot of our biblical evidence coincides with a lot of the documentation that the Assyrians had. So we can look here and go, oh this is insane. Second Kings here. Oh, this is in Second Kings here. So just if you ever just a quick uh the Bible is true. When we talk about the history, we've got a lot of documented evidence that that different aspects of the Bible were true and validated according to some of stuff that we found in archaeological digs. So um and Jonah was a real person. That was the other part here. So of course he's mentioned in 2 Kings 1425. Uh as a prophet that predicted that uh that Jeroboam II would increase the borders of Israel. So this was uh so we know that he was documented historically there. Uh also Jesus mentioned Mentions him in Matthew 12, right? He says, uh a wicked generation uh will not get a sign. The only sign they will get is the sign of Jonah. Um an evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given it except for the signal. We'll go through some of the exegetical notes on this, and you're going to see just exactly the first. How accurately Jesus was depicting this, and exactly what he meant by what he said, based on the things that Jonah also says. The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah. Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here. And yet they did not repent. Um so uh any kind of questions on on the notes here? I'm trying to get past this so we can get to the the good part. So Where where was where was the ship going that Jonah got on? To Tarshish. It wasn't going to Tarshish. Right. Okay. Did they have a purpose for going to Tarshish? Yeah, the idea there was a traitor ship. was uh it was probably taking cargo to Tarshish. It was a merchant ship. Um so it would probably would have been taking cargo um or picking up cargo and transporting it. Most of these kinds of ships that left this port of Jopa were were um were trading ships. They were like I mean think of them like modern day barges, right? They took a lot of property here, moved, picked stuff up and they were like a like on a bus route almost. Um it's real, real common during the time they had these ships going through. They were r they were uh uh heavily uh engaged in international trade the Phoenicians were so changing the people Yes yeah would have 'cause this would have been a huge boat. This is just something that I wanted to know because I wanted to know well how they recognize Jonah. as being the reason for Oh, we're gonna get to that. Oh we're definitely gonna get to that. So I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna be like hey hey here it is. Well that good question because Because I definitely uh yeah intend to answer that. So the key the key verse in Jonah is found in chapter two, verse nine. And I'm gonna read the will someone else read the With the voice of thanksgiving will sacrifice to you what I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Salvation belongs to the Lord. If I had to pick one major theme of Jonah, it is that salvation belongs to the Lord. This book is about salvation. Fundamentally in lots of different aspects, it is about salvation. It is about God's grace in salvation, is about God's sovereignty in salvation, it is about the dispensation. that God uses for salvation. For example, starting with God's sovereignty, you hear over and over and over again throughout, and this is just looking exegetically. We'll get more into the themes later, but just taking a quick search of it exegetically. and the structure of it. You hear this term, and I don't know Hebrew, but the Hebrew is repeated. God appoints. God appoints. So God appoints a great wind. God appoints a great fish. He appoints the fish to vomit out Jonah. He appoints a worm. He appoints the east wind. So I know I I put prepares there. But it's a similar word, the the the similar word meaning there. So all throughout Jonah, what you're getting is a picture of God working out a situation. Not that it's taking him by surprise Right? Not that he's stunned by it or shocked by it, but that he is doing this work. Right? He's working on Jonah. He's trying to get Jonah to go to Nineveh. Right? So he stops Jonah, puts Jonah in where he goes. Where he's supposed to go. It you know, he takes Jonah, Jonah re uh preaches literally eight words he preaches, and yet the entire city repents. On eight words. That is a that is an evangelist, let me tell you that. That's an evangelist right there. I could go up eight words, boom. I can't do anything. I can't tell you what time of day it is with eight words. He he had an entire city repent. 150,000 people repented with eight words. Um but no, he uses all of these things, right? He uses Jonah's disobedience, for example. He's cast out into the sea. The sea stops and the sailors, the group of sailors, start praising God and believing God. Why? Because Jonah's disobedience, right? Because God fulfilled his purpose in that. He glorified himself in spite of Jonah's disobedience, right? So you see this kind of pattern where God is working through, and then you have God's grace and mercy. It may not sound like it, but the belly of the fish is is a tremendous grace, right? I mean he jumps into the sea. He's thrown into the sea and the sea is raging. But God in his grace appoints a fish to save him, to to to swallow him, put him in his belly. Now it's not the most comfortable situation, right? But it that is also God's grace, right? Because he in the belly of the fish sees the Lord and and sees the working of the Lord and prays this amazing prayer to the Lord. The appointing of the plan is a picture of God's grace on Jonah. on a mountaintop in the middle of a desert, right? It's scorching hot in God's grace to appoint a little plant To just cover Jonah and give him shade. Right? And God's grace in rebuking Jonah. So God is dealing with Jonah while he's bringing about the salvation of Nineveh. So God's grace and mercy is definitely sure. shown throughout this. And then God's dispensation of salvation. Salvation is of the Jew, right? We've heard that before. Salvation is of the Jew. Jonah is called to preach. He uses Jonah's preaching. Right? He could have done, I mean, he's working all of these miracles. Right? He's working all of these miracles. Did he need Jonah to go and preach? Of course not. Eight words. And they repent. Eight words and they repent. Did he need Jonah's eight words to make them repent? No, but he uses Jonah. Right? He uses Jonah. It's his purpose to use Jonah. And Jonah is an image of Israel. The only thing that disobeyed God in the entire book of Jonah is Jonah himself. Think about that for a moment. The entire book, none of them disobey. Nothing. The earth doesn't disobey. The fish doesn't disobey. The water doesn't disobey. The Ninevehes don't disobe The only one in disobedience Obedience is Jonah. Jonah is a picture of Israel standing in disobedience, despising the Gentiles, right? But then eventually God seeking redemption. So you see this image of Israel itself inside. of it. And then of course Jonah is the picture of Christ, right? Jonah is a prophet from Galilee. So Galilee is, by the way, bat and a thousand for great prophets, right? Galilee, if if those are the only two prophets that ever came out of Galilee. Galilee's doing pretty good. They produced some pretty good prophets. They produced Jonah, who makes the entire city of Nineveh repent, and then he they they produced Jesus, the prophet who saves the entire world through he the shed blood of Christ, right? So Um so yeah, so so so Galilee is bat and a thousand here. Uh and then of course Jonah, the picture of Jonah in the belly of the fish, uh is the the illusion that that Jesus draws on in Matthew, which we had already read. Uh this book is also um uh seen in in much the same way by Jewish people. It's actually read in the evening service uh in the synagogues during Yom Kippur. Yom Kippur is the day of salvation, right? So there are four reasons. This is uh that I've got the the website that I pulled this from. It's called upstart. org. Um there are four reasons. The first is something that's out of a book that and I'm not sure again I'm not a Jewish scholar, so I'm not pretending to be. I'm just pulling these notes from I thought they were quite interesting. There is a book called the Sitka Drav Haana that quotes that that has a quote in it that said, Israel said to God, master of the universe, if we repent, will you accept? And God responded, Would I accept the repentance of the people of Nineveh and not yours? In other words, if we would even accept the Ninevehes, we would also accept the repentance of Israel. Repentance is clearly a major theme in the book, right? the Nineveh's are a good example of of what true repentance looks like. They'll repent in Sekloth and Ash. It's a note that God's sovereignty over the entire world. And all of creation. So there's a that's also a reason for it. And then there was also this note that during the evening prayers they've been fasting now for more than an uh for 24 hours. And so this feeling of being in the belly of a fish feeling of being you know hungry and starving and you know and and weak uh is also an image that they they draw on. So that's that's why the the uh Jews also see this Okay, so any questions on this? We'll get more into the themes as we go throughout, but I want to go through the the book and then we'll kind of pick back up on these things. But I just wanted to note right out front the key theme of the book. Jonah is about salvation. Okay, uh outline. Um chapter one is Jonah. Actually this lines really nicely with the chapters. Um so chapter one, two, three, and four. are the four major points that you're going to see. The first is Jonah's disobedience. Jonah's called and he rebels There's a violent storm and God is glorified by throwing Jonah into the sea and the the the Phoenicians repent. The belly of the fish is the part two. The Lord appoints the fish to swallow, we talked about that, and then Jonah prays uh this amazing prayer, and then the Lord appoints the fish to vomit him out, so j the b being in the jelly of the f uh the belly of the fish. Chapter three is Jonah's obedience. Reluctant disobedience at that, but okay. So he goes and he preaches judgment, he never repents. Uh God relents from the judgment that's coming. Uh and uh then God rebukes Jonah. Uh so the again The exegetical notes that Jonah burns in anger. He actually calls the repentance of the Ninevites evil. Um he he's so angry at God for for for um uh allowing the or for for giving saving the uh the Ninevehites. And then the Lord sends a plant. The Lord Sends a worm and uh he appoints a wind, and then Jonah burns in anger about that, and then God rebukes Jonah. So that's chapter four is God's dealing with with Jonah. Um Okay, so let's let's jump in. So chapter one one uh begins with and I'm just gonna kinda s go through um quickly. I have to get way over here. I'm gonna open. Yeah, so arise in go to Nineveh. So um the the so the word came to Jonah the son of Amitai saying arise go to Nineveh that great city. The terminology there the the the is to go immediately Okay, the the idea here is that he tells that God tells Jonah, get up and go. Now, go to immediately to Nineveh. Uh and then uh the word play here is that he immediately gets up and flees to Tarshish. Okay. So uh he says go to Nineveh and then flee to Tarshish. Uh what was Jonah's issue with Nineveh? Does anybody know? I don't He didn't like what the Lord had done for some people. Wait a minute, I have to get my thoughts together. But he was he was angry with God for something that God had given to I don't know whether they were unbelievers or or not but that was his issue with God. So let's let's start with that. Okay, let's start with that. Who is Jonah a contemporary of? We talked about this last week. He's a contemporary of Amos. Right? Right, so he's a contemporary of Amos. He would have heard um prophecies from Elijah. Um he would have seen and been a witness to the Assyrians coming into the city uh and attacking and forcing the kings of Israel Israel to uh pay tribute. Okay. Um so Assyria was an especially um cruel and awful people. These were not the people you wanted to go to war against. They were a war culture. They believed and engaged in psychological warfare. So they would do things like and you might want to cover his for half a moment. They would do things like skin the leaders alive while they were in front of people and they would it was called flaying. And they would they would skin them and hang their skins while they were still alive. They prided themselves on being able to do this while they watched. Incredibly painful. Uh they impaled the soldiers who fought against them, uh put that's putting the stick underneath the rib and they would do it in such a way that it would take longer for the person to die. so that they would sit there and scream and writhe in pain, uh and you know, again, causing the psychological warfare. Uh they were inventors of crucifixion, um, because of course it was also an incredibly painful They were inventors of crucifixion. Romans were, by the way, the perfectors of crucifixion, but these guys were the inventors of it. They uh they would do things like behead the entire army of soldiers. And they would stack the heads up like a pyramid. Uh and they were super proud of this too. We have drawings. We have bronze drawings of of them doing this. Inscriptions on palace walls, uh where they would glorify themselves by talking about how cruel they were to their enemies. They saw this as an especially uh great thing. Um there was a quote on I'm not sure if I wrote it down here that I read from one um inscription from Babylon who ultimately conquered Assyria. It said uh Nineveh is destroyed, the Emperor of Nineveh was dead. and nobody will miss them. Because they were evil. Like they were evil incarnate. And God uses these people to bring judgment. I talked last week about when they came and and into Israel, they um they deported people by putting hooks inside their noses and attaching them to chains. So they would walk along chained up to each other. with hooks in their noses. Uh it was a way of humiliating them and bringing them down to submission. Just a cruel, awful, terrible things that these people did And yet Jonah, knowing what they have already done to Israel, having some idea of what will happen, because of course he's he's hearing the judgment from Amos, and he knows the practice of hooking the noses, and Amos specifically mentions that so he can put two and two together and figure out who's coming to judge Israel is now being asked to go to Nineveh and preach repentance to Nineveh. And if you're Jonah, you have to be thinking like, wait, what? You want me to go but no, I want you to judge them, Lord. I want you to judge them. Now you're picking up what Jonah's putting down, right? You can figure out what his thoughts are. Process is. Nobody wants these people around. They are the cruelest of cruel people. They are the evilest of evil people, and yet you want me to march into that city and you're going to show your grace and mercy on them. Habakkuk has the same problem, right? We'll talk about Habakkuk, but he has the same problem about Babylon. So we're going to have this debate Here, when we get to Habakkuk about wait a minute, how can you judge us with a more evil people Yeah, we've done evil, but they're more evil than us. How can you, Lord? Well that's what Jonah's struggling with Right? That's what Jonah's struggling with. And we know this because if we go to chapter 4, he tells God. He tells God exactly why he doesn't want to do it. Right? He says, uh He says, But this displeased Jonah exceedingly. He was angry and he prayed to the Lord and said, Lord, is this not what I said when I was yet in my own country? That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish. I knew that you were a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and relenting from disaster. And he did not want that for Nineveh. did not want that for Nineveh. So di Jonah disobeys and he goes to Tarshish. But God's not letting him out of it, is he? So if we go, we keep reading down in chapter one Uh he says, But the Lord hurled a great wind upon the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship threatened to break up. So now there is a massive storm. And you can imagine this is a large ship, and if it's being tossed about out so easily it must be a truly great storm. And these people are frightened. Right? So Jonah sins against the Lord and and he's sitting in the in the uh he's sitting he's sitting down in the the ship hold and he's sleeping. Right? But the sailors are out there freaking out. Right? They're out there like, oh my gosh, what are we gonna do? And they're throwing their their their cr their their stuff overboard. And Jonah doesn't even care He is sleeping in the shiphold. And and you know the idea here is is you know your sleep Sin does not only affect you. Right? Your sin doesn't only impact you. You might think that when you you know tell this lie or do this thing or steal that thing or whatever sin or have anger against this person that that is only affecting you but you're also affecting the people around you right and if you're a believer the other takeaway here is your sin God will not allow you, believer, to continue in your sin. He will chastise you. He will break you. He will not allow you to continue in your own way forever Right and we know that, right? We know that. Why do we know that? Because she told that. Jonah told that. Yeah. Go ahead. He would have told them himself that he was a a Hebrew and that he had disobeyed he was given a task and he didn't want to do it. In fact he was willing to die rather than do What God asked him to do. And so he told these people that um that he was the one that God was looking for and told them to throw him in the sea and the sea was calm down. down because he knew God's power. But then this is where I get lost. Okay, well no, you're right. They cast lots and God of course points to Jonah. Okay? And they come to him And he says, Yeah, I'm a Hebrew, throw me in the sea. And like you said, Jonah would really rather die than obey God in this task. This, by the way, is a repeated theme. Right? Jonah, Jonah is perfectly consistent. intent dying rather than than watching this transpire. He tells God in in uh uh in chapter four, he says, I'd rather die. I'd rather die than see these people repent. Chapter 4, therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. And the Lord said, Do you do Do you do well to be angry? And then back again when he takes the plant away, Jonah wishes to die. He's like, oh the plant is gone, the east wind is coming, the heat is on, and I'd rather die than be here. So Jonah, by the way, is perfectly content to die rather than obey the Lord in this. You're you're a hundred percent correct on that. But But to come back to the uh the previous point, your sin will find you out. Uh the Lord promises to chastise us. The chastisement of the Lord is grace His grace, he's not going to let you continue in your sin. He's not going to let you continue on your way He will teach you. The Holy Spirit will teach you. The Holy Spirit will guide you. That's the promise, right, that we have as believers in Christ. Right, and here you see God acting to preserve Jonah throws them into the sea and then what happens Oh they go to whale at least a bit. Not a whale. Shall we talk about this whale versus fish thing for a minute? Big fish. The big fish. I see I find this kind of fun You know, and and because very logically God appoints a fish. It's a miracle. Right? Do we really have to think any further than that? It's a miracle. The laws and fishes, God speaks. ten thousand people no one goes well where did he get all that flour from how did he make that much pet? He didn't even have a baking thing next to him. Nobody said that, right? Where did he get them fish? If there wasn't a lake around there, how did that get fish get him? Nobody said that. But everybody Nobody's worried about this fish being a whale. Like it's a miracle. We don't have to think any further. It's done. Guess what? If you can do miracles, then you can question God. Right? Then you can question how God does it. Right? But it says fish. It means fish. Jesus says fish. It was a fish. I know it in Greek. I know it in Hebrew. That's enough for me. God did a miracle. Right? God did a miracle. And it doesn't have to be any complicated than that. Right? We don't need to have the anatomy and what kind of fish and what species and no we don't have to go any further. But it was a sun fit. No, I'm kidding. It was a minnow. It was a really large minnow. Um so God appoints a fish. Uh and and here you already are seeing now the pattern develop, right? So God is going God in his grace and his mercy appoints a fish to save Jonah because he's in the middle of this raging tempest perfectly content to die. And then Jonah prays this truly amazing prayer. There's so much that I could spend time talking about this, and I can't spend enough time or as much time as I'd like. Know a couple of things about this. Jonah is paraphrasing Psalms. There are multiple Psalms. Psalm 18, Psalm 22, Psalm 81, Psalm 116, Psalm Psalm 120, Psalm 130, Lamb Psalm 107. There are multiple psalms which are coming where he's getting some of this information, but he says, I called out to the Lord out of my distress and he answered me. So this should sound very familiar. Especially if you took Scott Mahoney's Psalms class, right? Uh I called out to the Lord out of my distress and he answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried. So here, remember I told you About Christ saying, the sign of Jonah, right? Listen to the image that Jonah creates with this, because then you will see exactly why Jesus drew on this when he talked about being in the belly of the fish for three days. Out of the belly. Belly of Sheol, I cried, and you heard my voice. You cast me into the deep, into the heart of the sea, and the floods surrounded me. All your waves and billows passed over me. Then I said, I am driven away from the your sight, yet shall I look again. Did Christ feel as though he were, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? When I said, I am driven away from your sight, yet I shall again look upon your holy temple with waters closed in over me to take my life. Uh th now this part the the deep surrounded me, the weeds were wrapped around my head and the roots of the mountains I went down to the land. The idea here, the image especially From the again the exegetic I don't speak Hebrew, but the exegetical notes are the idea here is in the depths of the earth. He is going into the heart of the earth. Right? And that's exactly what Jesus says in chapter twelve, right? I shall be put in the earth. into the belly of the earth, right? And so here is this image. So Christ's drawing on this image is quite perfect. It's it well it is of course perfect because Jesus said it. But the point is is that you really can see the images that that Christ is drawing on. He's telling him that this will happen. I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me forever, yet you brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. So he's brought up from the pit. When my life was was fainting away I remembered the Lord and my prayer came to you into your holy temple and then of course he finishes those who pay regard in vain are who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love but I, with the voice of Thanksgiving, will sacrifice to you what I have vowed I will pay. And then the key of the entire book is Salvation. Salvation. Salvation belongs to Lord. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Beautiful prayer. Amazing prayer. So here again, just wanting to show you. a couple of things. Number one, this shows you Jonah's orthodoxy. Right? We already know Jonah knows the scripture. Because he already knows what's w why he hates Nineveh. Right? We talked about that already. And here he's drawing on the Psalms. Okay So he knows his Bible, right? He knows his Bible. Jonah knows his Bible. He knows what he's praying, but he had to be brought into the depths. He had to be sucked in by a fish. And I can't imagine that it was Okay, it had to be stinky. Lord knows what that thing ate before it picked up Jonah. Okay. Um he was clearly breathing 'cause he's he's he's praying, right? So he's not dead. He's in there and he's smelling whatever's in there. That couldn't have been too nice. Right? Uh and then once he does, then what happens? Jonah, so he says salvation belongs to the Lord and the Lord spoke to the fish and it did what? Vomit it out on dry land. How did a fish beach itself and vomit? I don't care. It's a miracle. I can just accept That it's a miracle, right? I don't need to go any deeper than that because I don't know how God does his miracles because they are Miracles. So we don't need to think too much about that. One of the weirdest debates people get into. So Jonah obeys and Nineveh repents. Now we're in chapter 3 Okay? Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time. So God calls him again. So God calls him the first time, he disobeys. God calls him again, and this time he'll obey. Arise, go to Nineveh, that great Great city and call out against it the message that I tell you. So Jonah arose, and I think this is funny. Um and so I'm just pointing this out. So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh, according to the word of the Lord. Now, Nineveh was an example. Exceedingly great city. Three days' journey in breath. Okay, so it takes three days to walk across the city. That's a big city. Jonah began to go into the city going. Anybody got the how how far does he go in? One day. Because a three-day city he goes in one day. Doesn't even get to the middle of the city. Doesn't even get to the middle of the city. And he calls out, yet 40 days in Nineveh. Shall be overthrown, yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Eight words. Eight words. He's like, I'm doing the bare minimum. I am doing the bare minimum. Okay, Frank. So that also suggests that um Jonah was known as a I mean for them to just hear those words, who who else knows what Elton said, right? But to hear those words that um you know in forty days you will be overthrown if you respond to that means they must have uh regarded Jonah as a prophet, right? Uh some of that or no? Certainly they believed uh they believed Jonah as a prophet. Um MacArthur has a note that during the same period of time Um because we know when Jonah preached, right? During this same period of time, uh Nineveh had suffered from two um uh uh plagues in a period of about ten years. there was also a period of famine in between those two things. So they had already had some sense of because at that point of course they would have assumed that it was the judgment of God that was bringing these things. So and and maybe not the judgment of Yahweh. Right? But but you know, he comes in and his message is in 40 days Yahweh will destroy this place. Right? That's his words. Right? He uses he uses the name Yahweh. So he he comes in. Now I guess he doesn't use the term not Yahweh, but he so he goes, yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. The idea here is is that they probably already had some inclination, right? Um as a matter of fact, um there's also documentary evidence that um and this is just maybe a side note I meant to say about when we talked about Nineveh They were so evil that some of their soldiers showed signs of PTSD because they literally couldn't handle the evil things they were being commanded to do, mentally handle it. Um and so maybe there's also a sense of guilt over their behavior. And the things that they're doing is also Yeah. Um I wonder if they wonder where this person came from, because uh a ship didn't actually find a port Right. A fish spinning around on drive. Yeah, that's yes, of course they would have also seen that too, right? He's been vomiting out on dri I mean he came out of the belly of a fish. Right. I mean he's got like fish stuff on him and he's like Yep, forty days. Might be pretty believable. So yeah, that's a good point. Of course we're speculating, right? We don't know. We really don't know. Maybe he took the bath first, maybe he washed his clothes. I don't know. Right? We don't know Why, um we can only speculate, you know. And then of course there's the documentary evidence of that. Obviously they saw him come out of the mouth of a whale, right? Or um the mouth of a fish, so yeah. Mouth of a fish. Yeah, now I'm Go down this again. Well, the rabble does say a big fish, so you could speculate as well. But in the witnesses here, the rabbis thought that it was brought about so quickly for the people of Geneva had already heard of the So encounter with the metadata as the son of man would be to his contemporary readers probable or whatever. So they had already had film for Yeah, yeah, I mean I I do think definitely there's an element of that. And again, we're really just speculating. Right. We're really just speculating. We the the the the Lord doesn't give us that insight specifically in his word, so we can speculate. We can put two and two together. But I think that's probably as good of uh of a a speculation as anything. What we do know is they repented. What we do know is that that it had to uh to reach the king Right, because he was only a day in. So he had to be told, but the moment the king was told, he he mandated a fast. He mandated strack law. He mandated the even the animals. Right, he he has. Um so yeah, and and so their repentance is is i in every way sincere. The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered himself with saffron. Sackcloth and sat in ashes. I have a little note in in my notes on what sackcloth and ashes are 'cause I've heard that before and I was like That is weird. Like w and they they all do it, right? Like it's repeatedly over. David does, you know. Um Sackcloth was a cloth that was very coarse. Okay, it was very, very coarse. It was probably it was made out of goat hair usually. Um and then someone said black goat hair. I don't know if black goat hair is more coarse than white goat I don't know, whatever. But goat hair. Um so it's very uncomfortable. And the idea is is that you're outwardly expressing your inward pain. Right? Uh and then the ashes are a a symbol of desolation. They're recognized as a symbol of desolation. That is also with Job, one of the oldest books in Scripture, so this is something that has been carried on for a long, long time, right? Um so, yeah, also this idea that um uh that desolation was coming. Okay, it was used uh not just for repentance, it was also used for mourning. David, for example, he mourns what's his name? Abishai, I think it is. You removed, okay. And then he says in Psalm 30, you remove my sackcloth and clothe me with joy. Um so yeah, so it's a symbol of repentance really is I mean obviously from this just from the context you can get that, but that's kind of maybe a little more a little more detail. Um just making sure that Okay. Um all right, so yeah, so sackcloth and ashes. And uh so they repent and they completely repent, right? And God shows mercy. And uh so now we're on chapter four. It so the the ESV says, but it displeased Jonah exceedingly and he was angry. The literal transcription was um is Jonah uh to Jonah it was an evil, a great evil. Like Jonah didn't just see this as and I'm sure he's not I I I don't think this the scriptures suggesting that he sees Yahweh as being evil. But he just saw it as a great evil that this nation continued to exist. Um uh that that God showed um showed And the term also is i i in the the end of this chapter or at the end of this this set of verses, verse four, uh the Lord said, Do you Do you do well to be angry? Now if you take that do you do well to be angry, then you also can look down a little bit further and he says, Do you do well to be angry for the plant? Right? So he's gonna bring the plant and then he asked him the same question. you do well to be angry. This terminology means are you burning in anger? Like the idea is is that this is not simply uh he's really he's really angry. He is he is physically physically suffering from the sense of anger that is on. The the picture of this is not a prophet who is just really disappointed and upset. He is emotionally completely withdrawn. He is devastated emotionally. He's feeling physical effects from his anger. He is angry in a way that maybe you've only ever been angry a couple times in your life if you've been unfortunate enough. not to be that angry before. But like, you know, I I know I've personally been so mad at somebody, my I could feel my my my my heart beating in my head. I don't know if anybody else has experienced it. This is the kind of thing that this is how Jonah feels he is seething in anger. And God simply asked him, uh, and the Lord said, Do you do well to be angry? Do you feel righteous in your anger? Is the inference here. Are you right to be this angry? And Jonah doesn't answer him. He just goes out of the city and he sits. Right? He's he's just seething. And he made a booth for himself there. He sat under it in the shade. Uh till he should see what would become of this city. He's hoping that God is going to judge this city. He is waiting for God to judge this city. Now the Lord God appoints a plant. Likely a castor oil plant. They're common in the area. They spring up very fast. They also draw a lot of shade. And made it to come up over Jonah that it might shade over his head to save him from his discomfort. So he's clearly suffering. He's out in the middle of the desert. He's seen in pain, and he gives Jonah this little Grace. I love you, Jonah. I love you, Jonah. And it comes up and and he says, I love you, Jonah. And Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant. So now he's aiming to be a good thing. Angry, but a little bit of God's grace, and he is overwhelmed with joy. Right? Now he's exceeding joy. He loves the grace of God. But when the dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant and it withered. It only lasts one day or each last day. Yeah, and then you had to wait for your your next day. Forgive us this day our daily bread. Uh Attacked the plant so that it withered. When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind. So this is a picture of what? Judgment. Right? This is the picture of Maybe chastisement since it's towards Jonah. He's not right. It's a chastisement. And the sun beat down uh and so that he was faint and he asked that he might die and said, It is better for me to die than to live. So he's so glad when the plant is there, the Lord takes it away, and he says, I'd rather die than live. I actually can sympathize with that. I love the grace of God. I do not like his chastisement. It does not feel good Right, to be chastised by the Lord. It does not feel good to be witness to the judgment of the Lord or to feel the sense of his uh of his discipline of me. Um but I I I I actually Actually I totally sympathize with Dona in this, in the sense that I and I also see obviously clearly what God is doing. Right? What is God teaching him? I mean honestly, can you see what god what what do you think God is teaching him in this moment? Don't let the sun go down on a rat. Maybe. It's my decision who gets great and who gets Yeah, he he's ultimately gonna rebuke Jonah that way. But I I I think the also a lesson here is um have compassion on him who has compassion, right? I mean he can do anything he wants. So just like we learned like way earlier in this force with or maybe it was a type of thing, but with Egypt and Israel, like they were both wicked. Like God saved Israel 'cause they were his chosen people would glorify him to do so. So, uh doesn't he say like later in the last part of the chapter talking about how Jonah had compassion on the plant for which he didn't work and which he did not even cause to grow. Um which came up overnight in Paris overnight and he said, And should I not have compassion on Nineveh? The great city in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons who do not know underlying the difference between the right, left hand as well as many annuals. Yeah, and and again, yeah, that's also that's the key n note of the lesson here, the rebuke to John Jonah is this. But I think the other message here to Jonah is the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Right? That uh what what should his heart be? Right? We should always should we should we not always be praising the Lord in good times and in bad times. Right? Should we should we not have a heart that says, you know, Lord, um I I thank you for your grace and I thank you for For your trials. Well, just like Joe said, even though you slay me, I mean y I still am gonna worship you. There's there's no other place to go. Yeah. Yeah, there's a great lesson in this as individuals, right? And then when the Lord takes the mercy away, thank you for your discipline. Right? We should be praising God in the midst of trials, right? Uh I think of that casting crown, I'll I'll casting crown I'll praise you in the storm. Right, I'll praise you in this storm. Um So, yeah, so then of course verse four is juxtaposed against verse nine. I had already mentioned that, where he says, You do you do well to be angry? Are you right? to be angry because I saved the Ninevites? Are you right to be angry because I took away? And he calls it little plant. Little plant. This is little plant. Okay, and then we're going to get to uh the last last thing here. You were upset for something which you did not work. Right? Do you deserve salvation? Do you deserve to be saved? Did Israel deserve to be God's chosen people? He called them. them. Right? He called you, believer. He called you. What did you do? What did you contribute to your salvation? You contributed your sin. Right? You contributed your sin. You contributed your wretchedness. You were depraved. Completely and totally depraved You get that? I mean, really, do you get that? And were it not for the Lord opening up your heart While you were yet his enemy, you hated God. I know you I don't remember hating God. You hated God. You hated God because you didn't like his rules, and you didn't want to live in his way, and you wanted to go your own way. So you might have liked God in idea and theory, but you hated him in practice. Right? You were an enemy of God. What else did you contribute? What else did you contribute? Because if you think you earned anything else, please read Ephesians. Please read Romans. I can go verse after verse after verse after verse. Right? What did you contribute? What did Jonah contribute? Eight words. Which he was forced to do. To give. Right? It was grace. It was eight words that God gracefully gave him to give. A mission that God gracefully gave him. What did he contribute? You have mercy on this little planet. You loved this little plant. It brought you great joy, Jonah. But you didn't like it when I took it away. But you didn't do anything for that plant. I gave you that plant, Jonah. I gave it to you. It was a gift. That you expect. It was a gift that you feel entitled to. Right? Just a gift. No way we are worse than the the Hebrew people because they didn't know the Bible. We know scripture. Not knowing the right hand from the left, they did not know the word. And that's the Ninevehites, right? The Nineveh. I actually did a bit of a word study on this because I thought this is I've always I've heard it before and it's one of those things like I've heard it but I've never actually gone into any kind of great depth of study. What do you think it means? They don't know their right hand from their left. They work independently of each other. They don't talk They're ignorant, they don't know right from wrong, I think Moes. Yeah, they they're just going about their own way, maybe you could say. Yes. Yes. Very much so, very much so. That was the part that I kinda got drawn to. They they don't know the directions. They they can't figure out anything. They they have no clue what is right and what is wrong. You, Jonah, have scripture. Jonah are a prophet. You, Jonah, talk to me. They don't know anything. They don't know anything. They're completely depraved. I told you how depraved they were. They're completely depraved. But yet, God what? God loved them. For God so loved the world. Come on. That he only begotten Son. So does God love his creation? Yeah. Yeah. Loves them enough. Cares about them enough that in the midst of their depravity, he shows them mercy. That's what he's teaching Jonah. That's what he's teaching Jonah. You see that? That's the lesson, Jonah. They don't know anything. You're worried and you have compassion about this little plant. That little plant is serving you and you love it. But this is my creation. This is my creation, Jonah. This is a great city, 150,000 people. Jonah, can't you have compassion on that part of my creation too? I've always been curious, is there any evidence as to how long your repentance lasted? Not very long. Maybe a generation. But uh actually yes, you do know because Because what also is happening during the time of Jonah, what is Jeroboam doing? What is the nation of Israel doing? We talked about this last week. It's prospering, right? It's a period of peace, right? They're restoring their borders. Right? It's a time of tremendous wealth. Now, the Israelites didn't get any closer to God during this period of grace for them. Right? They still rejected them. We read that last week with Amos, right? I said this, you don't listen. I said this, you don't listen to this. Don't listen. You're not listening. I keep telling you, you're not listening. So that's the nation of Israel. They continue in disobedience. Again, Jonah as a picture of Israel is the only thing that disobeys. Right? Everything else obeys God perfectly in this book. In this in this in this book. But the nation of Israel. Right? And that's, by the way, what happened during that period of time. We know that it was a period of peace. We know that it was a period of prosperity, likely because of Jonah's preaching. Right? Likely because they had a period of repentance. Likely because they were seeing the error of their ways. We know it didn't last long. Right? Because not long from now, less than a hundred years from now, what's gonna happen? They're coming. And they were just as bad and just as awful and just as disgusting as they were before the preaching of show. So it doesn't last long. Doesn't last long. What do you call the minor prophet? Uh it's called a minor prophet only because of the size of the book. Oh because what? The size of the book. Oh, okay. Yeah. So um as a matter of fact the the Jewish actually compile it all into one book called the Book of the Twelve. Okay, so it's not because their prophecies were less important. It's not because of any of that. It's literally only because the books are smaller. Obviously Isaiah is much larger, sixty-fix chapters. I mean this is forty I think it's forty-eight verses. forty seven verses, something like that in the book of Jonah, but incredibly deep. Aren't you glad you just went through this with me? I I was so blessed this week reading this. You know? Um but yeah. Just what we talked about last year. which I really like is relevant to today's culture. When we see things that this these uh all these movements going on with the wealth movement, transgenderism, this, that and the other, we tend to kind of want to get into their faces because we're so disgusting. Like Jonah is. We're so judgmental like Jonah is. But when you read about all the judgment of God and really what people who don't end up coming to know the word of faith, that should create compassion in our heart. just you know, gently uh share with them the truth that they maybe they you know, not to have a you know, they're different from us and we tend to get so judgmental. Well we were just like them. Yeah. We really were. Maybe we didn't do the same exact thing but our heart was just probably so Yeah, absolutely. Um and I'm out of time. Uh so I just want to very quickly go over the applications. You can read I uh the the key themes I feel like I've fairly well covered. Uh the only thing I might have spent a little more time on is a test. uh as a form of God's grace. Uh and there I look at first Peter chapter six, uh chapter one verses six through seven. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith More precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in the praise and the glory and the honor of the revelation of at the revelation of Jesus Christ. So our job as as Christians, we should accept and love and and it as a form of grace when we're suffering from trials. But application, compassion for the lost, right? We should never believe that our sin is less than other people's sin. If you get yourself in that place, you've got a huge problem you need to fix. It's called olfactory fatigue. You need to smell yourself. Right? You need to smell yourself, and you can't smell yourself anymore, so you better get back into scripture and you better start looking deep. Right? Love the world. I think I covered that one. I won't cover that one again because we're again out of time. And every believer, this is what I haven't covered, every believer finds themselves in the belly of a fish at some point in their life. Right? believer. Right? How do I know that? Because of 1 Peter. We're all going to suffer through various trials. God uses those trials. If you're not suffering from various trials, then you may want to look at yourself. Why am I not suffering? Maybe because you're probably not doing the things that you need to do for the glory of God. Right? Um but God will allow our sin to bring us into a pit. He will allow it. And that pit is grace. That's what I said before. Being in the midst of that pit is grace. Does it feel good? You don't like it, but we need it. Because God is teaching us. Uh because God will chasten those whom he loves. And I have a couple minutes over, but does anybody have any questions? So what do you think was the condition of part you said? It doesn't say he's a very important thing. Right. of Israel. A very definite picture of Israel. It continues in disobedience. It continues to resist chastening. It continues to push back. It continues to go its own way until God ultimately what Judges it. Right. But God still loves Israel and God will bring about its redemption. Right. But in the meantime, is God working through Israel? Yeah. God's God worked through Jonah, God is even in their disobedience, God still uses. Right? Yeah. So yeah, I think if I had to guess, my guess is he'd probably continued. He went back home and said stupid Ninevites. Should we go out preaching like Jonah? Yeah, forty days. Yeah, you could. We we should re we should uh we should preach with that kind of abandon, I would say. Um we should not be afraid to preach fully, right? The grace of God, the mercy of God, the coming judgment of God, yeah, the return of Christ. We should be talking all about those things to anybody who will listen. That should be our hearts. Alright guys, let's pray.