In the sixth month, on the first day of the month, he's he's referencing Darius. You know, I do I need to go and give the gospel to this person? Whose priorities are you putting first? Why am I doing this? I made sure you didn't prosper. Sure. So hopefully you're taking that away from this study because I think it's really instrumental in understanding like the the the context of the the Prophet what they're saying. Priorities, the priorities of God. You're going to see in chapter four, uh oh man, I gotta get my that page is torn. about the good Samaritan, there was a great disdain, there was a lot of enity between the Jews and the people that lived in Samaria for this reason. We're gonna do us, okay? Then the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet. Uh Zerubbabel the son of Shitil uh Sheal Til, I don't know if I said that right. satisfaction than you could ever get. Okay, I I can't even watch the news anymore to be honest with you. Why? Like what? Absolutely not. Believers must prioritize God over themselves. This has not changed from last week. of uh PowerPoint size the last chapter. Yes, there's four hundred years and there's also a lot of documentation. see God's prophets speaking and then at the same time you can follow along in the history and see exactly what God did, what's been documented what God did. It's called the intertestamental period. historical aspects like Assyria and the rise of Assyria, and then of course you have like we talked about last week the sudden collapse of Assyria and the rise of the Babylonian Empire, which is like a flash in the pan, it was less than a hundred years. conquer the Judeans and and and the captivity of of Judah begins. fifty year period, you have this massive swing once again, so from Assyria to Babylon to um it's a hundred and something years 'cause the the time of Babylon. read in the extra biblical history how Cyrus uh took the Euphrates River and redirected it towards the gates of Babylon. King of Persia. Five twenty. Matter of fact, uh in some of my my other reading, uh it turns out that um the Greeks absolutely hated the Persians, um so because of the wars that had gone on prior to Alexander the Great. There was a an attempted conquest from Persia into Greece, which failed, and that failure during that period of time caused great enity between the two nations. Tremendous application in this for us uh in modern day. Evil is contagious. It's really prose. poetry. That's that's one of the things that that people will say because he you know, because like I said, it's almost like it's like a history. One. Forty nine is an exact number, forty-nine thousand eight hundred or something like that, actually come back and they begin to restore Jerusalem. Assyria to Assyria, right? their promised land. we have been sacrificing to him. In verses four six through sixteen, they write this letter to the King Ar uh King Artaxerxes, uh and then the response from the king comes back and says, Hey, you guys stop building that wall. Consider your ways, Habakkuk tells him, consider your ways. I know uh I I keep saying we're all guilty of this. Thus says the Lord of hosts, consider your ways, starting in verse seven. Start looking towards me. I'm a little late on that car payment. These, there I was also. You feel satisfied, Christian? You can panel it, you can make it look really nice, you can have it looking sharp, you know, and and guess what? Lord, and notice here he's talking about himself in second person. Stop making excuses for your life and yourself and stop listening to those encumbrances kind of come in on you. goes haywire. Are you so focused on this marriage or this thing that that you've forgotten about or you've taken away from or you've withdraw from? crossroads in terms of retirement, this, that, and the other. Giving you your helmet. up your Madden Lock. It is bad enough to neglect our duty, and by that it means the duty of uh our work in Christ, but it is worse to vouch providence for the patronizing of our neglect, for the person who wills to do right, the Time is always present. ninety cubic or ninety feet by ninety feet. Joshua. Fear not, for thus says the Lord. Struggling in his faith, and he heard this sermon, and it just rejuvenated his faith in that moment. Don't be discouraged when, you know, you're you're not a great teacher like uh uh uh uh oh my gosh, Alan or you know, Dave or whatever. Discouraged. While I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land, and I will shake all the nations, so that the treasures of all the nations shall come in, and I will fill this house with glory, says the Lord of hosts. Anything that they're building today one day will be magnificent. That little 90 by 90 by 90 thing, they built this massive sprawling temple, this beautiful temple, right? observes it, he flips the money changing over. the latter glory would be greater than its former glory, fulfilled literally already. to a priest and ask him, if someone carries holy meat in the fold of his garment and touches his fold, uh his fold bread, or stew, or wine, or oil, or any kind of food, does it too become holy? the absurdity of this. If I am unclean, I go and I'm I don't know, I guess I'm a mortician and I'm dealing with dead bodies and I come out to dinner and I shake your hand. Now made that person unclean unless I've done the steps that I need to become clean. But does the reverse work? spring to life, right? is unclean. 24th day, the ninth month, since the day of the foundation of the Lord's temple was made. They obeyed. repentant but they were doing one thing but they turned around and did the Lord's work. advise. and the horses and their riders shall go down, every one by the sword of his brother. uh declares the Lord, and make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you, declares the Lord of hosts. Okay, but what is he talking about making him like a signet ring? That's what happened with Ruth. David and then on, so he's in the line of the Messiah, right? Jeremiah twenty two, verses twenty-eight through thirty. succeed in his days. And uh and then from there now you see he appears as the the the father of Shiotil whose whose son was Zerubabel. Deuteronomy twenty-five that you can have a brother, right, that from the line of David and they can have a child on your behalf. Just to show you that God in his providence can do anything. Follow your obedience. the extra-biblical stuff that I read a lot of like the archaeological and the historical stuff. putting this together and you have to line up. uh looking at this period here where we have Daniel, Zechariah, Haggai, and Malachi. thirteen week course all by itself, just kinda looking at that, uh and seeing how all of that uh lines up. last Old Testament prophet is? Um and actually let me I'll do this. figured that out. brings up uh Nebu Pelazar conquers Nineveh and the Neo Babylonian Empire comes up and Nebuchadnezzar of course is a great conqueror. So you have this Assyrian Empire which reigns for literally like a thousand years. is talking about right last week, this kind of churning of the nations that goes on when that political vacuum cr is created and and just the way the Babylonians rise up and they're gonna be judged and now here come the Medo Persians uh and they're gonna rise Rise up and also collapse. This is the Medo-Persian Empire. and seventy five years before Cyrus existed. rushed underneath and they were able to walk right in. uh uh mina mina uh I I forget how the it goes, but it's it's uh you've been measured and you've been found wanting. is uh falls to uh Cyrus uh almost without a fight. covered. bit longer but it's also in five twenty BC. the temple. same time. and there's a whole different discussion for a different day, but uh that was also a huge flash of the pan as well. convicting in a way it's he uh it's gonna it's gonna get all of you guys so because I know that uh this has something for everybody to to consider and think about so as we go through it just keep that in mind. Uh by the way, interesting note here, you will notice that the book, and maybe I'll cover this uh actually I'll cover that in a moment. nineteen. means that uh when we get to that section. in uh second person. prophecies continue through December 18th of 520 BC and you know that because it's very, very specific about the dates that he that he prophesied. The uh the history. of Shotil, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehosadak the high priest. Uh that uh now the here you have basically just to give you a brief history, uh what happens is is once Cyrus takes over, he sends he starts to send the Jews back and and about fifty thousand Jews it's uh uh you're going to see the people of the land mentioned in verses one through five. The uh the uh Israel was taken into captivity and moved to where? Over the whole province beyond the river, to whom tribute, custom, and toll were paid. haste to the Jews at Jerusalem and by force and power made those things. our homes. into a bag with holes. satisfied. They have their nice job, they dress in their nice clothes, and there's always just one more thing. We can all be honest here for a moment. always disobedient 100% of the time. Your name will be forgotten. along but you know I just had I had too much to do I had this really big project at work and and I didn't have time I didn't have time or do you want the Lord to look at you and say about, I don't know, the war in the Ukraine or something. You looked for much and behold it came to little, and when you brought it home, I blew it away. Its produce, and I have called for a drought on the land and the hills, on the grain, the new wine, the oil, what the ground brings forth on man and beast, and on all their labors. That too as, you know, um you're pursuing you Christian who's off pursuing your worldly things, do you feel fulfilled? little you know, shoulder in the little little knock in the shoulder because uh you did a great job with with that thing at work or you you you did a really great job of of doing this thing that has nothing to do with the kingdom of God. life uh you know, that that we live then then we've done nothing. I am with you, declares the Lord. People and say, Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? in Scotland. Gold is mine, declares the Lord of hosts. in Jerusalem by the time Christ comes is magnificent. showed up. Indeed the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, the olive tree have yielded nothing. outcome was but he was just obedient. about the temple. There's a messianic prophecy in here. Thank you. disappear, it's gonna fade away, it's gonna blow up, it's gonna melt. pack that a little bit more uh in the preceding verses, but yeah. Questions on Habakkuk. Right? the uh Cyrus's rise to power in Daniel eight. These got all these notes here to make sure I didn't miss anything. Um so that was a lot of history that I just seriously glossed over. to tell them uh consider your ways consider your ways and there's tremendous application which you're gonna find in the book of Haggai uh although all of the prophecy here is more or less fulfilled with with the these attempted uh uh takeovers, so to speak. by me, and take care not to be slack in this matter. to stop building. Uh I think uh the NASB says uh you never get drunk. in our lives and things in our our our our struggles in and life and we will focus so much on those things turning away from what the Lord wants us to do serving the Lord doing what the Lord would have us do right saying I I guess my point is is that we can all fall into this trap, right? It came to little. nothing. your life serving me. And um, especially with the gifts we've been given of the knowledge of the mystery of Christ. How often are we looking towards the things of heaven and the things of God and how often are we looking towards y you know, we can make so many idols. you aligning things in your life and is God the number one? And this person got murdered and you know, there are there's a lot of work to be done. But is that any any questions? Like for a temple, right? Hey old guys, tell me, do you remember? Bible church on the corner of some no name street who um who preaches faithfully for years and has a church of fifty people. old. What the Lord would have you do. Temple, the next temple will be even greater still. ten he asks this question of the people. touches any of these, does it become unclean? works, all the really great things you do, they don't make you clean. So yeah, so he says, you know, up till now he says uh you've been unclean. of Abraham, who grew in faith as he went along. Was judged and told that he wouldn't have a seed, and as a matter of fact, you can read that they become eunuchs. during this period uh in the world history, it's in the the world the world politics. biblically why it happens and God's inner workings of it as it's going through. Here I have this timeline here. And so therefore the prophet dates it according to Darius the King. deported into where? That had been living there for several hundred years. all of your own fruitless deeds and you left the house of God in ruins. of Darius the King. About this. Like, okay, I've got to make this happen or that happen. faithfully serving you at it. You're you're glorifying me. Because they haven't been sacrificing. things right but unless I'm saved do my works matter? Jill Kill was the father of the Rubel. Records so much of this period. up and he starts conquering, there's there's great um energy and effort and passion from the Greeks to conquer Persia because of their disdain for for for Persia for the years past that they had continued. So if you open up the book of Hague, we're going to walk through basically all of it. Wow, I gotta get this project done. Well done. The Lord. I had a hundred others I'm not gonna make this a Frank confesses thing, but I wanted to speak to because that's been so much on my heart and mind, you know, these past whole months or whatever. in the end, if if it's not meant to to grow the kingdom of heaven or glorify the Lord. So you're building this thing and it just feels less than what it was before. before me, declares the Lord, and so with every work of their hands and what they offer there is unclean. And then the final prophecy, also in the same time, the twenty fourth uh twenty fourth day of the month, speak to Zerubabel, the governor of Judah, say, I am about to shake the heavens and the earth. Why are he and his children hurled and cast into a land they do not know? Like it's it's incredible. So Art of Xerxes was five thirty to five twenty two. So can I take a piece of holy meat and just walk up to another piece of food and touch it and then that is holy? It's the exact same point that Haggai is making. The Lord will provide for your needs. Now Babylon e explodes, then uh uh Cyrus the second comes, conquers the Medes, and then goes into Babylon and conquers Babylon. Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxes. It's almost impossible to understand the Book of Haggai without also including what what is happening in Ezra because you get to see kind of both pieces of what's going on, the prophetic piece and the historical piece side by side with one another. Yeah, all of the prophecies here have been more or less fulfilled. Right, there's no king on the throne right now, so you can't date according to the kings because the kings aren't there. So if you flip then to Ezra 4, so put your finger on Haggai there, and go back all the way to Ezra. Okay. No. You know, and it it's a struggle for me, an honest struggle for me sometimes to say, hey, you know what? Um if I do say no, I'm just kidding. the the the the paralyzing pick up your mat and walk don't just stand up show off woo look what I did I got legs no walk go do something go do work right go do something He says, In the seventh month, on the twenty first day of the month, the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet. Uh I'm sure you've noticed that. And I made a decree, and search has been made, and it has been found that the city from above has risen against kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made in it. Y you know, I I think everybody can do that. God can do whatever he wants. So starting in verse 1, he says, In the second year of King Darius the king, or uh of Darius the king, and in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to the hand of Haggai the prophet, to Zerubbabel the son of But listen to the response of the Jews. But it's true. And hopefully you're learning a lot about the Lord here. The believer is made holy only through Christ, and your works are made holy only because you're a believer. And then finally he ends up with a specific promise to Zerubabel that uh that uh he will tell Zerubabal I have chosen you. Uh oh I'm sorry. I mean, sure they were. Right? God doesn't appear to be blessing it. Uh when you're he will provide everything you need to fulfill uh your mission that he has for you. That will be eternal. Um but yeah, no, you're you're a hundred percent right. Okay. All of the other prophets until now, how did they mark their time as to when they prophesied? Right? Right? Because it's dead. Now then, consider from this day onward, before the stone was placed upon the stone in the temple of the Lord, how did you fare? And so I always try and start off with giving you the background and the history and the Bible references to those histories before we start to kind of give you an idea of what that particular prophet was speaking into. And uh the way we're going to walk through this is we'll go through the parts of Ezra, or I'm sorry, yeah, Ezra that cover this period, and then we'll also talk because they're really hand in hand. Like it's the same people every week. Ruth was faithful and she married Boaz and then and then I I forget the line, but eventually this Jesse comes from from uh it's like his great grandson uh of Boaz is Jesse. In the year of Josiah's reign, in the year of Uzziah's reign, in the year of and you date the yeah, uh perfect, great. Be strong all you people of the land, declares the Lord. I missed it. And now he says this about Zerubbabel. I know what it says whatever. Are they prophesying towards or what timeline that they're prophesying towards according to the kings? They obeyed in faith, right? They can never have enough. Look, I have an excuse. You can just keep going. For none of his offspring offspring shall succeed in sitting on the throne of David and ruling again in Judah. And so they were they were they were hated for that. So you people who are young, married, people who are dating, people who've done man, consider your priorities. Yeah, yeah. If you don't have those things, or if you have those things, but you're not using them in battle, what's the point? Right? Filthy rags before the Lord. In verse Starting in verse twelve So when I look at the timeline saying eight forty to the bottom, let's just call it four twenty or four twenty, yep. And uh okay, good. I think honestly we're all very guilty of this from time to time. Uh it was just uh an old, old church and our former pastor was was biking through the area and he stopped in and uh he walked in and there was like ten people in the pews and they were all really So uh Darius was called Darius the Great. The king sent an answer to Reagan, the commander and Shemai, the scribe, and the rest of their associates who live in Samaria, and in the rest of the province beyond the river, greeting. Consider your ways. Can I take this little piece and touch it and now it's it's holy? They they started pursuing the will of themselves. Get up there, get to work. That's really specific. God judged Joachim and therefore he was not going to be in the line of David. Now will somebody read that last part starting in I want to I want you to see the response that he had or that was given. I mean it's true of me personally. Okay. When you seek the kingdom of God, you'll be blessed both providentially and also in glory. So you don't have poetry like you do in Habakkuk or Nahum or um uh Amos, um basically most of the other prophets when they prophesy they're prophesying and po and poetry. So people are are moving in and uh as a matter of fact the the Assyrians sent people, some people to come in. And uh he he walked in and he he sits down and he looks up and the guy comes out, of course he notices that he's there and he preaches this remarkable sermon. Well, they were sacrificing to him along with all of the other gods. We're gonna do us. Absolutely not. What is eternal? Yeah before I stand before you would have something to show you. When you obey, He is with you. And the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zeruble. He was just obedient. This time in history is really unique. So with the first part of that verse I forget, but it's um what's that? And uh the other part of that verse, um where your treasure is, there what? However, mortals are ingenious when we wish to hide our own delinquencies. So that is why Haggai starts off by saying in verse 2, Thus says the Lord, these people say the time is not yet come to rebuild the house of the Lord. When you're seeking the ways of the Lord, he said, or when you're seeking the ways of the world, it's going to amount to nothing. In heaven. Um can I just go back and make that real quick 'cause Is that what you want? The moment they actually it was there before because he actually says it's just sitting there waiting for you, but everything they needed to do the work was right there waiting for 'em. Yeah, okay, good. John the John the Baptist. Right? King Cyrus told them to go do it. Yeah. No. Can a dead thing create a living thing? But holiness is not contagious, but but evil is contagious. That was if we go back to our timeline here, that was in seven twenty two BC, right? This is uh yeah I can't go to I can't go to church because I I gotta work a lot this week and and uh you know I got this week I I need a little bit of rest today just so I can I can stand the week ahead. So uh then you'll find it's a little confusing when you go through the histories. So the king says stop building the wall, they stop building everything. The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, says the Lord of hosts, and in this place I will give peace. Then of course the Uberboard obeys. Sometimes sometimes. Just like Babylon was a flash in the pan, guess what? I think it's the book of John, he makes that point. He actually Cyrus II actually conquers the Medes and creates the Medo-Persian Empire. This is the timeline of Media Persia and the rebuilding of the temple. So um y you may not see that uh y or you may see that like he may have had a um like um a scribe write down his prophecies for him. It's a perfect square. And then uh uh this and then he makes this wonderful statement. He actually is prophesying in um uh it's a narrative. Right? What are your priorities? Uh I I uh actually I I read a I had a couple of uh websites I I went on to, I could have put those on, but uh the I don't normally cite some of the So did anybody walk away with any like lingering questions, anything? Uh we'll talk a little bit about that when we get to Malachi. So Haggai and Zechariah are contemporaries. Right? Your great-great-grandchildren will struggle to remember your name. All of it will go up in flames. Uh just a quick quote from Matthew Henry and then I figure Matthew Henry can can beat this topic to death for me. Uh and so it's smaller. Yet once more in a little while oh I I'll I'll stop right there. Go to where the Lord would have you go. Right? Before we get started with Haggy or Haggai, however you want to say it. And you can see here on the timeline, they'll collapse in 331 BC when Alexander the Great takes uh conquers their their kingdom, goes through. To Babylon, right? Or it's summertime. But just making the point that this is a sin, right, that has to do with your priorities. Right now you did a fantastic job. And the verse that I keep coming back to is um uh it goes um well basically just put the Lord first and who'll give you the who'll give you No. I'll talk about this more in a minute. Well done, my good and faithful servant. Yeah. And he's assuring me, look, I've been faithful to you all these years and you just trust me. So um and then you can see in Daniel five that uh um uh what's his name uh I have it in my notes. Like I really honestly believe that that as Christians we can all do that. And the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts, their God, on the twenty-fourth day of the month, in the sixth month, in the second year. Right? He was just obedient and God blessed him. I'm just gonna touch this one. Um He will give you the things that you need to act in obedience for Him. We have to to think to ourselves how we live, how we give to the church, how we live for the Lord, how we give for the Lord, how we behave towards the Lord. It's prophesied, it happens. You have a teacher that brings these things that make you go, hm uh so so God judges Jehoiakin says you won't have someone in the line of David. So at that moment they stopped pursuing the will of God and started pursuing the will of themselves. I mean he God himself would be standing in the midst of that temple. They had faith. John the Baptist. So they're they're literally drinking from the cup, from the implements from the temple. Uh and you said Alexander the Great was around that time as well? So they have then turned away from the will of God. This king told me I can't build. Like I I can't because it's just depressing. Christ. That's the bottom line, right? Uh you've got uh a total of six books which cover this period uh to quite extensively. Okay. So consider your ways. Don't be discouraged when the results aren't what you think they ought to be. Right? First one there. I don't want to derail. Okay. And they pursue and they pursue and they pursue and they panel their houses and they build nice houses and they live they they they drive their nice cars, right? I don't have time to engage in this study. Right? But if you're doing it for the Lord, it's eternal. Uh Jeremiah also prophesies. Okay, so outline of the book of Haggai. I know for sure uh I can be very guilty of this from time to time. But I'll tell you what, the moment that I keep her the priority over God is the moment we start having problems. I mean it's you know, what are you focused on? They don't listen. Only a living thing can make a living thing. I am about to shake the heavens of the earth and to overthrow uh the throne of kingdoms. Um so uh Haggai's book is different from the other minor prophets in that it is uh I guess similar to Jonah, it's really narrative. Because of the flesh. Right? It's like the time of the Maccabees. Alright. I withheld things from you, he says. There's work to be done. Right? Anybody else want to share any thoughts on that? Who is the li who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? And they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts, their God. Interesting little factoid. Darius was from five twenty two to four eighty six. It's a short book, so we'll walk through all of it. Uh now when the enemies of Judah and Benjamin heard that the people of the exile were building a temple, they said, Hey, can we help? Uh but the Sumerians didn't the s the Samaritans didn't like that. Right? Ninety feet this way, ninety feet that way, and ninety feet tall. Right? Right? No, we have a lot of things, right? Steady as she goes. The exact same point. We talked about faith last time. Go up to the hills and bring wood and build the house that I may take pleasure in it, that I may be glorified, says the Lord. How do we get away from paneling our own house and serving God? It's the moment that I start thinking about these things down here and stop paying attention to these things up here that it all goes bonkers for me. And I think Pastor Dave said it, so it must be true. No, absolutely not. You that same week you heard and you heard a a great sermon uh about um Joseph and his faith and his just always following the Lord. Is it is it time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses? Simple and subtle ways. I mean just think. Okay, and then he says, and they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts, their God, on the twenty-fourth day. Is there anything that you're gonna do, unsaved person, that makes you worthy of the kingdom of heaven? So uh I I I will try not to get too preachy, but just know uh this book is deeply convicting. You know, it's this time for family, this time for barbecues. As the Lord their God had sent him, and the people feared the Lord. Why should damage Road the hurt of the king? Verse twenty four. Right? Absolutely. They're not worshiping the Lord. So in this now they've deported people from uh from the the the Israelites out of uh out of Israel into Assyria people move in They just maybe she can't even remember my name. What do you think he means by that? So that's pretty cool he's in the line of the Messiah, but then there's a problem here. I just no i it it fills into this a little bit, right? And then just as soon as all of that happens, boom, like almost like a balloon just gets popped. I have to go back and look at the exact number of years. If you wanted to look up the king, he was also called Darius the Great. Um so yeah, and Alexander the Great is his own little flash in the pan, right? I I'll tell you, the the one that I'm most guilty of is right there. He's saying that you will be in the line of Christ. Uh you need the Holy Spirit to intercede for you for even prayer, right? There is a Darius who is a governor of Babylon who's spoken in Daniel 6. Absolutely not. Until that day someone comes in, sits down, and has rejuvenated his spirit because he heard this, and he was just waiting for a word from God and there. But maybe this would be a great uh course all by itself is just studying this timeline uh from uh here Uh so and uh here you're already seeing the rise of the enemy. What they weren't allowed to do was build fortifications around Jerusalem. Yeah. This is the Sumerians. Where there were the least of these, there I was also. In this little bitty church in the middle of nowhere. It's an incredible work with you know gold adornments and all kinds of things, right? There's references to Christ, but they cover his coming. Where's the eternal stuff? He says on the twenty fourth day of the ninth month, the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came by Haggai the prophet. Work, for I am with you, declares the Lord, according to the covenant that I made with you when you came out of Egypt. And then he has to come back and say, Don't be discouraged. Did you go home and read Abak? There's gonna be more work wherever you turn. But from this day on I will what's it say? Yeah, so Jequaniah is Jehoiakin, right? God can do whatever he wants. So he he has a verse in Malachi where he says, uh a voice will be calling out of the wilderness. Um uh and that is just it is a feature of the post-exilic prophets, right? I mean sometimes it does. Well what if what if I offend them and it affects me in my job? Uh and then uh starting in verse twelve, I believe my verse references here. That is really specific. One day will be magnificent. Don't get too caught up in your works there. There's a lot of great stuff online. Where will your deeds be looked at for eternity? No. So that's an act of repentance. It's really incredible when you think about all that's going on with the nations in this really you know and and the the cool thing about this is you get all of this insight. Well, he didn't tell you don't build the temple. Thank you. Right? So yeah, I have to look up the exact reference. So they're building this temple. Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? Right? Right? Right? The righteous will live by faith. I don't know if you are familiar with the term the Maccabean Revolt. Starting at verse 17 and then just read all the way through, I believe it's verse 24. It didn't stop him from serving God. Is he gonna tell you well done? Joshua the son of Jehosebak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the Lord their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, uh, as the Lord And then he goes on. You see the conquering of Babylon in five thirty nine BC. Does anybody have any questions about it? And I I appreciate that. The answer to that question is yes. Uh and then like I said, six books for from the prophetic side, Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi cover this period. Um no, I think I got I just want to make sure I didn't miss so I wanted to make sure you understood. So he would it it was one of the other gods. So uh you clothe yourselves but no one is warm. Now I I in fairness, there are times that we don't fall into this trap. If it hasn't prepared you to go into ministry, if it hasn't girded you and and and given you your sword and giving you your shield You know, Erica will say that too, you know, she like I can't read local news 'cause it's just so depressing. Go to Matthew One. So get involved in the Lord's work. So you get discouraged. Right? God will be glorified in your work, uh and it will be greater than anything you could do for yourself. Then you'll have a crown that you can cast before his feet. So it's it's a fascinating read. Now well okay so remember they're building they're building the walls, the outer walls, the fortification. Right? Do that. Do you guys remember? All of it will go up in flames. We have a lot of things. Again, very specific. Christ. Right? In verses one through five that reference to peoples of the land are are people that are living in Samaria. Why, declares the Lord of hosts? When you obey, He is by your side. Consider your priorities. They weren't in a temple. Now you're working on it. It introduces really neatly with Ezra, but it's laid out chrono chronologically. You have sown much and harvested little. You're a flash in the pan. Can he judge a Jehoiakim and still have his Messiah come through? It's talked about in Daniel five. Therefore, make a decree that these men be made to cease, and that the city not be not rebuilt until the decree is made. Right? I mean, w when you die and you go and you see the Lord Jesus Christ and He's looking at you, are you gonna look at him and say, Oh man, I And the word promises we're not gonna go uphill, we're gonna go downhill, right? So look ahead. She's so old, she forgot. That's obvious, right? On that day, declares the Lord of hosts, I will take you, Ozruvil, my servant, the son of Sheotil, Because um Malachi actually hands it off. Um did I get through verses six through nine? Now this might not seem like such an interesting promise, because it's about Zerubul. Which one is eternal? So okay. But who stepped into this little 90 by 90 temple? Haggai is speaking into he's his preaching is in five twenty. Okay, they're contemporaries. It's i n none of it is eternal. He says, uh and then the the the priest said no. O land, land, land, hear the word of the Lord. So that's it. So why is he saying this? Like literally, when they go to Babylon, they're castrated. So Haggai, uh prophesying in five twenty, uh would then be They have turned themselves to the thing of the to the ways of the world. Did you feed the poor? Yeah. We're all guilty of this in some form. And number two, set your priorities straight. Follow the God. Now they didn't build that temple, but Herod did. Because hey, you did a great job on that project. Yeah, but he told me I can't build. Those things should be preparing us to serve. Yeah, absolutely. Twenty through what? And what does 2 Kings and Chronicles say about those kings and what's going on outside, you know, in the historic? It does sometimes. I mean it's true. This cluster of prophets which are known as the post exilic prophets, uh so much happened But you have this Assyrian Empire which reigns for a considerable period of time. But a holy God will bless the activities of a holy person. Simple and subtle ways. Fear not, for thus says the Lord, yet once more, I'm sorry, two verse six. So much is going on right now and and you just see God's hand in all of it. And he says, Thus says the Lord of hosts, these people say the time is not yet come to build the house of the Lord. There's work to be done. Thus says the word of us, consider your ways, go up the hills, bring wood, and build a house that I may play that take pleasure in it. That's just a reality. And you want them to hear that? As much as I love my wife, I need to put the Lord first. Yet you did not turn to me, declares the Lord. Right? And then trusting God's enablement. So can I take an unclean thing and make a clean thing unclean? They weren't following God. When you follow the Lord, the Lord will provide for you. Okay. Call uh the call to renew the work of God. Christ steps on that little tiny thing that you're building. Uh and this is an interesting period. Um, you know, it definitely has been on my mind that how do I want to live out the last days of my life? And the book lays out quite nicely chronologically, you'll see that. Just one more thing they have to do before they can start serving the Lord. Where your heart is also where your heart is also. That's I mean, if you stop and think about it, for a temple it's not very big. Right? Speak now to Zerubel, the governor of Judah, and Joshua the son of Jehosedak, the high priest, and all the remnant of the Uh that which is unclean, uh can that which is unclean make you holy? I can't take a dead plant, put it in, you know, take, you know, put it in the in the ground and hope that it's gonna somehow Yeah, go ahead. That's not a promise of prosperity. Why did the people from Jerusalem and Judea hate Sumerians? What did you read this week in your Bible? Uh moving on, number three, get involved in the Lord's work. Right? Did we get a feel for Habakkuk and and uh we feel comfortable with it? So if you think about the minor profits and we've been so I I'm a bit of a history buff and you probably have Did I was I clear enough? And uh you know what? So the for the latter glory will be greater than its former glory. Then Haggai answered and said, So it is with this people and with this nation before me and so with every work of their hands what they uh what they offer their Uh we kinda got to the end of Habakkuk and we had to like blaze through the last the last uh couple of Uh two more people trickling in. In the second year of Darius the King, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, So now they're discouraged. Follow the Lord. And they begin restoring the walls of Jerusalem. They like to kind of do like a washing machine thing where they sent different peoples to different places. Sometimes it does. I I look back even at the last several years, you know, and and I think to myself, Where did I miss opportunities or Right? Someone there? And just very quickly to go through the theology and things. So let's look at Cyrus II. Last week we left and I said, just read the book of Habakkuk. Then Haggai, the messenger of the Lord, messenger of the Lord, spoke to the people with the Lord's message. Hundred percent. Uh you have Zerubabal, who is the governor, but he's not a king. Like she, you know, I mean, and and why am I doing this? And notice that I am with you. Right? Okay, so I just wanted to point this out. So they uh they wrote a a a letter to King Artaxerxes at that moment from four six uh in Did you did you give the gospel? And whatever if you have your eyes on me, you'll be so satisfied whenever I give you greater satisfaction. Um I was reading this and I just had this image of the pastor, right? Right? Only a living thing can make a living thing. Then, when the copy of King Artaxerxes letter was read before Ragam and Shemai, the scribe and our associates, they went and Right? I mean i it's it it can happen in such simple and subtle ways. Or what if I affect and offend them and now all of a sudden my neighbor doesn't like me? There's great Bible teaching here. There are lots of unsaved people. Bless you. Jehoiakin. No, Alexander was three thirty one. Because of my house that lies in ruins. Have you made your spouse your idol? Because it's gonna it's gonna hurt you in the end, right? So you had Cyrus and then Darius, and then after that Artaxerxes, and you can see here the the years that that They're building this temple, and they're like, Man, this is this is small. Thirty. Yeah, so Jehoiakin, the king, Jehoiakin was seeded Right? So rightly, Zerubbabel and Joshua tell him, nah, that's okay. Right? We're gonna go over to our parents' house on Sunday. And which one is the most important? Right? And I can't completely unpack this, and so maybe I probably maybe not even broach the whole thing. Only when you're a believer do your works please God. Uh and it says, if you recall from last week, that that Babylon would fall without a fight. So uh some people will say that he probably didn't write it because he writes about himself uh in Where did the Israelites get deported to? Seek seek the kingdom first. So it says, hey, how many of you old guys out there remember how great the previous temple was? Okay, any other questions? Then the work on the house of God as in Jerusalem stopped, and it ceased until the second year of the reign. And the memories of you will be gone within two generations, three at the most. Don't be discouraged when you don't preach like uh like Charles Spurgeon, you know. You go out and you hey I'm really great to my neighbors and you know maybe I just give the gospel. I am about to destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations and overthrow the chariots and their riders Uh it's fascinating. So there's okay, if you think back, there was the Babylonians, the Medes, and the Persians, Nineveh fall. So I ain't building because he told me not to. Were they allowed to do this? Now you're following faithfully. And the hand comes on the wall for from Daniel, you remember this this prophecy and it's uh That'll be the second piece of this. And the Lord says, consider your ways. Just four kind of quick uh four kind of quick takeaways. So um so let's see Or is he gonna say where you gave your attention to least of the That's that's pretty much I can't really do better than that. You know, it's easy to be doing that and think, man, why am I doing this? Even when you have doubts as to that. The priest answer says then Haggai answered and said, So it is with this people, and with this nation. Oh, I was gonna say but they also repented. Yeah. So it it's a a longer story than I have time to unpack because I do want to finish on time. Um it's an interesting study also in that uh they go from Oh Lord, you know I was I was gonna serve you in these months. Um yeah then I think we're we're gonna get close on time here if we don't get moving. He hi his offspring would not be in the line of David. And they were able to penetrate the gates of Babylon simply by re diverting this river and the water Chapter four. Oh, well, I guess we're not allowed to touch anything. We're all very guilty of this from time to time. Right? Uh I am with you, the Lord served up okay, uh and they will come Bless you. And that night he falls and that that night uh the Babylonian Empire, the Babylon is Like he comes in and he's gone, uh and then his empire is split into four pieces by his general For this reason, because they had come and and and occupied themselves in God's land. Right? How do you see it now? So they were unclean. Then in five eighty six BC, the Judeans are are are Right. That's the number four that you see where he tells them. Yet now, be strong, O Zerubbabel. That's uh we talked about the righteous shall live by faith last week, right? So what do the people of Jerusalem do? I love my wife so much and I will put her in front of almost anything every time. What's the point? Like it was it was turned into an amazing building. It's the same it's the same person. I'm not sitting here like uh uh what's his name? All you know, these twelve minor prophets, all these prophets, and then from Malachi to the time of Jesus, it it I mean that's that's exactly right. Man, I'm so busy and I'm so tired. There are times that we do put the Lord first. And the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel, the son of Shilteel, the governor of Judah, and the spirit of Zahra. You got an A on that book report. So it's eternal value. So I'm not just trying to beat on you but I am trying to make the point, right? Lenny tells them in verses two, one through nine, don't be discouraged. So this uncleanliness has has just it is exacerbated. I make you clean. When one came a heap of twenty measures, but there were ten? Therefore, the heavens above you have withheld the dew, and the earth has withheld We can build up so many idols. Consider your ways. Is this man Kenya a despised broken pot? Go for it. Even your prayer life. So as a matter of fact, I was thinking um as I was That was a good question, by the way. Uh that he's gonna call them to personal holiness. Right? Right? Why? Thus says the Lord, write this man down as childless, a man who shall not It's actually pretty fascinating. I think it was uh in 1 Peter I made the comment that within two generations And then Haggai says if someone who is unclean by contact with a dead body And you might go, well, that's pretty cool, because that's what happened with Ruth, right? He hands off the ball uh to the last Old Testament prophet. Verses one through five, they say, Oh wait, um uh We all do this. So the first thing is you'll see in the first sets of verses, refuse to offer excuses. Right? Okay, so how did this happen? That's exactly the point that's being made here. There's great expository preaching. Right? So once they started working, everything they needed was there and available to them. Its latter glory will be greater than its former glory. Thus says the Lord of hosts, ask the priests about the law, go up to the body. Um works don't make you holy. Isaiah thirteen seventeen through nineteen prophesies the rise of Cyrus. So in chapter one, verses one through fifteen, uh Haggai is going And there are, it's not frequent, but there are times when those two things can be opposed to one another. We know how it all ends. You don't be discouraged. The the priest answers and says, it does become unclean. But consider from this day onward from the twenty Uh you see him basically conquer the Egyptians and you see him There are three kings that cover this period uh that we're talking about today. So Alexander will end the media Persian Empire. And I'm just being honest and she's probably looking at me like, Stop telling everybody our business It's kind of absurd, right? Did you love your enemies? You get a special sense of of uh a a So to your point, um time is short. Where your treasure is, there your heart is also. That's a problem, right? You eat but you never have enough. We don't need to go to church. If we come and we sit down and we learn and we go away and we walk right back into the And he who earns wages does so to put them Providence. All of those worldly fears that you have amount to nothing. That's just a reality. Your work is blessing me, God said. Why does why is God going to bless them? He's the Lord. Read after the exile to buckle on the was the father of GLT. And that voice coming out of the wilderness is John the Baptist. Okay, so when did Haggai prophesy? You're just growing in knowledge. So while you were in disobedience up until now, I I think I beat them to death so I don't have to go over them all again. Uh and so you get to see God working behind the scenes, you get to see It's super instrumental looking through kings and okay, what kings But here the references to Sy or to Darius the king. So uh you'll you'll note that as well. And what is the consequence of that? So you actually look to the things that go, what's really gonna uh last? And are you putting the Lord first? And the Medo Persians come in and kind of go into that vacuum now. But anyway, uh and you see all of this happening. Let us build with you, for we like you, we seek your God. So uh a lot of what we're covering today is about the restoration or the rebuilding of So it starts in August 29, 520 B. So they're going to build up the walls of Jerusalem. I have chosen you. But did that stop them from serving God? So that's just my own personal testimony there. I mean it is it's a large it would be large for a house, but it's not that big. So just to give you kind of a timeline. But any other questions? All these things will yeah. I'm I I just I got mixed up. He was he was he was Where? Right? Like it just it puts you in a bad way. It is? Right? Can a dead thing create a living thing? Okay, so guess what? They collapse and in this political vacuum, Habakkuk Oh, we're not allowed to build anything, so we're just gonna build Right? Why? So in this very short period of years, like it's like a forty three From the history, we have Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. If you're going to study the book of Haggai, you will also have to study Ezra at the same Um so uh So it might make a uh a a a good So just to give you kind of an idea, it uh I mean you all you have to do is turn on the news. Just work. Who was there? And mighty kings have been over Jerusalem, who rule over. There are times that we we do follow the Lord. Right? Does anybody have any questions? Is it not as nothing in your eyes? Yeah. Evidently he can. No. It was what we talked about in the previous sets of verses, right? Jeconiah is Jehoiakin. Because if you're doing it for yourself it's of the world. But it's the other interesting note is and if you go into verse All they had to do was get up and walk. The idea is kind of absurd, right? Um that last year Again, Alexander the Great, another flash of the paint. That's his second set of prophecies from two ten through twenty. Because why? How many people read the book of Habakkuk? This was fulfilled. And that's what he's saying. Consider, is the seed yet in the barn? Uh and then God's blessings will follow He's gonna say consider your ways are your priorities Consider your ways, he says. Uh you have a a church, you have a good church. You know, there's a story about this old church in So he prophesies that this little tiny That is not the same Darius that was the king of And now the letter that you sent to us has been plainly read before. Like I want this, I want that. Christ is there. According to the law, that's a big problem. So when Alexander the Great takes off. We don't want you fortifying Jerusalem. I wake up and I don't ever have time to read my Bible. There is nothing on this earth. He can put the final nail in the coffin on this, but Don't be discouraged, declares the Lord. Uh he is under the authority of Darius the king. We don't need to go to church. Consider your ways. There's great, you know, growing disciples classes. That was phenomenal. Did you glorify my name? And he'll give it to you. It doesn't specifically say the word that they repented. 'cause I wasted so many of the first days. You know, what what what is the point in my ministry? And then guess what? Do they? He's the Lord's. And uh he says, I am with you. Because there's no king on the throne right now. You drink, but you never have your fill. Stop paneling your houses and stop. Were were they legally allowed to do this? Uh verse twelve The more you work, the more work there's gonna be. If you read the proclamation from Darius, it's nine. Just do the work. Um so there were people that were living there Um okay, well then I uh And uh you can make your house an idol. Stop taking excuses. My spirit remains in your mist. Uh and we'll talk about exactly how he They're trying to fortify the city. Are you honoring God first? Uh you guys go do you. Answer: No. A vessel from no one cares for? And the answer is well how come he He says, You looked for much and behold I was, where? So he says, don't be discouraged. And then we went through the example of Shiltiel is his To the uh Syria? All of us will look at things I may take pleasure in it, I may be oh I am with you, declared. He shows up. No. Uh Joel Osteen. All your greatest works are like fill You're going to see uh Herod built, I mean the the temple Yeah, evidently he can. So their response was It could be a big project that you have. What are your priorities in life? I'm just gonna flip the page. You know, that that uh he was struck The silver is mine, and the That's all you're doing. Yet once more in a little while. He's saying, you know what? And when we act in obedience, I think his name is Belshazzar You were off pursuing What you're doing is a blessing. Uh and and uh it's It's towards the end of Right? I was gonna I was gonna follow But but consider your priority. Where am I going? Uh that was the other way. All your righteousness is not He's anointed. He's gonna tell them that he Like you oh, this is happening And he didn't always know what the Uh so we want to open That was great. I mean I kind of see that. Right. Like what does Jesus tell And then the answer is in Okay, and then what you Remember the famous. This is the thing. Jesus makes that point. Okay. So I'm just gonna skip out But what's eternal? Right? Be strong, O Jim. You should get a sense of Their own king's timeline. So starting in verse But believe You know, because the Bible It just Maybe I I do When one came He said that And Jesse of course Does anybody know who the Old Testament was? And then you can C. Someone want to grab They're never Don't be discouraged. The next temporary So if So uh I'm not saying we're Did you spend Does that make It all just goes Right? So as So can It's worthless. Okay. Okay. Uh so And Some little Do I've just The Lord provide It's gonna and the Just be honest. It was a Stop. Absolutely. From the You see And