So this is uh Amos, this is this is uh this is a fun one, I'm gonna tell you. Uh we were talking about the minor profits as you know by now since we're four weeks in. And uh we talked uh three weeks ago about some of the major themes uh of the minor profits and Amos has all of them. So we'll talk about each of those things as we move forward. But uh I wanted to start off uh oh I'm sorry. This is why I have my PowerPoint. Okay. Uh so okay, so just a qu a couple of quick uh notes. Uh this is not yet posted on power on on Hope Book. It will be uh after after the class uh so that you can go and you can reference it. Clearly we're recording, so if you miss a class, I would fully encourage you to go back and listen to the class. Uh Elias has also put his information out there so that's available. He did a fantastic job the last couple of weeks. I listened to those and uh was very blessed. I mean he's a great teacher and uh I'm thankful for him uh that he was able to step in. Uh and and to Chris's point, yeah he sets a high bar. So um so that's great. I love that. I think that's great. Um and then I just wanted to because I was asked just a few this isn't all of the resources. I'll continue maybe to update this, but when you go on to Hope Book you can click on these links here. Um it's really the same place. It's the studylite. org. It's a great resource uh for um uh Bible commentaries. Uh it's searchable so you can like find specific co commentaries that you know, are theologically aligned with you, let's say, uh and ones that obviously may not be because there's there's multiple out there. Um but it's always good to read and to learn. Uh so Study Light is a great resource. I use Dr. Constable, anybody who's been in my classes. No, I'm super reliant on Dr. Constable. Uh I just love the man's work. Uh and also John MacArthur and for this one I always read a couple of different uh summaries. Bes since it's a survey class, I just like to see how other commentators may structure it. And so this week I was I read a lot on from John Calvin. Uh and then also this book. It's a real It's called The Minor Prophets by H. A. Ironside. Super good book. I just really enjoyed reading it. Uh so I totally commend that to you. Um I'm sure you could probably find it. I d don't know but you could probably find it on Amazon. But uh Whatever the case may be, it's a it's a great book. It's definitely um uh it's easy to understand, it's personal you know, personal, like you can it's really um it it's really deep. Uh so he does a great job of breaking out uh the minor problems. And so I've been really reliant on him as well. And so we're reading these minor prophets, and uh you may uh sometimes like be wondering like what is like what is all of this activity that goes on throughout the mind that there's a lot of statements about these people doing uh you know these people attacking Israel or these people, they're gonna call the Assyrians down as judgment. Uh and I thought it might be good to just take just a very quick overview about this time and and yeah, I know I could see the eyes straining on the map, so Uh just to kind of give you an idea of the geopolitical environment that's going on during this time because there is a a lot of things and the the thing that I'm trying to give you on this is is you have each Egypt over here in the west, and then northeast you get up there, you could see Arabia, you could see Mesopotamia. There's really only one land route between those two nations which trade quite a bit and those land routes run directly through Israel and Judah. And then of course it's zoomed in here, but I'm going to also just flip to this And then there you can see you have these huge trade routes that are flowing through both Israel and Judah. So there is a lot of international activity. There's another route that actually runs through Judah, which I think was less traveled, at least based on on the the research that I did. Uh and so, you know, this is a very cosmopolitan environment for eighth century BC, ninth century BC. There's a lot of traffic going on. There's a lot lot of communication across the world, a lot of people bringing their gods, a lot of people bringing their wares, their things that they're trading, and also a desire to control that area because of course if you can manage to control this area, it could also result in great prosperity. Right? So from the geopolitical standpoint, the Lord put Israel in the catbird seat in terms of being able to witness to the world. Right? Because if you are if your desire, if your heart is to be a witness to the world, what better place is there than the main trafficking point where people will be going north and south to to start to trade? So God put them right right where they needed to be and he gave them a land of milk and honey, he gave them a land of plenty, he gave them opportunities to be a witness to the world. Um and uh as we'll see, uh what resulted was a lot of fighting. Okay, which makes sense obviously from a geopolitical standpoint. Now Israel should not have been uh that that was not what what would have been best for Israel. But uh and this is by the way, this is in no way comprehensive. This is just I went through Literally just did some Bible search and just picked a few verses for each each of these countries, which uh we'll see that n uh that uh Amos will pronounce judgment on each of these nations. But you have Damascus or Syria or it was also called Aram. Uh David warred with them quite a bit in first and second Samuel you see quite a bit of information there. Uh there's uh the Philistines, which also uh was uh Uh you know, Goliath was a Philistine, right? So the story of David and Goliath, that's the Philistines. Uh, you have the Phoenicians. Not so much on that other than uh King Hiram and David had this covenant together. They were They were friends with one another, but there's not a lot on the battles with them. Edom, uh, a lot there. Ammon uh also, uh not as much with Ammon, but definitely with Edom and Damascus and the Philistines. was was just constant, constant war. Like it just were periods of constant war back and forth between these nations. Uh and then of course once the the nations were divided, Israel didn't trust Judah, Judah didn't trust Israel. They set up uh different worship sites in Israel and they went they were in varying stages of war with one another. Uh so this is kind of the geopolitical environment of the time. Uh when we zoom into the time of Amos, however, you're gonna see a couple of things. You're gonna see this cluster of prophets. Right, so you see here you have Anus and Jonah and Hosea. This is probably not the best depiction as I said a couple of weeks ago in terms of a timeline 'cause it it I I'd have to it's a really terrible timeline done on Excel, but the dates are But what I'm trying to show you here is that Amos is a contemporary of Jonah and uh and maybe to a lesser extent Isaiah and Hosea, and definitely Isaiah, but uh Hosea May have come a little bit later than Amos, but not much. So they were, for the most part, contemporaries. Hosea would have known Amos and known his prophecies. Micah the same. Isaiah actually they both preach during the time of King Uzziah, so they were also contemporaries. But you get this kind of cluster of prophets And then what happens? What do you think the reason, just looking at that board, what do you think the reason for all these profits coming forth might be God's got a message. God's got a message, but what's about to happen? The Israel captivity is coming. The Israeli yeah, the the the the the uh Assyrians are coming, right? God is trying To get the nation of Israel to repent. God is trying to get the nation of Israel to repent. So it is a major theme. It is the major theme of Amos. So the major theme of Hosea, uh you're you're in sin and you need to repent. Um Interestingly, during this period, while there was a lot of war preceding this, during the times of Jeroboam II and the time of Uzziah, the two kings with in which Amos had his ministry, it was actually very peaceful. It was a time of great prosperity. Specifically for Israel. So while they had been warring and going back and forth, this is just a moment where their their enemies were subdued and they were able to prosper. And they were able to kind of grow. And a lot of them said, Oh, well, we're being blessed by the Lord. Right? That was their obvious uh their obvious uh takeaway from that was, oh well, God's blessing me, God's you know, got me right. where I need to be and what Amos is going to come along and say is uh wait a minute. Wait a minute. Uh you guys got some problems. You you've you've stopped smelling yourself. There's this uh concept I'm sure maybe some of you have heard uh olfactory fatigue Fatigue, you know, it's where you can't actually smell yourself and you can't actually smell your sin. You can't actually uh smell what's wrong with you. And that's what the nation of Israel had. They had a factory fatigue. They thought they were righteous. Thought they were doing all of the right things. But God is going to tell them something very Different. Something very different. And the message of Amos is that it's not enough to pay lip service to God. You have to love and do it with your heart. You have to worship with your heart. So if you're doing all of the sacrifices, if you're church, if you're coming to church, you're coming to hope Bible church every Sunday And man, I I'm checking all the boxes, you know, I put my money in the tithe. You know, I sometimes have lunch with these people. Um I, you know, occasionally will pick up my Bible. But your life Is it reflective of a life that's lived in Christ, a life that's lived well? If your life is full of pollution, if your life is full of sin and corruption, and it is not not the character of God in you, but your earthly, worldly nature in you, then you are subject to the judgment of God. Right? You are subject to the judgment of God. And we'll get into all of this today. So Um I think uh Elias does a really good job of this. I'm I'm terrible at depicting all of this because I can't always see the strained eyes, but uh Uh this is my rough outline of the book of Amos. Um so Amos begins uh with a brief introduction and then he begins to pronounce judgment on the nations that surround Israel. So he's gonna preach, uh he's gonna talk about judgment against Damascus, which is Syria, or Aram. It's also called Aram. Gaza, which is in the Philistines, Tyre, which is the Phoenicians, and then Edom, Edom and Ammon uh also and if you go back you'll see it's literally the nations that are surrounding them, right? So here are these you see these different circles. These are the nations in which he's pronouncing judgment on them. There's actually a good reason for that. Um and that's because uh Amos is going to tell you he's actually from Judah. Right? He's from a small place called Tokoa, uh which is uh near Jerusalem. And uh I I doubt seriously he would have been very well received by the Israelites. So there's a really good reason why he is going to start with the judgment on the nations, but we'll talk about that uh shortly. Uh and then he goes on to pronounce judgment on Israel. And then now look, you can see chapter 1 through chapter 2, verse 5. That's judgments on the nations. And then this long section, and really I could have included chapter 6 in this as well. So what's his main message? I think it's pretty easy to depict. What's his main message? Judgment on Israel. Yeah, just in terms of number of words, right? We don't even have to go any deeper than that. of words are judgment against Israel. And then he's going to give you a series of five visions. And those visions are also a depiction of judgment on Israel. So and then he's going to finally He's going to uh end up with uh anybody can can you all read that? You know just see what that says? Restoration of Israel. Restoration of Israel, right? Because he will not totally destroy the nation of Israel. He will not totally destroy it, he will leave a remnant. I remember in the first class we talked about the major themes, right? This is uh really a clear line of the major themes uh that you'll find in all of the minor prophets. Okay? Any questions on any of this so far? Okay, now, I'm going to go through the book of Amos very quickly. But if you have questions, just stop. Okay? Uh I I noticed when I was putting this together that I didn't leave my normal like discussion points, so I'm gonna leave it for you guys. We're gonna kinda cruise through very high level 10,000 foot view of the book of Amos. I do have a few questions, but yeah, this is an interactive class. If if there's anything, any questions you might have, or if I'm moving too fast, just stop me, we'll back up, we'll slow down. It's okay. Okay. Okay. Um So beginning with judgments on Israel's neighbors, so yeah you guys might want to open up to the book of Amos uh uh because we're just gonna kinda like I said, he's is he we're gonna go at a really fast pace, but uh we're just gonna kinda cruise through the entire book. Uh so he starts off saying, in the days of King Uzziah of Judah, uh and in the days of Jeroboam the son, and then he's going to say that he was a shepherd of Tekoah. And I mentioned before, Tokoah is actually in Judah. So he is preaching to the Northern Kingdom, but he is from the Southern Kingdom and they don't like each other, like I said. So um it would uh it would be like a Russian prophet coming here in the middle of Washington DC and beginning to talk about, you know, uh our sin. And we might say, well, hey, wait a minute. Aren't you Russians pretty sinful yourself? Like we don't what do you think you're doing here? You who are you to speak to us? And so uh he's already in a bit of a disadvantage, right? Uh he's already at a bit of a disadvantage. So he uh he starts off with the nations that are gonna be that are about to be judged. Uh and he uses this term uh Uh for three transgressions and for four. What what does that mean? Anyone have any idea what that might mean? So what if I told you that three was the number of completeness that i i when we study the bible one of the numbers that that that come up frequently are three and that's the number of completeness but he says for three sins of Damascus oh and for four Maybe why just come on, tell them guess. They've really gone like beyond the water. They've gone beyond to the same. They've hit the completeness and now they're flowing over. Right? hit that completeness of sin and now their sin is flowing over. I was gonna say the other problem is to say they've gone beyond the sins of the nations around them. So they're even worse than the nations around them. Uh well he'll say this about every single one of the nations. So I I I understand w it's a good point. I understand your yeah. Um that that is also maybe yeah, go ahead. You see this idea repeated in prophets, like God sends four judgments. sort of Jeremiah and Ezekiel. And also in Revelation, there's always repetition of four idea of completeness. Yeah, the the the idea that yeah, so for me I what I see in this um and there's different commentators will have a slightly different spin. Basically the the the the the the general idea is is that their sin is complete and in fact flowing over. Okay, but the message here should also be about the Lord, right? The Lord has been gracious. The Lord has been merciful for three. But on four Judgment is sure. Judgment is coming. Right? So on three, God's grace has been long-suffering, He has been patient, He has been kind with these nations, and now the time of their sin has flown over. over flowed over and it is now a time for judgment. Right? So that's the idea that you have there. Um and then he starts to pronounce judgment for for the neighbors. So if you're in Israel and you're sitting there listening and they're saying, And those Aramites, hallelujah, praise the Lord. That's right, that's what's gonna happen. They're gonna mess with Oh, Aram's gonna fall. And Tyre. Yes. And and Tyre too. We'll get rid of them Phoenicians. God's gonna judge them. Praise the Lord. And the Edomites? Oh, even better. Even better. Praise God for the the the judgment on the Edom bu Edomites and the and Ammon? Oh evil people, totally deserving of judgment. Right? So he's got he's got these guys kinda hooked right now. He's coming in and he's saying, Then there's judgment on these enemies of yours and judgment on those enemies of yours and judgment on the and Judah too. Judah's gonna get it too. And the Israelites are like, yeah, all right, great. This is awesome. This is exactly what I want to hear. And then he turns around and says, And now I'm gonna judge you. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait Wait wait wait wait me nothing's me? Me what did I do? So that's kind of the pattern that you're going to see here. So chapter one, he talks about that, and then chapter two, judgment on Israel. Uh he tells and he pronounces judgment on Israel. He says that, you know, they uh uh they sell the righteous for money. He He accuses them of pride, he accuses them of sexual immorality, uh, and he accuses him of uh uh of pointing to their own Worldly strength. And the Lord's judgment there he he uses very strong terms. He says Flight will perish from the swift, and stalwart will not strengthen his power, and the stalwart will not strengthen his power, nor the mighty man save his life. He who get grasps the bow will not stand his ground. Nor will he who rides the horse save his life. Even the bravest among the warriors will flee naked in that day. That's a pretty complete judgment. Right? Um and uh We in the modern church we're in this this dispensation of grace Right? The Lord has come. We have Christ who saved us. Uh we we uh rely on the shed blood of the Lamb as our sacrifice. I think we don't often look at the terror Of God's judgment and how sure God's judgment is. So assuming everybody in here is saved, and I'll just make that assumption, we're not subject to the Wrath of God. So why should we care? Why should we care? For our families. For our families, for the sinners that are before us. Right? Friends. People who we we care deeply about. I have plenty of unsaved friends. Do you have a lot of unsaved friends? Do you mean you should. I'm going to say this. We've talked about this in other classes. You should have a lot of unsaved friends Because if you don't, you don't have any opportunities to witness. Right? So you better have some unsafe friends. And this is what they're about to face There is nothing in the day of judgment. Nothing in the day of judgment. That they will be able to endure. Their judgment will be crushing You know, we um Pastor Gabe sent out this uh message, and uh a lot of us are are grateful and praising God because the Supreme Court of the United States uh just recently announced announced a reversal of the decision on Roe Vay. And many of us in the church um are are so thankful because we know that this is murder and the murder of innocent lives uh that has happened unchecked, unbalanced for many years is suddenly I mean it's not done. The the work is not done, right? Because the states will now decide what happens. But if you're a Christian And and I think Pastor Gabe does this quite eloquently uh eloquently. So if you have not read this email, I'd like you to go read this email. But Pastor Gabe makes the point: this is where your ministry here begins. Right? Because we are not going to be a people who who snicker at the the plight of sinners. We should never be a people that, oh, they deserved it. They deserved. But we should be a people of compassion, right? We should be a people of of lovingness, of kindness and compassion towards sinners. And what is the origin of that compassion? Where does that come from? In us, if it's not the knowledge of the destruction they're facing in their lives without the Lord Right? Compassion for sinners begins with having compassion on their plight. Right? I don't have to love a person who's gay. But I have to have compassion for the fact that they're in sin, right? That they are facing an imminent judgment Right? And and this this is for us as the church where where we uh can draw on this as an application is to see these uh to see this judgment and to So moving on. I did say I was going to go through this quickly, didn't I? Then he's going to pronounce three different messages on sin. In chapter three, he's going to remind them that they were chosen. So if you flip that into chapter 3, uh you'll see uh in chapter 3, verse 2, you only I have known of all the families of the earth. And then he makes this interesting statement, therefore I will punish you. Therefore I will punish you. Um and and uh Does that seem odd to anybody? Like honestly, does that seem odd to anybody that he says, well, I've known you among the other nations, therefore I will punish you. Does that seem strange? Go for it. Well, I guess my question is like when he says I've known you, does he mean like as in like a parental relationship where it's like you're my child and you're messing up so I'm gonna punish you or like I picked you for this purpose and not fulfilling it. problem issue. I mean it could be both. So I think the best way to read it in context is to say the way that um before the foundation of the world I knew you. God knows everybody. He's omniscient. He knows Everybody, right? He knows all things. Uh but when he makes a point to declare, I have known you, then he is saying that I have I have a special relationship with you. I have chosen you or appointed you to a special relationship, right? Uh you were chosen before the foundation of the world. Uh uh those whom he knew he predestined, those whom you know, I mean you can go through the biblical uh the the biblical studies on that. When he makes this declaration that they were chosen, uh that he knew them, uh he's speaking of their chosenness. Uh and then I think the question is do Do you think it's odd that he would then say, Therefore I will punish you? Because I knew you, therefore I will punish you. And it's it's not a unilateral of it. They have you know, if you obey me then I'll bless you. If you disobey, then I will curse you. Okay. So Yes, specifically with the nation of Israel, um his covenant, the Davidic covenant, you can look at you know obviously the Mosaic Covenant which they are currently in violation of That is a two-way covenant, right? Elias did a great job, by the way, of of of discussing this uh a couple of weeks ago. So I won't pound on this too much. But in that same way that the Mosaic Covenant is a two-way covenant, they have certain obligations the Lord has certainly Certain promises that he would give. You also have the Davidic covenant, which is not a two way, right? That is, there will there will be a king on the throne of David, right? There will be. That's a promise. The the um uh Abrahamic covenant, again, only God walks through, right? So it's a one way covenant. Uh when it is a one way covenant, then that means that the Lord will fulfill it all by himself and it's not required. Uh so Israel has both. Right. So they are in violation of the Mosaic Covenant, that's clear. this by the way is also getting to the point. Uh but the Lord chose them of his own volition. It's a one way covenant, right? That's the Abrahamic covenant or the David c you can go through. But uh so his punishing on the basis of their violation of the Mosaic Covenant, right, is better viewed not as a judgment as much as a chastisement. So he's saying Because you have done these things, I will punish you. Not destroy you yet, he will say that, but punish you. I will chastise you. You'll get more to the others uh here sh shortly. Um I have a quick question. Sorry, it's a little unrelated. It goes back to chapter one and two. Um so we see God judging the nations surrounding Israel, bringing them to nothing. Does God still interact with nations today as he did with Those nations before uh so the relationship that God has with the other nations is not intimate in the same way that it is intimate with Israel, right? Uh They have Scripture. They have prophets. As a matter of fact, he makes that point to Israel as he moves on. I I've given you prophets. I've chastised you. I've I've tried to purify you. I've I've sent They've had Elijah, Elisha, they've had all of these prophets coming in and and speaking to them. They've they were uh in the Exodus, Moses did great works, you know, part of the Red Sea, all of the things that Moses did, right? They had this this revelation, right, that they carried around. They had the Ark of the Covenant, right? Uh they had a special knowledge of God. They had a special um uh uh uh revelation of God. The other nations do not have that unless they received it by understanding or seeing what was given to Israel. Right? So in the one sense Uh by the way, uh Elias also makes this point which I thought was really good. In in one sense you would say, well, there's no real covenant or relationship. between the nations and the other nations and and God. Right? But God is sovereign anyway. Right? God is sovereign anyway. So and we'll talk a little more about that as we move forward, but uh that does not change the fact that God is sovereign in in his ability to judge. He's fully righteous to judge the nations around, even though they did not have a covenant per se. So Uh and then uh so that answer your question or sort of, yeah. Okay. Um well hang on and if I don't by the time I get to the theme then you can And then why the judgment? He points to two things really. He talks about the altars of Bethel. They set up houses of worship outside of Jerusalem. Uh when they split we mentioned that with the northern kingdom. When the northern and southern kingdom split, Israel didn't trust Judah. Uh they wanted their own places of worship, so they set up worship in Bethel and and also in I believe it was Dan. So there was that. And then also that they were living in excess. And then he's going to go into his second set of messages on sin, where he's going to refer to the wives of Israel. Israel as the cows of Bishon. Now I don't know I I would never call my wife a cow of Bishon. That that is not gonna fly. That's gonna get me in a lot of trouble. Um but but here is not a depiction is not a depiction of of their their overweightness. He's not calling them a cow in the same way that that we would consider like he's not saying a bunch of fatties out there or something like that. What he's saying is is I know I'm it's terrible. Uh and and you're right here. I'm teasing if you're gonna be in the class I'm gonna uh it's gonna happen. So um w the Bashan was an area of protection particular prosperity. It was an area of uh rich fertile land and the herds and the cows that lived there were were well fed, let's just say. They were they had everything they needed. Right? They had they they lived in excess of the things that they needed. So what he's saying is that these wives are sitting and enjoying the excess blessings That they've received, right? They're like cows of Bashan, but they oppress the poor. They have no compassion for those around them So uh so they're in they of they oppress the poor. And so what he tells them Uh is he says, uh uh see let me go to the cows of h hear this word you cows of Bashan. We know by the way he's speaking to the women because this is in the feminine uh in the Hebrew. I don't know that because I read the Hebrew Again, I can't read a word, but that's what the commentators tell me. So uh you cows of Bashan is speaking to the women who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who crush the needy, who say to your husband, Bring that we may drink. So they're just enjoying all of the prosperity around them. And they are not Caring for those who are poor, caring for those who are in need. And so the Lord pronounces a judgment specifically on them. The Lord has sworn by His holiness that behold, the days are coming upon you when they shall take you away with hooks, even the last of you with fish hooks. Does anybody has anybody ever studied the um uh archaeological historical historical uh deportation of uh the the Jews, the Israelites from Assyria When they took them away, they literally hooked their noses And they would be sat in like chains, like with hooks that hook them in their noses as a way of um humiliating them, as a way of degradating them, and obviously as a way of enforcing pain. pain and and uh and enslaving them. So this is actually literally fulfilled. This was actually literally fulfilled. Uh yeah, God's judgment. is harsh. God's judgment is harsh. So he says the cows of Bashan who oppress the poor and demand excess uh their false worship is the next thing that he brings up. It only adds to their judgment. He says, Come to Bethel and transgress. So when you come to Bethel and you worship me, you're just transgressing. To Gilgal and multiply transgressions. Bring your sacrifices every morning, your tithes every three days, offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving, of that which is leavened, and proclaim free will offerings, publish. them for so you love to do, O people of Israel. You love to outwardly display your holiness. You love to outwardly display your good works. But all you're doing is multiplying transgression. All you're doing is compounding your sin. Why? Why? If I come to church and I pray, oh Lord, forgive me for my sins, if I'm given. Why would he accuse me of just multiplying transgressions? Why would he do that? I mean that's an open question. Like, why would he do that? You think you care more about what the world is to think than what what God thinks it's absolutely. And you're not worshiping with what? Your heart. Your heart. You're not worshiping when you're heart. If if you're here today in this church, This is for real, right? If you're here today in this church and you're just here to check some box and you're just here to get your free path out of hell. If that's you, God knows it. Right? God knows it And by the way, not only does God know it, it's very likely that it just spews out in all of your works Right? It's because this is exactly what Amos is saying to Israel. You're oppressing the poor. You're mistreating those people. You're not, your actions? Tell me your heart is not right. Right, as though he couldn't see into your heart anyway, but he can look at your works in life and say those things that you're doing on Sunday don't matter because this This stuff is wrong and this stuff is wrong because your heart is wrong and I'm gonna judge your heart. Just to add on, I think also well well two things. They they weren't actually worshiping God. Like he says, enter Bethel, right? And Bethel was the calf that they were sacrificing to. And I think the other thing was they weren't worshiping God the way that God wanted them to do Because some of the things he says here actually isn't in the Bible or isn't in the Old Testament sacrifices, like offering with leaven. So it was it was sort of twofold also. They were worshiping a false god and they were worshiping according to their imagination. Right. They were worshiping their way. Yeah, that's a an an excellent point. Um excellent, excellent point. Um and you know, then he goes on from there To talk about the times that he's chastised them. He withheld the reign I would send rain to one city and no rain to another city. One field would have rain, the other field did not. Two or three cities would wander to another city to drink water and would not be satisfied, yet you did not return to me Right, so there you have in verse 8, you did not return to me. Verse 9, you did not return to me. Right? I struck you with blight, you did not return to me. Verse 10, I sent pestilence, you did not return to me. I overthrew some of you. You did not return to me. So I I sent and I chastised and I chastised and I chastised. Likely prophets coming in and declaring. That this was a judgment upon them for failing, right? Yet you did not return to me. They were unresponsive. Unresponsive to the call. For repentance, unresponsive to the call to return to the Lord, unresponsive. They wouldn't listen. And then he says, Therefore, thus I will do to you, O Israel, because I will do this to you. Prepare to meet Meet your God, O Israel. Prepare to meet your God. Right? Not Not with the covering of the shed blood of the Lamb. I I'm gonna tell you what, I don't want to meet God without that covering. I have zero desire to be in front of the Lord without the without the shed blood of the Lamb covering me. Because I I will be completely destroyed. For behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the wind and declares to man what is his thought. He knows everything. Right? Who makes the morning darkness and treads on the heights of the earth, the Lord the God of hosts is his name. So his judgment is based on his name and his sovereign right to do so. But he's not done yet. He's not done yet. He's still going. The third message of sin, the call to repentance and a second warning of the ship. on their worship. He tells them, Seek me and live. Seek me and live. But don't go to Bethel, don't go to Gilgal, seek me and live. Don't go follow after the idols. Seek me and live. Seek the Lord and live. Lest he break out fire in the house of Joseph and devour it, with none to quench it, for Bethel. Seek me and live, O you who turn justice to wormwood, and cast down righteousness to the earth. And then he points to his creation and the fact that he is the creator of all things. He who made the Pleiades and Orion and turns deep darkness into the morning and the darkness the day into night. The creator of the universe is calling you to repentance. The creator of the universe is saying, seek me and live. Seek me and live. Right. And he says, and stop doing what you're doing. Stop trampling on the poor. Therefore, because you trample on the poor and you exact taxes of grain. from him. You have built houses in hewn stone, but you shall not dwell in them. Now let me stop here because I want to make a point that I probably should have made a little bit earlier. Is so God is concerned about how They um failed with respect to the social justice towards the those who are in need, right? Towards the weak. Do you think we oughta pick this book up and and run into the halls of of Congress and saying this is what we're supposed to do under the Lord. Is this is that what is that what the major takeaway here is from all of these judgments? What's the real takeaway from all of these judgments? Am I trying to make you guys a bunch of social justice warriors? Is that what Amos would have you be? Is that what the Lord would have you be? No. No, he wants us to have the Lord in a heart. And to be a disciple of Christ and model the things that we see in Christ. Absolutely. Right. It's still the heart, right? These things that they're failing to do, they're failing to do because their heart's not Right. Right? They are violating the Mosaic Covenant. The Mosaic Covenant had provision for poor the poor. You weren't supposed to mow the corners of your fields, right? You weren't supposed to stop. the poor from gleaning. There's a wonderful story about Ruth gleaning in the fields of Boaz, right? And why? Because God cares about the needs of the poor and he provides for the poor and the nation of Israel should provide for the poor. But that's not really the point that Amos is making here. And it's an important difference and I just want to make sure that we really kind of ferret all of this out, because at the end of the day this is about your heart. Right? Are you because if you start Running off and passing laws and feeding the the poor and you're doing all these things but you're the same corrupt human being that you were before and you won't repent and you're not going to the Lord to sit for salvation, you're not praying to Christ, you're still gonna you're still still gonna burn. Right? All your righteousness is like what before the Lord? Filthy rags. Filthy rags. Right. So I just felt like it was important to make the distinction between what Amos is actually calling them to, because a lot of liberal theologists will take this and say, Oh look, we gotta change the laws in the country and and you No, and and and it's really just missing the point. It's really, really just missing the point. Um that would be um just coverage over the symptoms rather than curing the disease. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, it's it is. It's like uh putting a garment over your leprosy, right? You're you're s you're still eaten away. It doesn't change it. But, you know, and I I think it's a real shame to reduce this book to that, because this is a call for true repentance. Right? This is a r a genuine call to Israel to love thy God. Right? And and And I don't want that missed because he keeps pointing to this aspect of failure on the part of the Israelites. Worship rightly. Um then there's this verse verse twenty-five uh which I have to mention. I don't know how I'm doing for time because my clock is covered. Was it ten thirty? So I'm running out of time, so I really have to speed up. That's what he just told me. He told me I had to speed up. But let's do verse. Let's read uh verse twenty-five. So if someone wanna pick that up Chapter five, verse twenty-five. Did you present me with sacrifices and grain offerings in the wilderness for forty years, O house of Israel? Uh oh, I'm sorry, keep reading all the way through to twenty-seven. My apologies. Sukhoth, your king and kinyon, your images, the star of your gods which you made for yourselves. Therefore I will make you go into exile beyond Damascus, says the Lord Whose name is the God of hosts. So is that um is that him saying that he's judging the day the the eighth century BC Israelites for the actions of the Israelites in the wilderness. Like if I read that hyperliterally, that's kind of what he's saying, right? Well, I think it's it's interesting though he mentioned that you carried along these gods with you. So if Not so much that oh those people did this bad thing and you're being punished for what they did. It's that what they did has continued to trickle down into future generations. So it's a same spirit of rebellion that has been passed down to their children and children's children to the point that hundreds of years later they're worshiping the same gods that they literally brought out of Uh yeah. Absolutely perfectly well said. I couldn't I I hope you guys heard that. I hope again on the recording because I don't actually need to add to that. That's that's a absolutely right. What he's he's telling them that that that they have been this way Since the wilderness. It's followed along from parent to child, from parent to child, generation to generation, and here they stand right now, no different from the from the people that that walked across the Jordan. Right? No different from those people. They're still the same pagan worshiping, sinful people. They aren't changing. Uh and that's instructive, right? I think that's really instructive to us. uh that that that we can uh that w we have to change. Like we have to change those things. It's um And it's gotta be a heart thing. And who who is ultimately the one who changes in uh things in us? Who is ultimately the one who breaks the yoke of that sin? The Lord. Christ. Christ. I just wanted to add this is the same accusations. Stephen tells the Pharisees and Yeah, yeah it is. It is. Yeah. Um I that's like a couple slides over. But it's okay 'cause I'm in a hurry 'cause apparently I only have a few minutes left anyway. So all right. So uh what is that judgment? look like and then this is the woes. Uh I'm gonna kind of skip over this to speed up a little bit, but uh if you read chapter six, uh he begins with woe to those who are at at the east or at ease in Zion. So those of you people who think everything is okay. and everything is secure. All you people who are sitting in your homes, getting fat off the food that's provided, drinking the wine that's given, having a great time, you are going to be ruined, he tells them. So I I kind of skip past most of that uh and then uh yeah so we'll skip past that and then so that's the judgment then the the proclamation and then the judgment of Israel. And then we're going to get to now these five visions. The first three visions are interlinked. Okay? And I I think this is a really interesting part of Amos. really kinda cool how God does this. But he starts off with uh uh there's going to be a plague of locusts and they're going to consume completely the second the the the second um uh cutting of the the the the wheat or the sprout. So it I I won't break all of that down there because again I'm starting to run out of time but but he's basically telling them there's going to be a period of famine. The Lord God and then and Amos cries out Oh Lord, please God forgive. How can Jacob stand? He's so small, and the Lord relented. Right? So the Lord gives Amos a vision, and Amos cries out to the Lord to forgive. For forgiveness and the Lord relents. And then he says, This is what the Lord God showed me. Behold, the Lord God was calling for a judgment by fire, and it devoured the great deep and was eating up the land the land. Then I said, Oh Lord God, please cease. How can Jacob stand this so small? The Lord relented concerning this also. So what role is Amos playing here? Mediator? A intercessor? Right? He's playing the role of intercessor here, right? Does this not hearken Moses a little bit? Right? Like God is going to destroy Israel and Moses is oh but God your name your name and he says, I'll relent right um this should hearken Moses. You should see that, that he is filling this role as intercessor. We talked in week one, the role of a prophet. Is the role of the prophet normally to intercede on behalf of Israel? No. Right? Remember the the priest, the priest is is God word Right? It's man's speaking to God. And the prophet is manward. Right? It's the it's the prophet is delivering the message of God to people. Right? So so Amos is actually filling a role which is not Not the normal role of a prophet. But then look what happens. And I think this is again so instructive. Then Amaziah, the priest, now who should be doing this? Starts with a P sounds like East. Priest, the priest should be should have been the intercessor, right? The priest should have been the intercessor, but look at Amaziah the priest to Bethel, sent to Jeroboam the king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against you. So rather than serve the role of the intercessor, what is the role that this priest is serving? He's lying. Conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to bear his words, for thus Amos said, Jeroboam shall die by the sword. Well, first of all, he didn't say that Jeroboam shall die by the sword. the sword. He said, Behold, I am setting a plumb line in the midst of my people Israel. I will never again pass by them. The high places of Isaac will be made desolate, the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid to waste, and I will rise against the what? The house of Jeroboam with the sword. So not Jeroboam himself, but the house of Jeroboam, right? Which was literally fulfilled in 2 Kings 15. The house of Jeroboam was destroyed. But Jeroboam himself was not. And Amaziah also said to Amos, Oh, seer, flee, flee, go away to the land of Judah and eat bread there and prophecy there, but never again prophecy about Bethel, for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is a temple of the kingdom. Don't come calling us out for our sin. Is he serving the role? Of an intercessor? Is he a mediator between God and man? Or is he just shutting his ears? He wasn't even chosen by God originally. Yeah, I mean he's yeah, he's not serving as a priest, right? Like he's actually to your point, he's not even a a godly priest. He's not even a priest of Jehovah. He's just he may think he is. Is is he doing justice to his people? If we just followed along with the words of Amaziah and said, God, don't you call me out for my sin. I'm over here just worshiping. You just leave me be. How effective would that be? If you have a pastor that's like, ah don't worry about your sin. It's all good. We're gonna live our best life now. We're gonna, you know We're gonna you know, we're going to uh we're just gonna do our thing and we're gonna worship and we won't worry about sin. We won't worry don't you call me out for my sin. I don't worry about what the Bible says about sin. Don't take that seriously. Just just Sit down, live your best life, have a good time. Is that is that pastor serving you? No way. No way. Anist is serving. Go ahead. Was I a real priest? Yeah. Well, was he a real priest? Well he was he was a real person. Uh he is mentioned in uh Second Kings. Um but uh was he I don't know if he was a Levite, but I doubt that God would call him a priest of any kind of biblical order. Right, because he's not worshiping rightly. He is not um he he's a I mean he's a heretic really. Right? He's he's Joel Osteen He looks really good. Right. He looks great, but he's just preaching heresy. Yeah. Just gonna add on. Right. And in a way he is intercessing for the idol. Yeah, and I I didn't get so much into this, although I will say that it's very prevalent. They they they were actually um one of the things that was happening in Israel was syncretism. So there was some worship of of of the Lord according to to the books of the Bible, along with golden calves and along with like you can read that also, uh I believe that's in First Kings when the kingdoms divide and they set up, they put cows in Dan and Bethel, uh so in in those in those sanctuaries. Um so yeah, syncretism is definitely at play here and he is not teaching the w the true word of God. Right? And when you talk about a plumb line That God is gonna set up, right? There's a plum line. What what's our plumb line? We have a plumb line, don't we? Do you does everybody know what a plumb line is? I know Erica does because we've used one before, but is our plumb line. Strict is strictly our plum line. What is a plumb line though? It's a standard of by which you measure you know, your life. In that sense. Pretty simple tool, right? It's a string with a weight And you stick it here and it falls and that has to be straight, right? Because gravity works. On the occasion that gravity doesn't work, you might be in trouble. But the plumb line uh is is what he's saying is God is saying, I'm going to weigh you against my word. I'm going to weigh you against These words, you have failed according to the Mosaic Covenant. I'm weighing you against that. Your walls are crooked. Your ways are crooked. You're evil. Right? According to what I told you to do. Right? And Amaziah's like, I don't listen to that. Right. Amazon like so um yeah, so I just thought that was a really interesting uh kind of uh uh back and forth that happened there. Um did I get to Okay, oh fourth vision. Uh the summer fruit. That's chapter 8, beginning. This is what the Lord God showed me. Behold the basket of summer fruit, and he said, What do you see, Amos? And I said, A basket of summer fruit. Then the Lord said, The end is come upon my people Israel. The summer fruit represents what kind of fruit? The harvest. It's ripe, right? It's ready to harvest. Right? And it's time for God to harvest judgment to harvest the people in wrath. I will never again pass by them. Um and uh Then he says here in verse eleven, Behold the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will send a famine on the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water. But of hearing the words of the Lord, that should terrify Anybody. If I continue in my sin, if I continue in my way, will there be a time When God simply quits calling me? When that call just fades, when it's not just my hard heart, my seared heart or my closed-off ears But it's literally the word of God is gone from me. That is a horrifying thought That was a horrifying thought if when you meditate on that. Um that was the fourth vision. And then the fifth vision is the Lord standing beside an altar. That begins uh chapter nine. And here is this uh fantastic again I'm uh I know I'm running out of time, so I'm uh I'm kind of hurrying up. This fantastic discussion of if they dig into Sheo from there, my hand will take them. If they climb up to Heaven from there I will bring them down. If they hide themselves in the rocks in Mount Caramel, I will find, I will search them out and I will take them. And if they hide from my sight at the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent and it shall bite them. And if they go into captivity before their enemies, there I will command the sword and it shall kill him. And I will fix my eyes upon them for the Lord. For evil and not for good. The Lord, the God of hosts, he who touches the earth and it melts, all and all who dwell in it mourn, and all of it rises like the Nile and sinks again like the Nile of Egypt. who builds his upper chamber in the heavens and founds his vault upon the earth, who calls upon the waters of the sea and pours them out upon the surface of the earth, the Lord is his name. He is declaring it on his absolute sovereign right to do so. Right? His absolute sovereign right to do so. Um and then he ends up with uh this restoration. And this is super important. Behold, I will command and shake the house of Israel among all the nations. as the one shakes with the seed, but no pebble shall fall to the earth. This reminds you of a certain statement about not one will n that no one will snatch them from my hand? Right? Are we you know you want a a good old testament verse on the Doctrine of election? There you go. You want a good old testament verse for that? There you have one. Uh and he talks about restoring. In that day I will raise up the uh the booth of David that has fallen and repair its breaches. So here he looks forward to the millennial kingdom. Is God coming back? Is Jesus coming back? I look forward to it. You should be praying for it every day. Right? Um Will he sit on a throne? Will he sit on David's throne? Right? The millennial kingdom is coming Um so um that will ultimately be fulfilled in Christ upon his return. So just a couple quick notes on Amos' theology, and I know I actually I don't know exactly how bad off I am in terms of time. I'm sorry? Ten forty-four? Yep. Okay, so I've got like one minute. Um okay. Um so a couple of things. God's authority over the earth, He He pronounces judgment on all the nations, right? The use of the name Adonai. Uh the Adonai is uh a reference to God's uh um names a king. He is the he is the sovereign. It points to the sovereignty of God. Uh he also points to the use of God as the creator, right? Um and and this is actually something frequently echoed throughout all of Scripture that God's righteousness and judgment stems from and his authority on the earth stems from his creation of it, right? The earth is the Lord's and everything in it. That's Psalm 24. In Romans 9, he talks about the earth. Talks about does what is molded say to the molder, why have you made me like this? So God's right to judge you and do with you as he pleases stems from the fact that he made you. Right. Uh important point there. John's omniscience, you read the you know, we we went through the um quickly the uh uh that he'll find you. When your judgment comes, your judgment is sure. There's no way you're gonna run from it. Right? You're not gonna run from it. He wherever you are, you're at the bottom of the sea, he'll find you. You're in the cleft of a rock, he will find you. Right? Wherever you are, he will find you. Um also the reverse is true. No matter how deep of despair you think you are, the Lord is always right there. The moment you turn around and just look up, He is gracious and forgiving and loving. Right? His judgment is perfect. God's Israel is uh God Israel is God's chosen people. Uh so we talked I think a lot about that. God chose them before and therefore chastised them. Also you saw that the remnant in chapter nine. For us, uh worshiping God in spirit and truth. I hopefully have beat that with a stick uh into your minds today. Uh and then social justice as it pertains to God's law. Again. Amos's claim here about the so the lack of social justice was really more pointing to their hearts. Because let me tell you this, you know, all of the laws in the world won't change a thing. But one Christian with a right heart can change everything. Right? One Christian with a right heart and God's blessing can do anything. Right? Um I will say to this mountain, move. And it will. You have the right heart and you pursue God with your whole heart, you can change things. But no law in the world will ever do that. Bless bless the Standing point on that. Uh and then this is from last a couple of weeks ago, the unifying themes of the prophets. And I just wanted to kind of show you how all of these things are here. Um I didn't change the slide at all. This is exactly how came up so you know I just is is you know evidence of this you know Amos really touches on all of these. Uh God has spoken through them. Uh thus says the Lord. How many times did Amos say that? Right, even in just the readings that he continually God chose Israel. We saw that in in chapter three of Amos, also in Chapter 9. Israel failed to live up to the standard of God. Do you guys think there's pretty good evidence here that that they failed to live up to that. Uh and then God's gonna judge sin. Um God will judge sin and his judgment is harsh and his judgment is complete and his judgment is perfect. Uh and then God intends to bring about redemption. So he is going to save his people Israel. Not one kernel should fall to the ground. Quotations of Ammon in the New Testament. You mentioned Acts 7 when Stephen quotes Amos 5, 2 through 27. Someone, if we have, if you would bear with me for just a second, read Amos 9, 11, and 12. of a discussion on this uh and I just wanted to point something out with it. If someone wants to flip to Acts fifteen or yeah Acts fifteen In that day I will raise up the food of stages that is fallen in the forest preachers, and raise up the groom, and rebuild it as in the day of days, that they may possess the remnant of me and all the nations who are called by my name. So that's James quoting Amos. Um Or she just read the Amos. I I read the Amos. Oh, okay, I'm sorry. Yeah. Well see you did a really good job of quoting Amos. So if we gotta accept Uh let me find it. X fifteen, sixteen, and seventeen. So on page two. Here he says, after this, okay, so James, they're they're having this discussion about Should the Gentiles be required to proselytize? Right? I mean and this is, you know, uh uh one of the the the Jerusalem Council, it's one of the first church councils, right? Uh should the Jews uh should the Jews require of of the Gentiles that they proselytize and become Jews, like Jews, right? Follow all of the law, the Mosaic Law. And uh Amos points to this, this ver or I'm sorry, James points to this verse in Amos. After this I will return. And I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen, uh I will rebuild its ruins and I will restore it, uh, that the remnant of mankind may seek the Lord and all the Gentiles who are called by n my name, says the Lord, who make these things. uh known from of uh from of old. Sorry, I'm just reading it trying to read it really quickly, but uh is James here talking about the literal fulfillment of that verse? Um and I probably didn't enough as well to give you the proper context. The short answer is no. There's a lot of commentators who would say that this is proof that that the Millennial Kingdom is really the church age. Okay? Um that that somehow this this fulfillment. But it's actually when you read it and and again I'll point back to Elias because he makes this point I think pretty clear. When when the New Testament authors talk about scripture being fulfilled, they normally start off with to be fulfilled, right? They said, so that it would be fulfilled. And Matthew, you see that repeated throughout, right? Um here, James makes no such claim. Uh he just says, and with this the words of the prophet agree, just as it is written. And I really am trying to make the point that A, this is not necessarily saying that Amos' words were fulfilled in the church age, but rather that there was uh an agreement of the prophets. And if you You think about the way we talked about in the first class, that the prophets were preachers, right? There was foretelling In their in their work, they tell of eschatological times, the end time. They look forward, but their main message is really to call the nation of Israel to repentance. Right? The word are a really to to deliver a message from the Lord to those people to whom it was given. Right? So there's kind of a dual functionality in the role of the prophet. And Amen and James is drawing on the declaration in that case. that that uh that there would be Gentiles who would call upon the name of the Lord to be saved, right? Not saying that this is the literal fulfillment of because we the the tent of death David has not been rebuilt. Right? Christ ascended. He's not sitting on the throne of David, literally sitting on the throne of David. So that's not been fulfilled. So the the the millennial kingdom is not beginning. But that the prophets foresaw and understood that there would be a redemption for the Gentiles and that they would also come to the Lord. Uh so I just wanted to point that out. I probably didn't set that up quite as well as I would have liked to. Um and then applications. Um so yeah, I'm trying to wrap this up. So I I'll have to wrap this up for now. But uh there are a lot of similarities to the world that we have today in terms of excess and wealth and um uh and also a crushing uh and mistreatment of those people around us. And we are called as Christians to love our neighbors, right? To love the Lord our God and and to demonstrate God's mercy upon the world, uh, and love and compassion for their sin. Um so we're still meet in that the midst of that requirement. Um uh so uh anyway. So I think that's it. I'm concerned about the time, so I think I'll just pray and we'll we'll go from there. I'll touch the rest of the topics next week