So I am obviously not Frank. This is Frank's class. He asked me to substitute for three lessons while he's away and unavailable. My name's Elias. For those of you who don't know me, I'm one of the Sunday school teachers. I've uh haven't been able to teach as frequently as I used to in the past uh after my two two young kids uh came into our family. So I'm a little stretched thin with ministry wise because I also help with the music ministry program. I'm sure you recognize me there. Um, but very happy that Frank asked me to help him. So I'll be covering three of the minor profits. But I understand many of you guys were not here for the first week, so maybe it'd be worth doing a quick overview. I'm glad I prepared these uh next few slides about what Frank covered um in his introductory lesson last week. Uh first of all logistical um points. The PowerPoints that we use will be posted on our Hope Book, you know, social portal. So you'll see that midweek as well as a recording of the classes. So that's something to be mindful of. Uh your voice may come out quietly if you have questions or comments. So if you're bashful just be aware that uh our classes are being recorded for the sake of people that have to miss lessons. Okay, quick review of the class. We are studying what the Hebrews traditionally have called the twelve. The twelve smaller prophets. uh often called the minor prophets. And they're only called the minor prophets, not because they're of lesser importance. A lot of very important passages among the twelve prophets are quoted uh frequently in the New Testament. Um by none other than Jesus, our Lord, all as the w as well as the disciples. But they're simply called minor because they're small. These are small books. And we're going to see today in the book of Obadiah, it is the smallest book in the entire Old Testament. So you can feel free to turn your Bible to Obadiah. Good luck trying to find it. So it's after Amos, but Amos is also small, so not super helpful. But uh that's the only reason they're called the minor Prophets because they're very small, but they are traditionally called the twelve, probably a preferable way to uh refer to them. What is a prophet? Because these are prophetic books. They're part of the prophetic genre. A prophet, as Frank covered last week, is simply one who um speaks forth the word of God to people. So Frank related how it's kind of the opposite of the role of a priest, which is you're relating people to God specifically through sacrifice. sacrifice, that temporary atonement for sins, right? And then of course now we have Jesus Christ, who's our permanent once for all atonement. And uh going back to the first bit of this slide here, um prophets was one of the three offices of Christ. He exemplified the perfect prophet. He was in fact the Word of God personified, capital W, right? He was also a priest, he's a king. It's one of the main reasons why it's worth studying all the prophetic books, particularly the twelve, because it helps us understand Christ. Christ and his office as a prophet. Better. It is faith-building. A key part, it is not the entirety of prophecy. Remember, prophecy is just a general term for speaking forth God's Word. So, in that sense, in a way, like when Pastor Gabe or Alan is preaching, Preaching accurately from the Word of God. That is also a somewhat prophetic role. You're just speaking forth God's word and and making it clear to the listeners. But that being said, a big part of inspired prophecy in the Bible was also predictions about the world. the future. And it's just uncanny. It's it's an amazing it's not coincidental. It's because it was written by the hand of God that a lot of these predictions already were fulfilled or are to be fulfilled, but the ones that have already been fulfilled, I mean read Daniel's chap uh Daniel Daniel chapter nine to eleven, for instance, and you here you see that sixty-ninth week of Daniel, and you can actually date it exactly to the birth and the death of Christ, for instance. So this is clearly not the hand of man, this is the hand of God. So it's very faith-building studying these. prophecies, particularly the prophecies that have already been fulfilled, and you just see to the letter how perfectly they occurred in world history. Who else can do that other than our Lord God, right? And third, uh it is good to study the twelve because it makes the scriptures more approachable. So if you understand in greater detail what a prophet is, which is the office of Christ, one of the offices of Christ, you see how prophecy played out in world history. It helps form a more holistic understanding of Scripture and its grand story. So it's always worth studying the 12. Any questions before we go to the next review slide? So this is a very quick version of half of what Frank covered last week. And there are recordings, by the way, so you can go to Hope Book and find that recording if you want to hear it in more detail. And uh another key idea that Frank covered last week in our introductory lesson was there are five universities. That you're going to see crop up over and over again as we cover each of these books in detail. Number one, the twelve self attests that God spoke through them, and that's exactly what it states in First Peter. as well that no one spoke their own mind when they were prophetically speaking. This is from God. Oftentimes direct quotation from God, and you see that whenever you see that off-repeated. um uh phrase, thus says the Lord, etcetera, etcetera. You know they're saying this is directly from God. I'm not making this up. Number two, another unifying theme is that God chose Israel for covenantal relationship. You cannot escape whenever you read the twelve prophets that Israel still has central importance in God's plan for the future. So this is a big stumbling block for a lot of what are known as our covenant theological. Theology, New Covenant Theology Brothers. If you don't know the term, don't worry about it. I'm sure Frank or myself will cover it a little more detail in the future as it becomes relevant. But albeit to say, there are many believers that have this errant perspective. That Israel of the Old Testament have has become fulfilled or transformed into something better called the church today. And the reason this confusion happens is somewhat understandable. Really it's It comes from tradition, not from a strict, you know, very careful study and exposition of the Bible, but it comes from the fact that, think about it, who authored both this institution called the Church and Israel? Who is the author of both bodies of believers? God, the same author, right? So the analogy I often use when we talk about covenant theology and what our church teaches, which can be roughly called dispensationalism, um, is imagine two Monet paintings, right? Of lily pads, right? They're going to look very similar. But you cannot take similarity and be imprecise in theology and leap to the conclusions they're the exact same painting. They're going to look similar, a lot of the same brush strokes because it's the same painter, but just because the church and the Israel have a lot of similarities. They're supposed to be a beacon of light to the world. They're supposed to be used as a blessing to the world, right? They're both uh institutions where the members have to be saved by faith in Jesus. Israel was also saved by Jesus, by the way. It was the future work of their Messiah Jesus. Just because you take those similarities you can't just immediately flatten it and say they're the same body. But that being said, when you read the twelve, you see very clearly you cannot escape from a plain, accurate, precise precision is a word. reading of the twelve prophets that Israel still has a place in God's redemptive history. There there's still a particular distinct body, distinct from the church. And um it's not two ways of salvation. It's all salvation by God's grace through faith in Jesus. Jesus, but there is a distinct body called Israel. They've been temporarily put aside. That's what Romans 9 to 11 speaks of. But one day they'll be grafted back in. Okay? But Israel failed the covenant Okay, Israel was also very particular, unlike the church, because their covenant, their main covenant, which was called what by the way? They have several main covenants, but what's the covenant that they failed? Anyone know the covenant Who established it? Abrahamic was uh one of the underlying covenants, yes, but that was a covenant purely by grace. There's one that was a two way relationship the Mosaic, right? The covenant under Moses was the defining constitution of the nation of Israel. That was a two way covenant. That was one where God had a role, but then Israel also had a role. And God did that purposefully to show You cannot uphold a two-way covenant. It has to be purely by grace. But m the Mosaic Covenant has stipulations where one party, God, would provide blessings, if the other party, Israel, provided obedience. And God will provide curses. If the other party, Israel provided disobedience, and we see throughout the twelve how Israel fails this Mosaic covenantal relationship with God. And as a result, number four, God will judge However, underlying the Mosaic covenant is the Abrahamic covenant and the Davidic covenant. These are covenants purely by grace. And God states, because of this underlying pure grace covenant, I made with your other forefathers, Abraham and David, even though you failed the Mosaic Covenant and you will be punished for it, right? At the end of the day you will be redeemed. I'm not going to put you aside forever. And that is another huge problem with what's known as covenant theology. Anyone that believes Israel just turns into to the church. You're unwittingly, I don't think they do it on purpose, of course, but you're impugning God's um the importance of God upholding his promises exactly as he gave them to us. Right? You can't transform God saying this needs of Israel, ethnic national Israel, which is not just an ethnic thing, there's also a spiritual component underneath the ethnic thing, right? But when you say that God's gonna transform and mutate This promise he made with Abraham for this particular nation, you're you're really undermining what of what about God's promises he made with us as a Gentile Christian. Some of you might be Jewish, but most of us are Gentile Christians. Will God mutate that into something else, right? So, God muttered. will be faithful to both judge and God will be faithful to redeem. Any questions so far? Okay. All right, today's lesson outline, we're going to go into Obadiah. Uh First, I'd like to start by giving a very quick primer on how to generally deal with the prophetic genre. So some of you may have taken a class I offer every other year on interpreting scripture, my hermeneutics class. So I'll just be Pulling a section from that class where we deal with the different genres of the Bible. So the Bible like even modern day literature, it's not all written in the same style. There are different genres. There's legal genre, there are sections of the Bible like uh Leviticus that's very heavily heavy on laws. There's like the epistle genre. These are personal letters written by so and so to such and such. And uh you have what we're dealing with in our class, the prophetic genre, and these genres, just like how we deal with our genres like a Um you don't read a medical textbook according to the same rules as you read a poetry, right? By T. S. Elliott or whatever. So in the same sense, when you are in the Bible and you're in a particular book, you have to be cognizant of the fact that there's a particular genre with a particular set of rules. rules, particular set of characteristics and styles that you need to uh deal with. So we'll give a very quick primer on uh how to deal with the prophetic genre. I'll give you guys uh outline, a general outline of Obadiah, and then we'll just I'm just gonna read through it. It's short enough that I think we'll be able to just cover it in class. And as we go, I'm going to uh touch on some of the major themes that we're going to encounter in this book. It's going to be pretty rough shot. We're going to go through it pretty quickly. Frank plans on doing a follow-up. up class to this one, I think next quarter, if I'm not mistaken, where he'll go back to these books and then start doing some more detailed exegesis, detailed interpretation of some key passages. So we're just going to touch at a very high, 30,000 foot level, just to just General outline and major themes of the book. And those themes include Edom's sins. So you're going to discover in a moment this book is very heavily focused on a nation called Edom. Who is Edom? Where were they located? What sins were they committing? We're going to find that out in a few moments. Another major theme is the judgment of God. So He is a holy and a just God. A holy and a just God must judge sin. And then And just as we stated at the last lesson, we're going to see that familiar theme we're going to see over and over again, the restoration, the ultimate end times eschatological which just means end times, study of the end times, end times eschatological restoration of Israel. Then we'll uh talk a little bit about the historical context. We'll get to know the ancient Near East during the time of Obadiah in a little more detail, the history of Edom as a nation, who the author who Obadiah was. the possible date Obadiah was written. And uh yep, that will be our lesson outline. So let's dive into it. Okay. How to interpret the prophetic genre. So number one, you have to be aware that prophecy will often use a lot of figurative or symbolic language. Figurative language is nothing more than just like trying to relay some plain truth in like a colorful way. Alright? So that should be pretty familiar with all of us. Go back to grace school English class, uh simile, a metaphor, you know, fast as uh antelope or something. He's he has hearing as good as a dog, right? These are similes. These are figurative language. He doesn't literally have the ears of a dog, but Uh it's just a colorful way to express some plain truth. He has really good hearing. So the prophetic genre uses a lot of figures of speech. It uses a lot of symbolical language. However, number two, you have to be very careful to not Not make an object figurative or symbolic if the literal and plain is possible. That's very important. You always want to default to taking so-called figures of speech. Any object that you encounter, any sentence you encounter, This is a good rule in general. You always want to take it as literally and plainly as possible until you hit some indications that this cannot be a plain literal word. So those indications include, we go through this more in my class. But those indications include if if the literal and plain is immoral, right? If the literal and plain is absurd, like logically impossible, those are two important ways you know that it is not just plain literal language. But if the literal and plain Plain as possible, you always want to take the literal and plain, because otherwise you fall down into the trap that a very old, effectively seminary of the ancient times called the uh Alexandrian School, it's one of the worst. first schools that were ever developed and they developed what's known as this allegorical way of taking the Bible and they just went crazy. They went haywire. They took every single phrase of the Bible and turned it into a metaphor, whatever fit the interpreter's fancy. So Every book of the Bible ended up with as many interpretations as there were readers when you go down this allegorical route. So you wanna keep things as literal and plain as possible because that grounds you in objectivity. Every word of the Bible has one single meaning. That's a good rule of thumb. It's always God's meaning, the author's intended meaning. And you uh you gravitate you you you you gravitate around that principle if you default to literal interpretation. Okay? So for instance Revelation eight one. When the Lamb by the way, I didn't underline it, but we know the Lamb here who refers to Jesus Christ. We can't take that plainly because it fails one of our indications. That's a metaphor for Jesus. When the Lamb opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. But that half an hour bit, a lot of people would be tempted to make that some kind of symbolism for maybe long span of history or whatever. But when you look at the context of Revelation eight one, You discover you there's no reason we can't take that as literally 30 minutes. So that's an example of what I'm talking about. Okay. Related to number two is a lot of the prophetic genre, thanks be to God, they have interpretations already embedded within. in the text. Okay? So oftentimes if we just read the surrounding like Daniel is one of those books where it like you have so much crazy imagery and you'd be tempted to think it's so difficult to know what do these little horns mean and etc. But thankfully you read a lot of sections of Daniel and it says specifically in Daniel by God's inspired word, oh these are figures of speech. Angel, go go explain to Daniel what these figures of speech are. You see that in Daniel 1716, I, Daniel approached one of those who stood there, he said in this vision and ask them this is apparently an angel in his vision, asked him the truth concerning all this. That's a pretty logical thing to ask if you're seeing all sorts of fantastic thing, different beasts and stuff. So he, this this angel, told me and made known to me So a lot of uh these prophetic sections of scripture have these internal interpretations where the Holy Spirit and his wisdom knows that maybe some believers in the future are just gonna go crazy and interpret. interpreting things way too allegorically, so it tells us internally in the text what some of these things mean. So watch for those as well. The numbering is along there should be four. But another big mechanic in the prophecy genre is something theologians call prophetic foreshadowing. shortening. And the best way to illustrate that is let's say you're looking at two mountain peaks from a side view. Okay? So you're the observer here. You're looking at the mountain. Now if you're looking at it from the side view, you can obviously tell you this huge span of distance between these two peaks, right? Now the problem is for the prophets they weren't looking at, so these are world events. Okay? This is world event number one. This is world event number two. And this is actually Time. So if you're looking at it from the side view, God's perspective, it's obvious to see that this event happens first. You have hundreds of years of gap and then event number two. The problem is for the prophet, they were looking at it this way. From the front. So redrawing the prophet's perspective, they effectively were seeing two mountain peaks that looked like they were right on top of each other, and they could not see that gap of time in between. This is known as prophetic foreshortening. You see that all the time in the prophetic sections of Scripture. You'll see it in Obadiah, actually. And what this causes to happen is you'll often see world event number one spoken of in one verse, and then just a couple verses later you have world event number one. Sometimes in the same sentence, right? And it may mislead you to think that, oh, these things happen right after each other, or very soon after one another. But the truth of the matter is, uh I think Frank talked about this passage last week as well. In first Peter one. 10 to 11, Scripture itself tells us that the prophets had a time problem. They were always inquiring who's this Messiah? What person are we talking about here? They wanted to know the identity, but also the time. They knew that We were getting this rapid fire of series of events like stacked on top of each other from our angle, but they knew that there was probably an issue of timing. They didn't know how far apart these mountain peaks were. And this is something that the prophets were always agonizing over. Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. So that's something to be very mindful of. You don't always have this gap between mountain peaks specified in the prophetic books of the Bible. And we can speculate why that might be. Uh one of the more Um convincing explanations is God was probably also trying to hide these events from his enemy, Satan, so that he wouldn't try to go in and try to thwart these events, right? But this is the prophet's perspective. All the mountain peaks, all the world events are often stacked. right on top of each other. So you don't you can't always be dogmatic to know from from their period we know we have the benefit of hindsight. But from their period you can't always be dogmatic to know this is going to be imminent or this is going to be way off into the future. And you have both, as it turns out. And also, a lot of prophecies will be parallel, so especially for the really important events, like for instance, for instance, excuse me, Daniel's 70th week, which we remind. Now the seventieth week is particularly important because that's that long gap of time we're in right now, this period of grace before Jesus returns to judge all of his enemies. Um it's such an important event that That you have this 70th week talked about in two other places, Matthew 24 and also Revelation chapter 6 to 18. So when you have the benefit of these parallel passages, and one of the indications you're dealing with the parallel passages, you'll sometimes see the exact same phrase used over and over. over again in these passages. But you'll have these like similar language, similar similar paragraphs, similar happenings. That's an indicator to you that ah, these are the same events spoken of from the perspective of different prophets. And that's really great because uh If you have several different sources, you can start to harmonize all of them to get a much fuller picture of what's going to happen pertaining to that event. So whenever you have these parallel prophecies, you have to harmonize them all together. Okay, so those are five quick rules. on just generally how to deal with prophecy. Any questions or comments? A couple of slides before you had Daniel seventeen, sixty I think it was a little bit of a prob did I put the wrong I don't think there's that many chapters. Yeah, I probably got the wrong Let me make a note of that for the future. Uh okay, I'll just have to remember. Thank you though. Oh it's seven sixteen. Seven sixteen, so I put that number there in the front accidentally. Thank you for that. Appreciate it. Okay. Any other questions or governments? Alright, so that's just generally how to deal with prophetic genre, and we're going to employ some of that today when we look through Obadiah. Okay, here is a general outline of Obadiah. This is another practice I commend in my interpreting scripture course. Is the first thing you want to do whenever you're dealing with a new book of the Bible that you're trying to study in more detail is obviously just read it, right? And then the second thing thing you want to do is just make your own personal outline of the whole book. Just just organize in a logical fashion, in a way that's memorable to you, all the books of the Bible in some kind of outline that looks something like this. Okay? not biblically inspired or anything. This outline that you make, it's a map of that book that you make for yourself, for your remembrance. But this is an outline as good as any other that I suggest. I'm going to keep this slide up here. Here and then we're going to start reading through this book verse by verse. So once again, if you haven't found it, now's a good time to turn to the book of Obadiah. But Obadiah begins with Yahweh, God, he prepares the nation. Surrounding nations to destroy the nation of Edom. That's in the first two verses of this book. And I provided a map. This is just a theoretic a theoretical reconstruction of uh how big where we think Edom probably was. And you can see Edom is south of the Dead Sea. That's that blue blob right there. It's also bounded by the kingdom of Mohab, um, to its north. You have the Nabataeans to the right. Uh for Indiana Jones fans, Petra was located in uh the Kingdom of Eden, right? That big stone fortress. It's amazing to see. That's a key part of Edomite attitude, by the way, we're gonna see in just a second. Um and it's right underneath the kingdom of Judah. So for those of you guys who read Kings and Chronicles, um the nation of Israel originally was one intact kingdom, but then you had this really dull witted, foolish young man named Rehoboam and he ended up splitting the kingdom into two. So you had the northern tribe, which became confusingly known as the Kingdom of Israel, right? And then the southern Israelites, uh, they rallied around the kingdom of the tribe of Judah and they became synonymously known with Judah as a whole. So that's what you have going on here. So the Judah bit, the southern kingdom of the Jews, that is the northern boundary of Edom. So that's where Edom is. But God is rallying the troops to destroy Edom, and it's because, number two, Edom is in sin. There's two particular sins called out by this book. The first sin is the Edomites were very proud, arrogant people. They were very proud of their military strength and what they perceived as their geographical security, as well as her wisdom. And as such, there's a very uh detailed description of Edom's just complete and utter destruction and frightening detail. God is going to um respond to their sin with just utter annihilation of their people. Edom's second sin is then detailed in verses 10 to 14, which is they were abusing their relatives relatives, their brother in fact, the Israelites, the Jews. So we're gonna see this in a future slide, but the Edomites were actually blood relatives of the founders of the Israelite people, Jacob, and uh God held them accountable. to that blood relation. Even though hundreds and hundreds of years have passed, God thinks it's important what your national lineage is, what your national old treaties that you made, old relations that you had. God holds people groups accountable to that and because the Edomites were charged. Treacherous toward their brother Israel. That was their second sin, abusing their brother Israel in their time of need. And then we zoom out a little and we see not only the judgment of God on the specific nation of Edom, but the judgment of God as a whole. how Edomite judgment is basically within a larger story of this day of the Lord, this formal term, the day of the Lord that's repeated over and over in Scripture, which is a singular day of God judging the entire world, all the nations, and we're going see how Edom kind of exemplifies that wicked, fleshly, rebellious nation. And then finally we get the future restoration of Israel. Israel is in need right now, Judah in particular. Judah is being harassed. They're in a time of weakness. So one day God says, I'm going to redeem you guys and you guys are going to regain all your geographical land that was promised to you, to your forefather Abraham. Any questions? So hopefully you see the power of making your own personal outline. Like I said, this is a map. This grounds you. A lot of new believers have this bad habit of, you know, this whole kind of like daily bread sort of attitude where it's like I'm just gonna flip randomly to section of scripture. This is my life verse for the day, right? And I'm not look, alwa reading scripture is better than not reading scripture, okay? And it's oh it's everyone has favorite verses and passages of the Bible. I'm not making anyone feel silly for doing that. But if that is your entire diet when it comes to personal Bible study, then you're going to be a little stunted because the Bible was not written as a bunch of disparate, separate verses, life verses mantras of the Bible. The Bible was set in the framework of a larger story. There's a flow to it. Just like any reason you would read a reader or write a book today. You write a book because you're trying to tell an overarching s a bigger idea. And the Bible is no different. So making an outline grounds you and you you get a map of what particular path. passage you're in, what just happened, what's going to happen, and you start to treat the Bible more like a holistic book rather than just disparate little passages as a lot of believers are prone to do Alright, so let's start with Obadiah verse 1. It's just one chapter, shortest book of the Old Testament, as I stated earlier. I'm going to be reading from the English Standard Version, so apologies if it's different from the one you're using. There's a lot of good word-for-word literature. literal translations. NES uh we have a ESP fan in the back there as well. The n um NESP is a good uh translation of the Bible. It it's not the only good translation. There's a lot of bad translations too, by the way. There's a lot of translations of the Bible that are not known as formal equivalents, but they they do more like phrase by phrase translations of the Greek and Hebrew manuscripts. And uh they can be fine for just like meditation. The NIV is the most popular one. Look, I was save reading the NIV. Okay, so again, read a Bible rather than no Bible. But if you wanna do very like deep, detailed verse by verse study of scripture, you need a formal equivalence. You need a word for word translation like the ESV or the NESB or the King James for instance. And the reason is you want to be confident that every word in your English translation was ninety-nine percent of the time actually in the original manuscript, which is what these word-for-word translations try to do to the best of their ability. You always lose a little bit when you go from From one language to another, right? You can't really avoid that, uh, which is why theologians and pastors have to take the Greek and Hebrew class. But uh, for those of us who don't speak Hebrew and Greek, myself included, you want to stick to a translation of the Bible with a translators to the best of their ability, try to do a word for word with the best manuscripts they had available. And the ESP is a perfectly good one. Okay? Alright, the vision of Obadiah. Thus Says the Lord God concerning Edom, We have heard a report from the Lord, and a messenger has been sent among the nations. Rise up, let us rise against her for battle. Behold, I will make you small among the nations. You shall be utterly despised. Okay. So this is now class participation time. You guys just Tell me what what's happening here in these first two verses, in your own words. Yeah. Pretty negative announcement, right? What's about to happen to Eden? War. Right? War. You have war happening. Okay, let's go to verses 3 and 4. We're going to touch on Edom's first sin, why God was sending war to this nation. The pride of your heart has deceived you. So that's an important point that we can expound on if we have the time. Pride has a deceptive quality to it, a self-deceiving quality to it when you're arrogant and when you don't think of yourself as you have to think. You who live in the clefts of the rock, in your lock Lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, Who will bring me down to the ground? Though you soar aloft like the eagle, though your nest is set among the stars, from there I will bring you down, declares the Lord. Why is the Edomite nation so proud? Why are they so self-assured? What specific features of their land? do they like? Do they live in the mountains or something? Very mountainous terrain apparently, and we'll see in a second that's exactly what that Edomite um nation to this day, like the modern nation of Jordan encompasses a lot of Edom. Very mountainous, rugged terrain. Yeah. Makes it very difficult to invade, right? Okay, so they were very proud of their strength, their they thought their military national security, but what does God say he's going to do to them? Bring them down, right? There is no geographical security that is so secure that Yahweh if he determines, he will not destroy that nation. Verse five. So now we're going to get into two illustrations and I want you guys to identify it. He uses two different illustrations to explain how thorough Edom's destruction is gonna be. If thieves came to you, if plunderers came by night, how you have been destroyed, would they not steal only enough for themselves? If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings? How Esau has been pillaged, his treasure sought out. All your enemies have driven you to your border. Those at peace with you have deceived you. They have prevailed against you, Those you who eat your bread have set a trap beneath you, you have no understanding. Will I not on that day, declares the Lord, destroy the wise men out of Edom and understanding out of Mount Esau? And your mighty men shall be dismissed. made O Timon so that every man from Mount Esau will be cut off by slaughter. So first and foremost you have a couple different synonyms for Edom. Esau was the founding patriarch. We'll explain who he is in a little more detail in a moment. So Esau, Edom, also Temon, which is one of the major patriarchs, the grandson, I believe, actually, of Esau. These are all synonyms for the same nation. But let's go back to verses 5. Actually just verse five. What are the two illustrations God uses to show how thoroughly he's going to destroy Eden? The thief and the grape gatherer. That's right, right. And what is God's point about a typical thief and a typical grape gatherer when they're doing their activities? Do they take everything, everything though? Yeah. Exactly. I I heard five voices come in. I think you guys are all saying the same thing. Even the greediest thief, right? He's not gonna live literally take every piece of furniture from your house, right? Even the most thorough diligent grape gatherer, there's gonna be some leftover gleanings, right? But God's point is that even though that's typical of the most thorough thief And the most thorough grape gatherers, that is not what your destruction is gonna look like. It will be completely comprehensive. Every single one of you will be destroyed. Very frightening words. Now let's go to uh verse seven. Who is going to be used as God's blunt instrument to exact vengeance on Edom, Esau. Yeah, yeah. They're supposed allies. So we can You can see implicit in this text that Edom they not only had this geographical security that they were leaning on, but they apparently thought they had a lot of strong alliances with the surrounding nations. But these alliances would prove to be their undoing. In fact, God would be using these supposed allies, these surrounding and you see that exactly happen in history. You have the Nabataeans on the right hand side there. They'll be one of the instruments God uses to destroy them. And then you'll see later the Romans, etcetera. A lot of nations, um end up harassing and just slowly whittling down Edom through history. But yes, in verse seven you have the allies, those who eat their bread. Um they will be setting a trap beneath them. Okay. Verse 8, you also see that Edom, they not only were very arrogant about their geographical strength and security, that there's they had strong alliances with surrounding nations that depended on them. them but apparently they also thought themselves very wise people. You see that in verse eight, that how God will destroy the wise men of Edom and understanding out of Mount Esau. That's because uh Edom was set in in uh the middle of some very important trade routes. So they were just a cosmopolitan empire. They had also well not really empire, kingdom. They had all sorts of people passing by bringing all their ideas and wares So they thought themselves very wise, they pri prided themselves in their wisdom, but all the supposed wisdom of Edom would not save them from the destruction of God's wrath. All right, let's continue from verse ten. And we Yeah, please tell us. Um I have the ESB and NASP and I was wondering in verse six um the NASP says how ESO will be ransomed. Yeah. But ESB says how ESOL has been tillage. So the change in tension I'm just wondering why why is that so? Great question. So I I I wanted to leave that for Frank to deal with when it comes to some of the exegetical difficulties. No, no, no. I mean I didn't want to like ruin the fun for him because he's supposed to have a follow-up class. I'll give the I'll give the quick setup of the exegetical problem. one of the difficulties of Obadiah and it is the tenses that are often used. Um so remember one of the mechanics of prophetic literature is this prophetic the time thing is very squishy. Uh time of fulfillment is very squishy. Prophetic literature, we call it prophetic foreshortening, right? And you have a tense used in here that's that's known as the Hebrew perfect tense, which we don't have like a very clean one-word way to express that in English, but it's basically something that's That's expressed in the present term, but it means it just happens. So we have to do it in like a clunky fashion, which is like I have um I have cleaned my room or something. So or uh how how to express in English. Um Yeah, I yeah, I I I think I think that's correct. But an anyway, you use a perfect tense to indicate something that probably just happened. I have cleaned my room. Um so you have to make a decision at this point in verses five to nine. Um Do you want to express that in the English as something that already occurred in the past, or do you want to express that as something that's going to occur in the future? You basically have two options to simplify the debate. And it really also comes down to where you want to date the book. Ob Obadiah. So we will discuss that in several slides, but there's a few options that you can take. And really guided by what date you want to put the book of Obadiah, you either say the destruction like just happened, like maybe a few years ago at most, Or you want to say the destruction of Edom and the destruction of Jerusalem are very prophetic, like a long thing that happened way in the future. So that's where you're seeing that discrepancy. Interpreters have to make that decision. What tense do we want to make that? Because there's a little bit of ambiguity there. Yes sir. You're saying that depending on the version that's being used, whoever translated that version, they may have a different date and thereby they'll put a different uh tense. That's probably the underlying reason for that tense. decision. Yeah. Yeah. That part is speculation on my part, but from all the research I did and the commentaries I read, I I think it it basically what drives what tense you want to use for a lot of the sections of Obadiah is yeah, what date do we want to place Obadiah? Yeah, great question. But I think Frank will probably discuss that in more detail uh in the next class. Any other questions? You almost got me there, Carlos. Do we have any indication whether Obadiah preached in the the cabinet or going to discuss the Oh yeah, that's another slide we'll get into. We know very little about Obadiah. So I have in our class lesson outline we're gonna discuss the author. We actually don't know who he is. Yeah, we have no clue. don't know the location. Probably part of the Southern tribe because it's very Judah centric. He's specifically talking about how Judah's being ransacked by this enemy, but we have no clue. It's a very common name unfortunately. It's like John Doe, right? There's like so many Obadiah. Um I guess I'm just kind of interested to find out like the kingdom of Eden, they're not really part of Israel in the sense of being part of that covenantal relationship but God sent a prophet to them as though they should have been part of that covenant. Yeah. And he treated them like you guys should know who I am, like we worship the same God and I don't get the impression that that's actually what's going on. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. That that's a great point. So is that a question or a comment? I don't know if you had any insight on that because I just I don't know as much about that part of it. Yeah, I I mean I think you raise a very profound point. point which is that even if Edom wasn't in some well, on the one hand, God did uh God did assure like Ishmael for instance, uh who's not part of Israel, but he said Ishmael would be a great nation. And uh but that being said, um I I think you raised a really profound point that even outside of nations of Israel, God holds them accountable for their behavior, right? Like even though they're not formally in covenant, they don't have a Yahweh worshipping constitution, they don't have a Mosaic covenant. Yeah, I I think you raise a very, very profound point, which is a great application for us today, which is it matters h how your nation behaves on the world stage. Because God will hold you accountable to that. We're gonna see that uh the fifth point in Verses fifteen to sixteen, on the day of the Lord there will be a judging of all the nations of the globe. God has an exacting record of every single sin or righteousness that every single nation in the world in all of human history committed. And he's going to hold it. them accountable to that. So all those atrocities you read about in world history, or all the ambiguities, like when you're in the fog of war, like the thing happening right now with Russia and Ukraine, right? There's so much confusion, who's doing what, what exact war crimes are being committed by who. Well God has that record. And one day it's all going to be made clean uh clear and he's going to lay down his vengeance for every single sin that was committed. So whether or not you're a formerly Yahweh worshiping nation or not, God holds you accountable for your bad behavior because you're made in God's image. You have that law of God either written or in your heart as Romans to Liz. Carlos? Yeah, I was gonna add to what Liz said. You do see scriptural examples of God judging nations based on how they treated Israel, like the Amalekites tried to fight against the Amorites. That's right. That's right, that's right, that's right. Yeah. That's another really good application point. Uh I didn't go too application heavy in this lesson because again I wanted to leave a lot of stuff for Frank to elaborate on. But there's a lot of geopolitics. political applications to this book and one of them is it matters a lot how you treat Israel. That has to be a central part of every nation's foreign policy. And when you're a nation that formally, you know, harangues and abuses Israel, you better Watch out. God does not like that because again, you read ta you read chapters like Romans nine, ten and eleven, God is not done using Israel. Now they are by large like some of the worst heretics we know in church history were Jewish people, right? So Generally speaking, the Jews are enemies of God right now, but that is a partial hardening, is what Paul elabor states in Romans. There is still a remnant of genuine Jews. We have them in our church, by the way. We have some Jewish brethren. They're part of that remnant. And one day the Jews Jews are going to see their Lord return and they're going to mourn thinking, oh my goodness, we killed our own Messiah. And they will repent. They'll be grafted back in as the natural olive branch. So the nation of Israel matters. I'm not saying we just always blink. make it uh support them no matter what, right? Like i like I said, most Israelites today are in grave sin in error and they're rebelling against their own God, their own Messiah. But uh you cannot just abuse them because God will hold you accountable for that. y they're still his people, but they've been temporarily hardened and temporarily put aside. But they're gonna come back and it matters how you treat them today. And Obadiah shows that. Uh okay. Any other questions or comments? This this is great by the way. I fully um encourage that. So the kingdom of you know maybe back in the times some of it was part of the twelve tribes and because that was part of the twelfth tribe of Israel, that's why probably God wants them to behave as you guys were part of it. So it says Kino Moab right now. But that was Reuben's area, right? And Edom down in the south of Utah, that would be Simeon. Yeah. That that's a good guess. So they are occupying some of the promised land that are going to be given over to the Israelites. But uh let's just go back let's just jump ahead in a second because I think there's a lot of questions here. So Edom was not Not formally part of the twelve tribes of Israel, but their relation to Israel is uh their founder, the founder of the nation of Edom was a man named Esau. And Esau was the twin brother, technically the older brother, to Jacob, who is the founder of Israel. So the twelve tribes of Israel are Jacob's twelve sons, including you mentioned a few of them, Judah, Simeon, etcetera, uh Reuben was his firstborn. So Esau is related to the nation of Israel because th he was a twin brother of Israel's founder, Jacob. Yeah. Um and it basically states that even from when they were babies in the womb of Rebecca, they were fighting one another. So they were always a historical enemy of Jacob. Uh you know, Rebecca was alarmed because he she must have had some like intense like like, you know, violence in her stomach or whatever and she said, Why is this happening to me? And then God reveals in Genesis twenty five, twenty three, Two nations are in your womb and two people, two gigantic people groups from within you shall be divided. Esau is also called Edom. That's a nickname. Edom means red, and that's because there's a famous story in the Genesis account of Esau being such a fleshly non-spiritual man. The firstborn technically he was the one that's supposed to be continuing the Abrahamic covenant promise that God says, I'll create a great nation out of your lineage, you'll be used as a blessing for all the different nations. So technically that should have gone to Esau as the formal firstborn, the legal firstborn. So the firstborn in the ancient Near East, um I think even in Jewish society today, you carry this special legal right and obligation to carry on the lineage of your family and you get the extra portion of the inheritance. So that should have been Esau, but Esau being such a fleshly minded man, didn't care about any spiritual religious stuff. Jacob, also being kind of a connibus, said Edom, Edom was really Esau was really hungry one day, and then Jacob said, Yeah, I'll give you some of this red stew, uh you have to sell me your birthright. And Esau, without second thought, said, Who cares about my birthright? Just give me food. I'm gonna die, right? So that's the kind of character Esau was. And that's why the Edomites are characteristic of people that just don't care anything about spiritual things. This birthright, the carrying on of the Abrahamic covenant, anything to do with God's word, I don't care. I'm just fleshly minded. I'm just thinking about the here and now. So that's why he also got that name Edom, because he sold his birthright just for some reds too. Representation of fleshly non-spiritual men and nations. Um yeah, we'll stop there for just a second. We'll go into more of the history of Edom. Any other questions or comments before we continue with verse 10? Okay, let's go to verse 10. Alright, so we just learned Edom's sec um uh a description of Edom's complete destruction And in verse ten now we get some clarity on what their second sin was. Because of the violence done to your brother Jacob, so again you see the relation that we just talked about, their founding patriarch, Esau, nicknamed Edom. was the brother of Jacob, who is the patriarch of the nation of Israel. Shame shall cover you, and you shall be cut off forever. On the day that you stood aloof, so they were just indifferent. They didn't bother helping. On the day that That strangers carried off his wealth. So this is specifically speaking of Jacob, Israel, and foreigners entered his gates and cast lots for Jerusalem. So they were casting lots for how do we divide up our conquest of Jerusalem? You take this portion, you take this portion. You're casting lots to determine that. You were like one of them. You were like one of those invading nations that were harassing Israel at this time. But, verse twelve, do not gloat over the day of your brother in the day of his misfortune. Do not rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their ruin. Do not boast in the day of his distress. Do not enter the gate of my people in that day of their calamity. So apparently they were with the invaders. So they not only stood aloof saying, I'm not going to help Israelites that are in need, I'm And then they started in verse twelve you see the progression of their sin. They started gloating, they started boasting, making fun of them when they were being uh they were being abused and invaded. But then in verse thirteen they actually participated with the invading force. They went into the gates of Israel to take some of you know the bounty and the conquest for themselves. Do not enter the gate of my people, verse thirteen, in the day of their calamity, do not gloat over his disaster in the day of his calamity. Do not loot his wealth in the day of his calamity. Do not stand So what were the Edomites doing here? They were not only looting Jerusalem with these invading forces. They were killing anyone who was trying to escape or late Yeah. Yeah, yeah. All these people that were trying to escape the destruction, they were literally cutting them off at the crossroads, kidnapping them, probably selling them into slavery back into some of the invading forced nations, right? So they were Very despicable people. And they were doing that on top of that, as scripture states, to their brethren. These were their relatives, right? Instead of treating them as relatives, they were gloating over their destruction. Okay, so as a result, verse Verse fifteen to sixteen. Let's look at Edom's uh uh consequence and how it is set in the framework of this larger day of the Lord when God judges all the nations. Verse fifteen for the day of the Lord is near. Upon all the nations. As you have done, it shall be done to you. Your deeds shall return on your own head. So first let's pause for a second. I'll just issue one comment. You see God's perfect justice in this passage in very frequently. Brightening stark details, how perfectly proportional God's justice is going to be. How does God judge the nations? What's his criterion? How does he meet out how much punishment they get? What is it based on? As they acted, he rule. Exactly. One one for one, right? One for one. That is God's justice. And by the way, that is the underlying problem of the gospel that we all enjoy as New Covenant believers, right? A lot of people we live in this long era of grace. where there are so many atrocities being committed by individuals, ourselves, if we're honest with ourselves, nations, and we don't see the immediate hand of God just smiting them down, that we start to think that God by his character is just this like old Old cuddly Santa Claus grandfather like figure. Like he's just, oh don't worry, kiddo, boys will be boys. That is not God's character at all. If you read scripture carefully, what you discover is God is this frighteningly just judge. There's this great illustration. At the uh back of Revelation, where it talks about that final white throne judgment of God, and it uses this dark imagery of this completely white courtroom, this completely white throne. And that's to state that the small Smallest bit of black, that smallest bit of sin you bring will be in stark contrast to God's character in his courtroom. There is no mercy in God's character. He is just. No mercy in God's justice, rather. They're distinct characteristics. God in his judging, God and his judgment. It is just completely stark. Any sin you commit, I will return back to you on your own head that sin. That's exactly what he is. Perfectly proportional. And that's the problem every human being faced. How can a just God justify, make legally innocent, in fact legally righteous rather, sinful people like us. And what was God's solution? How can he both be just yet also legally justify and declare as righteous sinners? What did God do? Somebody had to be punished because God is fundamentally just and God's solution was instead of pouring that righteous Wrath out on us, he poured it on his own son. Exactly right. This isn't new information for most of us here. Maybe it is for some of you who are new believers. Always good to be reminded that there is a fundamental problem when we discover God's holiness in power. passages like Obadiah, he is perfectly proportional in his justice. That includes for us personally, we would not have gotten away with it unless Jesus stepped in. Unless Jesus took the brunt of that uh wrath. And then as a Double exchange gave us his righteousness. That is how in Romans states God is both just yet the justifier of sinners. Okay? So you see that in verse 15, on the day of the Lord, when it comes to all the nations, that's the metric he's going to use. As you have Done, it shall be done to you. Your deeds shall return on your own head. For as you have drunk on my holy mountain So apparently um I take the position that this is referring to the fact that the Edomites They probably uh invaded uh Jerusalem with the other invading nations. They were getting drunk, reveling on Mount Zion, right? And God uses that drinking to drunkenness imagery here in celebration, second half of verse sixteen, so also All the nations shall drink continually. They shall drink and swallow and shall be as though they had never been. They'll be utterly destroyed. Now what do you guys think? Anyone know some of the other prophetic books? What are they drinking here in the second half of verse sixteen? So they're drinking what wine than the first half, they're reveling, they're celebrating the conquest. What are they drinking in the second half? Yeah, yeah. That's another formal term you see used throughout the prophetic books and we're gonna see it as we go through the twelve. They're drinking the cup of God's wrath. God loves to use the drunkenness imagery as also a fitting imagery for the effects of experiencing the full weight of God's wrath. It has that stumbling, disorienting effect that getting physical drunk would have when you are under the wrath of God it's so overwhelming. Again, read Revelation, read the seal, trumpet, bold judgments. It is so utterly overwhelming. The fresh water turning bitter, you have this gigantic meteorite coming down, killing like a third of the population, you have these locusts springing up, probably demonic forces, just like harassing people, but they can't die. You have this stumbling, disorienting, panicking effect. That is akin to physical drunkenness, and that is called drinking from the cup of God's wrath. And that is what God is going to pour out on the day of the Lord. But, verse 17, in Mount Zion, there is this one place you can escape. Mount Zion, there shall be those who escape, and it shall be holy. And the house of Jacob shall possess their own possessions, the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau stubble. God will use Israel to destroy the Edomites. They shall burn them and consume them. There shall be no survivor for the house of Esau. Esau, for the Lord has spoken. Those of the Negev, so these are regions of Israel. Those of the Negev shall possess Mount Esau, and those of the Shephalah shall possess the land of the Philistines. They shall possess the land of Ephraim and the land of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess. Iliad, the exiles of this host of the people of Israel shall possess the land of the Canaanites as far as Zarephath, and the exiles of Jerusalem who are in Sephard shall possess the cities of the Negev. Saviors shall go up to Mount Zion to rule Mount Esau and the kingdom of the. Okay, we're gonna have to kind of breeze through the rest of here in the remaining few minutes 'cause I do have a few more slides I want to show you. But basically this section is detailing how Israel will be restored, they'll regain the historical promise that their borders will actually expand. bigger than it ever was, and they'll get all their promised land back. Okay, we discussed how Edom was founded by the patriarch Esau, just a completely fleshly minded man, and they are a representation, a fitting representation of all fleshly non-spiritual. Men and nations. Quick history of Edom. So after Israel, so they were at the founding of the formal founding of their nation, they were just basically a slave caste within Egyptian society. So they basically basically were the laborers, the lowest wrong, and then God chose this tiny insignificant nation. He chose to love them and make them his people and freed them from Exodus. That's with the plagues, the ten plagues, right? But when they were wandering, they were trying to get to this promised land that they were um going toward, uh the quickest way would have been just look at it. This Egypt's down here, it would have been just to go through Edom, right? So you see in Numbers chapter twenty, they get to the border of the kingdom of Eden and they say, Hey brothers, you know we have history, can you You let us through. We're not gonna like drink any of your eat any of your stuff. If we take anything for our provisions, we'll pay you in some. We've got gold and things like that. But Edom says no. So Edom was always at enmity with with Israel. They always mistreated them. They denied them passage, so they had to go the long way. Edom eventually became, so after they get into the Promised Land, Israel establishes a kingdom. They kick out all the Canaanites And then the great King David comes to the throne. That was God's man. He replaced Saul, which was the Jews' man. He was an evil person. But King David was a faithful man, the one picked by God, the true King. And under King David, and also his son Solomon, uh they were able to subjugate the Edomites and make them basically a vassal state to Israel. But then, many years later, under the King Jehoram, who will be important in a second when we get to the dating of Obadiah, They successfully rebel and they temporarily re-establish independence. That's list that's uh detailed in 2 Chronicle chapter 21. And then Edom was reconquered later by King Amaziah, and then they re-conquered. regained independence uh during oh, I messed something up. Okay. I messed up one of these. They shouldn't both say Amaziah. But there was another king um that was ruling when Edom regained their independence. And then they were conquered by the Assyrians Assyrians and the Babylonians, who if uh if they sound familiar it's because it's the Assyrians that basically destroyed the northern kingdom of Israel, put them into exile forever, they never returned. And then the Babylonians are the ones that ultimately destroyed Judah years after that. They also, in their rise to power, destroyed and conquered Edom. Then Edom had to flee from their historical territory, which is the bright red portion, and they returned unto the scene several, several, like hundreds of years. years later, fifth century BC, under this new name um oh, they were forced out of the territory, excuse me, by the Nabataeans in the fifth century and then they re-emerged the same ethnic people group, they re-emerged under this Greek Hellenistic name, the Idumeans, but they They had a much smaller territory, a little more to the northwest. That's that darker red portion that's not coming out too well on this TV. So that the the Edomians, as they're called, that occupied southern Palestine, they were basically the descendants of the Edomites. Uh and then finally. The Idemeans uh basically they became integrated with uh the Israelites and they participated with the Israelites in that final um rebellion against Roman rule and then they along with the Jews were destroyed in A D seventy and then we never heard of the Edomite people ever again. And that's the fulfillment of the book of Obadiah. Alright. Obadiah is formally anonymous. His name means servant of Yahweh, great name, so it was a very common name in the ancient Nere society. Have eleven distinct Obadiahs listed in the Old Testament, and none of them are likely the author. Now, when it comes to the dating of this book, there are three main positions you can take. There is a very old date, which is eight forty. to eight fifty. And that means this Edomite attack that the Edomites participated in against Jerusalem would have probably been King Jehoram. So you remember I stated the first time after their subjugation under David they established their independence, it was under King Jehoram. Well, in 2 Chronicles Chronicles 21, uh when that rebellion took place, uh there are many interpreters that stake that this is probably the Edomite attack that is being referenced. So that would place the book around eight. A second position, another older date, but a little bit nearer than eight forty-eight fifty, was seventh, sixth century BC, which means this uh Edomite attack is referencing the destruction of Jerusalem by the Babylonians, the Chaldeans. And this is a prophetic looking forward to that Babylonian destruction. This is actually the majority opinion by believers. Okay? And then the last position. Position. This is the theological liberal position, which means you basically don't believe the Bible, which states that this book was written way after the destruction of Edom by the Babylonians in 553, and this author was just looking in hindsight. site and writing about it. So obviously a non believer we want this position to eliminate any of the predictive prophetic portions of scripture. You'll see that throughout, in spite of archaeological evidence, internal evidence, evidence by old like patristic sources. Uh b liberals will always do their best. They'll bend over backwards to get rid of any supernatural portions of scripture. And if you just look a little bit deeper behind their reasoning you'll see it's always very shaky. There's no foundation to it. And it's no different here. So it's really only the first two options that have any weight and you have to kind of consider when it comes to Obadiah. Now, what are the evidences for why we would take the two first two positions? Well if you want to take the older date, the first evidence that it might be this date is because The this Babylonian conquest, which uh took place in 7th, 6th century, right? This Babylonian conquest, or specifically um 586 BC, 6th century, had a lot of very notable features. It was so notable. It was so like holistic and comprehensive the destruction of Jerusalem that other passages like Second Kings, Jeremiah, Nehemiah, they they repeatedly make note of the things the Chaldeans did to Jerusalem. Th there was a raising of the walls the royal palace was burned down, the temple was burned down, King Zedekiah was captured, his eyes were plucked out, the Jews were deported, Jews actually had to emigrate to Egypt, right? So the first evidence for the older date is if this Edomite attack and Obadiah is referring to the Babylonian conquest. Why are none of these very important features ever listed? Okay? The second evidence, this is a little more subtle, but uh commentator Theodore Leach points out in verse 19 Obadiah for some reason feels compelled when he's talking about the restoration of Israel. Yes. I can try. Yeah, it's small, right? Let me see if I can do this. I might just go back to actual PowerPoint. No no no you're not you're not sabotaging. You just you can't see what I wrote. It's super small, I get it. Ah, does that help a little bit? Yeah. Alright, now we're talking, huh? So you have all these very specific features of the Babylonian conquest. None of them are described in Obadiah. Uh the second evidence is if you go to verse nineteen, you see for some reason Obadiah felt compelled when he's talking about Israelite restoration to specify both Ephraim and Samaria and what Leich argues is this wasn't necessary because this is an early date when Ephraim and Samaria are no longer like just metonyms or synonyms for all of of the Northern Kingdom. So Ephraim and Samaria later became understood for like like we c we say Washington and we mean the entire government of the United States, right? Well Later on in Israelite history you say Ephraim or Samaria and you're referring to the entire northern kingdom, even though technically that's just uh a city or a tribe of Israel. So Obadiah, because he specifies both of them, he's trying to say, I'm not talking about just a specific tribe or a city, I'm talking about all of the northern kingdom. Why did he have to do that? Because this is an early date. Those words are not well established metonyms yet. And the evidence three, the attack on is Jerusalem and Obadah does not sound severe enough to be the Babylonian invasion. Now you take the second position, it's pretty funny, it's like the exact same. The third evidence, I'll just go to that one, is the attack on Jerusalem sounds too severe to be a mere revolt. It has to be the Chaldean invasion. So there's a little bit of subjectivity there. But the first evidence for an earlier date is you actually if you read Second Chronicles uh twenty one carefully you see the Edomites revolting the Edomites revolting against Jerusalem, but the actual invasion is only by the Philistines and Arabians. You actually have no exclusion Explicit evidence in 2 Corinthians 21, 2 Chronicles 21, the Edomites actually participated. But in Obadiah, clearly the Edomites are entering the gates of Jerusalem. The second piece of evidence is Obadiah 1 to 9, echoes very strongly Jeremiah chapter 1. We don't know when Obadiah was dated, but we have very strong evidence we know when Jeremiah ministered, and that's between this time period, six twenty six to five eighty six BC. So pretty compelling reasons for Both, by the way, John MacArthur, if that sways the boat for you, takes this first position, and that is Frank's position that he's going to be operating under, and this is why he has this timeline he showed last class which is why he places Obadiah as the earliest book, taking the earlier date in the n mid-ninth century. And we're right at time, so we're going to end there. If you have any questions, I feel free to stick around after class. But let me just pray in closing.