Alright, we are studying the book of Micah, lesson seven. So you may want to take this opportunity to turn to the book of Micah. One of the verse. Very important minor profit books. And unfortunately the TV isn't working this morning, so I'm going to have to try to draw a lot of these charts and such. But uh let's see, how do I do this? Okay, I'll I'll just give you a very rough timeline where we came from and um where we're going. So you have the prophets to Judah here on the left hand column. That's the southern kingdom. So If you're kind of a new believer or you're you're rusty when it comes to the history of the Israelite kingdoms, at the beginning, Israel was one whole kingdom, and then there's a very foolish young man, very foolish king named Ray. Reoboam, who's the son of uh the very famous King Solomon, who basically, by God's sovereignty, you know, this is what God decreed, of course, but through the means of Reoboam's folly, the king's. was split into two. So you have the southern kingdom, which is uh called Judah, because that was the most prominent tribe that remained in the southern kingdom. And Judah contains Jerusalem, the spiritual capital. And then you have the northern part, which became synonymously called Israel, it can also be called by its capital, Samaria. These are all synonyms. So it's a little confusing because when you say Israel, you can either be referring to both halves or the scriptures might be referring to specifically the Northern Kingdom. But we saw how Obadiah, uh we believe, um, according to Frank's outline here, is the earliest of the minor prophets. And then we saw Joel, who also Uh followed Obadiah. He ministered in Jerusalem as well. And uh Frank covered Amos and Jonah. Prophets to North. And today we are going to be talking about Prophet Micah, who we discover is a contemporary of a very famous prophet, one of what's called a major prophets, one of the bigger books of the Old Testament, Isaiah, and also Hosea, and to a lesser extent, Amos. Now what you would see, again if the TV was working, This is kind of give a kind of give away the answer to the question I would have had for the class here. But something important happens following uh mica. Intent on writing it. So what's noteworthy is if you look at this timeline, you see just this sudden influx of prophets that Yahweh provides Israel, right? You have this gap between uh Obadai and Joel, and then you go to Amos and Jonah, and then suddenly, and uh just to give you a time frame, we're working with uh roughly 735 to 722 BC. here for the book of Micah, you see there's sudden influx of many important prophets, Micah, Isaiah, Hosea, all arising kind of in the simultaneous time. So the question I had was, so why do you think God provided so many prophets at once? in such a short span of time. Opportunity to prevent? Yeah, because of the coming destruction of the Northern Kingdom by the Assyrians. So you see the mercy and grace of God? That's what Scripture says, that God does not delight in the destruction of the wicked. God has to do it because He's holy, He's just, but He never desires people perish. He never desires people go to hell. Look at the grace of God that God provided all of these great men to make as clearly as possible, guys, destruction is coming if you don't repent, right? Turn back, turn away. You don't have to fall off the bridge. Bridge is out, right? So with Becoming Assyrian captivity of the northern uh northern kingdom provides so many of these these prophets all at once. So that's where we are in terms of historical context in the book of Micah. Now something interesting as I was studying this book to teach this morning. Micah, uh because he's a contemporary of Isaiah and Hosea, just uh tidbit, my advice here is if you really want excuse me, if you really want to understand Micah, you really ought to be studying Micah simultaneously with Isaiah and Hosea. Especially the book of Isaiah. There's so many parallel passages, concepts, and ideas with the book of Isaiah. They reinforce one another, they fill out each other's uh concepts. But um if you read want to understand Micah in the future. If you want to go back, this class has piqued your interest. I really suggest that it would be to your benefit to study Micah along with Isaiah. If we have the time, if we stretch today's lesson to multiple weeks, I would have been happy to do that. We don't obviously say we're going to stick to Micah, but um you may see here and there I'll reference um some concepts that are also paralleled in the book of Isaiah. Elias, quick question. To your point, you talk about them being contemporaries. Is there any evidence of them working together or was it very individual efforts if that makes sense? I I think the only evidence of them working together is you literally have like some passages between these two books where it's like word for word the exact same passage. So that would suggest a number of possibilities. Either one was directly quoting the other, or they're both quoting maybe some common source or something to to that effect. So that's probably the most clearest evidence that you have that yes, they knew of each other. And yes they were explicitly working off of each other's ministries. But other than that, no, not really. But you would imagine so, yeah. They they they clearly knew of each other. That's a good question though. um Jerusalem specifically? Or was one of them more subject to the other question? Yeah, I do know what you mean. And the easiest place to see if that's true, because I've never studied Isaiah in super detail. Because I wonder if at the beginning of Isaiah tells us where he operated from. No, not really. But it does say in Isaiah 1 uh that this is a vision of Isaiah concerning Judah and Jerusalem. So that would suggest that he also probably operated around. around Jerusalem. And Micah is from a city that we're gonna see, uh Morashef that is nearby Jerusalem. So yeah, they might have been right near each other. Might have been neighborhood, neighborhood friends cities. Okay, so today's outline which you cannot see, but uh my K to erased this. You guys kinda got what you needed from this outline here. Man, I have not used the whiteboard or chalkboard in in years. Uh oh, don't keep it I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I will post the PowerPoint after class. It's on Hope Book, yeah, my apologies. Okay, but today's uh lesson outline just to orient everybody, first I'm going to provide an outline of the book of Micah in general, just to give us a very quick survey and an understanding of the flow of the book. So it's going to be a little painful for me to recreate on the board, but we're going to do it because I think it's important. So that'll get you familiar with Micah. Then I'd like to discuss two of the major themes that can be discerned from this book. There are multiple, but just for the sake of time, we're not going to be able to go through all of them. And I don't want to repeat some of the themes that have already been covered in our past lessons or future lessons. But idolatry is a particularly central sin that is emphasized in the book of Micah. And that's interesting because Unlike say one of the earlier books, if our timeline is correct, we do have to make some assumptions there. If you recall our first lesson, which was Obadiah, Obadiah, inside Obadiah, I'm sorry, um, Joel specifically was uh one of the earlier books. Inside uh the book of Joel. Joel, you do see a denunciation of sin in Israel, but you may recall in our second lesson, or technically third week, third lesson, uh Joel does not explicate what kind of sin the Israelites were guilty of. kind of glean implicit in the text was it may not have been a specific external sin in Joel's time, but it may have simply been that they were growing spiritually sleepy. They were giving just external worship, but the heart wasn't there. Now what we see in the book of Micah and we saw um a few weeks ago, uh or last week really with Hosea is we're starting to see very specific external sins come to the forefront, and one of them is idolatry. Is a sad, repeated sin that crops up time and time again in Israelite history for anyone that's read any of those narrative historical books, right? So idolatry becomes one of the uh central themes. Another theme is we We learn a little bit about what a true versus false prophet is. We won't be going into that one in too much detail other than what we're going to touch upon when we go through our my gut outline. Justice is a very big theme. inside the book of Micah, what's often called social justice, which used to mean literally justice that happens in society. Of course that word has so much baggage now, there's all these connotations, mainly negative in my opinion, which of the term social justice, but there is a lot of emphasis on justice in society, social justice as we used to call it innocuously in the past. And Micah contains one of the most important passages for any sort of professing believer that's very uh emphatic about that emphasizes the social justice concept. A lot of them are heretics to be frank. Like you have the old social gospel that was advocated by a lot of these South American um uh the uh several decades ago which morphed into and they are honestly they they were basically uh synthesizing uh yeah what's up Scott. Does it really? Oh wow okay let's try it. Thank you for coming Scott. Aha, I see I see lights. Ah, thank you, Scott. Okay, let me get set up here. This is gonna be a lot easier. Okay. Praise the Lord for little blessings like electricity, right? PowerPoint-wise. Um But Micah contains one of the very key proofs. text for um the social gospel liberation theology, which what I was saying was really a synthesis for Marxism. Um it's not uh an exaggeration to state that. I know a lot of people like to cry Marxism at every little error they see in the media. And from the TV. I'm too young to get confused about this stuff all the time. Ah no. What's happening now? Huh? Okay, great, great, great. Great, great, great. Okay. Alright. Um, so this is the timeline that we see, and you see the Assyrian captivity happening in seven twenty two, and that's why you had the sudden influx of all these prophets that the Lord was providing. Okay, what was I saying? All right, this is lesson outline, we're gonna cover idolatry, we're talking about justice, another very uh key theme, and that's because um mica contains one of the very key passages that a lot of social justice advocates, a lot of liberation theology advocates like to use, which is Micah chapter um let's see Micah 6, yes, thank you. Micah chapter 6, verse 8. Micah 6, 8. And you've probably heard it and I'll just read it right now just because it's going to be a central focus of today's lesson. And let's start from verse 6 actually. With what shall I come before the Lord and bow myself before God on high? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings? With calves of you Year old, would the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my first form for my transgression? The fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? And this is the proof text that is oftentimes abused, misinterpreted, miserable. use and we're going to provide some clarity today. Verse eight, He has told you, O man, what is good and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice and to love kindness and to walk humbly with your God. Magnificent verse. And such a magnificent, convicting, important passage that we need to handle it correctly and not pervert the Word of God, right? So we're gonna talk about what biblical justice looks like. Does God care about the state of society? Is it like polishing brass on the sinking of a Titanic as is often stated by many friends in our church's uh theological camp, premillennial uh people with what's known as a premillennial eschatology? goes beyond s beyond the scope of today's lesson. We're going to talk about that. Uh the day of the Lord, also known as the Latter days, uh is also mentioned in the book of Micah, but I think that received sufficient treatment for now in some of our earlier uh books books of the Bible, so we're going to shove that one today. And we're not going to talk about it, but Micah is also clearly a supernatural book because it looks forward, it predicts uh the nation of Judah going into exile. after conquest by the Babylonians. And then finally we're going to end by talking a little bit more, color commentary on the historical context of Micah, specifically who the author is, and the date. And it's one of the more straightforward books to date because Because if you jump back to Micah chapter one, he tells you exactly under which kings he was ministering under. So that's always helpful when a book of the Bible tells you in God-reed form the date it was written. Okay, let's go to our outline of Micah. Let's flip to Micah chapter one if you're not there already. I'm just going to read a few verses. I'm just going to jump around this entire book. Again, just to give you a quick overview, feel for what the flow of the book and I'm going to just give a little bit of commentary. You guys can interrupt as usual at any time you'd like, ask questions. If your heart feels moved to offer some additional thoughts, that's always welcome. Micah chapter one, once again we're introduced to the author. His name is Micah, he's from a little town called Moresheth that is near Jerusalem, and he tells us I am ministering during the days of kings Joplem, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. And he states that this prophecy that was given by the Lord, and a prophet, remember, his function is to mediate between God's word and then giving it to people. His prophecy concerns both the north. Northern and the southern kingdoms, Samaria and Jerusalem. In chapter one, uh Micah starts, really, the Holy Spirit begins with a barrage of accusations against Israel for sins against God, first and foremost. So this the book begins with sins against God. Alright? Specifically the sins of idolatry. So he states in verse 2: Hear you peoples, all of you, pay attention, O earth, and all that is in it. And let the Lord God be a witness against you, the Lord from his holy temple. For behold, the Lord is coming out of his place, and will come down and tread upon the high places of the earth. Now does anyone know what a high place is, according to Biblical history. It can be, it can be a mountain. It can literally be any high place, but what made them special? Anyone know what a portion for the case? Yes, exactly. So these are little hills, little mountains. Mountains, physically, geographically any kind of high place, but a high place, according to like its formal technical term, the things that God hates are these little geographically high places that you set up a little altar to some false God that doesn't really exist and really you're communing with demons, right? And unfortunately, uh throughout Israelite history, uh it became fashionable to set up high places everywhere. It was just part of the surrounding pagan Canaanite culture. The Israelites, they got an After they conquered the promised land of God with what the surrounding nations did, like, oh you have little gods to help you with such and such, uh, little gods to help you with you know the land's fertility, little god to help you with the rain, bale, etc. etcetera. So they just started and what the culture around them did, uh honestly very similar to what you know modern we moderns are guilty of, right? There's so much of the culture, it it's a tricky balance between being in the world but not of the world, and the Israelites in ancient times are no different. These high places became a very fashionable thing to do and they cropped up everywhere. But God says, I hate these high places because you're not worshiping the true God. There will come a day where I will come down from heaven, that's what's pictured, coming down from his throne from heaven. I'll cause all this geographical death. Devastating chaos and destroy these high places. Verse four. And the mountains will melt under him, and the valleys will split open like wax before the fire, like waters poured down a steep place. All this is for the transgression of Jacob and For the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what is the high place of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem? You also see in verse seven, if we jump down a couple verses, all her carved images. So that's another medium that uh these Israelites were using to worship these demons really, these false gods that don't really exist. They made these carved images and God said they will be beaten to pieces, all our wages shall be burned with fire. So that image there is is God considers idol worship basically like what you would think of as uh adultery. Right? If you're married to a spouse and your spouse commits adultery, we all know what that means. Right? God considers and you think about the heinousness of a cheating spouse, of adultery, right? Of breaking those marital covenantal bonds. Some of you in this room maybe you you are victims of uh of that grievous sin and you know the pain that that causes. And God says that think of all that pain, all that treachery uh associated with uh adultery, right? That is exactly what I feel when you are worshiping these false gods. Right? You understand adultery in an earthly sense and you know the pain and the grievousness of that sin. Imagine how God is feeling Times infinity, right? He says, When you worship a false god, false idol, that is adultery. And just like uh adultery, um specific adultery with a prostitute is being pictured here in verse seven, you you uh The the way you commit that act of adultery with a prostitute is by paying a fee. Well, what God is picturing here is these carved images, these high places, that's the fee that you're paying uh paying. That's the medium that you're using to get to that act of idolatry. So that's what he's referring to when it says, All their wages shall be burned with fire. He's referring to the medium, that media that you use to commit the adultery of false idol worship, which is carved images, and these high place altars. And then we go to chapter two. So chapter one, there's a reason I'm emphasizing this, and you'll see for a second. Chapter one begins, the priority is sins against God, idolatry, which God considers adultery. You are cheating on me with these false gods. Then we get to chapter two. Israel's sins are compounded by not just sins directly against God, but they are also being called out for sins that they commit against fellow men. men, specifically fellow Israelites. So if we jump to chapter 2, starting with verse 2, we see they covet fields and seed them and houses and take them away. They appear Oppress a man and his house, a man and his inheritance. Now who is the they? To understand the they you go to verse one. And the very last bit of verse one tells us who this they is. Anyone want to take a guess? Who's coveting fields and seizing property that doesn't belong to them? Oppressing a man in his house, taking away people's inheritance. Sounds like the leaders of their people. Yeah, yeah. Specifically some very powerful classes. And we will see exactly it will include and be enabled by the leaders. The leaders oftentimes were uh participating in it themselves. It says in verse one, it is in the power of their hands to commit these wicked acts that they're devising at night. So there are these Israelites that were s just so enamored, they were they they were so in love, lustfully filled with doing evil, that they just had to think about doing evil all the time. They love thinking about evil. They love thinking about, oh, all the evil deeds I'm gonna commit tomorrow. They go to bed thinking about I'm gonna do This, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna steal this place. You know, they were covering these lands and such. But they were going to bed thinking about their wickedness, and it states they had the power to carry it out. So every man is evil, but specifically Yahweh starts by pointing out the evil evil men that were actually quite powerful and they could actually, you know, take into action the evil deeds that they're devising in their mind on on their beds. And what are those evil deeds? Again, verse 2. They're coveting veals. They wanted these beautiful pieces of prime real estate. estate, the beachfront property, you know, this this huge house that was built on this amazing vineyard, and they would just season. They would just take it away. You know, people's inheritances that they got from their you know dear old grandpa or whatever. They would just take it. Verse three, therefore thus says the Lord, Behold, against this family I am devising disaster. So they devise wickedness, and the irony is God gives proportional justice. You devise evil, well I'm going to devise evil against you, specifically disaster, from which you cannot remove your necks. And you You shall not walk haughtily, proudly, arrogantly, for it will be a time of disaster. And particularly heinous, if you go down to verse eight, chapter two, verse eight, it was the specific class of people that these oppressors were uh uh committing all these evil acts against. Verse eight states, But lately my people have risen up as an enemy. You stripped the rich robe from those who pass by trustingly with no thought of war. There's a thought here that this refers to like uh war veterans that were coming back from a far off place, they're doing battle and they come, I'm safe and sound here in Judah, no one's gonna impress me in my house and then they're just being stolen from. Right? Highway robbery. The the one place they should feel the safest. They just came back from a battle is And it's almost like they've entered war again coming back home. People are taking their rich robe from them. And then verse nine, the women of my people, you drive out from their delightful houses. That term refers to their inherited homes. These are widows, basically, their husbands passed. They inherited this delightful house and it's being stolen from them. From their young children, you take away my splendor forever. So women, widows, children, orphans, uh war veterans, all the most vulnerable people basically of society. were being uh oppressed by these rich and powerful people. Okay, everyone's acting so far? So we have Chapter one, Sins Against God, followed by Chapter Two, Sins Against Men. And we go to Chapter Three. And uh just as was stated earlier, uh, how is it that these rich and powerful elites were able to commit these heinous acts? They were being enabled by, and really committed by, Israel's leaders, Israel's political and and spiritual leaders. So let's go to chapter three now. And I'd like to start reading from verse nine. And let's go down to verse twelve. Now why do you cr oh I'm sorry. I'm I'm reading for uh four. Uh chapter three, verse nine. Hear this, you heads of house of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel, who detest justice and make crooked all that estraight, who build Zion with that's a synonym for Jerusalem, Mount Zion, upon which Jerusalem build who builds Zion with blood and Jerusalem with iniquity. Its heads give judgment for a bribe, briberies taking place, right? Between the judges, the rulers, the local you think think of local governor, senator, you know, representative. Something to that effect. It's priests. So you guys remember the office of a priest? This was a religious leader. He was so the prophet takes God, his word, gives it to the people, the priest takes the people, and they they act as the uh intermediary for fellowship with God, right? The other way. But these priests, they teach for a price. They're motivated by money, right? It's prophets practice divination for money. Yet they lean on the Lord and Say, Is not the Lord in the midst of us? No disaster shall come upon us? Therefore, because of you, Zion shall be ploughed as a field, Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins, and the mountain of the house a wooded. Height. So we have an elaboration of chapter two. What's the mechanism through which these grievous sins, this this this highway robbery is taking place? It's the leadership. You have sick leadership. It starts at the head. That's instructive. for any kind of organization, churches, whatever, government, it always starts with the leadership, right? If you have the sick leadership, there there's really no reform. It has to start from the top, it goes back to the top. And uh that's why God throughout scripture there's always a pattern Uh if an entire organization is spiritually bankrupt, yes, the whole organization will be held accountable, but there is more accountability for the leaders. So a passage I think about all the time, and uh honestly if I think about it too hard a card. causes a lot of terror in me and that's when I have to turn back to the grace of God and uh walking in Christ's forgiveness is James three one, which says, Not many of you should be teachers because don't you know that teachers will be held under stricter accountability. So if I uh God forbid ever fall into some grievous sin Which is always a possibility that everybody has to be has to think of. Of any kind, you know? Uh we should all carry this attitude. I don't think I would murder a person, but you never you put in the wrong situation and you're not walking with the Lord in that moment of weakness, you never know what kind of sins you're capable of. But uh I'll be under I'll be liable under much harsher judgment than most of you guys, right? So that's very scary. And uh you're not off the hook either because all of you guys are Christians, right? You cling to these Christians. So you're gonna be held under much harsher scrutiny than, you know, regular Joe Schmo out there that hates God and denies the Bible. And you're not just a Christian, you're a Christian that attends a pretty healthy church that's being taught the Word of God. So the more truth that you're entrusted with, the higher the accountability, the higher the standard, and that's not a thought that should escape any of us. But that's chapter three's announcement of Israel's political and spiritual leaders. Okay, now we get to chapters four and five. And this is why I confessed when I was studying Micah, I read Micah several times just through my you know yearly read through the Bible readings. But um I always had trouble with this book and I was reminded why this book was so difficult for me to handle because mica is like the textbook example of one of the mechanics of the prophetic genre that we talked about earlier, which was remember prophetic foreshortening, right? So I'm going to draw This material again, repetition is always good. Things you learn as a teacher, you think you're being repetitive, and then you get the same questions over and over again. So it's not a bad thing, it's fine. But uh prophecy When it comes to historical events, uses in the Bible this mechanism that theologians like to call prophetic foreshortening. It's not a word that's in the Bible. It's just, you know, theologians. Come up with labels just to, you know, so that everyone's on the same page talking about some bigger concept and you can understand it quickly. Or a lot of these labels were developed as a response to heresy. So heretics love to hide in ambiguity, right? ambiguity. So that's why we had to come up with the word Trinity. Because there were these Arians and stuff that were like, something sounds off about what you think about God, but you're like hiding in the ambiguity of this not super well-defined term yet, so that's when Facebook believers have to come up with the word Trinity. Anyway, that's where a lot of the jargon comes from. So it's not meant to just be like a way to show off at cocktail parties and confuse people. It shouldn't be that way. Scriptures should be clear enough that even children should be able to track with it. Anyway Prophetic foreshortening is just a nice extra biblical term to explain that from God's perspective, he's viewing from our perspective, right? He sees world events and he sees all this like span of time between the events. he knows exactly what chronological order they come. But if you guys recall, for those of you who were here for our second lesson, the prophet, when he was giving uh his uh prophecy, this vision from the Lord, he was seeing it from from head on. So from his perspective, the mountain ranges kind of look like this. They're like stacked on top of each other and they look s smashed together. So timing wise, now the prophets knew, according to First Peter, they knew that there was there was a timing issue. They they knew these events uh they weren't necessarily happening simultaneously, but as hard as they tried, they couldn't quite discern it out because they were looking at the mountains straight on. So they look stacked. They don't know exactly like which one comes which, but uh from God's perspective there's sometimes big valleys of time between these events. Micah is full of prophetic foreshortening, especially in the fourth and fifth chapter. I'm going to show you guys this in a second. And frankly it makes the book kind of confusing. And you really so there are different levels of difficulty in school Scripture. And I think it's really to illustrate that parable of that man that found that treasure that was buried, right? And then what did he do? He was so excited he just sold everything to buy that land, right? And there's a principle there when it comes to handling the word of God is God I think he wants you to value scripture. And the way you value something is you put sweat equity into it. Something you really worked hard for, some project that worked. If it came easily, it's just like whatever, you don't appreciate it, right? Or if you're trying to raise kids, you want to teach them the value of a dollar, you make them work for it, right? And the same way, God some there are some books of the Bible, some sections of Scripture, God really the Holy Spirit really makes you work to understand it. But when you come away after that work with a conviction of, wow, I understand the meaning of this text, I have a theological conviction about it it really becomes yours and you value it and you treasure it. And uh Micah is one of those books. So let me show you how uh confusing chapters four and five can be. You see a flipping constantly between uh two events. You have a near future destruction. So we can list it here. Our first mountain peak. So there's two major mountain peaks in the book of Micah. And the first one is a near future destruction of Judah. by the Babylonians. But Micah's constantly flipping between that and a far future I'm sorry for my handwriting. Far future glorification of Israel when they finally come to And Jerusalem becomes the headquarter of the world. It becomes a kingdom of the world. So you're going to see these two events constantly flipping. So let me just show you. So let's start from Micah chapter 4, verse 1. So he just finished denouncing Israel for their sin, denouncing the leader. And then we go to event number two, the second mountain peak, the far future glorification. It shall come to pass in the latter days. That's always the key term you look for to know we're talking about the day of the Lord at the end. The latter days that the mountain of the The house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and it shall be lifted up above the hills, peoples shall float to it, and many nations shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he He may teach us his ways and that we may walk in his path. So one day in the future, when the kingdom of Christ is established, nations will literally have all of their conflicts resolved, s like directly by God at Zion. They're gonna say, Hey Samarita, Molly is having this conflict with Sweden over here. Uh God, what do you think about it? And he's going to rule perfectly, and there will be just utter peace. Verse three, he shall judge between many peoples and shall decide for strong nations afar off, and this is the result of And they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. So what do they do with their weapons? Decommission. Decommission, I love that word. It just turns into farming implements. So don't get too precious. about your firearms, brothers and sisters. One day there will be divine gun control. Not saying it's supposed to own one, but I'm just saying one day we won't be there. Yeah. Yep, yep. Which will trans Transition into the eternal kingdom. Yep, exactly. So when I use the word kingdom, yes, I'm kind of conflating, I'm combining both that one thousand year reign of Christ, which results in one last final Satan led rebellion, they're crushed and we transition into the eternal kingdom state. So I'm kind of mixing up the two terms. Yeah. Yeah. Uh and there's gonna be a lot of jobs that don't exist anymore. And I think that's why you're gonna see a lot more farming, right? I'm a I'm a safety engineer in my day job. Why do we need safety engineering? Because of the fall. Right? A lot of you guys probably work for the Defense Department. Why do we need defense? Why do we need military? It's because people are sinners. One day, suddenly, a lot of you will be out of work, myself included, and there's gonna be a lot more fun. We're gonna actually go back to the very first job that God gave Adam, which was what? What was Adam's occupation if you have to put a label on it? He was a farmer. He was tending the garden, the universe. That was Adam and Eve's job, right? And that we're gonna go back to a lot more farming. I won't I'll I'll be out of a ministry as well. God will be doing all the teaching. So that's the far future glory of Israel. Pretty clear. Okay? But then right after verse 8, right after chapter 4, verse 8. You flip back, and it seems very abrupt. You you get kind of whiplash if you're not paying attention to the fact that I'm in a prophetic section of scripture. I should expect uh events to be smashed together with seemingly no time in between them. One verse after the other, and I have to be pay attention and be wary of that. You see that happen in verse 8. And you, tower of the flock, hill of the daughter of Zion, to you it shall come, the former dominion shall come, uh kingship for the daughter of Zion. of Jerusalem. Now, verse nine, so verse eight, up to verse eight four, chapter four, verses one to eight, you have this wonderful picture of this future peaceful state. And then ver verse nine, now why do you cry aloud? Is there no king in you? Has your counselor perished? The pain seized you like a woman in labor. Now does this sound positive or negative to you? Negative, right? You have a woman crying aloud, you have Israelites crying out, I have we have no king. Verse 10, Rithe and groan, O daughter of like a woman in labor, for now you shall go out from the city and dwell in the open country. They they're getting kicked out of their towns. They have to live they have to involuntary camping, right? Some of you voluntary camping sounds horrible enough. This is involuntary camping. You shall go to Babylon. So here's that really supernatural aspect of the book of Micah, that this is before the Babylonian nation rose up and conquered the Assyrians, and yet Micah says, You are going to be going to exile to Babylon. So you see, you have the sudden just shift between mountain peaks here. We were talking about event two in chapters one to eight and then suddenly verse nine now we're talking about this new near future destruction by the Babylonians. Uh I'll go quickly through the rest of chapters four and five, but you see that concept and flipping between uh in verses eleven to thirteen we go back to a far future glory. Uh this is the event that's described if you guys recall our lesson on Joel. In Joel chapter three, there was the gathering of the nations in uh specific location. And you remember the location name? I'll be very impressed if you do. Where were the nations gathered one day to be slaughtered by God? Valley of Jehoshaphat. Valley of Jehoshaphat, that event is being described against Again here in Micah chapter 4 verses 11 to 13 that it says, Now many nations are assembled against you. So this will be a worldwide global army that God basically uh uh what's the word um gets them to come gather in the Valley of Jehoshaphat near Jerusalem and they think they're going to uh mount one last attack against Israel, only to find out that they get completely slaughtered by God. So that's again the far future glory when Israel is finally saved and all And then we flip back right after that, uh Micah chapter five, verse one. Now muster your your troops, O daughter of troops. Siege is laid against us. With a rod they strike the judge. Or the king, the ruler of Israel, on the cheek. Anyone know anyone an expert in the kings and the chronicles? What event is being dis what king is being described here? That's being struck by this invading army's royal scepter. That's what that rod is. King Zedekiah. King Zedekiah is the king reigning when the Babylonians take over and he's made captive. Okay? But then right after Micah 5. 1, we go back to the far future. Glory, where now we're seeing a revealing more details about who this Messiah King is going to be. Verse 2, but you, O Bethlehem, Ephrap, it that's a synonym for Bethlehem Ephrap. And it was probably mentioned here because it's technically two Bethlehem. in Israel. So Michael's trying to distinguish which one. This is the one near Jerusalem. Apparently, you who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, very insignificant little town, you have a couple passages in scripture that talk about all the major cities associated with the tribe of Judah. Bethlehem's never even mentioned. It's like this tiny nowhere vill. You know. You ask anybody uh outside of Maryland where you're from and you're s you say, I'm from you know, I'm I'm from Elk Ridge. You're like, what is that? Ah it's near Baltimore, you know. So it's kinda like that with Bethlehem. Bethlehem was a nowhere's. No it was insignificant. Nobody thought of it. Nobody even knew that it was part of Judah, whose origin is from old, from ancient days. Now anyone have an idea? Why is that a pattern in Scripture that God likes to use the insignificant and the small and the nobodies? Exactly. I don't know who said that, but that's exactly right. Right? God really, really, really hates boasting. God hates it. I cannot emphasize that enough. If you read through scripture over and over again. God specifically uses the small and the despised, the low IQ, the unsophisticated, the not rich, not popular. I'm describing all of us if I'm on us if we're honest with ourselves, right? We're we're most of us are nobody. Now God sometimes uses rich and powerful. You have King David in the church, but that's not the pattern, right? And so Christians get so frustrated by that. It's like why why for me, uh yeah I'll share this, whatever. For me, like as a musician, right? There are times in my fleshly state I'm like, I really hate church music. It's always so poorly done and you know, why can't we have like amazing musicians come to our church? It's not God's design, right? God does not bring the rich and powerful to churches. He uses a small, lowly, and despised. Worship is always from the heart. It's not about what the outer appearance looks like. Churches that want to look exactly like a concert, that want to look exactly like a like the world, you don't understand the pattern of God. God uses the nobodies because he hates bragging. So the nobodies can't brag, right? Because if you're used as a nobody, you know you're a nobody, right? And you think, wow, the grace of God. And then God uses the nobody to shame the wise and the powerful of this age, to make them embarrassed, humiliated, bring them to nothing, right? Because God God hates boasting. He really, really hates bragging. And I think that's just a good reminder when we think of this little passage about how God used Bethlehem to bring the Messiah. That's our Christmas passage, that's where Jesus was born, right? This this town no nowhere. Nowhereville, right? Um that is a good application point we can take from that is if there's anything in your life that you're tempted to feel proud about. You built something for yourself. You're somebody at your work now, you've given so many years to this career, you know, you've you've brought so and so such and such to sal to salvation. God use me in this way in church and minister in the world. Whatever. Uh you need to stop yourself in the track in your tracks and check yourself because God really, really hates boasting. That's why he uses the insignificant. Uh but in any case, um you see uh in chapter five, verse two, we flip back to that second mountain peak. We see the far future glory, the revealing of this Messiah King from the ancient of days, verse five, he shall be their peace, um he shall Deliver us from the Assyrian, verse uh six. And then um let's see here. Yes, so that's chapters four and five. So I hope that illustrates for you guys why a lot of prophetic passages you have to be very careful and read very slowly. and read over and over again because you do have this tricky prophetic foreshortening issue that happens. And what helps you by the way, just like the advice I gave at the beginning, what helps you navigate prophetic foreshortening is again if you read all of the prophetic books kind of simultaneously. It's hard work. I'm not saying it's easy. Uh trust me a lot of hours went into today's lesson because Michael is such a tricky book. But um that's that's just one little tip to help you with prophetic foreshortening. If you read all the prophetic passages at once, You kind of see the same events being talked about from a slightly different angle in Obadiah versus Joel versus Micah, and it kinda helps you put things into a chronological timeline in your head. Any questions so far? Comments? Good job. Yeah, well uh it wasn't wasn't all my material. I'm borrowing very heavily from other resources. Okay, let's go to chapter six. Chapter six is such such a heartbreaking and really an amaz amazingly personal picture of God's heart. You know, God we just saw the I'm sure all of you guys like me were just blown away by those new uh web telescope photos of you know the deepest part of space. And it's just uh honestly frightening if you think about just how enormous our universe is. Um I'm sure no one remembers, but that was a big part of my baptism testimony was I was reading this astronomy book on just how massive the universe was was and I was in a period of deep depression in my life and that just made me feel so small and it really came uh caused me to come to a realization that oh my goodness, this this enormous God of the universe is not my God, is the the the horrible uh conclusion I came to. You have a hundred billion stars or a hundred billion galaxies in the whole universe. God's massiveness was what God used to really save me was I realized this God I have no relationship to him. I'm so small compared to him he does not care about my problems because he's not my personal father. Right? But you see in Micah chapter 6 that whereas that is true, God is just utterly transcendent and so just just massive in every sense of the term. In chapter six you also hear that God is just this this pleading, earnest, heartbroken, fatherly figure when it comes to the sins of his people. And let me just read a few verses from chapter six six verses one to five and just really listen to how this this gigantic God of the universe speaks to these erring Israelites. He says, hear what the Lord says, arise, plead your case before the mountains, and let the Hears hills, hear your voice. Hear you mountains, the indictment of the Lord, and you enduring foundations of the earth. For the Lord has an indictment against his people, and he will contend with Israel. Oh my people, what have I done to you? How have I worried you? Answer me. For I brought you up from the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of slavery. So for those of you who are new believers or don't know, Israel, like probably one of the most important events in the history. They used to be in slavery in the land of the kingdom of Egypt, and then God miraculously, with a very strong hand, these are these amazing ten plagues that God uh inflicted upon Pharaoh. He brought them, he just like plucked them straight out of Egypt and they became a nation overnight. They were just a subjugated class of slaves in Egypt, suddenly they they became a nation. You've never seen anything like that in history. So that's called the Exodus. That's in the second book of the Bible called Exodus, if you want to read more about it. And that's what God's referring to. says I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and redeemed you from the house of slavery, and I sent before you these important leaders, Moses, Aaron, and Miriam, Moses' sister. Oh my people, remember what Balak, king of Moab, divided, so one of the old enemies of the Israelites was the nation of Moab, and there is this king named Balak, he was terrified that this this new nation that was being uh guarded and being led by Yahweh in this gigantic pillar of fire at night, pillar of cloud in the day. And Balak was scared, so Balak, he in his pagan way, he says, I'm going to hire this super good, you know, uh priest, uh Balaam, this prophet Balaam, and Balaam, whoever he curses, they tend to get cursed. He was probably something like a demonized guy, right? Demons have all sorts of tricks. It's not real miracles, they're false. But Balaam, this is a guy that when he curses people, they tend to get cursed. Hey Balaam, I'm gonna hire you. Can you curse this people Israelite for me because Israel for me because I'm super scared that they're gonna come and take over my land, etc. , etc. So Balah tried to do that. In his pagan mind, I'm going to hire this false prophet to curse Israel. But this is what Balaam was did, because you know God is sovereign over all sorts of false religions. Balaam thought he was being hired to curse Israel, but what Balaam, the son of Beer, answered him and what happened from Shatim to Gilgal that you may know the saving acts of the world. What this refers to is Balaam was hired, he sees Israel Israel three times, this camp of Israelites, and he's basically compelled to bless them instead of curse them. He was hired to curse the Israelites says I I can't Yahweh is not letting me I have to bless them. And it's it's actually kind of a funny story. Balak is freaking out saying, Why are you so how are you to curse them? Why are you blessing them? Uh of course Balaam was not a repentant person. We find out later in scripture, Balaam even though he was compelled by God to bless the Israelites. He also uh gave counsel maybe to make up for his failings to Bayliths and you know what, I know how to get these Israelites, so you should tempt them into sexual immorality with our with our temple prostitutes and the like and that's what Baylor And uh a lot of these Moabites were killed. But anyway, so God is just you hear the heart of the father, he's pleading with them. He I mean, who talks this way to their creatures, right? Like to a parent, to a son, to a daughter saying, why are you acting out like this? What have I done to you? Are you acting this way because I hurt you in some way? My what was I being too harsh? Like tell me, tell me what I did. Like how can the God of creation talk this way to to things that are so beneath him if not for the fact that he exhibits this supernatural love that we do not understand. What kind of painter does that to his painting, right? What kind of uh potter does that to the clay that he's molding into a pot? That's what God does. And make no mistake, it's not because the pot is so beautiful and so lovely. That's what some of these liberal theologians get twisted. They think, You see how much God loves, you know, his creation? It's because we're so special. We're just such a lovable little cute little puppies that God can't help but like shows so much love for No. You get it totally twisted. Right? It's not because we're these lovable little creatures. It's the opposite. We're so unlovable. We're enemies with God and yet God still decides to love us, that magnifies how just mind boggling and incomprehensible God's love is compared to what we call love. Like think about the most you know, closest family relations that you have, the love you have for your spouse, for your children. God goes beyond that in loving his enemies. People who he made that hate him and spit in his face that are just horrible creatures. A bunch of little Hitlers if you want to think of a worldly analogy, right? We love to judge Hitler and think What a horrible person he is. I'm not I'm not apologizing for Hitler. Don't get me twisted, right? But that we're a bunch of little cosmic adolfs, right? And God for some reason chooses to show his love to his people and reasons with him. Reasons with his Enemies. Oh my people, what have I done to you? How have I worried you? Answered me. And that's just a beautiful picture of God's heart, God's supernatural love. And you see that in Micah chapter 6, another very key verse. And then in Micah chapter 7. You have all these sins stacked up, sins against God through idolatry, sins against men, sins committed by the leaders, right? And what you have as a result, Mike gemoans this societal decay that he witnesses. Uh I won't read it for the sake of time because we've got to move on to some other topics. But in verse five you have neighbors turning on their neighbors. You have what you think is your best friend, he's turning on you, you have all this treachery, you have the son treating the father with contempt. Do you mind if we open that door to anybody? stuff in here. I don't think it's too loud outside. You have daughter rising up against mother. Just the fabric of society just begins to de to decay. And I want to point out with which sin does it flow from? Where does this societal decay? And that might be something that you feel very passionate about today looking at America, right? Or the West or the world. But where does it begin with? What led to it? It starts with our sins against God. It all traces back to the priority of what your nation thinks about God. That is where it begins. And to give you a preview of what we're going to talk about with the social gospel movement, the social justice movement, what so many professors I'm not saying they are, some of them are, but so many professing Christians sucked up in this social justice stuff mixes up is it does not societal decay. If if this is what you're trying to fix, not the prioritized mission of the church, by the way. But if this is what what you're trying to fix. You don't start with the sins against men. You have to go one step before. All sin goes back to what you think about God. That is where the emphasis must be, if you just want to be about changing the culture. Okay? Alright. And then Micah ends, we are a religion of hope. A lot of very ugly stuff being talked about, and yet Micah has to end when he thinks about that far that sure, that certain far future glory of Israel, God's people as a whole. He breaks out into praise. He breaks out in stating that who is like you, verse eighteen, chapter seven, verse eighteen. Who is a God like you pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance? So uh Any questions or comments before we continue? Does that give you a better idea of what Micah looks like? Okay. Yeah, let's go ahead. Israel's Far Future Glory in the writings of people out completely outside of like if you look at like a fairly American history, like you see that imagery keep coming back and I think it kind of points to a a sort of misinterpretation of that's prophetic word sorting, like this understanding that millennialism like premillennialism versus non millennialism, like leads to a different understanding of events. It does. And you see people using that same imagery in response to America. You know, this country that we built or this you know movement that we're doing, that's gonna be what ushers in this millennial kingdom and you don't necessarily see that happening because they've misunderstood when it's gonna happen. Right on target, Liz. Yeah. If I'm understanding all your comments correctly. I'm trying to prepare a class uh on the topic of politics in general. And um uh the piece that I'd like to discuss America, if I can just give it in the simplest form of it possible. as possible. By the way, I love this country. I'm so grateful. That's biblical patriotism, by the way. Biblical patriotism is gratitude. It's gratitude and contentment. It's not pride, it's gratitude. It's not my nation is going to beat up your nation. It's gratitude for where you are. It's seeking the best seeking the best for wherever you live, right? That's a a patriotic, you know, thin living in Finland is the same way. Gratitude for where they are in every circumstance like Philippi uh Philippians 4 13 says I can be content in every circumstance. But uh to give just the preview, um I would just say about America, as much as I love this country and as important as it has been, used by God to bring so much evangelism to the world, we have to remind ourselves of as American citizens, we are just a small piece of the cog of the whole wheel of redemptive history. We are not as important as we like to think we are. God does not regard nations the way we often do. Number one GDP, number one military, amazing geography, right? But the truth of the matter is America is like every kingdom before and will be like every kingdom after and we have our time and place. Don't get too myopically focused on where you live in your context. We are not the millennial kingdom. Okay. Yes, exactly. But I love this country. I w wish nothing but the best for it because my kids live in it, right? Alright, so let's go to one of the major themes that we're we will discuss in a little more detail, which is idolatry. So I stated this earlier Unlike a book like Joel, which is we think potentially an earlier book, God now lists specific sins. So that in itself is instructive. You have sin if it's not dealt with at the heart level, it congeals and solidifies and manifests in these specific. external things more and more. You have to cut sin off at the root and it begins in your thought life, in your heart life, synonyms in in in scripture. If you don't cut it off there in your personal life, it will come out somewhere else later. There's this uh anecdote that John McCarthy is a very good idea. likes to share a lot about I don't know if he was like a deacon or something, but there's a man that fell into this like grievous like adultery, like a physical adulterous relationship with someone that wasn't his wife. And the word he stated, the phrase he used to describe falling into that sin, John MacArthur thought was was so insightful because he stated, I don't know what I was thinking. And he said, Well there's a problem right there. It started with the lust in your heart, in your mind. Your wandering eyes, you've been married such and such number of years and you start getting bored of your wife or whatever because you're not thinking concern you start looking around at other pretty ladies or whatever. And then if you don't deal with that sin though, you don't cut it off, it leads eventually to some external manifestation of it. And you kind of see that nationally speaking with Israel as well. But uh sins against God is Clearly greater than sins against men. You see that in just the chronological priority Micah gave to idolatry. It starts at the beginning. That is the root of Israel's problem, is they had a direct offense against. against God through the sin of idolatry. And idolatry is alive and well today, by the way, right? You you guys all heard the applicational sermons that anything you consider more important than God, it can be money, fame, career, whatever, even your family. That's a very tricky one because you're supposed to love your family. Well your family can be an idol. But idolatry is alive and well today. It took place in a very crude sense where they were literally worshiping carved images and such. But that takes priority. And there's a very common misconception, very common oversimplified misconception I'd like to dispel today, which is you've probably heard has anyone heard this phrase all sins are equal are the same. All sins are equal? Right? Now, that's true in one specific, important, narrow sense. All sins send you to hell. Right? It doesn't matter if it was stealing a penny from grandma's purse or if it was killing a bunch of people in cold blood. All sins those sins, if they're not dealt with, they will lead to hell, right? Isn't that true? But sins are not the same in terms terms of severity and sins can be ranked. That is clear in Scripture. And I'll just give two passages to illustrate this. If we had more time I'd elaborate. But that is why in Matthew chapter twenty two, when Jesus talks about the greatest commandment Right? There is an order. And the greatest commandment is what, by the way? You guys know this. Love God. All your heart, all soul, all your strength. Right. Love God is number one. Why? Because not loving God is the greatest sin. Just take that stick and flip it the other way, right? After loving God, what is a great command? Love your neighbor as you love yourself, right? The order of the Ten Commandments illustrates this as well. The first three commandments, have you noticed? are sins against man and God. You shall have no other God before me. No graven images. And then in commandment four, you get to the sins against other people. Honor your father and mother. Do not murder. Do not, you know, commit adultery. Do not covet your neighbour's stuff. Right? So the order of the Ten Commandments and how Jesus orders the greatest commandment and the secondary commandment, and there's other passages like I said we don't have time to go over, shows that sins against God are worse than sins against men. Sins can be raised. They can be ordered. There is a priority that ought to be given to them in your own personal life and in a nation's life as well. So all sins are the same, true in one sense only, but grossly oversimplified and misused by a So that leads very naturally into the second major theme we're going to discuss, which is justice. So going off of what we just discussed, how sins can be ranked in severity, therefore, when it comes to the Concept of justice, we should first and foremost as Christians be thinking, how am I being just when it comes to a gracious and loving God? The injustice committed against God should be first and foremost in our mind. Even in every concept. In church context or personal context, yes, even in a societal context. And I wonder how many professing Christians out there, when they think about social ills, social injustice, the first thing they think about are sins against our fellow man. Now those are grievous. this, right? Things like um, you know, the rich stealing from the poor still happens today. I got news for you. Again, America is not the millennial kingdom. There are unjust laws out there. Racism was a very like trending one. It it will be again. at the next election. That's just part of the media cycle. You know, media wants you to be angry with one another because that's how you get people to vote. But, you know, these are all true and abominable sins, but that shouldn't be the first place your mind goes to when you think of injustice. Injustice is first and foremost a sin that's committed against God. Injustice is a former president of the United States saying that anyone that wants to use the Bible and impose it on American society is a fool that advocates for slavery and racism. And that was President Barack Obama. Those are the kind of injustices that have to be dealt with and prioritized in our mind rather than first and foremost the sins we commit against other people. Yeah. That was like I think of it as like you're kind of suppressing like the symptoms but you're not actually getting to the side. Correct. I love how you put that. That's when you're like, okay, well it's still going to happen underneath if you don't take the rebat. I love how you put that. I think I I have nothing to add to what Kara just stated. Yeah I hope everyone heard it. Yeah. It's it's one of them is Addressing the root disease, one of them is addressing just the symptoms. And that doesn't work, right, when you're trying to cure any kind of illness. Injustice against men, it's important, but we also have to frame us speaking out against injustice against men. Because primarily it dishonors God. You see? You see this in Genesis chapter 9, verse 6. Think of the worst sin that you can think of that you can against another man. Again, if we take the Ten Commandments at its face, it's actually that parental relationship, honor your father. That rings before murder, but murder is right after. Murder is also very important. It's up there. Did you know that capital punishment for murder, which is a biblical concept, it does not say you shall not murder, because it makes the widow very sad, it makes the children It ruins their lives, it ruins the community's lives. All true, right? It's because man is made in God's image. The reason why he who sheds the blood of man, his blood shall be shed, right? And by a governmental force is the implication in Genesis 9-6. It's because that man whose life you just took was made in God's image. It's because you're burning a photograph of God, if I can put it into another analogy. That's why a murderer deserves death. It's not so much about the victim, right? And that's very backwards from the way the world thinks, right? People love to make fun of our Godword focus as Christians. We offer thoughts and prayers and say some good thoughts and prayers did for all those kids that got killed, right? People love to say blasphemous things like that because they don't believe in an invisible God. But the truth of the matter is, the Bible states that the reason murder is heinous, yes, it does enormous destruction to people. That I'm not minimizing that. That is horrendous. I hope none of you guys ever have to experience or be in the orbit of Of this heinous sin of murder, right? But even more heinous than the suffering it causes the widow or to the parent who lost their child in a school shooting, murder is heinous because you are basically destroying God's image. Right? That is what uh true injustice looks like. It's the injustice, it's the sin you commit against God in sinning against other human beings. You see the same thing, the same concept illustrated in John chapter 15, verse excuse me, verse 15. eighteen to nineteen. Jesus warns that look, you're gonna be abused by the world, you Christians, because ultimately they're trying to abuse me. They can't get to me. I'm sitting at the right hand of God the Father. So they're gonna do the second best thing. They hate me and that's why they're gonna abuse you. Same thing. Same concept, just from a different angle. Sins are ultimately against God and the sins against man. That's what makes it so grievous. Any questions up to this point? Is everyone tracking? Okay. So I'm hoping this flips up uh slowly flipping the way the world thinks about justice, which is a very man centered concept. It's not, it's a God centered concept. It's a common misuse of Micah chapter six, verses six to eight. I'm gonna read it again. I know we're short in time, so I'll go quickly. Verses six to eight Uh let's start just from eight for the sake of time. He has told you, O man, what is good and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice and to love kindness, it doesn't stop there. There's a other bit of this verse, and to walk humbly with you. your God. So one common misuse of Micah six eight, do justice and be kind to fellow men for men's sake. That's not the reason we want society to reform. And that is something that we should be striving for. It's not the most important thing, but we should want to see how our council County, Maryland, the United States, the globe, repenting of sin. We want less sin rather than more sin, right? That is a good thing to want to try to get. It's not the main thing, but it is a good thing. Uh so we're not just I I don't advocate for the you know this the whole thing is thinking, why shine the brass on the Titanic? I think that is a perversion of uh premillennial eschatology. I think uh godly reforms have happened in history and they have produced benefits. It's a good benefit. It's not the most important important thing. I do think the world is still trending down as a premillennial um this is eschatology advocate, but there are little times where you have positive impulses and you should work for those. If you got lost by the lingo I just use, don't worry about it. That's that's a side point. Do justice and be kind to fellom and for their own sake. That is a common misuse of Micah 6:8, and it ignores the rest of verse 8, which is the God's word part, walking humbly with your God. Another common spin on this first misuse. conception is, oh, the clearly Micah six to seven is teaching obedience to the Levitical sacrificial system doesn't matter, right? It's not never what God advocates for. And you see that also illustrated in the New Testament, Matthew 23, 23. where Jesus blasts the Pharisees for prioritizing the tithing of little mint and dill and like even chopping this little like bay leaf or whatever into tents, right? But you know what Jesus says? He doesn't say, oh you Pharisees, ignore that stuff. just focus on justice and kindness. That's not what he says in verse 23. He says you should have prioritized the important bits without neglecting the tithing. Very good. You did the tithing thing fine. The problem is you spent 99% of your efforts and energy into the lesser important stuff. Your priorities are wrong. That was one of the key errors of the Pharisees. It's not that they were too exacting with scripture, it's they were too exacting with scripture at the wrong Places when they should have put more emphasis into kindness, goodness, humility before God. Liberal theology is really the exemplification of this first error. This is not political liberalism, by the way, this is theological. liberalism. In short, a theological liberal liberal is someone who doesn't believe God. They just remove all the supernatural parts of the Bible and they make the Bible just very man centered. It's a story about men. Jesus was someone that came to reform society. That's in a nutshell. Liberal theology. It's not the same thing as like the Democratic Party or whatever. A second error though, that's kind of related but slightly different, is prioritize doing justice and being kind to fellow men over walking humbly with God. So again, this is the prioritize. prioritization error. And this is the problem with what we call today social justice movement, the social justice sort of theology. And it's really a m uh um uh a matter of prioritization. They don't fully jettison and ignore the walking humbly with God part, the God word sins. But the problem is the pr the weights are completely different. Racism becomes way higher on their list of sins rather than idolatry and blasphemy of the Lord. So this is just a quick table. We're going to end here due to time. But here's biblical justice and how it contrasts contrasts with what I'm calling earthly justice that's exemplified by uh uh liberal theology or social justice theology. Biblical justice is impartial to all classes, demographics types of people. Earthly justice, you could get you give favor partiality to the powerful, rich, favored, popular, what we call underprivileged, oppressed classes. They may very much be uh undergoing some unfair treatment, but you don't change the scales of justice just because of your socioeconomic system or class or whatever. Biblical justice universally condemns. Notice, yes, Micah was specifically lambassing the rule. The spiritual and political leaders of his day, but all of Judah was destroyed by the Babylonians, right? It started with the head, but the sin festered throughout the entire body of Israel. It universally condemns, you don't want biblical judges. Justice. You want grace because nobody is off the hook. It's not just the racist people, it's everybody. Everybody will be destroyed. It exclusives however earthly justice exclusively condemns just the weak, poor, uh unfavoured, unpopular. privilege, the press class. Biblical justice points the way to salvation. So again, biblical justice condemns everybody, so it's meant to point you to I need to run to grace through faith in Jesus Christ because I won't escape it. Earthly justice points the way to perpetual inescape There's no salvation in any earthly ideology or worldview. So uh obviously we didn't give any of these themes the treatment that it deserves, um, so we only have to talk about these things at a high conceptual principle level I'll trust you guys and the Holy Spirit to give me the application. We'll end there. And if you have any questions feel free to talk to me after. Let's pray.