So Zechariah, uh this is a uh this is an amazing, amazing piece of work. It's been a great week studying and preparing for this class. Um This this book is is almost certainly if you're not familiar with it is gonna blow your mind. It's gonna absolutely blow your mind. So um just as a quick note and kind of a fun story, uh I was prepared for this this uh lesson. And I told you guys I've been using Walter Kaiser and you know and I've been you know I I go and I look at Dr. Constable and I we've talked about all these resources Which I've used and um uh I started noticing that when we got actually it started in Haggai, but then also more this week that that it kept quoting uh a certain author. Uh but when we got to Zechariah, uh I think it was Dr. Constable, or maybe it was Kaiser, made the case that that this person really helped bring about a new understanding, like a complete new way of of uh looking Looking at the book of Zechariah, and we'll get into some of the discussion on the hen in the next slides. But I thought it was fascinating, and then I happened to have the book, so I started, I picked it up and started reading it. Her name was Joyce Baldwin. She's a scholar. from um she's a scholar from the UK uh who wrote intensely on the Old Testament. She was a uh she worked with uh she was the Dean of Women at uh at a college and she uh was actually started off as a missionary to China and when she was in China she became ill seriously ill from dysentery uh which left her physically unfit to continue in missions. So then she came back and she decided to become a scholar, she became an old testament scholar. Uh worked at the as the Dean of Women for Trinity College in Bristol in the UK. Uh she worked alongside a guy who you may have heard of, J. L. Packer. So she's very along with some very, very good scholars. Uh and uh you know I just thought it was really cool, you know, and uh it just reminds me, you know, can God raise up women to do incredible things for the kingdom of God, for the people of God? Uh are women capable of being being uh you know uh fantastic scholars and students of the word of God. Absolutely. So uh I know that that uh it's only men who teach, uh but just remember that uh God can raise up you if you're woman you can even be a nerd like us. You can even be a nerd and you can study this stuff just like us and you can be very successful at that. So be encouraged, because I got a lot of women in here. Be encouraged that you can also uh do this as well. So I just thought that was a great note, just wanted to introduce this as an edition to Joyce Baldwin, uh a fantastic edition even at that. So and I was it's so cool that God even had I had that book with me and I had been sitting there and I hadn't read it. So then I picked it up and was was very blessed. Uh this is okay ah okay that's right this was originally further down I moved it up so this is the outline of the book of Zechariah now you notice I didn't do any history today. I covered all of the history last week with Hagai. I don't have time to cover it again here. On the notes for this you will find I just stuck the history down in the appendix of the PowerPoint so if you want to review just Zechariah, it's there. But if you want to hear a retelling of the whole history of Persia and the Medo Persian Empire and the fall of Babylon, all of that is in last week's lesson, which I believe is now on Sermon audio? I'm not sure. Okay. Or will be soon. Let's put it that way. Um so we'll test your memories today. Hopefully you guys will will remember all of that. Uh very quick wanna just jump into the outline of Zechariah and it's a little bit of a different order than I normally take. Okay, because A, I'm not starting with the history B, I'm going to get into some more complex stuff here in a minute. But I just wanted to show you quickly. Overall, the the The the book is is fundamentally broken into two parts. Chapters one through eight and then chapters uh chapters nine through fourteen. Okay. They're very distinct and they're very different. Okay. They're very different between the two. Uh the calling of God's people to repentance, chapter uh one verses one through six. And then from there he'll proceed in chapters one, seven through six with eight night visions. We're going to cover what's in red because I can't cover all this material. It's too much material to cover. Um but these are s the the ones that are in red will be the ones that I cover that are prophecies of Messiah. There's multiple prophecies of Messiah in this But I'm going to cover three because I have time. It's about how much time I have. Eight night visions. And then going on to finalize the last two chapters of one through eight, the first set, calling God's people Through repentance. So you see the bookends there. One verses one through six, and then the last two chapters kind of bookend the first eight chapters, right? Then in the second set uh from nine through fourteen, you're going to see two. Two separate burdens. Uh burden being an oracle, uh each burden in and of itself is a complete prophecy, a complete statement of prophecy, but obviously embedded in these sir uh embedded in these burdens uh Some people refer to them as sermons as well. They can also be kind of take the form of sermons because they have a mix of prose and poetry, so there's uh a mix in there. Uh and inside that are lots of prophecies, um, and you can read those there. Uh We're going to cover the coming of the Messianic King, chapter 9, verses 9 through 10. And then the second burden we'll cover the mourning for the pierced one, chapter 12, 10 through 13, 1. But the second burden there about the cleansing of Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Okay? Uh the book of Zechariah is an incredibly important book to the New Testament. So understanding and knowing the book of Zechariah will greatly bless your understanding of of all aspects of the New Testament. As a matter of fact, you will see he is Zechariah is one of the most quoted and alluded to prophets in all of in all of the New Testament. Ham and I think it's Isaiah i are kind of neck and neck depending on how you what you call an allusion to scripture or how you break it up. Uh they are frequently, frequently quoted. Um there are seventy one total quotations or allusions to Zechariah. In the New Testament. 28 of those alone in the book of Revelation. So just to give you an idea, John was clearly in his writing heavily influenced by the writings of Zechariah. So if you do a study of Zechariah, Zechariah and then read the Gospel of John, first, second and third John and also Revelation, you will see a lot of imagery and illusion uh in that. Uh also there are multiple illusions throughout the Gospels, all the the The synoptic gospels, I actually mean there, not just John. Um, and then you know, the whole references to the Good Shepherd, those are references that are thought to at least have come from Jesus quoting or working through the material from Zechariah. So, or at least there's some elements of it. So it's an incredibly important book to understand. It's also a book that has been throughout the centuries. centuries, not just the recent centuries, but the centuries, had a lot of scholarly, critical, what they call critical scholarship. Actually, so the the first notation that I have here is actually in the 16th century. Century raised by Joseph Mead. And I'll talk about that in a second. But really, going even further back, there was always some discussion that maybe Zechariah was written by two people, because chapters one through eight are so distinctly different from chapters. Chapters nine through fourteen. And then if you think about the history of of transcribing uh uh the uh the scrolls, right, the prophets were always on one scroll. Right? So they would have all of the prophets written down on one scroll so it would have been quite easy to write Zechariah, go through the first eight chapters, then maybe you have a another smaller writing from a different from a different prophet written underneath it, right? Uh that would that maybe just didn't get a name or didn't have a name. Uh so there was always this kind of there was this belief even as far back, I think Jerome was the first to present this, going as far back as the f the early church fathers saying, I think this could have been two different writers. That doesn't affect canonicity, right? It's just maybe a thing that makes you go, hmm, we don't know who wrote the book of Hebrews. Does that affect its canonicity? Absolutely not. We don't know. It's kind of cool to think about who wrote the book of Hebrews and there's been a lot of debate over the the centuries who wrote it, but it doesn't really affect canonicity, right? So that even so Jerome's statement that there may have been two prophets that wrote it, okay, yeah, that's that's the thing that makes you go, hmm, but it doesn't affect canonicity. the the fact of the matter is there's there is it was in the same scroll so the Jews clearly saw it as being canon as far back as it goes, right? And then uh uh we'll talk about uh I think I have notes on that as well. But then starting in the 16th century, some people started to say, this is really strange. Joseph Mead notes that in Matthew 27, 9, a quote that is clearly written in Zechariah was quoted as being from the prophet Jeremiah. So there was a lot of just debate about that. And he just said, well maybe Jeremiah actually wrote this section. And so there was just some commentary on that and that kind of went back and forth. And then this guy, Archbishop William Newsome, uh started to not only take that, he says, okay, so this book uh nine through fourteen, these chapters, they're not written by Zechariah, so they were probably written, and he starts trying to date. them. Uh and he actually begins now to start trying to figure out where it's placed. Then in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, uh there was thought to this belief that it was actually written The opposite. So the first bishop says, no, no, no, they're much earlier than 520 BC. And then in the 17th and 18th century, critical scholars started looking at the prophecies and saying, wow, these are too accurate. They must have been written much earlier. Much later than 520 BC. So now they're starting to attack the authenticity of the scripture. So then you start to see this critical scholarship rise up. And there's a lot of debate that goes on. liberal theologians then just eventually sort of accept that the book of Zechariah, the second half, is not canon. So liberal or not canon, I'm sorry, not that it's not canon, that it's not written by Zechariah, that it's actually written much much later. It just sort of becomes assumed. Uh and uh they they note you know just all the things that I mentioned. Uh and then there was varying theories, one through eight being Zechariah, nine through eleven eleven being Deuteros Zechariah. that's the first burden and then tritios Zechariah being the third the second burden or the third piece of the book. All of these attacks are on the scholarship of Zechariah. Now one thing I can tell you, okay, one thing I can tell you is any time a book is attacked It's attacked because it's pretty important. Right? It's attacked because the prophecies are so distinct. The book of Daniel often attacked. Why? Because the prophecies are so crystal clear And the prophecies clearly speak about things. And so they have to somehow discredit that God actually wrote this. And so you anytime the book is attacked, especially a pro a book of prophecies attacked, that's a good indication. that there's some prophecies in there which are so uniquely fulfilled and so clearly uniquely fulfilled that that liberal scholars have to discredit it in order to maintain their God didn't write the Bible theology, right? They start to bake their thoughts around. on their false perceptions, let's say. They don't allow science to any further drive them. They simply go by what they want to go by. Um then came along uh mostly this this uh Joyce Baldwin uh Uh she was very influential in this. Um, who started saying, you know what, these are not as ununified as they at least initially appear. Sure there's differences, but it's very easy to say maybe one was written early in his life and we know from the scriptures, the actual book of Zechariah, that Zechariah was very young in the writing of one through eight, so maybe he was very old in the writing of nine through fourteen. And that could easily explain the differences in the prose versus poetry and some of the differences there, the stylistic differences, let's say. But there's actually unity in some of the phrases in the similar sections. There's similar phrases in two ten and then you look in nine verse nine there's a phrase there that is also the same as seven fourteen. So there's similar similar language being a else uh added. And those phrases, if you look in two verse ten uh two verse ten and rejoice oh uh okay I will dwell in your midst I'm trying to remember what the uh the unique I think it's sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion. There's there's a phrase in there, a Hebrew phrase in there, which is unique to Zechariah. But it's unique to Zechariah in both sections. Right? So it's found in both sections. So um and also uh there's stylistic devices that are similar. There's repetition, which I will show you more about this repetition uh here in the next coming slides, uh, because I think the repetition is also very, very healthy. very very um uh uh helpful in understanding how the book breaks out. So I'll go into more detail about that in a minute. And also there's a couple of instances where he has these fivefold meaning metaphors. I won't go into that because I don't want to get bogged down. But this this this is a stylistic device that only Zechariah uses, but you see it in both both both pieces. So again, strongly arguing for the unity. Thematic similar similarities, uh and we'll get into again the the the thematic similarities, uh the need for cleansing, the return of the nations, the overthrow and the conversion of of the enemies or the nations, and the hope of the coming Messiah. All of that can be found throughout the book. It's not unique. unique to one or the other. And then finally, and this is where modern scholarship is really, and again, Joyce Faldwin being heavily influential in this, this proposal of a keyism structure. uh is an X in Greek and the idea is is that it follows this pattern. It starts off with theme A, it goes to theme B, it goes to theme C, and then it goes back to theme B and then back to theme A again. So it follows kind of a pattern that looks like an X, okay? So I don't want to get look, I'm telling you, I sat down, I wrote this out, I still don't know where they get the X from. So don't ask me about the X, okay? I'm just telling Telling you what they say, uh, but the fact is is that there is a clear pattern, okay? You can actually see a clear pattern, and it's a repeating pattern. You see it repa repeating in one through eight, and then you also see it repeat again in nine through fourteen. So that is really an unmistakable sign that it was probably written by the same guy. Okay? That is a very distinct. So poets tend to follow their own patterns or devices. They repeat those. Read Brown Poe, read Robert Frost, read they tend to write stylistically similar throughout their lives. This is a similar pattern which he exhibited. And then I'm going to show you that, and I'm only going to do this quickly. Um uh this is this this pattern that I was I was telling you about. You have theme A, which becomes in the beginning and at the end, theme B, which then in in one through six makes up the middle set. And then in the the the what they call the crowning moment or the highlight is theme C. Okay? So in this case, the Lord will judge the nations. That's theme A. The Lord is coming to judge the nations. You see that theme. B, the casting out of the nations and the restoration of Jerusalem. So you see the scriptures, it talks about the four horned scatterers or the scatterers. Um And it goes on through there. Uh and then C the climax being the coming of the Messiah and the redemption of the remnant. So the the the coming of the remnant. The ones that are highlighted in red contain prof uh contain messianic prophecies by the This pattern is a little more difficult because it's two burdens, okay? It's two burdens, so they're two separate prophecies, completely separate prophecies, but they do follow a similar pattern. And I'm not going to go through it. But theme A being the judgment and the salvation of the nations, theme B uh being the coming of the Messiah and his missions, theme C being the victory of the Messiah and the nation of Israel, and theme D Being the end of idolatry and false belief. Okay, so again, four separate themes treated in an orderly pattern that goes along. You can study this. If you can make an anticipation. out of this you let me know because I'll bring you up. I couldn't make an X out of it, but it I I wrote it down. I was like maybe just if you flipped it and inverted it and it does I can't do it, so I'm out. I'm done. This is the pattern. This is the pattern. I spent far too long on these slides, but know that there's great, there's a lot of similarities between them. There's a lot more similarities when you start to look at it. This is all to defend the single author idea of Zechariah. I do think it's important because and the reason I'm spending all of this time because here's the thing, okay, you're gonna go out and you're going to read this book and you're gonna tea you're gonna you're gonna be amazed. Right? You you're we're gonna walk away from here and you'd be like Can you believe this prophecy was in the book of Zechariah? This is amazing. And it's going to strengthen your faith. And then you're going to walk along and you're going to talk to an unbeliever and you're going to say, you know what? God said in 520 BC this and it happened. And he's going to go. Oh yeah, well, you know, that's been disproved a long time ago. Okay. And that's going to bring about, you know so apologetics is important and the defense of the scripture and the need to defend the scripture is important. Uh I could have chosen Chosen this in any number of the different minor prophets because all the prophets are always under attack from a liberal theologian standpoint. But just know, just know, and just be assured and be encouraged that that this This book is well defended, right? If you take nothing else away from this conversation, this book was well defended, right? This book was well defended. So, okay. Um any questions? I just went through a whole bunch of whole bunch of material. Like we just covered a lot. And I did it really quick. So before the eyes start to go down, any questions? Anyone have any thoughts? Now I've talked to the book of Zechariah, we can be I I gave you an hour back, we're good to go. I'm kidding, I'm kidding. Themes. There are two major themes in the book of Zechariah. Overarching is the theme of hope. Right? Zechariah is writing at a time. in 520 BC, and we remember this from Haggai last week, right? A remnant from Israel comes from Babylon. They come home. They're coming home. 50,000 Jews are coming home. And they get there and they meet nothing but trouble. There's people who are living here that weren't here when they left. We've got people from the northern kingdom who have settled in and are no longer Jews. But they're harassing them and they're now trying to build this temple and Haggai comes and says, Build the temple, and they start building the temple, Zechariah says, Build the temple and they start building the temple and it's just this little bitty thing. Right? It's just this little 90 by 90. Remember I told you the 90-foot by 90-foot little temple? And they're discouraged. They can't build a wall to protect Jerusalem, and they're discouraged. Zechariah brings hope. Zechariah brings hope. Haggai brings hope too. Remember last week when we talked about, he said, that you see this little bitty thing today, Haggai told him, but wait. You just wait. This is going to be magnificent. Right? It's the little work of a man that brings out the great work of God. Right? It's the little work of man that brings out the great work of God. And so here Here is is Zechariah coming in saying, Here your Messiah will sit. You're in you've just built the temple and Messiah is coming. Right? And Messiah's gonna build the temple into this great It there's a whole discussion on this, but but a huge aspect of this is the the hope that that Zechariah is trying to bring. He's he's going to bring comfort to these discouraged compatriots and the president of the United States. Present day. He's going to show a hope of deliverance for Israel in the future. He is going to talk almost every one of his prophecies includes discussion about the restoration of Israel. Not just Jerusalem, not just Jerusalem. Judah but all of Israel. It'll all come back. It'll all be unified. Uh hope of the coming Messiah, and we're gonna talk about three of those prophecies that you're gonna walk out of here going, Whoa. Whoa. Uh or maybe you've already read it and you're like This guy's dumb. But anyway, uh hope for the salvation of the nations. Not only not only is Israel going to be saved, but all nations will be saved. And all nations will be blessed through Israel, the fulfilling of which? Through you all nations will be blessed? Abrahamic covenant. The Abrahamic covenant, the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant. Very good. Very good. And then, of course, just these profound prophecies. I mean absolutely profound. profound prophecies of the Messiah. I I I would have loved to have just I I may as a matter of fact I may my next class may be, when I come back and do the next class, maybe just going through Zechariah to talk about the prophecies of of the Messiah. So they they show him as the prophet, they show him as the priest. We're covering that in chapter 3, verses 1 through 10. The king, 9, 9 through 10, and man and God, both man and God. You're going to see a very, very clear picture of who Messiah is. Who Messiah is. So you just hold on, because we're going to fly. So, y'all ready? Let's do it. Starting in chapter one, verses one through six, just want to give you an idea. Um just want to give you an idea of how Zechariah uh initiates his conversation, his his his pro his first prophecy. He says in verse 1, in the eighth month in the second year of Darius, that's two months later, by the way, than Haggai. Two months. Two months separation. Haggai's prophecies from Zechariah's first prophecy. In the eighth month and the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to the prophet Zechariah, son of Barekiah, son of Edom, saying, so Zechariah, the name of the. Zechariah, by the way, extremely common name uh in post-exilic uh Israel uh is the name Zechariah. Very, very common. Actually, very common throughout all of Israel, but uh his whole history. But especially common uh in the post-exilic. It means Yahweh remembers or the Lord remembers. He is mentioned specifically in chapter 5, verse 1 of Ezra also in chapter six verse fourteen as the son of Elio uh main reason for me putting this little nugget in here is because uh it had been uh one of the the thoughts Is that there were two Zechariahs, one was Zechariah son of Barakiah, and the other one being Zechariah son of Edo, and they used Ezra as a proof text, which is kind of dumb because the reality is this is very, very common for them to skip a general. generation. So in this case, we we assume from in Ezra him being called the son of Edo, uh, is that Edo was very important. So Zechariah's grandfather was in fact an important man and we know that by the way he's name. He's also mentioned in Nehemiah uh as being the head of the house of Nimshi. So he was one of the priests. Edo was a f was the head of the uh head of the the the family of Nimshe, a head priest that came over as part of the first fifty thousand that left Babylon and come into Jerusalem. And that's why he was considered important, because he was he was in charge of a family. That Also, by the way, makes Zechariah a Come on, if his dad was a priest he was a priest. So Zechariah was a priest. So uh a little uncommon for a priest to both be prophet and priest, by the way. A little uncommon for a prophet. I believe uh Jeremiah was a prophet was a priest as well as a prophet. Um and uh I had another example but uh okay. So Ezekiel. I'm sorry, Ezekiel. Um so he was uh so he was young when he received his first vision. Uh uh th that's the vision from one to eight. If you read in chapter two, verse four. It says, and to him, and said to him, Run, say to that young man, referring to Zechariah, say to that young man, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as villages without as a as villages without. without walls, because of the multitude of the people and the livestock in it. And I will be uh to her a wall of fire all around, declares the Lord, and I will be the glory in her midst. So that reference to him being a young man, there you you have it. Okay. So okay, so that's that's Zechariah. Um and he starts off saying, uh return to me. The Lord was very angry with your fathers. Therefore say say to them Then, thus declares the Lord, return to me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, thus says the Lord of hosts, return from me. from your evil ways and from your evil deeds, but they did not hear or pay attention to me, declares the Lord. Your fathers, where are they? Where are they? Dead? Dead. Yeah, so a similar similar comment comment to the wilderness, right? Uh similar kind of comment to the wilderness. Uh your father's uh uh uh Shhh. Now I just lost where I was. Where am I? This says, okay, verse six. But my words and my statutes which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? I love that verse. I love that verse. So they repented, so they being the the the the people there in that moment, uh they repented and said, As the Lord of hosts proposed to deal with us for our ways and deeds, so So he dealt with us. Uh So that yeah, so now you know of course that they did repent and they did start building the temple because we learned about Haggai last week. But a couple of kind of takeaways from this. This idea returned to me. The Hebrew is literally turned to me. Around. Just do it 180 degrees and come right back. Repent. Repent. Repent from what you're doing. If you remember in Haggai, what was the accusation that he made? What were they doing instead of building the temple? Yeah, they were building their houses. Right? And they so they started, they were building the walls of Jerusalem, and the Samarians came in and they said, Oh yeah, you're you're not you know you're not a To be doing that, and they said, Well, yeah, we are. King Cyrus said we could do it, and they wrote the letter to Arna Xerxes, and Arna Xerxes told them not to build what? Uh wall. The wall, yeah. Stop fortifying. But did he tell them to stop building the temple? No. But what did they do? They stopped everything. They just started building their houses, right? So he's saying repent from that. Repent from that. Repent. Just turn right around and come back. Don't be like. life your fathers and now we're in prophet number eleven of twelve and by now you understand the long history of the hard heartedness of Israel, right? And I know I keep saying this, but In the book of Jonah, what was the one thing that didn't listen to the call of God? Jonah, the Jew. He's the only one. Right? The sea listened, right? The trees listened. That came up and shaved again? The earth listened? The people of Nineveh listened? Who didn't? The fish listened? The only one in the book of Jonah that didn't listen was the Jew, the Israelites. Right, and I'm not trying to be critical of Jewish people in general, but the fact of the matter is, is that they were very hard hearted, and that's exactly what he's referring to here. Uh the word overtake your fathers, uh that means uh that word has the idea of of lasting beyond. It lasted beyond. The word of God given by the prophets, it stands forever. Right? People rise and fall. People live and die. The word of God never does. Right? This earth we should know by now what's gonna happen to this earth, what's gonna happen to it. It's going up, right? It's going up in flames. Right? It's gonna it's gonna be completely destroyed, but what will not be destroyed? The Word of God. Right? The Word of God will last forever. You burn up all the Bibles, but the Word of God will never change. Right? The Word of God will last forever. Also interesting that uh in this you have a reference that Zechariah makes to the prophets that prophesied to the fathers. So there you're talking about, you know. Joel, Amos, Obadiah, the Ami prophets, right? Uh Micah, Nahum, all of these prophets, and he's referring to them like that is the word of God. So he accepts these pre-exilic prophets as canon. Right? He already sees the works written by the previous prophets as being the true word of God. And that has great historical significance as well, because it means that they were probably also already being recorded, already being written down, already considered to be the Word of God, not just by him, because it's accepted. Zechariah says it's it is, but that must mean that it was accepted also by the Jews that were there. that were present. So that gives you great understanding that already these Ami prophets that preceded the post-exilic prophets, they're already considered canon. Right? They're already considered Bible. Right? Interesting. I just thought that was an interesting interesting footnote. Um this uh last little kind of interesting note here, um this term the Lord of hosts, which you see I believe it's verse. Verse two, the Lord was very angry with your fathers. Therefore Satan and thus declares the Lord of hosts. That is a favorite term of the three post exilic prophets. It's used elsewhere in Scripture, a total of two hundred. 161 times total in in the Old Testament you see this term, the Lord of hosts. Ninety-one times alone you will see them see this term in Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi. That breaks out to 14 times that Haggai uses it in three chapters, right? Fifty-three times that Zechariah will use it in 14 chapters, okay? And then 24 times that Malachi will use it, I think it's three chapters for Malachi. So, just to give you an idea, right? Uh this is a favorite term, this Lord of hosts. Um I think we're all fairly familiar with it really means the Lord of all of the earth, right? It's the Lord of the heavens, the earth. That's what you should understand when you see he's he is the God of everything, is what that is. He is the God of all of it. That's what that term means. Also interesting. Malachi quotes verse 3 in his chapter 3 verse 7. So he quotes he quotes Zechariah just 100 years later. I think there's a hundred years between the two. So that's also an interesting truth. Okay, now we're going to get into the prophecy. So open up your Bibles to chapter 3 and go we're going to go through verses 1 through 10. As a matter of fact, Let's Yeah, I think we got we've got time. Let's go ahead and actually just like to read that. We can maybe break it up. Someone want to get verses one through five, and then someone else get verses six through ten. Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord and Satan, standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan, and the Lord who had chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. It is not a branch plucked from the fire. Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed in filthy garments, and the angel said to those who were serving. standing before him. Remove the filthy garments from them. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity from you, and I will clothe you in pure vestment. And I said, Let them be a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turbulence. And the angel of the Lord admonished Joshua, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, if you will walk in my ways and if you will perform my service, then you will also govern my house and also have charge of my forks, and I will grant you free access among those who are standing here. Now listen, Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who are sitting in front of you, indeed They are men who are a symbol, for behold I am going to bring with my servant the branch. For behold the stone that I have set before Joshua, and one stone are seven eyes. Behold, I will engrave an inscription on it, declares the Lord of hosts. And I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite this neighbor to sit under his vine and under his fig tree. Just an incredible. incredible piece of scripture right there. And uh so much to unpack. First of all, uh just to make sure. Yeah. Is this Not a brand by f from the fire. Does then he show Joshua a high priest standing before the Lord, standing? He says, The Lord rebuke you, Satan. Now note, I want you to be I want you to follow along with this. Uh The angel of the Lord says, The Lord rebuke you, Satan. The Lord has chosen Jerusalem. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is this not a brand plot? From fire. Jerusalem is my chosen servant. Right? Jerusalem, that that is my chosen people, Satan. You're not going to bring a charge against my servant. My chosen people. Who can bring a charge against the elect? Paul will say in Romans. Who is going to bring a charge against God's elect? And then he says that they're purified by fire. They have gone. We we I took them away. They've gone into captivity. And they've returned. Have I not put them? Have I not Chastise them to the point where they have been purified by the fire that I put them through. They are in the refiner's fire. They're coming out from that. And here they stand. And who's saying all of this? This angel of the Lord. The angel of the Lord who is speaking like the Lord. Who is God that communicates the words of God? Who is that? Jesus. This is the pre what is it, the pre uh birth or pre-incarnate. Yeah, thank you. I lost the word in my head. This is a vision of the pre-incarnate Messiah. And he is sitting there, he is standing there, and he is saying, Rebuke Satan. This is my people. They are my chosen. People. And they were cleansed by fire. They're also cleansed by the angel of the Lord, because then what does he say? Take off those filthy rags off of him. Right? The the term there filthy means excrement. filled um just as a as a you know anyhow information. These are filthy, disgusting, embarrassing rags. But Christ removes that from them and puts on instead clean clothes. Purifies them, makes them clean, puts a new turban on his head. He wraps him up in his holiness. Right? He wraps him up. And if that's not a Enough of an amazing prophecy, if that's not enough of an amazing vision of Christ and His love for Jerusalem, then he talks about the branch. He says, He says, uh, the angel of the Lord. Lord solemnly assured Joshua, if you walk in my ways, keep my charge, and you shall rule my house and have charge over my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Uh hear now, O Joshua. priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men, uh uh for they are men who are a sign, behold, I will bring my servant the branch. So you've ever thought about what that term means? Is there a king on the throne in Israel at this time? Not not two thousand twenty two, I'm talking about five hundred BC. Is there a king sitting there now? No, who's in charge? Do you guys remember from last week? What's his name? Darius. Darius is the king of Persia, right? But who's the governor? Is uh Rubul? Oh. Right? Zerubable's in charge. But he's not a king. What happened to the king? Where did he? He's gone. Right? He's gone. You guys remember this discussion last week? What happened to Jehoiakim? What was the judgment that Jeremiah proclaimed to Jehoiakim? Yeah, no children are coming from you. You are the last of the kings and no child will come from you. It's a dead tree. It's just a dead tree sitting in the middle of a field, just a dead tree. This term branch is a little shoot, just a green little shoot that sprouts up off the side of a tree or Or a bush or something. It just shoots off. It's just an offshoot. It doesn't look particularly amazing. But if it's coming off a dead stump, it's pretty amazing. Right? It's not particularly cool looking or interesting looking. It certainly doesn't look like a king. It's just a branch. But this branch is what? Is his Servant. This branch is his servant. Is that an amazing thought? Just take a minute, just think about that for a minute. That is such an incredible thought. That God is going to resign. resurrect from the dead this little branch and it's gonna it's gonna be the offshoot of Jesse. That's what it says. That's what the the promise says. Of the scripture is. References to the brand. Someone want to get Jeremiah 23, verse 5, and someone else take Isaiah chapter 11, verse 1. Frank, but I just want to say that in this uh section we were just reading, the branch is capitalized. So right there it's it's not just a little significant branch. It's it's it's capitalized because it's acknowledged by by the translator that this is a reference to Messiah. But it's not necessarily capitalized in the Hebrew. So Jeremiah twenty three, five. Yep. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch, and he shall reign as king and deal wisely. shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. So Jeremiah was writing during the exilic period for Judah, right? So he covered I think it was five eighty six. So Zechariah knows what he's saying here. He knows the implication that he's saying here. My righteous branch, an offshoot of that it's going to sit on the throne, right? What about Isaiah 11, 1? This is a pre-Israel to the prophet. Then a shoot will spring from a stem of Jesse and a branch from the roots will bear fruit. Yeah. So this little shoot, this image that the Bible creates of this little shoot That comes from the side of this stomach. Right? Just shooting off. Nothing particularly interesting or amazing but there. Just humble in nature. Just humble in nature. Incredible. Uh This is such an incredible image. Also, he refers to the branch as my servant. As my servant. My servant, the branch. So here his reference to the Messiah as my servant. And that is, I'm not, you don't have to read all of this. Chapters 41 through 53 in the book of Isaiah, culminating with the suffering of the servant. Right in Isaiah 53. Culminating with the uh the suffering of the Messiah, this elsewhere referred to as a uh as a messianic terminology. Uh in Zeko, 6:12, which I will not cover the full prophecy, but there he refers to the branch as a man. So if you flip to chapter verse 12, and say to him, thus the says the Lord, behold the man whose name is the branch, for he shall branch out from this place. He shall build the temple of the Lord. The branch is so that's that's this idea. So the here you're getting a really clear indication of exactly who Messiah is going to be, right? He's going to be a priest, right? Because he's Stands before and rebukes Satan. He stands before God on behalf of his people. He's a priest. He's serving as a priest. Ironically, to Joshua, which is Yeshua, who is also a Priest. There's an irony in this. So here is the servant, the branch, standing before the Lord, rebuking Satan on behalf of Yeshua, who is a priest whom he makes into and turns into a priest and says, You are a sign. Because what was Israel always supposed to be? A nation of what? Of priests. And what are we supposed to be? is Christians to the world. Priests. Right? What are we to the world? We are a proclaimer of the Word of God, and we are one that goes out and serves and As a priest to minister to those unbelievers around us. You want a quick little nudge to go out there and start evangelizing? There's your quick little nudge. But Do what? Oh, I'm just saying I don't see Isaiah forty one, fifty three. Oh no, no, no, no, no, no. That's chapters forty one through fifty three. Oh. That that is the section in which Isaiah deals with and discusses the servants. Okay. But you said that we're supposed to be priests. Oh yeah. I thought we were saints. We are saints. But let's go to First Peter. Hey I taught this one angle right here. Like saying that we're saints is saying that we're holy and set apart. Saying that we're freezing is a it's It's as much uh reference to our being set apart but also our relationship to the world around us. Right, exactly. They're they're not contrary, but they're just relating to different aspects of our Christian life. Mm-hmm. Yeah, and the way I talked about this when I taught First Peter, just to elucidate In when the nation of Israel was created, okay, when they first came into the promised land Joshua was conquering, God had set out which would be the Levitic cities, right? The cities where Nevis were. Further from a day's walk of any part of Israel. That's how the cities were lined up. They were lined up in such a way that they were never more than a day's walk away. Because God wanted to ensure that everybody had access to the priests. And here we are as Christians, right, and Peter refers to us as being in the diaspora. We're dispersed. Right? Throughout the world. We're dispersed. Why? To be priests. To be priests to those around us. There's a reason that God scattered us. If we all sit in our little holy huddle and just wait for the Lord to come in on the clouds, we're not Not doing our job. Our job is to be out there and to be priests. Right? So that's how I kind of addressed that subject back in First Peter. And we of course could review that again if you want, but I don't have time, so I'm not going to do that. So then is it as priests we are to be sharing the gospels? Absolutely. ministering and praying for and interceding on behalf of those are priestly functions. Right. So yeah, so it's a it's an excellent discussion. Uh I don't have time to unpack it fully unfortunately. But yeah. Should we have let me just leave it at this, should we not have compassion on our unbelieving on the unbelieving world? And should we not be praying to God that they o that He opens the hearts of the unbelieving? Right? That's a priestly function. Interceding. Right. Okay. Uh then he refers to him as the stone, and I'm gonna speed up just a little bit 'cause now I'm I thought I had all the time in the world and now I don't, so that's the way this happens. But the stone, uh the stone is uh I think uh a very common uh terminal I think most people are familiar with that. Psalm 118 verse 22 if someone wants to grab that quickly The stone which the building projected has become the chief cornerstone. Yeah, and so that's everybody's familiar, a lot of people are familiar with that's also quoted in First Peter as well. This is the same illusion as the stone. stone. But he says that this stone has seven eyes and that's a little bit strange. A stone with eyes. Um there's different uh couple of different ideas on that. Uh the that seven represents the number of completeness. So that in the The stone is complete. The one that I prefer is this sevenfold spirit of God, which is found in Isaiah 11 2. So if you flip to Isaiah 11-2 very quickly. Yeah, go ahead. And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. The spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. Okay, so those are the seven things that make up the spirit of the Lord, right? The spirit uh that shall rest, wisdom, understanding, counsel, might, knowledge, fear, and resting. or the the sevenfold spirit of the Lord. So it sounds kind of weird, but it's actually not as weird as you think about. Just seven characteristics of the spirit of God. Um uh and then uh uh then oh yeah And then finally there are four elements here to God's promise. Uh that Christ the high pre Christ stands as the high priest and he intervenes on our behalf. I've already mentioned that one. Uh through Christ we are cleansed. I also mentioned that one. Uh That Christ compels us to obey. That I did not mention, uh, but that's very much in view here when he tells him in verse six, Thus says the Lord, if you will walk in my ways, keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts and I will give you the the uh the right of access among those who are standing here. So this idea of through your obedience and then walking in obedience you'll be blessed. Um so Christ can And then Christ is ultimately our deliverer. He's the branch, right? He's the one that's coming to ultimately deliver us. So you see that as well. Okay, any questions on this? Okay. Um so here's what I'm going to do. I am going to skip over this one for the moment. If I have time I'll go back to it because I really would prefer to spend the rest of my time talking about this. To make sure I have time. Nine, nine, and ten, just so you know, is the uh the prophecy of the king coming on a cult. Okay. Uh that's so when when Christ goes into Jerusalem. Jerusalem, right? And they're they're all saying Hosanna, Hosanna and the highest. Why were all those people there saying that? They were there saying that because the prophecies all said he would be arriving on that day, and the prophecies further said he'd be arriving on a cult, and there was Christ coming in on a cult, so they all saw him as the Messiah in that moment. Hosanna to the son of David, Hosanna the highest. Here comes the son of David, here comes this time. Right? So that was the idea there. But you can go back and read most of that yourself again. I want to make sure I have time to cover this because I read this and then I read it again and then I read it again and then I read it again and then I was just like wow this is an incredible prophecy. Okay. Uh let's go to chapter twelve starting in verse 10. And this you might want to hold on to your top of your head because this might blow your mind. And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and pleas for mercy, so that when they look upon me, on whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him. As one mourns for an only child. I'm going to read that again, but I want you to hear the prepositions that are being used. I want you to listen and think about the prepositions that are being used in this. This is really powerful stuff. And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and please for mercy, so that when they look upon me, on whom they They have pierced, they shall mourn for him. As one who mourns for an only child and weep bitterly over him, as one who weeps Over a firstborn. The Greek word translated there from Hebrew would be prodakos. Anybody know who's called the Protocos? The firstborn of all creation? Jesus. So when Paul uses that term, he knows exactly what he's talking about. He knows exactly what he's called him. Just as a note there. On that day, the mourning in Jerusalem will be as great as for the mourning for Hadab Rahman in the plain of Megiddo. The land shall mourn each family by itself, the family of the house of David by itself, and their wives by themselves. The family of the house of Nathan by itself, and their wives by themselves, the family of the house of Levi by itself, and their wives by themselves, and the family of the Shemites, or Shemites, by itself, and their w Neil lies by themselves and all the families that are left, each by itself, and their wives by themselves. On that day there shall be a fountain open for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and uncleanliness. It's almost hard to read that without choking up. Um I starting with just the pouring out of grace and supplication. We've been talking about God's wrath and how is God's wrath always discussed when it when it goes out. You remember these conversations about the lava that goes up, it's like the top of the dam and it Eventually the dam is going to burst and it's going to pour out. He's not talking about his wrath. He's talking about his grace and his mercy. And it's gonna pour out. It's gonna flood. They will grieve for him whom they have pierced. And then this is such a powerful Statement of deity that literally through the centuries, Jewish people have been trying to change these words. They cannot understand. How they could possibly pierce God. How can you pierce God? God is spirit. You can't drive a spear. You can't slay God. God? That term piercing means to slay. That term piercing means to slay. How do you slay God? And they've spent there's so many Jewish attempts at retranslating this. There's so many Jewish attempts at retranslating this. It's almost funny. It's like they're deliberately Trying to get away from what they know is a fact. Here it says that they will pierce God. And God is equivalent to Messiah. In the preceding verses, all of the first pronoun prepositions are clearly Messiah. And all of the verses following, all of the verses are talking, all of the first person prepositions. Pronoun prepositions are all referring to Messiah. But here it's mixed. Sometimes the first person pronoun is clearly talking about God. Other times it's clearly talking about Messiah. What's the only takeaway that you can do? can get from that. Messiah is God. And you can't pierce his spirit, so Messiah must have also become a what? A man. And you know that because if you go back to the the prophecies of the branch, There's going to be a man who is the branch who sits on the throne of David. Right? I mean, if I was a Jew. And I don't want to believe in Jesus, I'd probably try and make something up too. Just saying. Right? If I was a non-believer, if I was an atheist or an agnostic, I would do whatever I could to make this prophecy. disappeared. I would say it must have been much later. Maybe it was written in. Couldn't possibly have been this same author. Right? I wouldn't want this thing to be placed in what to be 480 BC, nearly 500 years before Jesus was born, claimed to be God, died, rose again, I wouldn't want that. Couldn't have that. I'd have to place that somewhere. Else. And I would do whatever I could to say that it must be something else. And just so you know, some of the different ideas through the years, the Jews referred to this as uh uh Messiah Ben Joseph. Messiah ben Joseph. This must be a different Messiah. There must be two Messiahs. There's Messiah ben Joseph and Messiah ben David. There' There's one that's going to be king and one that's going to suffer. in scripture that talks about two messiahs. But here, because they can't understand what it's saying, they come up with this two messiah theory. I mean. . All you have to do is it's like like a little kid, right? A kid like he does something wrong and you're like, What did you do? And they start shaking. Um you already know they did something wrong. You already know they're in charge. Right? Why? Because um, did you eat that cookie? Um no, no, I didn't eat that cookie. I don't need a cookie. Well where'd the cookie? Well where where'd the cookie go? Oh the the um um my sister? Um my sister came and ate it, you start making things up, right? But you already know just based on the way that the the behavior right that they know there's something wrong here, right? There's something wrong here. This this is So powerful, such a clear declaration of the Messiah, the suffering servant, the one who will be pierced. It's so clear that they've tried to get out of it. Can I just make one comment? Mm-hmm. Uh a lot of Jews I don't know about the scribe their but uh other Jews don't read Isaiah. Or later on they won't they'll read the first five if they read. Yeah Isaiah A fifty three in many synagogues is actually removed from the scripture. That's a fact. Yeah, you're right. This one I don't believe has that has that also distinction. Although That's an interesting distinction. Like we just this one this this was not this was not part of canon. This was not inspired. Um Paul refers to this term firstborn in Colossians 1, 15 through 18. They will grieve with great mourning, the Hebrew says. And it's a reference actually to 2 Kings 23. twenty nine where they mourned the death of King Josiah. So this idea of of uh their love for this king or their their their celebration of this king when he died, they mourned him greatly in the plains of the world. Megiddo, uh and that is a reference to the morning of King Josiah. Uh so it was like the morning of the King Josiah. Um and then everybody, everybody mourns, right? You have the families, uh, each family, the house of David, so every the political body of Israel will mourn. The house of Nathan, the prophets will mourn. The descendants of Levi, the priests will be. Will mourn. The Shemites, who are part of the Levitical priesthood, but were particularly, they were like the head priests during the post-exilic era, they will also mourn. In this I mean just an amazing statement that you get about the fountain open. On that day there shall be a fountain open for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and unclean. This idea that here you're looking forward and seeing that there will be grace and mercy and forgiveness for all nations. Right? For all nations. Because there he will sit on his throne in the house of David. Just an incredible, incredible prophecy. See this to make sure I covered everything. Where is my mouse? Ever had that problem like the mouse just disappears like you can't see the little arrow? Okay. So now I got at all. Any questions on that one? That one blow your mind? Because it blew mine. Like I it literally blew my mind. I had to pick it up off the ceiling. It was stuck up there. Did that how does that make your fame Is that not like just amazing? Like an amazing piece of scripture? Um because it it definitely shook mine. I mean it definitely really, really uh rattled me when I read it. Uh okay, so I've got three minutes. I'll go back to this one only to read it and go over it. So um uh because I I it again is another one that is worth more attention than I have time to give it. Um maybe we should just start doing like, you know, like Bible studies like three hours long. What do you think? We can just do that, right? We can just uh we should put that in, submit that to the elders as a as a can we just have a three hour Bibles we get here at heck I can't get here at 9 30. Alright, so chapter 9, verses 9 through 9, not just 9 and 10. Rejoice greatly. O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you, righteous and having salvation as he, humbled and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, the war horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace to the nations, his rule shall be from sea to sea, and from the The river, which is a reference to the Euphrates River, to the ends of the earth. Um just a couple of really quick notes on this. Uh obviously clearly a depiction of the coming king. Uh This term righteous and having salvation um actually is I think probably not completely translated as well as it could be in the NASB or the ESP. A better translation for this might be vindicated and uh s instead of salvation, uh vindicated and and uh what what's the other term? It's like delightful heir is the idea. So it It's actually not the righteousness there means that he has the right to rule. That he will have the right to rule. I mean he is righteous. The king is righteous, sure, in the holiness sense, but here the specific references is really about his right to rule. And also having salvation meaning he was saved or he was brought forth and and and uh saved by God. Right? He was he was protected by God. And of course you can read in the gospel of Accounts how Satan did everything in his power to try and stop Jesus on his mission, but ultimately he failed. Right? And so it's an idea that he will go through troubles, but God will deliver him through it. That term writing on a cult. Yes, he is humble. That word is clear there, but that writing on a cult elsewhere in scripture is a reference to gosh, is that like super small? I don't know how it got so small. Um that reference to writing on a cult depicts him as a prince. Okay, you can read in Judges, you can read in 2 Samuel, where the princes were riding donkeys. So that was that was the idea here is that yes, he is humble, but he is he is vindicated By God. He is right to the heir of the throne. He's going to arrive. He's been saved by God. He's been preserved by God for this moment when he walks into Jerusalem and this humble servant, this little branch of Jesse, this little shoot. is now going to be king. He is proclaimed as king. And that's the takeaway there. Oh, I'm out of time. It's in the notes. Just go back. Read out. Sorry, let us pray us