The book of the back I'll tell you a uh just a very quick very quick primer for this. Uh I was not originally, and many of you know this just from the store, I was not originally going to teach this summer. Um needed an extra teacher and um because they didn't have uh enough uh people teaching and uh so um uh I was having lunch with Pastor Gabe. He asked me if I'd be interested And I said, Well yeah, but you know, I don't know what I'd teach. We were kinda talking about it and he said, Well what do you think? And I said, Well, you know, it might be fun to do the book of Habakkuk and I think he must have thought, thirteen weeks on a three chapter book? That's a little crazy, right? Um but uh I I have an affection for this book. Uh I have a a kind of a deep respect for this book. Um and then I kinda thought about it and I'm like, yeah, okay, fair enough. Maybe maybe thirteen 13 weeks on three chapters is a lot. Uh and then this week as I was getting deeper into the study of it, I realized, man, 13 weeks was about the right amount of time. I mean, there's so much. wonderful things in this book. Uh so many things to take away from it. Um I'm gonna go I'm gonna go ahead and skip. So this one, this hasn't changed. This is the same. Um I did have uh And I didn't put up here the Denton Bible Church podcast. It was like a three uh Tommy Nelson does a three day kind of walk through. He called it quarantine Bible study back when COVID first started. He just went walks through the book and does the nice job just literally just exeguting the scripture. He's reading the verses, speaking about it, reading the verses, speaking about it. So if you're just like wanting just kind of a quick primary and a walk through, it takes you about an hour and a half, maybe two hours to go through. It's a you can go on a Meton Bible and and get that. Uh so I did listen to that, watch that, but other than that I stuck with my standard guys. Really getting into this Walter Kaiser guy, uh he's really incredible, really deep knowledge. So I Frank, remind me why did you cross off that one and start using that resource? So Hobart Hobart Freeman uh was a Baptist minister, um, and uh had a friend give me the book and um it was from movie press and so I kinda read I said, Oh this should be fine I read through some of the things and then I normally do a study of the author before I because I just I'm very careful about I want to be very careful about the the sources. Turns out this guy later in life joined some kind of charismatic organizations and it it's nothing wrong with the book that I was using but just in complete transparency I tend to stay away from some of that. So, uh yeah, I just struck him off and and added to it. So uh that's why I crossed him off there. So um again the book was fine. There was nothing, you know, it was you know, again, moody press and whatever, but Uh in in this case because he f sort of fell away as he gotten later in life, I I tend to stay away from that. So uh so anyway, uh okay. Back to this. Uh you can see we're now at Habakkuk, right? We're almost to the captivity of Judah, uh the Babylonian captivity. Uh and we talked last week about this because of course Zephaniah also speaks about the coming captivity. Habakkuk, of course, will talk about this same topic, but in a completely different way. So we talked about the Babylonian captivity last week. I'm not going to spend as much time on it this week because I I want to get to some other topics or some deeper topics and I have to cut this into the right amount of time. But uh uh so now we see that the coming of of uh uh the captivity and this is where Haber is So he is a contemporary of Jeremiah, a contemporary of Ezekiel, and a forerunner of Daniel. So if you are studying this group of prophets, I think starting with Mayom, but really actually kind of in this area here. They're another cluster, kind of like we talked about the Ami prophets. They're their subject matters the same. There's a lot of sayings and expressions and Hebrew verses. garbage that's the same. You'll find a lot of similarities between the different uh authors. You'll find a lot of different uh they'll borrow from one another, so to speak. Um everybody almost everybody borrows from Isaiah, by the way. So that that doesn't uh he stands I think uh probably highest among the prophets in terms of the influence that he had. Him and Jeremiah I think had the most influence on the other prophets. If if you start reading and studying some of this it's quite interesting. Interesting. So uh it's academic, but it's it's interesting. Uh so this is where we are. And uh just to let you know, um just kind of a quick thing, I I was gonna do Zechariah next week. So I know there are a lot of you that were like, Oh, I can't wait for Zechariah. I can't wait for Zechariah. But I'm actually doing High Guy next week uh because it's a shorter book. Uh I've got a very busy week next week uh with some things that are coming up and so in order to give me enough time to cover all of the material for Zechariah and give a fair treatment of it. I want to make sure that I give myself a freer week. Uh there, by the way, same time frame. It was just an arbitrary choice on my from my side to pick Zechariah before Holly. guy. So really exact same. So we're still staying in that chronological order. Literally they were prophesying at the exact same time. So um so it doesn't disrupt the chronological order at all. I just wanted to note that I was because I know I know you guys are like I I've been in this class. I only wanted just to read about Zechariah. So you're gonna wait one more week. The political instability. So we talked last week about the fall and of course Nahum of course uh prophesied about the fall of Assyria, right? Uh remember Nahum was the uh the the uh uh counterpart to uh to Jonah. Right. I'm just gonna take you back a couple weeks. Uh where Jonah ran from Nineveh because he wanted to, he did not want to preach repentance. sentence to Nineveh. Then he preaches and of course he utters like what was it, four words and and all of a sudden the entire city is saved and he's furious, right? That was the one that was that was Jonah. Uh Then look flipping to Nahum, Nahum pronounces judgment against Assyria. And so shortly after Nahum pronounces judgment, Assyria falls. And in the wake of the destruction of Assyria, Which we'll talk a little more about, there becomes this massive political vacuum. Okay? Egypt starts buying for power. Babylon starts buying for power. The Medo Persians start buying for power. All of these kingdoms that are now coming in and kind of s falling into this massive political vortex that's created, if you will, as a result of the fall of Assyria. And like a flash in the Hand comes Nebulazar in 626 BC, who is, by the way, the the final male in the coffin of Assyria. He and he goes up uh with the Medo-Persians and defeats the king of Assyria in Nineveh, uh Which is what, by the way, Nahum was prophesying. But let's focus for a minute on the city of Babylon. Uh the city of Babylon, the first mention of it in Genesis eleven, the Tower of Babel. The city of Babylon is right here I don't know if you can see my okay right here and you'll notice that it's it's really situated right on the Euphrates River okay and it's near the Tigris River okay So if you just think about it from a pure political commercial standpoint, this is a massive, massive port city. Like it it just grew from its geopolitical position. And it was had traders coming in and out of it. It had, you know, all people from all over the world would come to it. It was a very uh metropolitan, think of it like a little bit, it wasn't nearly the size of Nineveh. but it was kind of like a like a like a cosmopolitan. It was a hip place to go. It was like the city of Austin. Right? In Texas, you know y all the California people moved to Austin and and it's like super hip and you know uh uh keep Boston weird and all this stuff. Well that's kind of the way Babylon is. I in uh seventeen ninety two, uh well I'm sorry, eighteen ninety-four, uh the Amorite king Sumabom, I don't know if I'm pronouncing that right, but this king uh begins what is the what's called the Babylonian Empire. Uh and this is in eighteen ninety four. In seventeen ninety two its most famous and perhaps the most famous king of from Babylon arises his his name is Hammurabi. And you might know him from the law code, Hammurabi's text, right? Uh which was super famous for a couple of reasons, but what it really did was it allowed this king to extend his reach. Okay, because he had laws that had to be followed. It was the first time anybody ever thought about codifying a law. Rules for commerce, rules for how to treat each other, rules for you know penalties for for for stealing and for murder and the things. And this allowed him, this was really instrumental in allowing him to grow the Babylonian Empire. Looking ahead then, it falls under Assyrian control in 1158 BC. And it's really just reduced to kind of a small kingdom. Okay? All the way up until Nebu Pilasar. Now Nebu Pilasar, again, Assyria is starting to weaken. Nebu Pilazar sees that as an opportunity in this little kingdom. kingdom with almost overnight expands. He conquers Nineveh. He works with the Medo the Medo-Persians. He conquers Nineveh. He goes down, he conquers Egypt. Okay? And in just this almost Incredible amount, like very quick amount of time. Eighty-six years, the Neo-Babylonian Empire from beginning to end existed. Think about that. 86 years. Much like half, like even a third the size of the time. that the United States has been in existence. Just boom, like a flash in the pan, Nebuchadalazar comes out. His son is a great conqueror, Nebuchadnezzar, who you are familiar with because of his mentions in the Bible. And of course you can read in the book of Daniel. the stories of Nebuchadnezzar, and you can also read in Jeremiah, there's some things there as well. But Nebuchadnezzar defeats Meko II, king of Egypt, right around the same time that King Josiah is killed by the Egyptians. Right, on the plains of Megiddo. So if you're going back to last week, we talked about the good King Josiah, right? Manasseh was evil. He was the most evil of all the Judean kings. God pronounces judgment against. Judah because of Manasseh, and here comes Josiah, who is faithful, and he breaks down all of the high places. He destroys the idol, he cleanses the temple, he gets the book of the law, and God says, I will not judge. I'm not going to keep from judging Judah, that's a done deal. But in your days, Josiah, I will not judge Judah. Because of his love for King Josiah. And we talked about how the underlying politics they were they were also corrupt. So what Once his sons came involved, right, Jehoiakim, Jehoiakim, once those next series of kings, Zedekiah, I believe his name is, come in, they just return to that evil. All the politics is there, everything is there, they just go right back in. into evil again shortly after Josiah dies. But the point here, Nebuchadnezzar defeats Neko right after Josiah dies and then starts pressing on uh Jerusalem. So he takes away King Jehoiakim and he puts or I'm sorry, he takes away uh Jehoiakim, takes his son, renames him to Jehoiakim, which is by the way something that happened. during the the ancient world, whenever you conquered a king, you rename that king to show your dominance over him. So you force him to be renamed. So he was renamed, and then of course Zedekiah will rebel and the the captivity begins. So that's kind of how that goes down. But the idea and the thing that I think we really need to take away here is is really a couple things. Nebu Pilasar was sucked into a vacuum and this empire grew literally over. It just went from it was so so that's an im important aspect. Uh i it went from being just a small little kingdom of Babylon to all of what you see here today, uh by six twenty I believe is right. 626 BC. It just goes boom like a popcorn. And then eventually in 539 BC, again, only 87 years, Cyrus II from Persia will come in, take Babylon without a real fight, as a matter of fact. As a matter of fact, Babylon doesn't even resist very much. Uh and the king of the King Cyrus then takes over Babylon. But Babylon was a massive, again like a massive cultural center. So they had these hanging gardens, they had these beautiful gates. Um Nebuchadnezzar especially was was he loved to build and and he built a lot of beautiful objects in the city. Uh and then eventually in 331 BC, Alexander the Great will come in, and then from there you'll see the Seleucian Empire. I'm not going to get into all of that, just because I'm just trying to cover the brief history of Babylon. Um Okay. And why is that important? Because it when you start looking at the book of Habakkuk, what you're going to see is the way that God is working during this time. He is going to talk about how he is going to use the wicked and then how he is going to judge the wicked. And so much of Habakkuk's prayer and what God's response to him is is talking about uh all of these things that are going on. So I just want that to stay in perspective. This is the outline of Habakkuk. The first is the prophet's distress. So the prophets distress. So he's gonna start off with a lament. W God, why do you do this? And then God is going to answer him and that's gonna cause him more stress. So he doesn't like the answer that God gives him. So that causes him more stress. And then the Lord answers him again, but this time in a more full way, in a more vivid way, and this where he pronounces the five woes for the wicked. This then a lot. Habakkuk, okay, it it aligns Habakkuk to the will of God. And once Habakkuk understands and sees the will of God, he then finds confidence. And so then after that Habakkuk's prayer is an amazing prayer, recalling God's work, a vision of what's called a theophany or a presence of God, like a physical manifestation of God, and then finally the prophet rejoices. Um uh Habakkuk is going to wrestle with this idea. Uh he's going to wrestle with this idea of theodicy. T H E O D I C Y. Theodicy. And he is going to get a theophany as a result. Just as a kind of an interesting fact. So Habakkuk is wrestling with the apologetical problem of squaring off the goodness and justice of God with the presence of what seems like unbridled, uncontained evil. And God will will step in and say, I am the one ordaining it. Is that a problem for us? to kind of wrestle with today? Is that something that you've struggled with? I mean, because I know I have. Have you ever wrestled with this issue? How could God allow so much evil in the world? How could God use evil in the world? If all things were How is it that all of this evil is somehow used by God and ordained by God? You ever thought about that? Does that ever cause you a problem personally? Does it cause you struggles in your face? I mean raise your hand if it's caused you a struggle. in your faith in your life. You ever had this question presented to you while giving the gospel? Raise your hand. You ever had this as a gospel question? Right? Oh well I can't believe in your God. Your God He's a sovereign God. How could he have so much evil? Can I say something? Yep. We are in this a group of ladies from H B C and Book Study. And we are studying now on Piper is Providence. Mm-hmm. You need to read that book. Your question will be answered. I would tell John Piper he needs to read a backup. I'm not kidding and when she first picked this out there, Lapelle, I'm not reading that size of eighty pages. Yeah. And I'm just gonna tell you I I my love for this book, um, my affection for this book is how unapologetic God actually is. this book. You're gonna you're gonna see God, he's gonna just come right out and he's gonna say, Yeah I did. Yeah I did. Yeah I do. Yeah I do. It's my plan. And I just love that. Because he's not hiding from anybody. You get that question when you're given the gospel, and I know man, if you've done it, it makes your stomach tremble, right? Like how I don't know exactly how to answer this. I don't know the right thing to say. How am I going and then when you start answering then never gonna like the answer, right? They're just gonna start beating on you. Right? And and it's it's an uncomfortable situation to be in. You know, when you talk to uh I I have a friend who uh has has endured A lot of a great amount of sin on her personally has been inflicted. Now she's not a believer, okay, she's not a believer, but she her attitude is like, How could God do this to me? How could God God do this to me. And then you give her the gospel and she's like, wait a minute. You're telling me that those evil that evil can be forgiven? You're telling me that that evil can be forgiven and that person can be saved? That person's the same as me? It's a tough question. It will it will wrench your gut if you find yourself in that position. It's hard. But God, He doesn't run from it. He's not ashamed, he's not afraid, he's not running, it's not a secret. There's no you know, he's right there and I love that about this book. I love that about this book. It's my favorite part about this book. Yep. But sometimes when I'm in a position like that, not only is it frustrating because I know that this person is stuck in that mindset, but it's also frustrating for me as the person who is sharing or witnessing. to that person because I think to myself, you know, how is it God that you're allowing this to blind her or him or them? You know, this person is being literally blinded by your word. you know, or not by your word, but by these actions blinded from your word and you know, and it's an impetus issue for me as well to just say, Well, I've shared it Yeah, it it it does. Because I think I I think that we always want to have the right response. Right? Like I mean is that I know I I always wanna have that I always wanna have the answer right there at my hands. But and we can get into this more down the way, but it fundamentally it's an emotional issue as well, as much as anything else. It becomes an emotional issue from an evangelical. This is a person experiencing pain. Pain, great pain, terrible pain. And now you're telling her that the very God you're asking them to bow their knee to is the one who ordained that pain against them. It's a tough spot. It's a tough spot. Alright, so let's move on. Uh the big ideas of Habakkuk. Uh I'm gonna bring this up. It'll be also the last slide. It'll look a little different because I just put it on the same slide I normally put my my themes on. But I wanted to get this out there right away because I realized I I literally I wrote down I wrote down six different ways six different ways I could teach the entire book of Habakkuk with Different emphasis on different things. Six ways. And the reality is I can't do that in an hour, like an hour and forty five minutes, right? Or hour and I'm sorry, hour and uh what is how much time do I have? Well don't tell me that because I wanted to give you a perspective on this that that that there are a lot of different things that you can take out of this book that will allow you to I mean just enjoy you can chew through this book for a long long time I I could have gotten 13 weeks out of this book no problem so uh the first is the righteousness of God And in the righteousness of God, you see the love for his chosen people. His promise that he will destroy the wicked and he will judge sin. His promise for that. Why? Because he's righteous. And his dispensation of justice specifically. Specifically against the wicked nations. How does God deal with nations? You know how God deals with individuals, but how does God deal with nations? And do you know that God is an active force in this geopolitical spectrum, these nations that rise up and fall, Hitler coming up, Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchalazar, all of these things are they're all in the workings of God, in the function of God, and he's using it uh in ways uh uh in in ways to to exact justice against wicked nations. The righteous shall live by faith. This is The Book of Habakkuk is also one of the most quoted prophets in Scripture. It's in Romans 1. 17, Galatians 3. 11, Hebrews 10. 38. This righteous shall live by faith. Uh there's an argument that it was um foundational to Paul's personal theology. Uh the book of Philippians is very much about some of the same things that Habakkuk will cover uh in this. Uh i it it's um you know obviously Romans one seventeen, uh the use of the righteous shall live by faith, which first appears here in Habakkuk for the Reformation and how it was used during the Reformation. It was the it was the sounding cry of Luther, right? It was the sounding cry of the Reformation. So there's tremendous historical significance to this book as well, uh with respect to you know more modern history. Uh Uh and then what did Habakkuk even mean by that? Like there's this whole I mean, okay, the righteous shall live by faith. We know how Paul uses it, we see how Paul uses it, we see how it's used in Galatians, see how it's used in Romans, we see how it's used in in Hebrews. Hebrews, but what exactly what exactly does Habakkuk mean when he says that to a Jewish nation under the law? What does that mean? Right? So there's a whole topic of discussion just on that. The prayer of the righteous. Habakkuk's prayer is an amazing prayer, and it's really a model for how we should pray. This honesty that he has with God. He's completely honest with God. Right? He lays out his lament. And then when he hears the answer, he lays out his concerns about what God is doing and how it doesn't reconcile to his idea of who God is. And then he waits. Then he waits. He doesn't just, well, God, bam, here's my argument, and then he's like, I'm just rolling. No, he's he's gonna tell you, I'm waiting for God to reprove me. Because I have this mindset about who God is. Somebody's got to tell me, God, you've got to tell me what what am I missing? And He waits for that. And he gets an answer for that. Um and that answer causes him tremendous re rejoicing. It it puts him in an alignment with God. So now he starts off saying, God, how could you be this way? God, why would you do this? This I don't understand. Understand this is who you are, to rejoicing. Rejoicing in the Lord, because his mind is now aligned. He understands and he sees. And he sees the goodness of God through that. So these are just the the major themes which I'm trying to hit on today. But know that, like I said, I had six different ways I could teach this. So there's a whole lot of different things that I could bring up. But these are the three that I'm going to focus on as we go through. Okay. All right. Anybody have any questions? And before we get into the scripture uh just really quick um Nineveh, I mean this is outside. But it something you had mentioned made me think about it. Is it would Nineveh Nineveh be considered um modern day Iraq Iraq? Yeah, it all all of this yeah, that's a good question. G geographically all of this is actually within Iraq, right? So Babylon uh is um fifty five miles south of Baghdad. Okay, and uh Nineveh is was discovered um in also also in Iraq and was was the archaeological dig and everything but they they dug it up it's also in Iraq. So this Mesopotamia, this area of Mesopotamia which we're talking about, a lot of it is really focused in in the the current modern Iraq. As a matter of fact, yeah, like I said, Baghdad is really, really close to where they found the the ruins from Babylon. So and you can still go see Nebuchadnezzar's palace, for example, is still there. Um uh and and and uh presence. So um yeah so thank you good question um so all right so let's go through it uh starting in chapter one verse one um He starts off with a lament. How long, O Lord? How long, O Lord, shall I cry for help? Will you not hear? I cry to you, violence? Will you not save? Where are you, God? Why do you make me, listen to the accusation in this, why do you make me see iniquity? Why do you make me see iniquity? And why do you idly look at wrong? Destruction and violence are before me, strife, contention. So he's going off, right? It's all of these things, but there's two aspects to this lament. The first is I'm seeing violence. I'm seeing iniquity. sitting in Judah and he's seeing these things, right? We talked last week about the corruption of the Judean uh the Judean rulers and princes, uh you know, and and how it was perverting justice. And so Habakkuk is amidst this And he's seeing that the poor are being oppressed. He's seeing all of these things go on in the city of Judah. And he knows that Deuteronomy 22 is there. Deuteronomy 23 is there. You promised to judge this when you saw this. You said that this would happen, God, that you would judge this. Why aren't you doing anything? Why aren't you doing anything? He says, you will not hear. You will not save. You will not idly look. Or you idly look. You idly standing by while all of these things are happening. Right? Anybody uh can someone open up 1 Peter 5? That's okay, actually I I put it on the slide here. Uh it it really brings up this second Peter verse, right? The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count Slowness, but as is patient towards you, not wishing that any should perish. But that all should reach repentance. So God's God's uh patience, God's long suffering was sin. We've talked about this before, so I'm not gonna spend a ton of time on that, but just wanna remind you guys that we we we As we've talked about this, here is Habakkuk in the middle of this thing, you know, what what is going on? Why aren't you doing anything? Why haven't you acted? Right? So this is the starting point. Um anybody else ever feel? this way? Maybe ever have this kind of feeling like I I I know that that you know we we have a world that today it just seems like it's getting crazier and cra I I was telling Erica this yesterday. It just feels like the world is just going insane. You know, with politics, I mean you can't you can't even utter a a political opinion. You know, you're gonna get canceled. Someone's gonna cancel you. Either from the right or the left, doesn't matter, you're gonna get canceled. Someone's gonna cancel you. You know, I mean, uh what was it uh Cracker Barrel decides to to provide uh uh impossible foods, you know, the the the not and oh my gosh, Cracker Barrel's falling away, they're going oh, you know, they're supposed to be Hometown cooking, how could they do this? Come on, man. It's fake sausage. Deal with it. It's fake sausage. Okay, I'm not gonna eat fake sausage. You wanna eat fake sausage, you go right ahead. It's fake sausage. It doesn't make crackabell evil. It just makes them silly fake sausage. Because maybe somebody wants it. You want it, not me. I don't. But if you want it, knock yourself out. Right? I mean you can't. That's fake sausage. about talking about abortion. Can you have today, can you have a rational discussion about differences of opinions, differences in opinions about abortion? You literally can't. Right? I mean you you literally can't. You know, if you're the the judge that getting chased out of he can't sit down and eat, there are people protesting outside of his house, you know, I mean it's really crazy. It's really crazy. You cannot have a rational discussion. The Senate doesn't sound very rational. The world's going crazy. Right? How long, oh Lord? How long? Before you judge this? You know, how long? Before you judge this. And God answers him. And God's answers, look, look among the nations and see. Wonder and be astonished. Astounded. Literal translation for that is shock yourselves and be shocked. Shock yourselves and be shocked. The repetition there draws attention to this statement. Look and you'll be amazed. translations that you won't believe this if I told you. Right here, for I am doing a work in your days that you would not believe if I told. Because here comes the what? The Chaldeans. Right? Again. Then boom, out of nowhere appear the Chaldeans. Right? So he's probably hearing some news about these Chaldeans who have conquered Egypt and they're growing, and he's seeing them come, right? And he's he's seeing some of this happen. Uh for behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, who march through the breadth of the earth and sees dwellings not their own. And he begins to list off all of their all of their credentials, they're bitter and hasty. They seize dwellings that are not their own. They go forth from themselves. Literally means to make themselves their God. They believe in their own strength. They put their faith in their own strength. More fierce than an evening wolf. The idea of being ravenous. They're just greedy and they just all consuming. They come into your city and they pillage it. They don't just pillage it, they unearth it. They they raised the city and they take all of the belongings. When when they come into um uh uh uh uh Jerusalem they take everything out of the sanctuary. They take Take all of the gold, all of the silver, even the bronze. They break open the the stones so they can peel off the bronze. They they destroy, they consume everything in their path. They all come for violence. They pile up earth and take it. That's literally a uh a a way of them storming a wall. They start taking dirt and piling it up against the wall so that they can make their way up the wall. is this idea that they there's nothing you can do, no fortress that can stop them. They just keep coming at you and coming at you and coming at you. Guilty men, God calls them, who whose might is their guilty God. Guilty men whose might is their God, this is who I am sending to judge. So we're in Colombia. How long, oh Lord, before you judge these freaky people? Right? How long, oh Lord, before you all these insane people, the craziness of this world, oh yeah, I'm in To send the Russians to you and the Chinese to you, they're going to utterly destroy the city of Washington. Level it piece by piece, brick by brick. They're going to destroy destroy everything. They're gonna knock down the the monuments. They're gonna crush through the uh the uh um uh the Pentagon yeah uh or the White House or the Capitol building, right? They're gonna just they're gonna level it brick by brick. These men who don't believe in God, who teach atheism, who preach atheism, who practice brainwashing on little kids. They're going to level the city of Washington. They're going to take over this land as judgment. Your response might be, wait a minute. You're sending who? The what? Wait, wait, wait. You're sending a godless people? You're sending a people you blessed? A godless people? That would kind of be your thought, right? I mean that would be my thought. How could you raise them up and that is exactly what Habakkuk says. But he he he's a little more clever about it than I'd be. I'd be like, wait, what? I can't believe this. He says, are you not from everlasting, O Lord my God? My holy one? We shall not die. Didn't you promise us that we would always live? Didn't you promise us that we would have a king that sits on the throne? throne of David? Didn't you promise us that we were your chosen people? I know we violated the law, but don't don't you have a promise for us? That you have something that you're going to do? He believes in the remnant. Right? We talked about the remnant a couple weeks ago. He believes in the remnant. He sees the remnant. He reads Isaiah. He reads the covenants that he gave, that God gave to Abraham. Right? He knows. He's he's Aren't you holy? Didn't you promise that? When were you chosen people? Oh Lord, you would ordained them as As a judgment, and you, O rock, have established them for reproof? You who are pure eyes than to see evil and cannot look on wrong, you sent them? How could you do that? How does this square up with who you are? You ordain them with judgment, you establish them? You look idly at these traitors, you remain silent while they swallow up the earth? You just let this evil protrude like a cancer taking over the world? How can you? How is how does how does that square up with your righteousness? How does that square with your holiness. You, you make mankind like the fish of the sea, made in your image. And they are just gathering up your image. Oh it it's interesting because you can see even in Habakkuk's response here that he didn't really understand what God told him because he God told him that he is doing a work, right? And I'm going to raise these people up. But then Habakkuk's responses, you're looking idly aside while these things happen. But God says, No, my providence is he's like saying, Oh, you're not even participating. You know, you're not being active in this and God had just told him how active he was Um yes and no. Why do you idly look at traitors and remain silent when the wicked swallow? follows us up. In other words, his idea the idea here should be that he has he has chosen not to stop them, but rather ordain them to evil. So 'cause you have to re in in its entirety of context, the idea here is how can you allow this to happen as judgment? How can you take an evil nation and judge them with even more with wickedness. That's the this idea of the stacking, right? It's actually a very good point because I understand exactly what you're saying, but from from the context here the idea should be you allow this, God. You're doing this. This is your work. You just said you're doing this, and now you're allowing this to happen. And how can something more evil judge something that is evil and holiness result? Right? And you're making mankind like the fish of the Sea like crawling things that have no rulers. He brings them up with a hook and he drags them out with his net. He's just harvesting men that are made in your image. just are crushing people these people whom you love you made like you how could you do that and then not only does he gather them up in his dragon that he rejoices He boasts over it and then he sacrifices to his net. He doesn't even recognize you as the cause. He worships the things that he uses to do it. So he sees he sees these things that you've given him and blessed him with as the reason for it. And he worships those things. He doesn't even give you a knowledge. He doesn't even say thank you, sir. He just goes round about believing in his idols, falling into his idols, creating new idols. mean is that that's a is that a fair question? I mean I think that's a fair question, right? I think uh and there are different commentators, by the way. The reason I keep emphasizing this, there are different commentators who will say that this is um because there's some legal language in the Hebrew, and there is, there's legal language in the Hebrew, but it's like an inquisition towards God. The Habakkuk is somehow trying to corner God. Um I actually not only do I not see it that way, I actually don't like that interpretation at all. Because I see a very honest question coming out. I see him trying to square what God told him with the realities of who God is. Right? He's not simply calling God evil. He says, but you're holy, how can this be? So I I don't think it's an accurate interpretation to say that he's like in some kind of an e like a like a Socratic Inquisition of God. He's actually here questioning. You know, and I think that the verses that follow, um, the verses that follow, I will stand at my watch post, I will stand myself on the tower and look and see what ye he will say to me, the words there is reproof. And what I will answer concerning my complaint. So I he wants to know the answer to this question. This isn't someone who thinks he's cornering God. This is really someone who is looking at the evils of the world and trying to contemplate how it squares. Fair enough? I I I probably beat that to death now. I can quit saying it over and over again. Because I there's a lot of very good commentators and I'm gonna say very people smarter than me who will say that that this is Habakkuk and an inquisit inquisitory type of dialogue with God. But when I read it in and in my meditations on I don't see that. I I just don't see it. Right? I I just don't see it. And other commentators side with me, other com you say, you know, whatever. Um uh but uh yeah I I see this is an honest question towards God. And by the way, partially because God responds. Right? God will oppose the proud. Right? So God God's choice to respond recognizes a humility in Habakkuk's heart. Fair enough? So that's a big part of my thought process on that. Is why God would never have responded to a proud And inquiring, you know, accusational Habakkuk. Right? He would only reply if it was a humble, genuine, earnest question. But God's not afraid of it. God's not afraid of it. He's not gonna run. Oh hey that's a good point. I hadn't thought about that. Oh boy, let me uh we get back to you back again. I didn't think about this. Frank, you bring up a great point for us today it's okay to ask the hard questions of the Lord but it's our heart attitude right that we still are responsible for and can control right but um it's okay to ask the hard questions. Yeah, absolutely. I I think um you know, everybody has different aspects of their walk. One of the things that early on, um, for me personally, was I was not gonna be afraid to be genuine. before the Lord. Right? And um I I just you know what I am everything in all of my corruption, I am everything in all of my stupidity, I am everything in all of my my wicked ways. God will make me straight. And he already knows, so what am I thinking I'm hiding from him anyway? Right? So being honest in prayer, to your point, being honest in prayer. is the starting point for getting true answers from God and and really seeing God what will God have me be. But you can't just be honest, you have to be willing. You have to stand on the watchtower. You better be ready for the reproof because you You're probably not gonna like it. Right? You're probably not gonna like it. God, why is this happening in my life? Well, dummy, sin. God, I just But is this going to get better for me? Why are you looking at worldly things? You ready for that answer? You got to be ready for that answer. You gotta be ready for that answer because maybe you don't like it. Okay? That's the back of its heart. And maybe why I see this is I will stand at my watch post, station myself on the tower. He's going to look for it. He's earnestly seeking. Correction, yeah. Do you ever want God to reprove you? I mean I know personally I have God fix me, fix my ways, fix my brain, fix my corruption, show me my sin. David prays that way, right? In the Psalms. Fix me. And that's exactly what Habakkuk is saying there. Fix me. Figure this thing out for me, Lord. This theophiny that I have. Right? Or theodicy that I have, rather. Sorry, mixed up the words. This theodicy that I have. How can you judge with this wicked nation? How can you use evil in such a way? He has two real problems here, right? Um just looking over my notes. He has two real problems. Uh the the first is a character problem. He he can't square up with the character of God. What he What he's seeing. And the other is the math problem. If you get rid of a less evil nation with a more evil nation, how do you end up with holiness? Right? I mean how do you end up with holiness? If if you take a wicked nation, aren't you just gonna make the whole world more wicked? Aren't you just gonna make it worse? Th these are great, great questions. Right? Okay, I don't know. Where am I? I'm lost. All my notes are messed up now. Okay. We shall move on. All right. And God's answer effectively, and many people see this particular verse as the major theme in the book of Habakkuk, the righteous shall live by faith. The Lord answered me. And this is so great. I love this. I love how he starts this. Come on, you gotta get excited about this. He says, write the vision, make it plain. Write it down, just make it plain on tablets. So he may run who reads it. Write it down. Show everybody. You're not the only one with this question, Habakkuk. I want you to write this down. down for the posterity of anybody who has this question, I want it on tablets. Like the Ten Commandments, on tablets for all to see, for all time, so they'll never go. Make it clear. For the vision awaits its appointed time. I have a day set. I have a day set. It's going to happen. The vision awaits its appointed time. And that's at 2 Peter chapter 2. 2 verse 3, right? Wait, it's coming. I've got the day appointed. Right? And then he starts with uh uh it hastens to the end, it will not lie, it's coming. Coming, you can be sure, you can be certain that these things are gonna happen. If it seems slow, wait for it. So write it down. It's gonna happen. The check is in the bank. It's already Cashed. It's happening. In God's mind, in God's uh reality, not only has it not yet not only is it going to happen, it's already happened. Right? It's done. This is done. If it seems slow, wait for it, it will surely come. It will not delay. Behold. Now the direct Reference here is the Chaldeans. But the greater reference here is the wicked. Okay, so I want you to hold on to this because now we're going to go into a uh another and I'm going to run out of time. If I don't hurry up, we're going to go into another series here. Behold, his soul is puffed up with uh puffed up. It is not upright within him. Yeah, he is evil. And I am sending evil. But the righteous. will live by faith. But the righteous will live by faith. There's a really great quote. Really great quote here from uh uh G. Campbell Morgan. Nothing is here said of the issue of the puffed up and crooked. In other words, nothing says what's going to happen to that person, right? But the puffed up and the crooked. The inevitable issue is however, that they will perish. On the other hand, the just live. Thus the declaration Habakkuk was brought face to face with the contrast between the way of life which inevitably ends in destruction, and the way of life which inevitably ends in is that of continuity or life or eternal life. So in this moment he says they're going to perish, the righteous are going to live. And the righteous are going to live by faith. And the question is, what does he mean by that? Can someone open up Genesis chapter 15, read verse six, and then Genesis 22, someone else 22, 16? And then someone else takes Hebrews eleven, eight through ten, and then seventeen through nineteen. So Genesis fifteen when the first person to get it, just go ahead. Oh six, fifteen, six. Yeah. And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. So this is Abraham, right? This is Abraham. Abraham believed the the Lord and it was accredited to him as righteousness. This is the basis, right? This is the starting point of faith. Genesis twenty two sixteen. And said, By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord, because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son. I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and as the sands that is on the seashore. And your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies. And in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. You have obeyed my voice. So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together to Beshirbah. And Abraham lived in Bashirba. So, okay, what you have there is the great example of faith Walking in faith. So Abraham in his entire life, he starts in Ur, right, and he gets called out of Ur and he goes into the land of Canaan. Why? Because God told him and he believed God and it was credited him for righteousness, and he's waiting on this. promised child. The promised child comes and he says, now go sacrifice him. Right? Now go sacrifice him. And Abraham was going to do it. Right? He had the hate, the knife up. He was going to do it. But then there's the Hebrews verse. What was uh where's the Hebrews verse? Who's got Hebrews? 11. 11 uh 8 through 10 and then 17 through 19. By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed by by going out to a place which he was to receive for an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, fellow heirs of the same promise. For he was looking for the city which has foundations, whose architects and builder is God. By faith even Sarah herself received ability to succeed even beyond the proper time of life, since she considered him faithful who had promised. Uh seventeen and nineteen. Seventeen thinks. Seventeen through nineteen, yeah. By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was offering up his only He considered that God is able to raise people even from the dead, from which he also received him back as a tithe. Abraham is an example of the righteous living by faith. He believes God. It's counted to him as righteousness. He lives his life. He wavers, right? He wavers. I think he gives up his wife like twice. He he tries to have A child that has Isaac, uh or not Isaac, um Ishmael, and then God says, No, that's not the way it's gonna happen. But then Isaac comes, and when the promise by that time, Abraham is so set in his faith that He realizes that even God can raise this child up if if he is killed, because this promise is gonna happen. It's living living in faith by the promises given to you. The righteous shall live. In faith in the promises given to them. You get that? You see that? This is exactly the point that God is giving Habakkuk. I've made these promises. Promises to you, Habakkuk, you know I am holy. You know the promises of Judah. You know I will preserve the remnant. It's been stated, I will fulfill it. My covenant isn't a a a a by uh a two way covenant. covenant, my cannab, I swear by myself. Right? It's a one-way covenant that God is going to do these things. He will do it. The righteousness live in light of those promises. That is what it means to live by faith. What is the promise is given to us as Christians? He's coming back. Right? He's coming back. We should live in the light of that promise. While we were sinners, he died for us. He is the propitiation for our sins. He gave himself up for us so that we might become sons of God. Why? Why? Why? Those are his promises. Live by those promises. There's nothing in this world, nothing in this world that can separate you. Right? Romans 8. Nothing in this world that can take your joy. Nothing in this world that can take those promises. You better in my first Peter class? We talked about that. Read Philippians. Nothing, nothing can separate. us. Rejoice. Why? Because the promises of God are real. And that's how the faith, that is the how the righteous shall live by faith. He will preserve you. Those are his promises. Right? The righteous shall live by faith. Any questions on that? I'm going to skip faster because I've got like eight minutes to get through like the rest of the book. So let's let's hang on. I'm going to so five woes for the wicked. I'm just gonna cover this high level. These woes, by the way, when you read through them, contain aspects of sin from Judah and aspects of sin from the Chaldeans. So you see both in this. Okay? You see both in this. I tried to point them out. Uh keeps up what is not his own. Uh loads himself with pledges. This is the idea of of loaning money. Uh plundered the nations, this is the idea of destroying nations. This so The one being the Judeans, the others being uh the Chaldeans. Who gets evil gain for his house, divise and cut off uh uh uh builds the town I'm I'm just gonna go really fast. Builds a town with blood. Uh you're labor is for fire. So on the one hand, uh these the the Chaldeans were conquering sinfully, right? They were conquering i it they were just an evil, evil people. But at the same time, the Judeans had a system set up where you know they were they were crushing the poor. Right? They were they were um uh uh they were not um uh obliging the law, they were not following the law and they were they were perverting the law. They were perverting justice. That's what Habakkuk said. Right? Justice is perverted. Right? It's the same idea here. Uh make his neighbors drink venom. That that's the literal words there. The idea is is that when you would sit down to a meal with a neighbor. Okay? You sit down to a meal with a neighbor and you give them a glass of wine, it's for fellowship, it's for arrangements to make deals, it's to, you know, to to deal justly eye to eye with somebody. Well, in different aspects of the Bible they'll pour venom in the drink, causing the person to become like woozy or diluted or you know, and the idea is is they they make deals with nations or they make deals with others. others and they pervert that to expose them for their nakedness, right? To to take advantage of them. The the Chaldeans would literally do this get them drunk and rape the women, get them drunk and and expose the nakedness of the king to to show their superiority. The Judeans were figuratively doing this by dealing unjustly, right? The the rulers were dealing unjustly. They were perverting justice. To him who says to a wooden thing, now we're talking About idols, and I love this treatment. I'll I'll go ahead and just read this because I I love this part. What prophet is an idol when its maker has shaped it? Metal uh a metal image, uh a teacher of lies. For its maker trusts his own creation when he makes speechless idols. Woe to him who says, to a wooden thing, awake. Literally, look at the podium, awake! Right? Literally looking at a dead thing, he points out. Awake to a silent stone. Arise Can this teach? Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver and there is no breath at all. in it. It's dead. It has no power. And yet they worship it. But the Lord says, be silent. So they're speaking to the idols and the idols are silent. But God tells the people, you be silent. You be silent, for I am God. Right? Um so woes for the wicked. Uh Then we have uh next uh recalling God's works. So now Habakkuk breaks out and and go back and read this. Like you can literally just go through this book will take you fifteen minutes to read. Go back and read this and when you get to chapter three, this is such a beautiful prayer. He starts off recalling the works of God. I've heard a report of you, and I do fear, right? I tremble. the Hebrew says, in the midst of the years, revive it. In the midst of the years, make it known. God, in your wrath, remember mercy. In your wrath, God. When you're pouring out your wrath and when these guys are coming and they're destroying everything, when your life is completely falling apart, remember your mercy. Is that all by itself not an incredible thought? Amen. Right. Is that not all by itself? I mean you could just meditate on that. I I I could have done two weeks on just that verse. You guys might have fallen asleep. Then he goes through then he goes through the acts of God for his people in Israel. God came from Taman, the holy one from the Mount from Mount Peran, that's Sinai, Peran. is another name for Sinai. His splendor covered the heavens and the earth was full of his praise. God literally appeared in Sinai. He showed himself to the people of Israel. And his glory and his splendor was the earth was filled with it. His brightness was like light, rays flashed from his hands. There was pestilence before him and plenty of. The whole nations you can go back and read in Numbers are in in uh yeah in numbers, uh uh all that happened in the wilderness. Right? How the nations just trembled in fear. Oh my gosh, they're coming into my land. You didn't want to mess with them. Right? Because God was with them when they went into the Holy Land. When they walked into the Holy Land. Anywhere Joshua went, he conquered. Right? The whole earth knew of it. Everybody knew of it. Right? He stood and measured the earth. He stood, he measured the earth. He looked and shook the nations. Then the eternal mountains were scattered. The everlasting hills sank low. His were the everlasting ways, God's presence, God's existence with his people, everybody could see it. It filled the earth with his glory, the works that he committed. Now watch what happens in verse 1. Verse 7. Tell me when you catch it. I saw the tents of Kushan in affliction. The curtains of the land of Midian did tremble. So I'm going to flip here. Watch what happens. Was your wrath against the rivers? Oh Lord, what just happened there? How is he talking about God to begin with? But the evil that he allowed. What person? Third person, right? Yeah. But now listen to how he's talking to God. Was your wrath against the rivers, O Lord? Was your anger against the rivers or your indignation against the sea? What did he do? Now he's talking to him in what person? Second person. Second person. Right? And this of course is a rhetorical question. Was your wrath against the rivers? No, of course not. When you rode on your horse, on your chariot of salvation, you stripped the sheath from your bow, calling for many arrows. He's coming and conquering. Now all of a sudden He sees the Lord presence in all of what was happening, in all of what was done. The mountains saw you and writhed. The deep gave forth its voice. Even the sea praised the God God. The sun and moon stood still. You see now he sees God as this conqueror. He sees God as coming. Right? The sun and moon stood in its place. You mark Through the earth in fury. You threshed the nations in anger. You went out for the salvation of your people. Why was God there for the salvation of his people? Why does he care about that? Because he's looking at the promises that he's given. Right? He's focused now. God's full sovereignty, God's full might, his full power coming for his people. And then he throws in this little nugget for the salvation of your anointed. What was the promise? What was the promise? And I've got to finish up because we're we're literally out of time. Um we're literally out of time. You went out for the salvation of your people for your anointed. You crushed the head of the house of the wicked. And he goes on. You'll have to continue reading, but you'll you'll see that as he goes on, he he sees God. Trampling the sea. He sees God acting on the earth. He knows and he sees the presence of the Lord right on earth, acting through everything that's happening, and the righteous shall live by faith. And that God, that powerful God, that amazing God, will preserve him. That is who is there to preserve him. Right? That's the idea that you come away with. And this causes him to rejoice. You can read Habakkuk 3, 17 through 19, and then you can read Philippians. It is the same thing. It is the same thing Same topic. Paul saw the promises of God. I consider the sufferings of this present world not worthy to be compared. It's not worthy. I I'll suffer through anything for my Lord. Right? And I'm just gonna rejoice. Times of distress, I'm gonna rejoice. Times of happiness, I'm gonna rejoice. I've learned to live with everything, Paul says. I can do it all. I can live all of this and I can still rejoice. Why? Promises of God. Right? Why? Because of Christ. Why? Because Christ is there with me. What is Habakkuk saying? Though the fig tree shouldn't blossom, or the fruit on the vines, the produce of the olive fall, and the fields no food or yield no food. The flock be cut off from the fold. Though God takes everything away, I will rejoice in the Lord. I will take joy in the God of my salvation. God, the Lord is my strength. God the Lord is my strength. He makes my feet like the deers. And he makes me tread on the high prices. When times are tough, when times are difficult, God makes me tread on the high prices. high places. He gives me the feet to and this is all done in the form of a song, which is why it there ends. Um I didn't get to talk about being a Shiginov and all this cool stuff because we are out of time or over time. And I wish and press it's calm