Yeah, a and uh so I I'm just curious, like wha how are you guys following this? That was Rehabam, Abaijah, Jehoram, Azia uh Aziah, uh Haziah, sorry, Ataliah, and Ahaz. Can someone open that up? How many of you people, how many people, stop saying that, how many people had the gospel preached to them? And how many of you are glad that the Lord didn't come back before you were preached to? Right. Uh so he is just he sees this re given this revelation and he just begins praising God. I was off by a chapter, my my apologies. When he's judging Nineveh, is you sent this guy to me, you sent him here, and he raised himself up against me. You're seeing a similar pattern develop here where you have Nahum, who of course was prophesying against uh Nineveh, um and now you have Zephaniah who's gonna talk about the day of the Lord, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Habakkuk. right and we talked a little bit about this and this history as uh the the the um Jews never actually got rid of the Canaanites, right? Then he's that's chapter one. Idolaters worship. right, because Habakkuk is also during this period. the nation is the Judah is not. know, there you see to this day they they jump over the they won't the the insignia of Dagon, so this idea that they they're jumping over the threshold is a reference to this superstition which they've now carried out And then the market district, which one uh commentator called the the uh the the Wall Street of its day. Right, and so there's a behavior and an idolatry and an evil and a wickedness in these in these leaders in this leadership group that's protr that's protruding downward. I will search Jerusalem. And we spent yeah, she actually came up and spent a week before I even got here with Peyton and they did nothing but clean. Which harkens this idea of this army, right? Cataclysmic things that can be nothing but God. He's coming quickly. Would its immanence be important? in the coming of the Lord that should drive your life. Right? And God becomes king over the whole earth. Matthew twenty four, twenty-nine. We have Joel 22. You're not going to be there at that moment. It will bring acceptable tribute. That's that's the book of Zephaniah. and they explore. Everybody knows I I really like this Dr. like you use this weirdo? I'm just trying to leave it out there for posterity. creates a nice picture of some common themes and and even who got it, I mean his character. Israel I and I remember being really stunned by that that idea, just that principle, you know, that really that is something that God is communicating to us and He continues throughout the all of the Minor Prophets. Yeah. Mayhem if you look is from six forty to six twelve. Elias made this point, uh and then I kinda came in and we talked about the Ami prophets and this cluster of prophets that came right before the the the point at which God judged Israel, right? uh was I think it was twenty something for twenty something of evil kings, right? with you know looking at uh the the pro uh the kings after Hezekiah. And then two started off good but turned evil. Nation of Israel, I am going to judge you. after the Ammonite gods. Son Ammon, who again continued in idol worship, uh, and he was also starting off in the way of Manasseh, and so his servants put him to death and put Josiah on the throne. all three of them all four of them did evil and then the deportation begins uh uh the the the de the deportation is completed uh under Zedekiah so then the nation is taken out. When God is talking to a people who are in the midst of incredible idolatry. put altars up on all of them, right? Uh and he starts off with kind of an interesting introduction. lot of commentators will tell you that he is of royal blood because it says Hezekiah there, right? Right. I've been four generations in and he's showing you four generations back that he was the son of Jewish descent. on that because I actually think that makes the most sense. He's Jewish by by right. week. the Lord a lot as well. After book, I hear I break it into two. and perhaps you'll be saved, right? talked about Nahum being the poet laureate. The creation and the objects of worship that represent the creation, because uh what does it say in Romans uh one? who bowed down on the roofs and the host of heavens. Lord, yet in their heart are still worshipping items, isn't that right? the the the the the Baal pre the priests of Baal he's getting rid of all of these uh altars that are the high places he's just crushing and and you have to imagine there's so many of these if you just think about it this had to be especially Everything is changing. It's an interesting period of time in in the history here. Silent. to the gods of um I forget his name off the top of my head. this idol by forcing it to bow before him, to fall down at him, you know, and then breaks his arms off. And those who fill their master's house with violence and fraud. doesn't mean you're breaking through the hearts of these people. Just searching out. Remember last week when we talked about the wrath of the Lord? diagrams at first and I was like, wait, no, alliance did one, so I'll just use that one. Right, then the the very next thing eschatologically that happens from the la what they call the last days or the church age is what? Revelation twenty, what happens? physically coming. has eschatological consequences that we cannot literally fulfill scripture unless Jesus is God. You don't understand your Bible because I can show you where his return is the day of the Lord. Yeah, for God in a day a day is like a thousand years. kind of a primer. We had gone something like five or six years without substantial enough rainfall to keep our reservoirs full. get water from this source or from this source because we were already thinking about running out of water. And it's just building and building and building. It it it it happens like a sea from the night, isn't it? and have their so we're totally that's gonna be an ugly day because yeah they think it's uh what's the name behind left behind yeah and then you see the airplanes like spinning yeah and coming down because they they lost their pilot That this is not an act of God. Tribulation or like 'cause there's gonna be the hundred and forty four thousand prophets or from and so there'll be people saved during that time, right? Right. Yeah, absolutely. The day passes away like chafe before there comes upon you the burning anger of the Lord. No one else, what desolation she has become, a lair for wild beasts. Eighteen I I I I have the notes on my other don't don't put I think it was like eighteen forty or eighteen thirty, something like that. I think generally you look at Jeremiah, you look at Zephaniah, you look at Jesus, when they pronounce judgment on the city of Jerusalem, it's always a woe. I would gather you up if you would just repent. So right? repent. believers, uh I think he's referencing the diaspora because everywhere else you see a reference to the diaspora, he means the diaspora, right? believers there, those who are elect exiles of the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, Bithynia according to So either interpretation is fine, but there is some dis disagreement there. I'm not going to be able to get fully through. rid himself of these uh of these hard-hearted Jews and he's going to purify you you shall no longer be haughty in my holy mountain but I will leave in your midst a pure Revelations that have been given. Exalt with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. the because what comes back in Revelation. Well, he is a uh fairly well known Old Testament scholar, Hebrew scholar. Um Joel, uh Amos, Jonah, Hosea, Mika, Nahum, and now we're in Zephaniah. Yeah, that that's been one of my takeaways too, so in fairness that's a pretty good takeaway. start studying it it's it's really not as difficult. just constantly amazed at some of the depth of some of it. We'll all talk about uh the the coming captivity, warning Judah to repent. God's people, you're messing with the Lord. save my people, then you're gonna get judged. did great evil. using the Jews that were coming in. took putting altars in the high places to a whole new level. of the law and maybe you've heard this story before but this is where they they're in there and they're cleaning up the temple and they're getting rid of the idols and oh wow we found this book and so Josiah reads it and it just uh you know and he um he just he just really aggressive you die. the the uh the story for Judah as well. brief moment. ten years in his reign before uh before he began his reforms. way it makes sense. given to idolatry, right? read in 2 Kings and 2 Chronicles and you read those accounts, there was never really a time of great uh revival. you know, idolatry that they were given to before. In four different he's in the fourth generation of Jew, making him accepted or acceptable by the Jewish community. that there's got to be four generations before that family is fully accepted in. Almost certainly lived in Jerusalem. Everything. mention of judgment on Judah because he does talk about that but really from the very first verses you get the idea he is talking about global judgment judgment on the whole earth a composite writing, like as a as a as a composite section of the writing, it's really an altar call. got a different uh who's got a different translation? I'm not sure the the how this if this fully is shown, but he's saying I will sweep away man and beasts, the birds of the heavens, the fish of the sea, all of the creation, and all of the idols you've made against that creation. Speculations and their foolish hearts were darkened. worship, right? Lord, who do not seek the Lord or inquire of him. the notes and you you you download the um the the PowerPoint I actually go I show the notes where it talks about the evolution of the name Molech. some of your translations the king, this word king, um but that word was sort of uh bent by in Hebrew as a you know to m to go to Moek and then eventually Mokam. Uh it's just uh like a transliteration that kind of grew and changed over time. about it, this would have had to have been a radical change in Judah to go from Manasseh and just a short little time with Ammon and now ten years later Josiah he gets up and like whammy every Um I believe it was uh Micah. And so it gives you tremendous context when you look at them as a group. image of God standing before a table. Um uh a lot of different things. was almost certainly in Israel because he starts talking about uh I will punish the the officials of the king's sons and all who array themselves in foreign attire. the second area. in Jerusalem and then but moved in there were wealthy people because it's a new area, new land, they build these really nice houses. This pouring out of wrath. in its path. is a great guy, but he's not God. thought. that it kinda refers to when it happens, it's gonna happen all at once. Yeah, definitely. then the dams all of a sudden started to rise and rise and rise and rise and uh and uh and then they were nervous because oh my gosh the levees are gonna break right or think about you know katrina during hurricane katrina How many of you people know, how many people know how many you people I mean, you like that. Talk to him tomorrow. don't know. Trail of cosmic doom and darkness also protrudes throughout. Right? as they're pouring out the wrath, you're like, whoa, whoa, whoa, right? some aspect of salvation that will happen. Teaching. be saved. what they're going to be saved from. Very similar language to Nahum. he finally he ends up with the completeness of the destruction. know Nineveh existed until early 19th century, 1840. didn't know it. excrement. Justice each dawn he does not fail. The Day of the Lord. people humble and lowly. from incursion. That he is called as the word of God. quoting the text that uh uh so anyway, so this guy's really good and I I I actually really enjoyed reading his commentary. I looked up this Hobart Freeman and uh later in life he had some issues and so rather than I mean I there was nothing wrong with with the commentary that I had but uh rather than somebody looking it up and comes this guy Manasseh and and up through this point up till Manasseh uh there were uh a total of uh well I mean fourteen kings fixed kings did evil Only one of them was good. So Joshua conquered, but he didn't conquer everything. On altars of fire, literally burned their babies, incinerated their babies. was actually put in place by the um uh I'm sorry, Jehoiakin was put in place by uh by the Babylonians. actually start that. or after the reforms? I won't talk about that too much again this week. And so you'll hear that call. my hands against Judah and against all of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and I will cut off from this place the remnant of Baal and the name of the idolatrous priests along with the priests. Be silent before the Lord God. down altars. image as well, right? And it hasn't come yet. I don't remember the exact location, but um when the brides were told to keep their lamps lit you know, that story of how, you know moment that could break, boom, and the wrath of God comes. been thinking about or wanting to witness to? to be the the the the example or the priests to the world that they raised their hand and said that they would be, but they chose not to. Is he coming? the Holy Spirit during the tribulation. Right, they they had signs and they had wonders, but they didn't have the Holy Spirit. Will it go back to the way it was in the Old Testament where they had the signs of wonders, but not the Holy Spirit? Can we talk? We're raptured. So then uh now seek the Lord. What they need to hear. of the Lord. Uh and then uh scrolling down he intermittently talks about the reasons for judgment and his primary reason is idolatry uh and also that they attack God's people uh and their arrogance. in her capitals, a voice shall hoot in the window, devastation will be on the threshold, for her cedar work will be laid bare. It's just a it's it's an illusion, it's an image. lying prophets, the priests defiling what is holy. the there's one example where, hold on, let me go back to 1 Peter 1. awesome. And a day when God physically comes back. right to judge the world? pride a and and the judgment of the nations. All the fortified cities except Jerusalem, raised his head up to God, and God uh judged him there. And Mochak in the temple. Uh although the temple was in in pieces, although the temple was fairly destroyed and there weren't very many prophets of God around at the time, Josiah believed in the Lord, and so he put his first things um uh that is apparent and and I'm talking here about the the 640 to 612. authority to enforce laws. in their minds really a rapid change, right? because Isaiah speaks to a lot of the same things that Hosea is speaking to, that Micah is speaking to. clothes, clothes that are not clothes for their own customs but other people's customs, taking on all of these other nationalities. He is going to get rid of the filth. We had to shampoo the rugs, we had to paint we do all of these things, right? Snatched up to the clouds. like she said, we're procrastinators, right? Those people that were in those areas, I mean, just looking at the levees filling up. And the stars will fall from the sky and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. He will stretch his hand against the north and destroy Assyria, and he will make Nineveh a desolation, a dry waste like the desert, herds shall lie down in their midst, all kinds of beasts, even the owl and the hedgehog shall lodge Draw near to her God, her officials within her are roaring lions. From beyond the rivers of Cush is what I have in the ESB. those to whom the authority to judge was committed. Zephaniah. Uh that's been a bit startling for me as well. through and they're sort of in this cycle of repentance and falling away and repentance and falling away as as the kings go. So that leaves you to go, well, what other alternatives are there? Okay. Chapter one verses two through six and you can follow along with me on this if you if you'd like. Creatures. That Milcom is a uh uh is also uh elsewhere interpreted Molek, uh who is the god Kimosh, who is the god who you burned babies to on the altar. this sacrificial meal. uh the Damascus gate, I believe it was called it is now called. Yeah. The day of the Lord's coming on December 31st. But many scholars when they talk about the rapture, that is the presence of God being snatched off the earth, right? like in Matthew 5ish. They will give acceptable frig praise and they will put away their idolatry. So now we are, if we go along the timeline, we're at Zephaniah. Of how God will forgive even the most vile and wicked sinner. faith in God. And this is what many scholars will call the most definitive description of, or the most definitive uh most definitive statement of the day of the Lord. I got a green. But think about this. Yeah, it's always a great way. But why do you think why do you think that it's important for God to express the day of the Lord as being imminent? Amen. Or it's driving a car and all of a sudden they're gone. So this is again talking about that debate how you see that. So in Babylon, he scatters the language. But at least for Josiah's reign he wouldn't uh he he wasn't going to judge. The stumbling block, that's what I was looking for. all these years, all of this syncretist attitude and belief. You know, if you go and you think about the pictures of of uh Hawaii and the areas where the lava's flowing, it's just like a black streak. Then Zephaniah is wrong. It's storing up. Two thousand years later, and then it was an archaeological day. Similar themes. Pursues at that moment, pursues breaking down all the altars, and just and God says, because of your faithfulness to me, I'm gonna, I'm not gonna judge this nation until after you. show lineage to King Hezekiah, why didn't he say King Hezekiah? Now all of a sudden and we have the Holy Spirit embodied in us, now all of a sudden sh that's gone. Gaza uh which is in Philistia which is the Philistines, Ashkelon, which is Moab Ammon, the Ethiopians, which are uh another like kind of terminology for the Egyptians, and then Assyria. Well and that is not the right verse we're sorry. They're still engaging in this idolatry. prophecy just that there's a a verse in Romans where you see Paul just goes into this kind of kind of like like like song or chant or praise of God because of the great Yeah. There's Universal Judgment Decree. Just left and right showing. So that's going to change your social environment, your political environment. Do we know when it's gonna happen? Well what if you're rashering the clouds tomorrow? Jesus says, I would gather you together. He's going to aggressively pursue reforms. Big idea here. And and when you relay that urgency it it sparks the fire. So complete destruction. He's coming. I forgot this one. And anybody that pretends that they're going to read Key Leaves and they're going to see this build up, uh-uh, no, uh-uh, that ain't happening. Yeah, no, I I I agree. Right, 'cause you never know when you might be raptured up. Um it's a there's competing texts there. And I'd be like, well, okay, I didn't know. I again I share that that as well. Um they're yeah, literally they're just went completely evil the same way that Israel did. So the big idea is Day of the Lord. Stand before the Lord. He's doing all of these things, right? And this is the image that that Zephaniah is now drawing. Because you do not know when it's coming. You know. His eyes are like a flame of fire and his head of a man died in died out and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. Right, yeah, and that that's where there's a lot of textual again, that's in my notes, but I didn't necessarily mention that. Let's read that real quick. So this idea so now to take you back to this period of time, the Philistines steal the ark, right? There's no mistake. Which one was your favorite? I think it also like allows us to not compute but like make sure the internet is about like he's saying two thousand years like, wow we're well that's bad up to God it says. And then yeah verses four. And it is interesting, and I bring it up because it does impact somewhat the way that you might read certain verses. Okay, that from a textual standpoint it makes sense. Joel 22. And then he goes in to say, and the linkage here is the word for. And in Habakkuk, if you're going to see that next week and here you see it again, he's just, he is just amazed. And then the 144,000 Jews come to to know Christ. Okay, go for it. Um and then he says uh at that time it was just okay, where am I? The burning anger of the Lord that is filling up, filling up, filling up, and at any moment the dam can break. Why? Manasseh is uh taken away to Assyria. Um Elias talked about that. They they are they are still in disobedience. Uh uh a a whale from the second quarter, a loud crash from the hills. And then what happens? God knows we're all procrastinators and put it off until it was gonna come. I ha I sounded very intelligent last week that I had the notes right in front of me. And then chapters two and three, uh he's is is essentially an altar call. Think about just as an example, um I think it was like 10 years ago, we were in in Dallas. This guy took evil to a whole new level. So that is what Zephaniah is saying. And on the day of the Lord's sacrifice I will punish the officials and the king's sons and all who arraigned themselves in foreign attire. The image that he's portraying here is that the officials and the kings have failed up until this point. They search Jerusalem with lamps, uh, and I will punish men who are complacent with this idea. Yeah, and the reason I wanted to mention that is because at this point, and during the point of the tribulation, there is absolutely which leads up to the day of the Lord, right? Eleven through sixteen. And so, because of Josiah's great faithfulness, God's face is hidden for a little bit longer. So it's coming, and it's bitter. Right? Right? Right? Believe on the name of the Lord. Isn't that a cool book? Constable, so I was kinda going through it. So he proclaims judgment in Manasseh's reign. So the God Ammon, uh so he was even named after a foreign god. Right. They shall seek refuge in the name of the Lord, those who are left in Israel. Um lessons. He's coming. And uh even he takes the the throne at at eight. That's a great question. Just doing what they're told. Do we read Revelation twenty? If you're an arguer that it was after the reforms, then this this verse 5 becomes very, very important. Um uh you're you're seeing this image as well. Then Isaiah is wrong. And and that needs to motivate your way of belief. This filthy and polluted. They just won't seek him. So there uh he could be talking about um believers, right? Because the Lord is with them. And the armies of heaven arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. And I think the the other the alternative view on this is that he's showing uh he's showing you that he is four lines of Jew. He's coming back. If you ever want to do a study like this, you can go out, grab it, and then you have the information. He paints this picture of a warrior coming and doing war. It's building and it's building and it's building. Okay. I d there's a lot of people that would say it's from the people that were around Christians that went, Hey we you know, Bob talked about that, Erica talked about that. Um and then finally the preservation of the remnant, which is eleven through twenty. Right? Well you're stupid. His immanence is always proclaimed when we talk about the day of the Lord. But yeah, you have the two witnesses. Uh so I'm not gonna go too much because again I'm trying to skip ahead a little bit. Yeah. Literally, they're they're they're sacrificing their children to Moab. Zephaniah almost certainly lived in Jerusalem, and we'll talk about the textual evidence about that as well. So you'll see this kind of similarity and it's all really revolving around you got this guy Josiah, and he's really following the Lord, right? It's worth a moment to read. Always a great way to to talk, you know, hey you don't believe in G well you're you're just an idiot. Um so one quick change to this. Did he begin did he start his writing from 640 to 630? And then he will talk about what happens after that, after the judgment, and then, you know, the uh the idea of this this conversion of the nations and the restoration of Israel. I've got the ESV open. Instead of saying, Oh, like one day when you relay that urgency and people are like, Oh my gosh, I've gotta do this now this person who I know isn't safe could die any minute. A day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness, as the dawn is spread over the mountains, so there is a great and mighty people. I I think also people who sat in shirts or heard their families or friends talk about Christ but never accept it they will wake up after Seek righteousness, seek humility. Which translation was that? So that reference to the hosts of heavens, that is uh another type of syncret syncretistic worship uh of the Assyrian gods. Okay. What comes next? We're not gonna do something until we know what's gonna happen. What was your favorite one? At the time of his writing, we talked about King Josiah. And those who bow down and swear to the Lord and those who bow down and swear to the Lord and yet swear by Milcom. So the first is uh everyone who leaps over the threshold. This is the altar call, the beginning of the altar call, uh starting in chapter two, uh verses one. So I'm gonna kinda talk about that dating in conjunction with the the this next slide, uh because it is kind of an interesting dating. But then they weren't faithful. So however you choose to read it, it does, and we'll point out as we go through, we'll point out how those interpretations might change. That makes the most sense. That's your altar call, right? Uh he there's some really clever poetry in Zephaniah too, but the bluntness of Zephaniah is is by itself kind of unique. If I can ask a question, in Zephaniah where it says, near is the great day of the Lord, what does that mean then if um we're two thousand years out But he does mention Nineveh in his writing, and so you'll see that. He flushes out all of the idols in the temple, they're rebuilding the temple, he institutes uh the uh Passover again and so there's like if you take it if you if you think That God, the warrior, is coming, uh, that it's going to be victory for the Lord, but it's going to be distress on mankind, and it's going to be consuming. The big idea in Zephaniah, the clear idea in Zephaniah, this is a book about the day of the Lord. 1 Samuel 5, 5. Just because Josiah is repenting and following the Lord doesn't mean that the officials were repenting and following the Lord. Just raise your hand. Almost every time in the Bible when it talks about God's wrath, it talks about it pouring out like a flood. You know, so that's um yeah, that's that's important. That's Joash and Amaziah. And so he sends uh he sends a servant to the temple. And the idea is, is then you're talking to people who are acting like true Jews, but in their hearts they're still given to the same syncretist, the same Professing to be wise they became fools and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and of four footed animals and of cross. Yeah, yeah. And then he says the day of the Lord, and he he mentions these things about the day of the Lord. So we'll see that in Zechariah 14, 9. Right? Announcement of the day of the Lord, so there's this universal judgment, the judgment in Judah and Jerusalem. Be silent. Yeah, absolutely. Is that a literal Jesus Christ coming? Right? A seven-year period of tribulation, right? Saved from a bad day? So does anybody have anything we got? They're still worshiping the way they are. No, you don't know. Right, when it happens, it's gonna happen. Or if you are there, well then just remember what I'm saying right now. Complete destruction. I just scratched him off. Yeah. Did you say do you who who was Malcolm? Go for it, yeah. Oh so I wonder and 'cause that's a great question and I know this is somewhat off topic a little bit, but we in in the Old Testament Yeah. On that day you shall not be put to shame because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against me, for then I will remove from your witness your proudly and exultant ones. I was looking for I thought I had it there we go. Like the Lord is good. He wasn't fully faithful in that. So you see them in this pattern where they're kind of going, repenting, going, repenting, and then they just go downhill. It's calling them out. I was just gonna say some precepts uh we think um you know talks about this it'll it'll happen quickly. There you go. Absolutely, right? Then all of a sudden someone said, Hey, I wonder what the hill is there for, dug into it and found Nineveh. What does God send to him? When you mess with Judah, you are messing with the Lord. Uh before then. I would even go as far as to say a political obedience, right? And the same thing is true of these prophets. Um it's actually in my notes, so I'll jump to the next page. I think to pull that thread it's it's easy to just kind of gloss over those in the Bible, right? Anybody else? Um so anybody else, any comments, anything that they wanted that that they've taken away from this study so far that they'd like to share? I mean think about, you know, uh when when uh we first moved into the house, our new house, as a matter of fact, I mean Erica was like everywhere. It was literally an archaeological dig. That's Ethiopia. The Lord has taken away the judgments against you. What do we take away from this? So any of them strike you as a particular no? And that is this really kind of funny, you probably saw it in a cartoon somewhere when you were a kid, picture of Josiah. He rebuilt the ones that uh that uh Hezekiah took down and then he actually added to them. So he's telling you, uh Yahweh is hidden is his name and uh uh he's telling you that uh uh he is of Jewish he he is of the Jewish community. Right? I couldn't find a good one. He's constantly quoting Kaiser throughout his notes. Won't repent. Elias makes the point that that really when you when you look at the Ami prophets, it's best to start with Isaiah. He's going through, but but if you're in the after reforms, you you you can't change the culture overnight. I would gather you up. He scatters the languages. But not see this is like when you talk about being approachable. Like all every single king in Israel was evil. King James. You literally do not know when it's coming. And they will come I think. On that day, declares the Lord, a cry will be heard from the fish gate. We've got to get rid of everything. Also I felt those who had been um beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God and those who had not worshipped Um I remember reading the comment uh from one of the commentators about the only thing that disobeys in the book of Jonah is the Israel is the Israeli the Right. And so he's showing you that yeah, I'm from Ethiopian descent or maybe I'm not, you know, I'm not from a line of of uh uh from the Jews. So nowhere in scripture do we know nowhere in scripture does it say the exact day when it's gonna happen, right? So that immanence like you say. Uh there was a movie many, many years ago, uh Sea from the Night. Um the hundred there's gonna be it's really the tribulation is the time for the Jews to be wrapped come back in, right? But the unjust knows no shame. The Lord is with them. Well Manasseh, then they Solomon erects things in the high places. Okay, so because of his great evil, God judged, he says, I'm going to judge you. He says, The word of the Lord that came to Zephaniah, son of Cushy, son of Gedaliah, son of Amariah, son of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah the son of Ammon, king of Judah. Well, Cushy means um so he's he is Zephaniah's son of Cushy. We talked a lot about the day of the Lord with uh w when Elias was here. Right? Matthew twenty four twenty-nine. This is Zephaniah giving the people of Israel an altar call, giving the people of the world an altar call, uh, where he will tell them that judgment is coming, you should seek him. Mm. And you're seeing it just the tip of it. There's clearly people being saved. From a uh an interpretive standpoint it makes sense. Uh somebody have a different, I think the NASB ruins, I was um and the ruins along with the wicked. The Philistine god. Jesus comes back, right? We talk about Christ's return as the day of the Lord. Yeah, I I think that God wants us to be impacted by its eminence, right? There will be no mistaking. The Lord is righteous within her. Like it's just crazy to think about, but yeah, it's an interesting way of of thinking about it. Perhaps you may be hidden on the day of anger of the Lord. If you're before reforms, there you're saying, yeah, there was actually altars to idols in the temple that were set up by these priests. Let's read that just real quick 'cause I think that's super cool verse and it's super important. Anyone else? And so that was part of the provocation that that uh God uh that Nahem stated from God. And then this is the outline of the book. And that leads us back to again this discussion on the day of the Lord. Uh so this one I do want to read. Blessed are the meek. So So Frank to your comment that you're suggesting that that verse might be if it was after the reforms that there are those who have this outward obedience to the This idea of being silent, also mentioned in Amos. Standing before, and he is about to just wing judgment down. Otherwise you're saying that they're they're even their sacrifices are just a waste. Okay. Are you enjoying the study? So again, we talked about, is this before the before Josiah's reforms or after Josiah's reforms? And so what the argument is, is he speaking to their outward obedience, but they're inwardly they're no different. Do y'all remember what I talked about? And that's like another reference to why we need to be prepared because there's not going to be any time to prepare when it does happen. Oh, I'll talk to him tomorrow. He's punishing the idolatry, uh, and we'll talk uh we'll have to find because I did have a a part on idolatry for talk about in general, but punishment on Uh oh no we don't. King James. God is going to destroy those objects as well. Right. First Samuel chapter five, verse five. Therefore, neither the priests of Dagon nor all who enter Dagon's house tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdot. It can be nothing but God, but then nobody believes it. Because what are you being saved from? I will sweep away man and beast, I will sweep away the birds of the heavens and the fish of the sea, and the rubble with the wicked. Right? He goes into this exaltation of joy. So, yeah. Okay, so he did his fathers starting with Solomon even started putting altars in the high places and worshiping other gods even in the high places, right? He's he's brought away with a hook in his nose, and there in Assyria he repents and calls back on the Lord and returns uh and is a great example. But then once Josiah takes over, then he starts breaking things down. They just keep going in their own way. But if you think about where we are at today, we're in the church age, right? You've no idea. And whatever you left them with is exactly what you left them with. And so if God keeps telling us any day, any day, then you know, those of us who choose to turn our ears and ways Well, imagine that's God's wrath. So there's yeah, Jesus saying cosmic collapse, right? Uh when he's talking here I think uh specifically about Nineveh uh no, I'm sorry, that's Nineveh and Egypt, he says Again, a reference to Ethiopia. Uh which actually turned out to be a huge blessing 'cause this Walter Kaiser guy is something else. And so now you had these Canaanites who were Baal worshipers, who were worshippers of this guy called Kemosh or Molech who sacrificed their baby. It was where the merchants would come in with their fish to sell. Everyone who passes by her hisses and shakes his fist. Woe to her who is rebellious and defiled. His w and and yeah you're right. And so God's judgment on the land is only stayed because of the faith of one man. You're stupid because you can't read. Well that next year it flooded a lot. This is Zephaniah, so we won't do that. Won't repent. Just to add on to your point, if you read through Jeremiah, which is Josiah and the kings afterwards, that is the problem. Right? Right? They are they are calling people back to the Lord. So she so here she is, she's filthy and polluted, she won't listen, she won't receive correction. Uh obviously the day of the Lord's the big one, right? Then I saw heaven open to him, a white horse. So that's been uh very revealing and exciting too. I just uh uh the historical context really lightly but for me and understanding God's uh intentions. So we've gone through these studies and now we're here. Day of the Lord. So the stumbling block is actually the word for idols. The mighty man cries aloud there, it's a day of wrath, a day of distress, he describes it as. Absolutely. They will. Because God does ultimately forgive him and he does start to break down some of what he started, but then left the the throne to his Kind of an obvious point, right? And this prophecy brings Zephaniah into song. That's really bad. All of the idols that you've made, I'm going to bring an end to it. Saved from my car being over hot because it's summertime and I remember to put the windows down? Here, he changes the speech of the people. If you take Jeremiah and you read through Jeremiah at the same time you're reading Zephaniah, at the same time you're reading Habakkuk, you're going to see a lot the same. This day of judgment is near, he says, for the day of the Lord is near. So we we read a lot about Hezekiah and what happened with Sennacherib, right, when he came into Judah he came into Judah, conquered So uh up until this point they're kind of running 50-50, right? Because that's the day of the Lord. There is an aspect of the impending day of the Lord that should change how you feel about the people that you talk to. It should have been motivating to the people of Israel. Yeah, it could be. And they dug it all up. Because he was just a little kid, right? Uh he starts off and he doesn't waste any time. Uh we'll talk about this more with Habakkuk because I think that's really the best place to talk about that. Exactly. That's a awesome point because you know, I I guess like oftentimes don't we think like eschatology's gotta be so difficult. Sorry about that. What are you what are some of your major takeaways so far as we've gone through nine weeks now? You can see that right in that in in the uh in the scripture in Revelation. Then judgment on Jerusalem, uh that's verses three one through eight. An angel touches his lips, purifies his lips so that he can now speak before the Lord. Alright, good. But yeah, that's a great point. Right? If somebody says that, they're already a heretic. Yeah, and the bottles didn't get ruptured. Was he an idol? Um he talks about the great day of the Lord is near, now in verse 14, near and hastening fast, the Absolutely. That's gone now. Uh the oppressing city. Woe to you, Jerusalem. So uh from there we get th a series of it's really three, technically it's four uh because Zedekiah was Because Josiah is an instituting reign, or he's instituting change. So then he goes on about the day of the Lord. But then think about it if you're even in your own life today, do you live your life like the Lord is coming imminently? No, you said it. Uh seek the Lord's favor and then he mentions these humble, obedient to the Lord, you will be hidden. Sorry, I don't have the dates in front of me. Her leaders, princes, fierce as lions, judges, hungry as wolves, taking advantage of people, the prophets, proud and deceitful, there And and and God says, you know, I I tell you this, the Lord is is righteous within her. Making sure you're still here. So if you don't if you have something just keep it to yourself. Right? The second quarter was erected under King Manasseh that he built another wall, uh a wall of protection inside in in uh Joel talks about it. They shall do no injustice and speak no lies. The the minor progress were always like something avoided because mysterious never got to And uh at eight years old. Uh so he brings a lot of color into it, so you might see some of that as we we we talk today. Because why? He's telling us to always be ready because no one knows the mind of the Lord and no one knows when he's going to come. He has cleared away your enemies. Um I don't think that's the case. So really, and then this is a very simple outline. The building up? And it's gonna be incredible. Four through six. These things are way more approachable than I think I I've never really studied to teach before these books and so in studying them I'm He says, I want you to rebuild it. Just want to make sure we got that one. And it's also elsewhere spoken about in the Old Testament. And if you think like these guys that that put billboards up, oh the damn word's coming on the road, where they So can somebody get Joel Tutu? And then now we have the Holy Spirit. And God said that I want them exterminated because what they have done. Okay? Now remember, or maybe I'm not quite there yet. Uh he can't read because there's all this stuff. We all, right? Oh, maybe I'll talk to him next week. So I was like, Oh wow, so this is a great uh great correlation here uh between the two. So Oh, where are we at? In the midst of incredible idolatry. Well I told me I couldn't call on you 'cause you have it I'll eat more time. This day of the wrath, but it's just flooding out. Oh, I keep s skipping over it. So Manasseh took idolatry to a whole new level, okay? Like if his whole intention was to show that he was part of the royal line, why didn't he mention the royalty? Uh and I think that that to me makes the most textual sense, so I'm kinda going with that. Um Dagon. Can I erase that? I again I don't specifically the role of the Holy Spirit, I I I don't want to speak because I don't know uh gable like. And then everything that the Bible said about Nineveh was validated. So it was before Nineveh fell uh and then 640 because that's when Josiah took the throne. Because he's saying, seek me because this is coming. But that is a great question because elsewhere in scripture you also see this, right? Before there comes upon you the day of the anger of the Lord. So it doesn't really matter, but it does change the interpretation a little bit. Literally they're following along with with the Baals and the Baal prostitutes and the temple prostitutes. Would you So it just um like I'm reminded of in in in the Nintendo I'm I'm back to being an idiot. He was just he was eight. And and so like God uses this as an opportunity to show the futility of idols, right? And they were really getting empty. And they doubted the Bible. Um it's kind of an interesting time as we come into and I just want to point out, okay, so We know the 640s because it's before the fall of Nineveh, 640 to 612. Because look, if there's gonna be dirt in this house, it's gonna be our dirt, not their dirt. I assure you, there will be no mistaking. They will. Then it says here from beyond the rivers, now we're in verse three, uh I think we're in verse ten. And thank you for your patience. Which is interesting because as we get into this and we look at the notes on Zephaniah, one of the Milcom was an idol. So there you had money changers, there you had merchants, large merchants, you know, trading cargo, trading bar. I'm going to skip over because I'm going to run out of time. And part of that was brought up last week in Nahum, right? He is going to search out every nook and cranny. And this is God now gathering things together. Zephaniah talks about it. So uh for Gaza shall be deserted. Yeah, it's not like he's not he's not dreaming this, right? Five did right. I stole this, literally stole it, from Elias. You know, you talked about being approachable earlier and and it for me I just I see these things and I'm just like, wow God you're so Blessed are the poor in spirit. This is a psalm of joy. I will stretch out my hand against Judah. Rehaboam continues that. As a matter of fact, just to even articulate it more, Manasseh's son was named Ammon after. He takes just a little boy. And over here it says it's God coming on the day of the Lord. And you can see the top of the levee, and that water is starting to come over. So I I'm gonna move on, um because I'm gonna run out of time. They didn't even know it existed. Um um yeah, he's uh it's uh uh British guy did it. Like for a whole week. Right, so they're still around, you know, and and in theory cell phones still work, so you have full access to all of that information. Other translations where you see rebellious, you might see filth, which is a reference to literally human. Uh for for at that time, uh he says he's gonna change the speech of the peoples. He purifies their lips, the Hebrew says. And uh and and up until this point and then we had this cluster of prophets right before the captivity. Those who bow down on the roofs to the host of the heavens, those who bow down and swear to the Lord, and yet swear by motion. The idea is is that this they live in more decadence, they have more of these things. The day of the Lord is near. But immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light. There's a lot of people that that that try and I I I guess I'd have to research it a little bit more specifically what is the word Um so you can read that uh also. And you're going to stand at the steps of Jerusalem and you're going to taunt them and say that I can't Because in Deuteronomy 23, 8, uh God lays out Uh violence and deceit. This Zephaniah follows along, Jeremiah, quite nicely. Now the fish gate uh is now today uh called um Imagine that as a picture of God's wrath, because that's the picture that Scripture portrays for you. We all do. Okay, there's certain pieces in here that then become very interesting as to whether or not. How many of you are glad they didn't wait till tomorrow? We're gonna talk about it again because Zephaniah's major emphasis is the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord is near, so this immanence of the day of the Lord, and the day of judgment on the world. And so there's a lot of similar language. And you get this image of like a volcano spewing over and just consuming everything in its way. Can you erase that button? Your city will be laid desolate. And he goes on and on and on about the wonders of God and the greatness of God, what he's done for them. So I agree this has been a great class. Take whatever money we have in the temple, rebuild it, use it to rebuild it, and there they find the book. Uh if you take two and three as a composite uh For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their spirit. That is thought to be a uh uh an ancient at this point superstition It just eliminates everything in its path. Uh she listens to no voice. Different translations have a little bit of a different one on that. This exultant city that lived securely, that said in its heart, I am there and there is no For for what you and Elias have done to you know kind of skim the treetops if you will, but it creates Someone's gotta say something or people are gonna think they weren't paying attention. He is standing up. I see him in a month from now. Believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ in you. And I I think about First Peter one, one and two, where he he speaks about the Well he's a he's a false god. They're fishmongers, so to speak, fish merchants, so to speak, would come in. That is not the way it's described in Scripture. And remember what I said last week. But it's recorded. Right? And the ba the the major takeaway is the day of the Lord. Uh when I was doing my study earlier in the week, um I went back and actually read a few notes from the previous week and these things. This idea of take a moment. But the captivity takes place under Jehoiakin, Zedekiah comes in, he also That's the other thing too. But I again think about this description of wrath. It's always a lament. Even their their Passover sacrifices, they don't have a heart for God. Um then uh the immanence of Christ's return, we talked about that. But starting with Manasseh, there were six remaining kings up until the judgment. Literally it's idols. Uh their own clothes. They just cleaned everything. It's talked about in Revelation. Where it is. Or did he start his writing from 629 down to 612? But does that mean that all the people's hearts just changed? So, um, yeah, so that's Zephaniah. So Jesus, death, burial, resurrection, uh, and he goes to the right hand of God, then we have the church age. Asah, Jehoshaphat, Uzziah, Jotum, and then Hezekiah. And then he he says it's God and then and then and not only that you don't understand your Bible. Like we just were overwhelmed with water. Gather together, yes, gather, oh shameless nation, before the decree takes effect, before the decrease So the other this is actually lovely about Zephaniah, he is not mincing words, right? The rapture, right? Uh so the day of the Lord uh is the day that he comes to judge the earth. I'm starting to get low on time. And they put the ark in their temple, this temple of Dagon, and God literally mocks the The idea of the fierceness, the burning? Because it should have motivated them to put away their idols. Right? So a lot of scholars debate, was Zephaniah writing before the reforms? Did you know that the the judgment of God can be any second? They are calling for repentance all through that series, right? Alexander the Great fought a battle on top of the city of Nineveh and It's on the recording. And so now he has purified his his his people and they no longer have fear So Revelation twenty, um Uh I butchered that last piece. Wow, so we are through week nine. Right? And airplanes didn't have their pilots awards. Well it go back to because in the time of the tribulation They were supposed to come in and completely obliterate the Canaanites and they didn't finish that conquest. Nobody believes it. And to the point where we were trying to figure out like I mean literally they were talking in the news like if we have to go. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true and the righteousness he judges. Literally, no hill didn't have an altar on it. If you're on the other side of this, it's before Josiah enacts his reforms. I actually don't think that's the case. Um and and this is where we talk about the the the major emphasis being Do you ever think about that? We were in the middle of one of the worst droughts that you could possibly imagine. That fire you up? Um and uh uh uh Then you have some kings that are getting rid of the high places. I think is Isaiah also talks about it. Well you're just an idiot. They have a bad king, a good king, maybe two good kings, and then two bad kings, but they're both Right? They just won't listen. He's uh as a matter of fact, um when I was going through And Zephaniah, and you're going to see, so remember actually And then there's this kind of picture of when you mess with And um at eighteen he decides that he's going to start So one of the the scholarly debates that are going on, okay, so Josiah was That word means Ethiopian. We get called up, snatched up to the clouds. They will be like, well, I wonder if if that Putin guy, is that is who the Antichrist? At the conversion of the nations, which happens in But Zephaniah means Yahweh has hidden. So you a lot of people like to break this into one, two, three chapters, because it's a three chapter. The Lord has prepared a sacrifice and consecrated his guests this day. Now this is how you know that Zephaniah was was So be silent. What if you don't have a month? But he doesn't take away the full reproach, because he's still going to judge him. They just completely fall downhill. He's Moch basically. Right? So when it talks about, you know, the day is near, like when it There will be a period of miracles and a period of salvation during the tribulation. She accepts no correction. All right. It wasn't like a moment of great revival. So the syncretism here. He is there. And then somebody else I just read Zephaniah one fifteen, then someone else get There has never been anything like it, nor will there be again after it to the year. That's right, it's on the recording. I would gather you up if you would just listen. Josiah was the last good king. So then he turns his attention directly to Judah. So it it's Molech means the king, so you might see in Alright, so uh the burning anger of the Lord uh uses a What was remember I said last week that they didn't even Dagon. What does this mean of what they keep talking about? So um yeah, also to see Jeremiah and We don't want their dirt. It's just pouring out. Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion, shout, O Israel, rejoice in the And so he's getting rid of the false How can you talk about Jesus and be saved if you don't talk about And then he uh immediately goes into the woes and in He purifies their lips. Everyone who leaves sorry, I lost my place. But here you there's nothing but God. So you meet your friends, says, oh, you know, Jesus. Okay. What is saved from what? The leaders. This cosmic darkness that befalls. And so when the full measure of the Gentiles are are are are saved. Awesome. All of these things are happening kind of in this same frame of time. Right? Um where he refers to So uh going from the the I I started Right? Okay, so what is Zephaniah saying here is kind of interesting. And so what he's saying is is that he's going to destroy the So now he goes off now on uh Right? Right? Um and this is the idea, right? Here Zephaniah is going to talk about the Lord. That is that is us. People who who worship rightly within the nation, Gentile believers. Alright, so now we're gonna walk through judgment decreed. So if you go to first Samuel uh five five And you see these judgments happening in all of these. On the one side, if you believe it was before the reforms, It's imminent. I it just feels like, you know, this is exactly It's a day of universal judgment, a day of purification for Israel. He is clothed in a robe just as a name but He's not making this stuff up, is he? Uh so but after Hezekiah in It's not the king, it's all of the people continuing to This meal is prepared. It's always a lament and it it always contains He does no injustice. And on top of that, he also put altars to Baal And the reason why is because if he was trying to The ruins along with the wicked? A anywhere that there could possibly be dirt, right? Because if it's not God himself returning on earth, Two thousand years later. My worshipers, the daughter of my dispersed ones, shall bring. And here is an amazing piece which I So you've got Josiah out there and he's breaking It just consumes everything. Because you don't know. So you do see that. Right? You gotta listen to the recording. And with the exception of Josiah, uh this one Yeah. Have respect. I have the the verse references here I I'll show you in a moment. You're either prepared or you're not. Will the Holy Spirit still be around like when they didn't need to So again, this idea of eminence comes into play. Uh but they will bring acceptable tribute. So he's the son of Ethiopian. So here he's just calling them out for all of their idle So yeah. And that's the king. This idea of people who array themselves in fine We'll talk about this next week with Habakkuk, but uh just to give you kind of God's wrath against the wicked. Seek the Lord, all you humble of the land. She does not trust in the Lord. Other scholars will say that's Joel. So here it is. That's first Thessalonians, right? And then he goes off with the judgment of the nation. Think about that. She didn't trust God and she won't draw near. Then I saw from seated on the Nineteen. And then finally, God's righteousness. Because in Nahum, one of the things that God says And God proclaims judgment. So that is the end of the the He comes right, I will utterly sweep Now How many people know an unbeliever in their life that they Right? So I'll disagree with a lot of current scholars. There's um I haven't not in if you go into He he mentions a trumpet blast, which is Did you know that the deity of Christ So think about Isaiah, right? Anyone else? Nineveh fell in six twelve. So why then And we talked about the the they they were uh This is not merely a Um And he is going to purify his sins. And you start to see again these references to Uh and that's it. Those who have turned back from following the Lord It could happen right now. Ah, the Lord isn't coming. But uh I just wanted to update that 'cause again And uh we're actually going to go through all of these verses. There is an aspect of immanence in the Uh so we have covered uh So God was judging the Canaanites by using. He says, He tells, he tells the Seek me because this is coming. But the nation of Israel is not. Just because you're breaking down the altars Right? I'm sorry, nineteen. This was Josiah using his We're the priests of this world. He's talking very much the same way. They're just doing what they're told because the king said. Purify their speech. Uh so I put him on here as well Yeah, so here you're also seeing this. Right? It should have motivated them So there is salvation and the angels So now uh so Every morning he shows forth And so they are completely So if you remember back um And then finally in Revelation. It it it almost always works. Do you guys remember this? Nobody will mistake the So in in some cases he's actually Let's make sure. We talked about that. Does this sound like something to you? They just won't. They're just he's just searching out. That is very disappointing. But Manasseh Well well Manasseh took So approach to sharing the Alright, let's let's pray guys. Show awe. Because I looked for other diagnosis. And I'll get you started with this. Just at any moment. It doesn't exist. Yeah. The reality is is either He's created This idea that he Yeah, and and and again So there's clearly So that term and rubble. How many of you people There you go. In Josiah This also this portrayal It was eighteen. So yeah, I totally agree with you. And then he talks about It's storing up. The author Joel mentions the day of the Lord. Uh the second area I mean, if you Right. Uh we get we get So if we okay. But then when you He's in the We talked about that last. Um I will stretch out against the hand against the hand against the hand against the hand against the hand against the hand against the hand against the And um we And it and She does not That's why I was So when did he Because Manasseh That's the guy Yeah. Uh and then So we saw that. The rapture Uh and then Ironic Those So it's a it' And then He's coming. Is God righteousness Did I get it? Uh and You should be And you It's fake. This Uh So Uh What? Uh Th the