The prophets. Why study the minor prophets? Yeah, super common, by the way, uh even uh as a bit of a confession I was preparing the last couple weeks and I'm going through my Bible and I'm like, man, These pages are pretty clean. These are some pretty clean pages. Um so yeah, I mean I in in fairness I think you're right. I think uh uh how many people have tried to read the minor prophets and found them unapproachable, very difficult to read, let's say. Because I know early, especially in my Christian walk, I struggled with the minor prophets. Uh when I got to them, it was like you get through Leviticus, which you're reading through the Bible and you're like, I'm I'm golden. I'm gonna make it, right? Because I got through Leviticus. You're reading along and then you get to the minor prophets and you're like, wait, what? And it it's very difficult, right? Because there's no context. Anybody else share that? experience or am I the only idiot is that it feels like sometimes when you open 'em up that you're reading something that is out of place. Like in it's not it doesn't really belong. Yeah. You know, um not that it doesn't belong, but that it doesn't belong where it is in in in the context of where you're reading. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah, it it is. It's a little bit strange 'cause you don't especially without the given context. Context, you don't know who were they who are they prophesying to, what time where do they fit on the timeline, how do these things happen, and he's talking about judgment, or this one's talking about this, and it's like I don't understand is this future, is this next. How is this when is this? And so it just feels kind of random, right? Like um uh yeah, and uh uh yeah, and then and then there's the what is the point of doing a survey class, which I think is kind of that, right? So if you can just do a high-level kind of you know, jet tour through them and sort of a ten thousand foot view of them, which is kind of what we're doing in this class, uh it helps bring about that context so that it gives you some grounding to make the scripture more approachable. Yeah, yeah, for sure. And that's these are my thoughts on it, the ones that I I uh kind of uh came to in in some of this discussion. Uh the first is is that you know Christ one of the offices of Christ was prophet. Right? So in in a sense you can say that the prophets are a type of Christ, right? They they fulfilled a role of or they were in a role that Christ also was in, right? Matter of fact, Christ is the ultimate, but he's the great prophet, right? He is the the one that comes after Moses. And so if you want to understand the ministries of Christ and the offices of Christ, Studying the prophets is a great way to understand, you know, what his what his offices were. So we want to open up John, uh, and we're gonna do this by the way. This is sword drill day. Did you guys do that when you were a kid? You're like, flip to this page, flip to that page. Alright, get ready 'cause we're gonna do some sword drill today. Uh John one and then uh John uh chapter one twenty one through twenty eight. And then if someone else wants to get Luke chapter seven verse sixteen, and then one more to get John chapter five and then read thirty-nine through forty. So all right. Yep. Ask him, what then are you, Elijah? He said, I am Are you the prophet? And he answered, No. So they said to him, Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? He said, I am the voice of the one crying out in the wilderness, makes free. the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. They asked him, Then why are you baptizing? If you are neither the Christ nor Elijah nor the prophet. John answered them, I baptize with water But among you stands one who you do not know. Even he comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing. So this is obviously it's John the Baptist. Baptist, right? But who is he saying the prophet is? Jesus. Jesus is coming. Right? He's the one to make the way straight for the Lord. That was John's uh John's ministry was to make the way straight for the Lord. quotes there from Isaiah. But here he also names Christ as the prophet. Who's got Luke seven? Go for it. So this is the observation of the crowd saying, Wow, this guy is a prophet. So they recognized Christ as a prophet. John five, thirty-nine and through forty. I can do that. You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. It is you that Witness about me. And you are unwilling to come to me so that you may have life. And that's Jesus himself saying, I am the prophet. I love that verse. You search the scriptures, but the scriptures Scriptures were telling about me. You're looking in the scriptures, but I'm right here right now. The scriptures were all telling about me. The prophets were all telling about me. So I think, you know, so understanding the thing. Understanding what this ministry is, what what a prophet is, what they said, understanding who they are will help you understand the role of Christ as prophet, the ministry of Christ as prophet. Also, it's faith building. Um And and maybe this is just me or maybe it's something else, but you know, for me, uh I um I I find great reassurance in being able to look at the scripture and see it's inerrancy in action. Right? Because everybody will tell you, oh, it's just a book, right? Unbelievers don't want to believe that the scripture is inspired and written by God. Well look man there's proof. I mean there's like real proof. There are people who said things here that happened here and I used the example in our class the other day. It's i if I came up and I told you uh the Cleveland Browns are going to win the Super Bowl this year. In in you know January twenty twenty three. They're gonna win the next Super Bowl. And they're not only are they going to win, they're gonna play, I don't know, we'll pick the Cowboys since it's my team. They're going to play the Dallas Cowboys and the final score is going to be twenty-eight to twenty-one. You would go, Yeah, whatever. But then come January when it happened, you'd be like, wait, what? He he was able to do that like a like six months before it actually happened, that's pretty impress you'd be impressed, right? Like you'd be like, Well you should go to Vegas and make a little money You know. Well what what if I told you what if I told you that uh uh that in five years from now the Cowboys would win a Super Bowl. Then you really wouldn't believe me, right? You'd be like, no way that's happening. But then sure enough, same score against that team. Now you would be really impressed. Because the one thing I can look at the beginning of like right now and say, okay, these are the two best teams in the NFC and I could be lucky on the score and but now I'm five years out, that's really impressive. What if I was two hundred years out? And it didn't just get fulfilled, it got fulfilled perfectly. And it's documented. And it's documented. Because, I mean, let's let's let's take a minute here. Here to think about this. We know when these scriptures were written, right? And textual critics can tell you based on the language and the time and the verbiage used and the level of Hebrew used. They know the time. frame so they can get you within call it fifty years just on the language alone. But then they also have historical evidence, right? People have spoken about the prophets. So they can pinpoint most of the prophets Within, call it a 10-year period, 10 to 15 year period, based on textual notes and everything like that. And then it happened some 200 years later, 300 years later, 400 years later. That's that's some faith-building stuff right there, right? That's I mean if you stop and you think about how amazing that is, what an apologetic. Who else but God could do that? Who else but God could do that? So if you want to it reassure your faith, build your faith, underst you know, to know that you're secure that this is really an inerrant book, that what we claim about the Bible is really true, this is a great place to start. It's a great place to start. So for me it's also faith building. Uh and then I think we talked about this in the last I'm not going to get too much into this one. It uh uh um it makes scripture more approachable. Right? The the high level survey class will make this hopefully more approachable for you. Um because then you have the proper context. You can see when this prophet was prophesying, uh you can see these things, right? So uh Um uh yeah, so and then I have just as an example uh of this um pro the the prophecy and the fulfillment of the prophecy uh Deuteronomy eighteen. Uh someone want to read verses fifteen through seventeen. I can read it. Okay. Fifteen through seventeen. Mm-hmm. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your countrymen. You shall listen to him. This is according to all All that you asked of the Lord your God in Horah on the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God. Let me not see this great fire any more, for I will die. The Lord said to me, They have spoken well. I will raise up the same. up a prophet from among their countrymen like you, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I commanded. And then in Acts 3, verses 19 through 23, uh Peter Peter names Christ as that person, and I'll just go ahead and read it since I'm already here. And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance as did also your rulers, but what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets that His Christ would suffer, uh he has thus fulfilled. Repent therefore and turn again for that your sins may be blotted out, that the times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that he may send the Christ appointed for you. For you, Jesus, whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago. Moses said, The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like Me from your brothers. You shall listen to him in whatever he tells you. So here Peter brings that prophecy the end and talks about it being Christ, and then in the in the context of that, he's talking about all of the prophets, right? You can look at all of the prophets. You want to know that Christ is who he said he was. You want believe the words that that that Christ the prophet spoke, you can look backwards at where he's been foretold hundreds and hundreds of years before he arrived. And that can give you additional assurance Right? That that he um that that he is who he says he is. And then it and then I said it made it more approachable. Uh and then you know we kinda talked about that, so I'll I'll move on or I will definitely run out of time. Any questions on any of that? Any comments? Okay. What is a prophet? What is a prophet? In its shortest definition, a prophet is a person who Speaks from God by direct revelation. Right? So if you get into, and I'm talking about all the prophets, not just the minor prophets, but if you get into the prophets, you're going to hear the words, thus says the Lord, or the Lord said to me, or the Lord spoke to me and told me to tell them. Right? These aren't the prophets' words. These are whose words? God's words. Right? That's a pretty bold thing to say. How'd you like to be in a an argument with with your spouse? Well God told me to do this. I'm just kidding, I would never do that. How'd you like to be at work and you're working on something like, hey, I want you to work on yeah, but God told me to do this. God told me to do this. It's pretty bold words. They would either think you're completely insane and then put you in a hospital, which is I'm sure I don't know what Erica would do if I told her that I was right in an argument because God told me. But I mean, those are bold words, right? They're also testable words. They're also testable words. I can if you say that you're speaking on behalf of God, then by definition every word out of your mouth has to be what? Perfect and true. Right? Could there be a single flaw in it if it's the direct revelation from God? No. Only if what? Only if you get in the way. Right? Only if your imperfect mouth speaks wrongly. But if God tells you and he says, Thus says the Lord, the words out of his mouth are by definition inspired. Right? I mean he's claiming, he's telling you my words are inspired. So so thus says the Lord. Also the other thing is is that uh the office of prophet is a manward speaking office. It's it's projected towards men. It's God's speaking to man. Right? So the prophet's role is is to is to to serve the function of God speaking to man, as opposed to a priest who is man speaking to God. Right? So the prophet gives the revelation of the Lord, the priest intercedes for man. Right? So one is communication this way, the other is communication that way. So So yeah, so it's the Lord, it's the Lord speaking and the office is on behalf of man. A couple of notes on that. A prophet is defined in Scripture. So Exodus 7. Chapter one or chapter seven, verses one and two. Someone want to read that? Very, very important verse. And the Lord said to Moses, See, I have made you like God to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron shall be your prophet. You shall speak all that I command you, and your brother Aaron shall tell Pharaoh to let the people of Israel go out of his land. Okay. So so uh fundamentally this defines in the Bible what a prophet is, right? You go to Pharaoh, so go to whom I command you to go to, uh, and and so he is like God. to Pharaoh, but then Aaron is like the prophet for Moses, right? If you remember if you remember back in this part of scripture, Moses has got like all the reasons why he can't go. Right? Oh no no I I'm I I I stutter when I speak. I you know okay and then God Systematically goes through that, right? And so uh when he gets to this, he says, Okay, then Aaron will be your prophet. So you tell Aaron, Aaron tells Pharaoh, right? You tell Aaron, Aaron tells Pharaoh. God tells the prophet, the prophet tells the person to whom the prophecy is given. Right? And it's really that simple. And in the the the Hebrew, and I okay, so you you're not going to get this out of me all the time. because I'm just gonna tell you I I know a little bit more a lot more about Greek than I don't know nothing about Hebrew. So I won't do this. This is straight out of a book. So just warning. It's a passive form of proclaim. So it is he who has been spoken to. Right? So the prophet is the one who has been spoken to by who? God. Right? So the the the the prophet's literal terminology is this is a man who's been spoken to by God. The other terms for sear uh have to do with revealing oracles of God, so revealing like future prophecy of God or the the exact words of God. And that's uh first Samuel nine verses eighteen and nineteen if someone wants to get that someone want to get to it. Samuel. Then Saul approached Samuel in the gate and said, Please tell me where the seer's house is. Samuel answered Saul and said, I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place where you shall eat with me today. And in the morning I will let you go and will tell you all. So here he says, you go to this place and I'm going to tell you what God has for you. Right? That's Samuel's role as a prophet, but here referred to as a seer. And then everybody understands that there's testing that must Let's go on uh with these prophets, right? And and why is that? So uh if you study uh the ancient Mesopotamian history and and the texts that come from it and the cultures that come from come from it and the religions that come from it. You're going to find that there is lots and lots and lots of prophets. Prophets of Baal, that's in the Bible, prophets of Molech, prophets of all of the These ancient gods, right? And they all served the same kind of role. They were speaking on behalf of whatever god they were speaking on behalf of. Okay, well Were they speaking on behalf of Yahweh, the one true God, if they're speaking on about Baal? Does that make Baal real? No. Right? Does that make Molech real? No, but it there were prophets. If you're a demon and you're wanting to convince some people, right? Convince some people that what you have to say is true, maybe you send somebody out that pretends to be a prophet. But here's the thing. Does Satan know the future? He only knows the future that God tells him where. Right here. Right? And there's a whole different discussion we can have about Satan knows this book better than you do. Right? Satan is orthodox. Let's just say it that way. Satan is orthodox. So he knows the future, but only because he reads it here. He can't tell it, can he? Right? He can't tell it. Right? So you want to know if the prophet is really a true pro a prophet from the one true God? You have to do what? First John talks about this, about apostles, right? And and about People in the church that you have to what? You have to test them to see if they're genuine. Right? How do you test a prophet? Does his word come true? Does his word come true? So oftentimes When a prophet would speak, he would give a prophecy that would happen in the near term so that everybody would know and recognize that he was in fact a prophet of God. And then we're going to go back to Deuteronomy 18. Uh and I we should read that one more time just because that is a super important. There's one uh commentator that I read said it's very difficult to understand anything about the minor prophets until you understand Deuteronomy. Uh but I don't think I have time to do a survey class on Deuteronomy and the minor prophets, so we'll just hope that we can get by without it. Um and then nine through twenty two. Uh when you come into the land I I'll just read it, it's okay. When you come into the land that the Lord your God is giving you, you shall not learn to follow the abominable practices of those nations. So don't follow their gods. There shall not be found among you anyone who burns his son or his daughter. daughter as an offering. Anybody know who what what God asked people to burn their children on a stone altar? Molech. Molech. Yeah, Molech. And they would literally take their infants and place them on a fiery rock and they would incinerate. These terrible, terrible thing. Who burns his daughter uh who sorry his daughter is an offering. Anyone who practices divination or tells fortunes or interprets Or a sorcerer or a charmer or a medium or a necromancer or one who inquires of the dead. Whoever does these things is an abomination to the Lord. And because of these abominations the Lord. your God is driving them out before you. So why did God take the Canaanites out of Canaan and give the promised land to his children? It was a judgment. Right? It was a judgment. The judgment because they were following Moac and they were worshiping these things and they were doing all of these evil practices, following false prophets and seers and diviners. You shall be blameless before your God The Lord your God will raise up a prophet like me from among you. This is again what we just read before. From your brothers. It is him you sh to him you shall listen just as you desired. So here he's keep talking about Christ. He says I'm the Lord. And then I'm skipping down to verse 17 And the Lord said to me, They are right what they have spoken, I will raise them up a prophet among you uh from among your brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to all that I command. Sorry, I'm trying to get to the verses. And whoever will not listen to the words he shall speak in my name. I will requ I I myself will require it of him. But the prophet who presumes to speak this is what I was trying to get to, sorry. But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name that I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other Gods, that same prophet shall die. And if you say in your heart, how may we know the word that the Lord has not spoken? When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, it If the word does not come to pass or come true, that is a word that the Lord has not spoken. Right? Because if I speak something and he's speaking from me, it's gotta be what? It's gotta be True. It's gotta be perfectly true, right? The prophet has spoken it presumptuously, you need not be afraid of him. So um yeah, so also kind of if you're a person and you think the the Lord is speaking to you, probably ought to be careful about your words. Alright, you better be careful about your words. You think that these prophets uh how you think they felt on the day that they were gonna go up and pronounce judgment on Israel? or go to the king and have to pronounce judgment on Israel. Um I mean A, I think you better be pretty sure what you're saying is true. Right? Because B, here comes the backlash. Okay, here comes the backlash. So uh so yeah, so and and this brings me then to the mission of the prophets. Um the primary mission of the prophet, and this is a really important point. The primary mission of the prophet, uh the one that they they felt like they were there for, okay? Was to communicate to the people of their day. Okay? They were giving prophecies and they were hearing prophecies that God has given them and they don't even understand them. They're just giving. Right, how do we know that? Anybody know how we know that? If you're in my 1 Peter class, hopefully you know that. So I want to read 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 10 through 12? Go for it. Concerning the salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace of that was to be yours search and inquire carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating. When he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories, it was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you. And the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Things into which angels long to look. Things in which angels long to look. So here is a prophet and he's giving a prophecy, right? And he knows that this prophecy is for this king, and he's got to give that prophecy. And he knows that there's going to be a near fulfillment. Fulfillment. Okay, there's got to be because he's got to prove to them that he's a prophet. But then every now and then you get one of these that's like way out there. Or it's about the Messiah. And they get excited. They're like, Oh my, oh my gosh, really? You're coming when it when's he coming? And they're looking through the other prophets and they're trying to figure out okay, I know I just said this, but I have no idea what I just said. And and and he's just trying to figure out what it is and how it It connects. But then the other part of his ministry, not his primary or his immediate ministry, his other part of the ministry is for who? Us. You. Right? The other part of the ministry of the ministry. Prophet is for you. Sitting in the desk, flipping through the Bible with me today, it's for you. It was a blessing to give to you. And what should you learn about? What should you know about? What should you take away from these prophecies? What does Peter say? This magnificent salvation. This magnificent salvation. Think about that for a minute. God wrote those words for you. Is that something you can meditate on? For a minute. Hopefully encourage you to get in the Bible and start reading those minor prophets and the prophets and just trying to understand. Because they didn't understand. They couldn't understand. It wasn't revealed. to them, but it has been revealed to you. It has been given to you. Is that if there's no other reason, right? There's no other reason to learn this stuff and to get this material and to take this class and to understand what's that's it right there. Right? You've been given a salvation and the angels were longing to look at it. The angels in heaven are looking down at you amazed. Right? Looking down at you amazed. Because angels long to look. And God has given that to you. So that's part of their ministry as well. When they approached the prophets, when they approached whom they were to prophesy to, usually a king or to a people or to a city or something, they were usually there to demand repentance. They were usually there to demand repentance from sin. sin and they warned that if they didn't repent that judgment was coming. Right? So that was the normal mode. And there's some exceptions, there's some asides, there's some things, but that was the general concept. context of what they were trying to to say, what what what message they had. Not by the way, the favorite message to have to speak anybody to anybody, right? How would you like to go up to someone and say, look, you better repent or you're gonna die Like tomorrow. Like you're gonna get in a car accident, you're gonna die. There's gonna be hellfire and brimstone coming down on your house, it's gonna explode, your house is gonna blow up, you're gonna be fly, they're not even gonna be Recognize you. It's gonna be if you don't repent right now, because you're a sinner. I mean I prefer to give the gospel in a much different way than that. But that is not how the prophets were there to demand repentance. They were to if you do not repent, this is gonna happen to you. So uh oftentimes and it's documented oftentimes they were rejected. Oftentimes they were killed. As a matter of fact, what does Stephen say? Which one of the prophets haven't you killed? Right? That's what gets him stoned. Which one of the prophets did your hard hearted uh people not kill? Which one? None. All of 'em. He killed them all. Right? You persecuted them all. You don't want to listen. So, tough ministry. Tough office, right? Even Christ. Christ the prophet. The last of the prophets, right? But what happened to him on the cross? Which one have you not killed? Which one have you not pr persecuted? So documentation of the prophecy. So this is a bit uh this is a okay, so this is my kind of using. Okay, this is just This is unadulterated, I went on a terrible tangent, and then I just had to tell you. Um how did these things get written? And how did the Jews know that they were in error? So in a sense it's kinda easy to tell which ones were inerrant because they what they came true. Right? So they know um but y there's a whole thing on this like of all the things you want to keep in your bedside table, do you want to keep all of the list of the things that you did wrong in a day? Like I don't think you want to do that. Like it's like a very but they kept it, right? They kept it. So that should tell you something about these prophecies. They had to know something about it. Right? They had to know something about it. But how did they get documented? How did they get written down? Right? They they're commanded to go and speak. When did they get written? So we'll go on this little excursion here. Can someone read Isaiah uh verse eight verse one? uh chapter eight verses one and then also verse sixteen. Not all the way through but just those two verses. And then if someone else wants to pick up Jeremiah thirty six, this is a super cool set of verses. Chapter uh thirty six, verses four and five, and then also verse thirty two. Um when you are you there? Then the Lord said take for yourself a large tablet and write on it in ordinary weather. Swift is the booty. speedy is to pray. And I will take to myself faithful witnesses for testimony. Uh I the priest in Zechariah the son of I mean I can't pronounce All the way to sixteen? No, then just also read sixteen. Find up the testimonies, seal the law, accordingly among my disciples. So yeah, so the the note here is this is evidence, textual evidence inside. the Bible, this is two things. Sometimes prophets were not commanded to speak, they were commanded to write. Right? And then in some cases the disciples were writing down the words of the prophet as they were being said. So you can think of it like the prophet as they were going around and prophesying and and proclaiming the word of God, there were those who were following the prophet and writing down his words, documenting his words. Jeremiah 36, 45. Shouldn't I have that? Then Jeremiah called Baruch, the son of Nariah, and Baruch wrote on his scroll at the vacation of Jeremiah all the words of Yahweh that he had spoken to him. And Jeremiah commanded Baruch saying, I am confined. I cannot go into the house of Yahweh. And then verse thirty two. And then verse thirty-two, yeah. Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch the son of Nariah the scribe. And he wrote on it, at the dictation of Jeremiah, all the words of the book which Jehoiakim, king of Judah, had burned in the fire. And many similar words were added to them. Actually really fun set chapter if you want to read Jeremiah uh in your your scrolling your your musings or your weekly readings or whatever. Uh so Jeremiah writes these words down because they forbid him to come into the temple. They don't want to hear from Jeremiah any more. Every time that guy comes up something bad happens. I don't want him here. Keep him away. Okay? Keep him out. Uh we don't want him. He's he's a he's a bad guy. But God Jeremiah's what what was he doing? He was simply proclaiming what the war the Lord told him to proclaim. But they're not listening to him anymore. So he says, Write it down. So he gets Baruch, they write it down, they send it to the king. The king burns it. He reads off the prophecies, he cuts that off, and he throws it into the fire. You know. How hard-hearted could you be towards God than to burn the very words that God has sent for you? Because God is a merciful God. If he sends you something, it's because it's a mercy, right? It's great. So throwing it in the fire is a complete rejection of his grace. And so then Borat comes back and he rewrites accord you know according to what God tells him, rewrites it, and then they add on top of that, oh yeah, and now you're gonna be judged. Um so yeah, very interesting very interesting chapter on that. But also again, the the the the the lesson here is is that frequently they were writing them down as they were saying them. Uh we know that they wrote them uh themselves at times. Uh and then they recognized, and I'm I'm going to speed up just a little bit, recognized, they were recognized as prophets and preserved by Israel. Now here this again also very important. First Chronicles 29, chapter 29, verse 29, and 2 Chronicles chapter 9, verse 29. Now the Acts of King David from first to last are written in the Chronicles of Samuel the Seir, and in the chronicles of Nathan the prophet, and in the chronicles of Gad the Seir. So who was they were these things were being written down. Right? We don't have the prophecies of Gad. That's not what of our books and we don't have the prophecies of Nathan, would love to, don't have them anymore. Okay, but they were writing them down. And then here you see they're saying they're all they're written down. They're preserved for history. The Jews as a culture, Israel documented their history. Written history. Fascinating thought. It's one of those verses you kind of read over when you're reading through the Bible, but super important, right? Super important. That we know that these were documented. Second Chronicles nine verse twenty nine. Does somebody have that? Now the rest of the Acts of Following, from first to last, are they not written in the records of Nathan the prophet? And in the prophecy of Hijah the Shonite and in the visions of Ido this year concerning Jeroboam the son of Nabat. I bet if you guys woke up this morning and said he's gonna make me read all this stuff you've been practicing in the mirror, right? Um yeah, it's it's sometimes it's hard. Good job at that. But uh yeah, so they're being written down. Right? They're being documented. Even if the prophet himself is not doing it, his disciples are doing it, it's documented, and then it's captured as part of Israel's history and taken along throughout uh their history. Uh some of that would be lost of course during during the um uh uh uh the uh uh what do you call it the captivity Okay. And actually I'm going to do this. I I I did this this way. I'm going to do this backwards from the way I have it on my PowerPoint. So I'm going to go to this. This is the way Jewish people organize their Old Testament. Same books are in there. But you're going to notice that they organize them very, very differently. Now there's a reason for this. And this is kind of a a a long Explanation, but for a very important point that I want to make with this. So for them, of course, they have the Pentateuch or the Torah, which is the books of the law, it's the first five books: Genesis, Texas, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, and then they have what's called Joshua judges Samuel and Kings. Now they just have Samuel and Kings. We have first and second they're the same books divided by two, but they're they're the same. Uh right? And those are called the early prophets. Not who you would expect when you see early prophets, right? That's not that's not something that you that that might make you go, wow, why did they say that? Okay, those are the early prophets. Then the later prophets. And the later prophets are this I wrote this this way, um, and but this is actually not completely accurate. What you would see is Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, uh, and then you would see the 12. There would be one book Called the Twelve. Which would be a compilation of all of these writings. It's called the Book of the Twelve. And then if you want, well, what happened to poor Daniel? Daniel falls down into here in what's called the Catholic. or the hagiographa, uh which are these other ones, Psalms, Proverbs, Job, some of the songs, so the poetry, and then some of the history and what they call the writings, Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, Esther, these other ones. fall into this second group. Now why do you think that they would have organized it that way? Any thoughts on why that might be? What they see as important in it. So that's what I did, Samuel and Kings would be more important than Would be more important for m but there's an Well, there's the early prophets and the later prophets. What about the first books would make them the early prophets? What happened during that time period? We call it the history, they call it the early prophets. What's going on during that time in their history? Conquests of Canaan and Establishment of the kingdom of Israel. Yes, bam, good job. Yeah. The conquest of Canaan, the establishment of Israel, the unified kingdom, right? Right? The unified kingdom. And then ultimately in uh the the the the um um uh the dividing kingdom would also follow in that. But you had so the early prophets were the story of how God gave the Jews the promised land. Right? Well what about these second, the second, the later prophets? What happens during this time period historically? It all falls apart. Exactly. It all falls apart. Two separate Incursions, one by Assyria takes the the the northern kingdom away, and the second one by Babylon takes the southern kingdom away, uh the first one being Israel, the second one being Judah, and and they're being warned, right? And what are they being warned? Judgment. Judgment and sin. Right? Repent, repent, repent, repent. Judgment. Repent, repent, repent, repent, judgment. Right? And then these are all maybe se Secondary to that, the Chronicles of course is more about the divided kingdom and and whatnot. But the idea here is the Jews see it as a unified story, right, about the giving of a promise by God, the giving of the land of promise by God, the subsequent uh disobedience of the n of them, and the judgment of them, and the loss, and then eventually the what? Because what's also in there. The promise of restoration. The promise of restoration. Right? The faithfulness of God can be seen. Even though you turn away from me, I will return you. I will restore you. Right? So I all of that just to to go to these unifying themes because I I wanted you to know that like if you if you take this in in a certain context in a certain way there is a story that's being told here. Right? There is a story that's being told and and historically, um by the way, early Christianity saw organized it the Old Testament in the same way. So early Christians saw the Old Testament divided that way as well. Uh it wasn't until later that they divided them the way that we have them today. Um so yeah, so that they're unifying themes of sp of the prophets. Uh and of course we're focused on the minor prophets, but you could say the the prophets in general. Uh the first is that the prophet asserts that God has spoken through them. So that's for s uh second Peter verses one or verse one twenty one, uh or chapter one, verse twenty one. Someone wanna grab that real quick. So no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. Okay, so I I think I've sufficiently beat that with scripture, right? That the the prophets were were not They didn't speak on their own behalf. They only spoke the words that God gave them. Does that mean if I if I beaten anything into your head today, hopefully that one is is is you take Okay, God chose Israel for covenantal relationship. Now we're not going to read all these because you can see it's quite it would be we would we would completely Run out of time, maybe even miss all of service because this is quite a bit of reading. But God chose Israel for a covenantal relationship. He tells Jeremiah while you were in the womb, before you were in your mother's womb, I knew you, right? Um so he had this this relationship with with Jeremiah, but also this same kind of relationship with Israel. Hosea talks uh when we get into Hosea, uh I don't know how much you guys know about this, but uh Hosea was commanded to go take a prostitute prostitute for a wife. Right? Hosea was commanded, go get a prostitute for a wife. Her name is Gomer, and then Gomer of course immediately proceeds to go back into her wicked ways, right? And so she cheats on Hosea and she goes off. to to return to herself and Hosea. And God and and then God tells him, Okay, now you go tell the people, this is you. You're Gomer. Right? Um so he the but the idea of the covenantal relationship And then Israel failed to live up to that standard. Also, you could see Hosea, but you can also take Joel chapter 2 where they talk about that. Zephaniah talks about that. Also talks about that. And then God intends to judge that sin. So we had an arrangement. We failed to live up to that arrangement. And so I'm going to judge not just your sin, but all sin. Right? Not just your sin, but all sin. All sin will be judged. But in this one we will read, well no, I guess we won't. Talks about like what what's that called? The the Faith Walk of Fame or yeah, it's all the the the faithful servants, right? And it's all throughout their history. Right? It's all throughout their history. So there was always a remnant. Uh If you go to First Kings chapter nineteen, this is Elijah, you know, of course he has the Mount Mount Caramel victory and then he gets immediately runs away and he's like, They all just turn aside and he's like, Okay, yeah, but I've saved seven thousand the haven't bowed to the knee of Baal, right? So God is always keeping a remnant. Very important to understanding Scripture is that God intends to judge sin. God intends to place judgment on on the the nation of Israel, but there's a what? There is a remnant. Right? He's going to judge Judah, but there is a remnant. There is a remnant. He's preserving some. He's protecting some. keeping some. You want to understand scriptures, a good place to start understanding biblical prophecy is God. Why do you always keep a remnant? What are you going to do with that remnant when we get to Revelation? and they're in the wilderness. Right? Right? Does that you understand the connections there? You see that you connect some dots like that, right? There's a remnant there. What happens to that remnant? They're gonna the world is gonna come and crush them, but who steps in? Oh come on. This is like the great moment. Who steps in? Oh Jesus comes back, right? Right? And he protects them. Right? He sends Michael. He comes. And then Christ comes and then he what? He he walks, he trods over his enemies. Right? But what's he doing it for? What's he protecting? He's protecting the remnant. Right? That's the judgment comes the moment they repent. So the remnant of the Jews, right? The remnant of the Jews, right. Yeah. So it kinda blows up covenantal theology with that. You have to then you become more dispensationalists. Which is okay if you want to be more dispensational. Uh so God intends to bring about redemption. Uh Zephaniah three, eight through twenty. So in all of the calls for judgment and sin, in all of the calls we have this remnant and God intends to bring about a redemption. These are all the themes that you will find in these prophets. There's obviously a lot more, but these are the major unifying threads that roll throughout all of the prophets. Any questions on that? Okay. Um, timeline. So someone mentioned you mentioned timeline, here's your timeline. And this is really terrible. gonna be honest with you. Uh I looked for a diagram I could copy and paste and I spent like two hours just trying to do this and it's a mess. Like it's a real mess. I'm just gonna be honest. I'm sorry in advance, it's a real mess. But it's on Excel now if you feel And it's roughly accurate. On this side, you have uh the kings of Judah, the prophets to Judah, the kings of Israel, and the prophets of Israel. So can you kind of see how I kind of roughly align that? Uh the dark ones are the m major prophets, and then the the lighter ones are the minor prophets. And that's just probably a good point. Why do they call them the minor prophets. Because the book is smaller. Does that make their prophecy their prophecies less important? Does it make them less accurate or less inspired? Fired? No, not at all. Not at all. As a matter of fact, some of the prophecies there that in in in the the minor prophets are incredible. Um I could I'll just I gotta make so uh Uh just so you know, I was actually when I was asked to teach this this semester, uh or this quarter, I was like, Yeah, I don't know what I want to do and I thought about doing John. I was kinda kicking around different ideas and Gabe says, Well, what about doing a survey of the minor prophets? I'm like, No way. Uh uh no point doing that. That ain't gonna happen. Um and then I you know, so it was getting kinda closer to when I had to decide and I was like, Yeah, I don't know what I wanna do and so I was like, you know, I'm just gonna open up one of these minor prophets and read 'em and I I flipped open to Hosea and I was Oh okay, this is what I'm gonna do. Right? 'Cause I just saw this this moment. I mean there's so many beautiful moments that that we're gonna talk about during the course of this class. Things you know, these these ideas of redemption and the faithfulness of God that you're gonna see. and you know Habakkuk and you know Habakkuk's uh he he's uh I won't get too much into it, I'll save it for a later day, but he's he's like, God, I want you to judge these people. They're so simple, they're so awful and he says, I am gonna judge them. I'm gonna send these guys and they're like wait a minute these guys are worse than these guys why are you gonna do that that's so weird and and then he says well yeah uh um this is my judgment this is what I'm gonna do but but uh I'm gonna redeem them and so they And then Habakkuk finally comes around to understanding, okay, it's part of God's divine plan. And and he shifts his thinking from like, how could you do this, God, to I'm gonna look for this God. Right? And he's like, I'm gonna listen for this. I'm gonna Watch for this 'cause you're going to do a great work and I'm gonna wait for it and see it happen. And he's just you know, so this idea of being anticipate um anticipatory to God's revelation and God's coming is a beautiful thing. picture right of how we should be. How we should be. Uh and and all and all of the minor prophets have some nuggets in them just like that. You know, whether it's Hosea or it's, you know, um I and he know he speaks Spanish. So he's a little bit more difficult to understand. Uh anyway, alright, so um just walking through this real quick. Um Joel is uh Joel and Obadiah are the two oldest. Actually Obadiah is the oldest. Uh he was a Prophet not to uh Israel, but a prophet to Edom. Um so one of the few. There's a few that and of course everybody knows the other one, right? Who who who else did not prophesy to Israel? Jonah. Very good, very good. Jonah is another is another one that that uh did not prophesy to Israel, he prophesied to Assyria, right? Um and then Joel, uh Joel is talking about the day of the Lord. Uh and here he's speaking with uh Jehoram and Joash and Israel there at the time, Azariah and Jehu, those kings. And so there's biblical references there. We can go back and kind of get some context into what was going on during that day. And Jonah uh were were uh prophets during uh Jeroboam's times, for there's also again there's quite a bit on Jeroboam in in scripture, and then of course Isaiah, who uh is probably the most well known or Maybe Hezekiah is the most well known of the kings, uh, because Isaiah and Micah were there during that time. Also, Hosea was there uh min uh with ministering during that period of time. Uh but he was Hosea was was prophesying to Israel. Israel. And then in seven twenty-two you get what? The big red line. Can you all read that? Is that too hard to read? Yeah, Israel is yeah, the captivity, right? So Hosea pronounces judgment, and then judgment comes. right um skipping down Hezekiah Manasseh um Ammon and then all during this time Nahum and Zephaniah are are preaching and then of course you get Jeremiah Ezekiel and Daniel during this period, very important period in their history. Uh Zephaniah is there, Habakkuk is there. Uh then you get of course the Babylonian captivity and then after the exile has ended, you get Zechariah and Malachi. Okay. Malachi is the last word from the Old Testament. Right? And he hands it over to who? Anyone know who he hands the ball off to? John, John the Baptist. Right? John the Baptist. There's a like a handoff that goes on there. And then John the Baptist tells about the great prophet who is Jesus. Okay? So That's your your continuity. Well uh as we go through each class, as we go through each one, I will try and bring in okay, this is what Second Kings does, first Kings, we'll go through the the that piece, then we'll talk about the major themes, if there's a major prophecy that needs to be spoken about. I just want to give you a flavor for what you're looking at. Um Elias is teaching uh the next two weeks, so he'll teach Obadiah and Joel. Uh and then after that I will come back and teach Amos and then Jonah. And we'll move forward from there. So uh any questions on this? Excited? That's gonna be cool. That's gonna be pretty cool. Uh you might go over this next week or why it might. How do you know that Joel was written so early? I I've seen commentaries that have double places to date. So Joel is one and and uh I expected Elias will talk about why this is. Um the the problem in Joel and I and this by the way I'll apply to like a broader just a broader context because I I was gonna address it at uh it was in my notes to address but I didn't I didn't hit on this very hard so I'll just hit on it very quick so thanks for saying that. The problem with Joel is that there's not like there's not like he was speaking to this king or it's hard to like pinpoint where he was in scripture but we know that he was talking about or speaking towards a time when there was famine in in the land where there were locusts that were coming. Um and then there was uh incursions from uh from the Philistines and there were just there were incursions coming and so they were just getting man the They were just getting pelted with all the bad stuff. All the bad stuff was happening. And Joel's message is that uh what you know he starts off with what what the dislocust didn't eat dislocust egg. that locust didn't eat, this locust ate. What that locust didn't eat, this locust ate. You know, and so it's all gone. It's all wiped out. This is like the day of the Lord. And then he takes that and he says, so here is the day Now here is the future day of the Lord. Okay, so his call is to repentance, he's talking about it being a judgment, what's going on now is a judgment, but it's a judgment which foreshadows a future day in the far future called the Day of the Lord. Joel actually speaks about the Day of the Lord more than any other prophet in all of Scripture. So he has one of the most comprehensive discussions on the Day of the Lord in all of Scripture. But so they know based on that there's two timelines he sort of fits into and this is where where they get in in a little bit of debate. Okay. The earlier timeline fits better with the language, the you know so the the textual criticism comes in now. Well so they they okay, well it could be either this time or this time. Where does it fit better in terms of the language that's used in context? And so uh if you say that it's more in 586 BC, I think is the alternative date. Okay, fine. We place it back on a later date because of the language and the textual stuff that that also is there uh that seems to fit this period better than this period. So it it and it's literally just a decision. Some people when they drop these maps leave Joel out. Because there's there's great debate between the two. But just know that you know and and and they've done this a lot with um with various ones, but Joel is probably the most difficult. Joel is probably the most difficult. Yep. But does it really matter because what he's prophesying is something far greater than both of those things. It doesn't change the fulfillment of the prophecy either way. A hundred percent. Yeah it doesn't change the fulfillment yeah absolutely right. Doesn't change the fulfillment Doesn't really change very much the context either, right? Because they fit both the timelines. Okay, so it's still kind of the same message regardless, right? And then clearly they saw it as inspired, and why did they see it as inspired? Because they kept it Right? They held on to it. They copied it. They carried it with them. Okay, so they they recognized him as a prophet. So all of those things are still true. We're just not sure which of the two dates. right, he fits better into. We made a decision, we made a decision. So but there's a there's a couple of examples of that uh but most of them are small swings. Is it this king or this king? Um but in this case it's a it's a large large differentiation in the time. So does that answer your question? Any questions, any other questions on that? Okay. Um so yeah, so what do you hope to get out of the class now after we've gone through all of this? Is is everybody encouraged? Ready to do this? Okay. Alright, well let's uh let's pray and uh we can prepare for for uh service