Uh I'm well, this is week thirteen. And um I was reminded this week, uh especially as you open up the book of Malachi, I was reminded this week of the amount of effort and energy that I was just telling you about about that uh the effort and energy it takes uh to prepare uh for some reason survey classes you would think would be easier but they're actually way more difficult to put together. Uh it's been a great, great, very blessed time that I've had in in the study of this, and I hope that you guys have also been blessed through the study of these these minor prophets. And then you open up Malachi and one of the major themes in the book of Malachi is the uh inability to give a proper offering to the Lord. Uh Malachi is going to call out uh the people who are returning uh from the exile uh for their lack of genuineness in their worship. And so it will challenge each of us. Uh we're gonna yeah, I'm sorry. I gotta preach what what it tells me to preach. Or teach what it tells me to teach, not preach but hopefully I won't be preaching. If I am then stop me. Uh just throw something at me. Uh we'll go back to teaching. But uh no. Uh I I gotta teach what the scripture has me teach and I'm about to beat you guys down because that's kinda what this book does. It's definitely convicting. So, um uh I was reminded in my studies uh that, you know, we oftentimes you know, I said this at at dinner, you know, I I think everybody, whether they want to admit it or not, whether they openly confess it or not, has some form of a works based salvation, to be honest, if we're really, really honest. We all know that we're saved by grace through faith. I'm not saying if you don't know that, but there's always something in us that somehow thinks that we're going to earn God's favor. You know, that that through our through our purity, through our worship, through our our good deeds that we're gonna somehow earn the favor of the Lord and then yet you're going to be reminded today uh no you're not. Uh it's nothing in your works. It's nothing in your works. At at the end of the day it It's really all about God's grace. Uh and and your best attempts and your desire to serve the Lord in the best way you can is the conviction of the Holy Spirit in us and it drives us and it pushes us forward. But we should be always reminded and always mindful. Always mindful that were it not for the Lord's grace, were it not for the God's constant and faithful intervention in our lives, that we would quickly fall off a cliff. Uh that we would quickly fall aside. And uh Malachi is gonna remind us t of that today. Um and so uh that was the great conviction that I had this weekend uh uh in finishing up my studies and we were talking about it at dinner last night but uh kind of uh putting these last pieces together uh and coming to that uh through my studies during the week as well. But uh nothing changes on this one. Um same people, uh Joyce Paulin again commend her to you. Walter Kaiser I used extensively, especially this week. Uh he has a a really great um flow on this particular text, a really great structure on this particular text, which I thought was uh Yeah, I mean it's it's pretty basic. Malachi is not the most difficult text to understand structurally, but the way he breaks it out I felt like was really nice. So I relied heavily on him this week, uh but also Joyce Baldwin. Uh this is a really great picture. You're not going to be able to see see very much of it. I got this off of a really quick YouTube video. If you go out to the PowerPoint uh presentation, I I put the link in the video or in the in the notes. It was a it's like a six minute video. Um the the picture is actually better than than his total the the totality of his five minute message, but I think the picture is actually pretty cool because it shows a lot of the key components uh of Ezra to Nehemiah. So if you talk Talk about the post-exilic period, the history in the post-exilic period is Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther, right? These are the three books that compose the the post-exilic period. So uh Esther and Nehemiah were were really Written by uh Ezra. I'm sorry, Ezra and Nehemiah were written. Did I say Esther? Yes. I said Ezra. I'm sorry, I misspoke. Esther and Nehemiah, or Ezra, just throw something at me. Ezra and Nehemiah were both written by Ezra. I give up. I give up. It's over. This is done. Ezra Ezra wrote Ezra and Nehemiah. It's right there. Uh he wrote both those books. Um and uh but it's interesting when you Read Nehemiah, he speaks a lot in first person, and that's because Ezra is compiling Nehemiah's diary. Um so it's just an interesting fact if you go back and you read it. Uh Ezra did wrote both of these books, and it really carries you through through the story of the exile. There were three ways in which the Jews came back from uh from uh Babylon. Uh it started off with uh let me actually flip the page now. Now I I'll talk through it on this page and then I'll go through the dates and stuff. It starts off with King Cyrus. Uh uh they conquer they conquer the Babylonians, the Persian Empire, the Neo Persian Empire comes to arise and they send back the Jews back to Jerusalem. And so there's a lot on that. You can read in Haggai we've talked about some of some of the building of the walls and the temples and we talked about the prophets that spoke there. But some Sends them back and he says, You can rebuild the temple. Uh and then from there another wave comes in with Ezra. I almost said Ezra again. Ezra uh brings another group back where they finish building the temple. Uh Um and then uh then Nehemiah will bring a contingent in that will come and help build the wall. So there's kind of like these three these three distinct phases in which they return to the the promised land. Um and in each of them And this does actually a really good job of pointing this. This video does a great job of pointing it out. It starts off at a high point and it kind of ends at a low point. So the start was removable, they come in, they're excited, they come back, they're going to start. building and then they meet the Sumerians come in and they they try and stop them and so it ends in a kind of a low point like oh what do we do? We're gonna stop building you know and we had that discussion during Haggai they gave up building anything. They were told they couldn't build the wall, they decided we're going to panel our houses, right? So it starts off in a high point and it ends in a low point. Then Haggai comes in, Zechariah comes in, prophesies to them, tells them, build the temple. They build the temple and they're all excited about the building of the temple and then it gets up and they're like, oh, it's just this little bitty ninety by ninety thing and it's not impressive. And the elders are weeping, right? They're like, oh, this is And then Zechariah preaches again about the great and glory coming from this temple. And and Haggai also preaches that, right? That that that hey, I know it's a little thing, remember I said it's the little work of man that brings out the great work of God. Right? So this little work that you've done, this little temple that you have, is going to be filled with God's glory, he says. And so uh and then of course uh the temple is built Up in the in in Herod's time, he built the temple, and it's this massive thing. It's an amazing thing. But it ends at kind of that low point. So then they come in and they start to build walls, and like literally the Sumerians are making fun of them. Literally the Sumerians are like, a fox could knock that wall over. You know, this is ridiculous. And and they're discouraged. Uh but they get the wall built and then Nehemiah goes back to Persia, goes back to Babylon. Uh he fulfills his time as governor uh in one through seven and then he returns and here they are, he finds them in all kinds of spiritual uh a spiritual down, like they're taking on born wives, they're you know, they're starting to fall away. Uh and there's this kind of fun verse in verse thirteen where he goes and he starts literally beating up the the the lords in the area, like, what are you guys doing? You're stupid, you know, and gets them back. Uh uh and and moves them back. But it ends in kind of this down note where it's like, gosh, uh you know, we have all of these hopes, all of these dreams and then they just sort of fade. So there's this kind of pattern that you see in the post exilic histories where They start off high and they end up low. And this is where the prophets fit into this picture. So 539, the fall of Babylon, 538, Cyrus's decree, covered that in Haggai, so you can go back and listen to that on the podcasts and in the uh on sermon audio. Then in 538 immediately Zerubaba leads the first groups. That's the first contingent that goes through. They start to build, they fall short, Haggai Zechariah, chapters one through eight, uh are prophesied, and then the temple is completed in five sixteen. In four eighty three to four seventy three are the events of Esther. So if you go in and you read about all of the things that happened in Esther and this plan to destroy the Jews and everything that's going on with Mordecai and Esther and uh so all all of that happens from four eighty three to four seventy three and then Zechariah's second set. Remember I talked about the two pieces of Zechariah last week. So 9 through 14 was preached around 480 BC. In 458, Ezra leads the second wave. The purpose of the second wave is to Restore worship in the temple, to store proper worship in the temple. That's the major theme of Ezra's wave. Nehemiah leads the third wave to build the wall. So they build the temple, they restore the worship, and then they build the wall. Then Nehemiah returns to Persia after his time as governor in four hundred-three. Malachi preaches between four forty-five and four hundred twenty. So sometime shortly before Nehemiah returns to shortly when he comes back. So we think Malachi's timing fits right there between chapter twelve and chapter thirteen in the book of Nehemiah. So if you want to go back and read in the history, that's where you insert Malachi's teaching. between twelve and thirteen. Uh and then uh circa around four twenty-four uh uh Nehemiah returns to Jerusalem and resumes his governorship in Jerusalem and that's the end of that's chapter thirteen and And that's also the end of the book of Nehemiah. Uh so that's your post exilet period. And I did that really fast because I got a lot of material to cover. But are there any questions? Because we just blew right through a lot of history. Malica would sit between what chapters of uh Chapter twelve and chapter thirteen of Nehemiah. Yeah. Any other questions? That's a good question. Any other any other questions? When she said repeat that I thought she wanted me to repeat the whole thing. I was like, yeah, well, you know. I'm j I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Okay. Uh structure of the book. Um the the so the structure of Malachi is very different from other the other prophets. I'm just gonna tell you that's not there's almost no poetry in it at all, uh if any really real true poetry at all. Uh it's very much prose oriented. Uh and it takes the form of a dialogue. Uh it is literally a conversation that Malachi teaches between the words of God and then the response of the people. So you get this God says this, the people say this and then there's uh a prophecy. And then God says this, the people say this, and then God speaks again. And it it this kind of back and forth kind of uh dialogue between God and the people uh are uh the people of Israel. So th the structure of the book is broken along these pieces of dialogue. He starts off uh with I have loved you and then the people say, Well how have you loved us? And then he proceeds. And then uh so we'll go through that and where is my honor, God says, and then there's a a response. Then he has a commandment for the priest. A call to faithfulness. And then the one prophecy there in red that you're going to see uh which is messianic is uh where is the God of justice? So the the uh the people are going to challenge God that that he allows evil. He just lets evil persist. That the actually the evil is what seems to be winning. Uh and so God's prophecy about Messiah is in response to this accusation that God allows evil to run rampant. And then finally he he comes back at them and says, but you have robbed me. And then in the end, the preservation of the remnants. So the major theme of Malachi, I'll get you to the end. The big idea of Malachi happens in verse 2. Okay? It happens in the very first chapter, or verses 1 through 5, but primarily in verse 2. So we will get started on that. But the major theme of Malachi is I have loved you. It's about the love of God and the faithfulness of God and the immutability of God. That God never changes, even Even in the face of wavering, in the face of sinful, and in the face of the constant failures of mankind, God remains faithful. That is the major or the big idea of the book of Malachi. It is the love of God and the faithfulness of God in the face of the d unlovingness of man and the unfaithfulness of man. That he loves us in spite of who we are and what we do. So okay. Any questions on the structure? Okay. I have loved you. So flipping open to chapter one verse one. So let's go ahead and open up. We're just gonna we're literally just gonna walk this one. Uh I like doing this when they're small enough that I can get through the whole thing. Uh we'll have to move I think fairly quickly, but I think we'll get through all of it. Starting in verse one. The Oracle of the Word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. Now interestingly, Malachi, the word for Malachi is my messenger, but that's what that stands for. My messenger. As a matter of fact, um Jerome I mentioned Him as seeing Zechariah being divided last week. Jerome also felt that Malachi was not a name. Malachi was actually just a title. My messenger. He is my messenger. It's probably not the best. way to read this word Malachi, but it's also used uh in chapter three verse one where he says, I'm sending my messenger, right? So this thought is it's not completely insane to think that the the the name Malachi is not actually a name. But in context it's kind of hard to see that because it would require a shift in in the the verbiage because you s if God it would be his messenger in context with the verse, not mine. messenger so it's just kind of weird that it would be so it's probably best to read it as a name, but just so you know, there are scholars who think that the Malachi is a title, not a name. There's also no mention of his lineage, where he's from, any of this And so that's all missing. Uh so the debate about who Malachi is, again, does that affect the inerrancy of the scripture? No. No. It's the same thing as Hebrews, right? We don't know who wrote Hebrews. Right? Uh It's a great it's a great discussion. People have lots of theories, you know. Um we don't know who wrote Hebrews, but does that make it uninspired? No, of course not. Of course it doesn't. And neither does this. So it I I personally think that Malachi is his name and best way to read it. That's what I'm going with. But just so you know there's some debate. He says, I have uh the oracle of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi, I have loved you in the perfect tense. I I have loved you, um, says the Lord. So we talk about this all the time when we talk about Greek, it's I have loved you, I am loving you, and I will always love you. It is it is a statement that God is always loving you. Israel. But you say, How have you loved us? Is not Esau Jacob's brother, declares the Lord. Yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated. I have laid waste to his hill country and left His heritage to Jackals of the desert of Edom says, We are shattered, but we will rebuild the ruins. The Lord of hosts says, They may build, but I will tear it down, and they will be called the wicked country, and the people with whom the Lord Is angry forever. Your own eyes shall see this, and you shall say, Great is the Lord beyond the border of Israel. So I have loved you. How have you loved me? How have you loved me? And that brings Out. He says, I've loved you and I've hated Esau. Three aspects of God's love. And I can't get into look, you can write whole books on the theology. of God's love. I mean I I I'm not gonna get through it in an hour. I'm not there's no way. I'm going to give you a brief primer on it because I think it's important to the context and the content. But the brief primer is this. Uh love, uh in that God's love is a matter of God's choosing or God's preference. Can someone open up Genesis 29, 30 through 33, and then somebody else get Deuteronomy 21? 15 through 17. So flip open to Genesis, first person to get there. 29, what? 30 through 33. Okay, then okay. went into Rachel also, and indeed he loved Rachel more than Leah, and he served with Laban for another seven years. Now the Lord saw that Leah was unloved, and he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren. And Laban Leda conceived and bore a son and named him Reuben, for she said, Because the Lord has seen my affliction, surely now my husband will love me. Then she conceived again and bore a son and said, Because the Lord has heard. heard that I'm unloved. He has therefore given me this son also. So she named him Simeon. Okay, so in those sets of verses, Leah continues to maintain she's unloved, right? But clearly her and Jacob Still have a relationship, otherwise, Reuben and Simeon never come out, right? Come about. But they have some relationship. They are together. Uh obviously they are still m in in marriage, right? But she maintains that I am. un love. But Rachel was more love. It's this idea that that really when we when when the Bible takes that love Isa Jacob I love but Esau I hated, it's really about I've always chosen Jacob above above and beyond Esau. So uh in this case she's trying to earn Jacob's favor and the language shows you that he's trying to earn she's trying to earn Jacob's favor. Not that she's hated in the sense that we might think of it to Day, but that that it's really about whose preference, who has the preferential treatment, who is loved more than, let's say. Uh what about Deuteronomy twenty one, fifteen through seventeen? The one loved and the other unloved, and both the loved and the unloved have borne him children. And if the firstborn son belongs to the unloved, then on the day when he assigns his possessions as an inheritance to his son, he may not treat the son of the loved as the firstborn. Firstborn in preference to the son of the unloved. Who is the firstborn? But he shall acknowledge the firstborn, the son of the unloved, by giving him a double portion of all that he has, for he is the first fruits of his strength. The right that the right of the firstborn So again, just because you didn't prefer this wife over this wife, just because this one is unloved and this one is loved, again that language, trying to bring out that language, doesn't mean you have a right to short the firstborn just because Because it it was with the the the the unlove. Again, the idea of preference. Love also plays out in the context of action. So God's love plays out in the context of action. Can someone read Matthew six? six verse twenty four. No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. So the the context here is God and money but The the the focus that I'm trying to get to is that you cannot serve two masters because you will love the one and you will hate the other. Right? So this is the same way that they mean Jacob I loved, Esau I hated. You will love the one You will prefer the one, you will follow the one, you will act on the towards the one, but you will hate the other or leave out the other or not follow after the other. You can't serve two masters, you can only serve one master, you cannot love God. And money. You can't have it both ways, right? So that's this is the context when we talk about Jacob I loved and Esau I hated. Last is that God's love is it plays out in context of faith. Faithfulness. So God shows faithfulness to those whom he loves, but does not show that same preferential faithfulness to those he does not love or he hates. So Luke chapter 14, verses 26 and 27. Anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come to me and come after me cannot be. So in other words, uh loving in this context, right, and hating in this context is the same thing. Again, just trying to show this idea that that it it's uh it it plays out in faithfulness, who are you going to follow? Now, if we use the modern definition of hate, then I mean that verse would not make any sense at all. You're not gonna go beat up your your mother and father because you're following Jesus. That would not be very Christian of us. But the idea that, look, I'm going to pursue the Lord first and foremost and regardless of the consequences, that's very much at play. And that's exactly how God means it when He says He loves Jacob, but he hates Esau. He is going to pursue Jacob. Right? You see him throughout all the minor prophets. If we've done nothing else, we've shown how unfaithful Israel has been and how God continues and continues and continues to pursue Israel. Right? And that same thing applies to you, chosen elect of God, chosen Christian. God continues to pursue. Pursue you. God continues to love you. God continues in faithfulness to you. Right? So this is what he's telling. This is what he's telling how he responds to So three aspects that you're going to see uh in this is God electing love, right? So verses one through three A, I have chosen And you but Esau have hated. God's justice, 3804. I'm going to you know Esau is subject to to justice. He's going to be judged. But Israel is not just judged. Not subject to that same justice, are they? Right? Because he's part of their electing love. And then God's universal love, i. e. , the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant in verse 5, your own eyes shall see this, and you shall say, Great is the Lord beyond the border of the Lord. of Israel. So God will ultimately fulfill his covenant with with Israel, the Abrahamic covenant, through Israel, and they will be a blessing to all of the nations. You see that there as well. I'll just make sure I got all my notes on that. Yep. Oh, wait, one more verse. Galatians 3. 8. Someone want to grab Galatians 3. 8? The scripture, foreseeing that God justified the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, All the nations will be blessed in me. So there you see that the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant was in fact the gospel, right? When the gospel, the gospel is the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant. Through them, through a Jew, through a Jew, all of the nations are blessed. Through a Jew, all of the nations are blessed. And how is that accomplished through the gospel? Everybody has access to salvation through Jesus Christ, our Lord. All of the nations are blessed through Aju. Right? So again, just on that. Uh any questions on that before we move on? There's like some pretty deep theology there to run through in like ten minutes, but okay. Okay, but does everybody really have access? Because we know that God's completely sovereign. I mean he's he can he's all powerful. And we also know that he's providential. Um he had purpose in his sovereignty and he uses he can turn men's hearts like he did, you know um and all that. So God can do whatever he wants to do. with it. But he has he has um common grace and the rain falls on the just and the unjust. But clearly, I mean you can just see so many verses in scripture where God has chosen a people who Himself, which is what you've been teaching all semester. Right. And um we see it through all the prophets too, even though they're unfaithfulness, he still keeps that covenant. And he will have his will will be done. So you know it's hard to say that um everyone had access because in reality we're all guilty. Mm. We're all guilty. And none of us would have had any access, but by God's grace and by his divine decree his un immutable um sovereign will. He has chosen a people for himself. Right. Yeah, and and then okay, so the the the beginning of this and this is always a great question. It always comes up Uh it every time you give the gospel, if you open up the the the the can of eruption on someone when giving, that is the exact response that you're going to hear, right? And and the answer is really that I think often Oftentimes we have the wrong perspective in this, right? We don't understand what we mean when we talk about the free grace of God. Uh the first of all, do you deserve it? No. Right? Because we say that in in our with our words. And this is what I talked about. Everybody has kind of this idea of a workspace salvation, whether we want to confess it or not. Whether we you know fundamentally the question is this do you have a right to access and free access to Jesus Christ. No. You don't have that right. No, you don't. It's it's completely God's work. Well we see that we see that also in Romans, who were you you know that's what we see is th that when you hear that what they're saying is well is it fair for some to be elected and some not to be elected? And the right response to that is, Well, the better question is is it right for anybody to be elected at all? God is righteous Yes. In judging the entire world. Everybody. We've all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. That God says one man is an act of incredible grace. Right, but yet in fleshly sinful mind, even though I know that true and I've solved it with Psalms which says I don't concern myself with things that are too great for me to understand. I just rest at my mother's breath, knowing you know a wean child. In my fleshly sinful state, that answer doesn't satisfy my Such a simple thing. Absolutely. Because we we didn't try and think about well that doesn't you know you're a fifteen year old kid, that doesn't sound very just. Johnny got it, but I didn't. You know? So Uh and it the the and then the the collar to what I I first said that everybody has some form of works based salvation is that the further you walk in your Christian faith, the less Armenian you become. Uh it really is, you know the the the longer you go and you walk in the Lord, the more you realize that it's not because of you. Uh because if it was because of you you would have failed a million times, right? Uh and as you progress and you grow and you you and focus on really how sinful you are, the that should inspire in us oddly, it should inspire in us confidence. Yeah. Oh it's a good idea. But not like if you just try to witness to somebody and you talk about election right out of the gate, uh, it does never work because like you're right, the deeper you get, the more you realize that if God wasn't in control of every even rogue molecule, that would be in rubble. Yeah. Right? Because we w because we know he's righteous and good, so yeah, it gives incredible peace. But as a new believer or as an unbeliever, it makes God look like we're robots. And it's really hard to get that concept across to someone who doesn't know. And and that's yeah, that that's obviously, you know, at some point you just look at it and say, Okay, you know, if God doesn't open your heart then you're not gonna understand, right? I mean in in Isaiah it's preach to these people till they become deaf. Speak to them till they become blind. Right? Like literally the more you preach the more they blind. The more you preach, the more they tune out, the the more they reject. And when you start to see that it's stop casting your pearls before swine. Dust your You are n you're never going to convince anybody to enter the kingdom of heaven. So they get we're called to plant the seed and you know the But honestly speaking, it is not your job to soften for lack of better words and say they're hearts. Your job is to deliver the message. And it's God's job to control their hearts. Yeah. And and that fact that fact lets you know this is this is not a man made religion. Man would never make this up Men would never make this up. Right? I mean, if you stopped and you just thought about it, men would never think this up. What what every religion in the whole planet, if I do these things, if I act this way, if I meditate, take this way, if I starve myself, if I whip myself, if I beat myself, if I do this, if I do that, if I kill this person, if I do these things, I will earn my way into heaven. Or at least less time in hell. Right? So if you're if you're Muslim, it's less time in hell. Okay, so so every every single religion on the planet talks about works based, right? It's always about your works and how righteous you become. Here From the beginning of the book to the end of the book, all you hear is you'll never do it. Right? You will never, ever, in a million years, do it. And the further you look, the more you'll know you fall short. The further you go, the more More you'll fail until you look at me and recognize that I am the only reason that you can come to me, and I am the only good in the entire world. And and you walk away from that and you're like, man, would never never think this up. In a million years man could never dream such an amazing word. Right? And that's really the heart of of this p first part. So thank you for the questions. This is why this back and forth is so great because it really But I move on because I have to then God says, Where is my honor? A son honors his father. And a servant his master, if I am then a father, and I love this verse. And I'll go back to this in a second, but if I am a father, where is my honor? Uh I don't know, and maybe somebody else can can correct me on this, because I did not do the study. I didn't go back and do the word study. Uh I think that this This is the first time that God refers to Himself as a father. I could be wrong about that. In fairness, I could be totally wrong. I could go back and look and do the research in the history, but when I read this verse uh uh earlier uh the first time I walked through it I was like, Is this the first time that God ever refers to himself as the father? And and that idea of him being a father to Israel should stand out. He says, uh if I am a father where is my honor if I am a master where is my fear says the Lord of hosts O priests who despise my name I've been a father to you. All these things that he's done for the nation of Israel. And he says, You, O priests, despise my name. And they say, Well, how have we despised you? have we despised you by offering polluted food on my altar and then he's going to go off and tell them you you give me the very last of you you give me the sacrifice Of the animal that you wouldn't eat yourself. You give me the very last part of you, and yet you say that you honor me. But if you honor a father or you honor your master, should it not be your first? Should it not be your first? Are we guilty of that as Christians? Yeah. I mean, to start with the obvious, most of us see Sunday as the last day of the week. I mean I'm not saying, you know, most calendars have Sunday as the first day of the week. Intellectually we tend to see Sunday as the last day. Why? Because it's yeah, because work's tomorrow. Work is tomorrow. So the beginning of your week is always Monday. That's a really simple way of just showing you how the very last thing in your consideration is your honor to God. And by the way, I don't like being the one that has to say this because I am feeling just as guilty and convicted. So Don't think that I'm walking away here with like, you know, this sense of self-righteousness, but it's what God has me to teach, so I'm gonna teach it. I'm just gonna be faithful. But the reality is, is, you know, think about your offerings. Think about not just your your financial offerings, do you give your first and your best to God financially? Do you give God your first and your best emotionally, physically? How's your devotion life? How's your prayer life? Do you have a relationship with the Lord? Do you talk to him? Does he guide you? Do you listen to him? Are you supple to his calling? Does it matter to you in the midst of People being unrighteous towards you when you feel uh somebody come at you or somebody harm you, they're gonna do something with your job. I mean I know I had something this week where, you know, I had uh uh a promise that I had been given And then that promise was kind of taken away, and now I've got a team of people that are relying on a promise that's been lifted, and and I'm feeling very in that moment offended because I'm like, how could you do this? And and in that moment, do Do I see the Lord moving me in that direction? Do I see the Lord's guidance in that? Do I put the Lord and and honor the Lord with my words and my attitude and my heart and my mind? Just can't believe what happened to me. Is he your first? Is he your number one? Is your concern, your first concern, his ministry? Your role as a Christian on this earth is it? What is your offering? Right? What is your offering? And he says that. But how do you and by offering pollution? Food. These these people, they don't just give him something, they give him the worst of things. They give him the blind animals and sacrifice. He says, When you offer blind animals and sacrifice, is that not evil? you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? Present. They give 'em sick lambs. What does Deuteronomy say they should be offering? The best, right? Male, unblemished. Spotless and they're throwing blind sick lambs. Blind sick lambs. Now here's something. Just get it up there on altar, let it go up in smoke. Nobody knows the difference. And probably God away with it. Right? Amongst people. Oh, I I gave five lambs. They were all sick and blind. Right? But I gave five. Oh, he's he must be holy. But God sees the truth. Right? God sees the truth. You're not going to hide from the Lord. And your offering is not to the people who are watching you give the offering. Your offering is to the Lord. And if you're not faithful to that, this is you. This is you he's talking to you. And he says, you're not authentic in your in your honour towards me in your profession. That's verses six through seven. Uh in your offering, verses eight through nine, in our service, verses ten through twelve. So if I skip to that, uh oh that there were one among you who would shut the doors. God said I I would rather you not worship at all. I would rather no worship at all than for you to provide this sick form for of outward holiness. I would rather you just be a tomb than a whitewash tomb. How about that? Oh I know. Right? I would rather you just be dead in your sin than to pretend that you're not. How about I wish that you would be hot or cold. But since you're lukewarm, I'm just gonna spit you out of my mouth. We could go on. Right? We could go on. But that's but how about we skip ahead? In our time. Verses thirteen or fourteen. Uh uh verse thir verse twelve, but you profane it. Okay, verse thirteen, but you say what weariness says this and you snort at it says the Lord of uh says uh I'm way off I can't read. Lord of hosts you bring what has been taken by violence or is lame or sick and this This you bring as your offering, shall I accept that from your hand, says the Lord? Cursed be the cheat who has a male in his flock and bows it, and yet sacrifices to the Lord what is blemished. For I am a great King, says the Lord of hosts. And my name will be feared among the nations. I'm a great king. I I I I just love I if you go one of the things about the minor prophets, and I I am going to run out of time If I don't hurry up. But one of the great things about the minor prophets, God is not apathetic at all, is he? I mean, you you should not walk away with this idea that he's this electing God and he's chosen and he's up there and He's ethereal and he's no. No, this is an intimate God. This is a God who in Hosea likens himself to a husband who takes a prostitute on for a wife. and the heartache of seeing his illegitimate children born, and the pain of feeling that rejection. This is a God who loves, genuinely loves. And he's intimate and he says, I'm a great God. I've been a good husband to you. I have given you faithfully. I have continued and continued and continued. Continue and you continue to walk away. You continue to cheat the offering. You continue to give me your last. But I have given you my best. And he does give us. his best, doesn't he? Who does he ultimately give us? We'll talk about that in just a couple verses. He gives us his son. He gives us our very, his very best. And we give him our worst. That's the message from here. Again, total beatdown, right? But is it true? Is it real? It's unfortunately but I have to teach. I say that jokingly. Um and then he goes on to a commandment for the priest. I am going to speed up a little bit and talk through this. Um he here he is now um it may seem repetitive. Because in the previous verses, he says something very similar. In the first, he's concerned with the attitude of the priest and the people. So in the first, he's concerned about what your offering is. But here he's concerned with his offering. own glory. He's concerned with the fact that these priests will not show his glory, will not teach his word, will not fulfill their role, do their jobs. I think, you know, if I maybe could rephrase it would be do your job. Do your job, priest. You're not doing your job. You're not showing my full glory. You're not teaching these people. You're not uh uh loving me the way that you should or giving me what I should so and then he gets very glad And makes this point that he will take the entrails which are offered as part of the sacrifice and rub it in their faces. If you don't start showing me my glory. I will dishonor you. I will defile you. If you will not stop defiling my glory, then I will defile you. So he takes his glory very, very seriously. Uh And I'm gonna there's there's lots of really good notes on this if you download the PowerPoint. But you have to do that because I'm going on to the next ones. Uh a call to faithfulness. Uh Skipping ahead to ten verses uh verses ten through sixteen. Uh have we not all one father? Has not one God created us? Why then are we faithless to one another, profaning the covenant of our fathers? Judah has been faithless and an abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem, for Judah has profaned the sanctuary of the Lord, which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god. Now there is a lot of talk about these particular verses. Starting with when he says father, who does he mean as father? I think given the previous verses which I mentioned maybe the first time that I've seen him call himself his father along with the context of the scripture. The father there is a reference to himself. Uh some commentators, including John Calvin, uh actually think that that is a reference to uh Abraham. Abraham is the father, but uh I don't think that's the better reading. Uh it's better understood to be God. Uh and the Creator obviously is the reason why, because then he follows up with Has not one God created us? So has have we not all one father? has not one God created us. So if we are uh all created under God, you know why then do we treat each other? How can we be so faithless towards one another, he says. Faithfulness to the covenant of God. uh faithfulness to the people of God and then he picks up on this idea of marrying foreign women. And this is a whole discussion which I probably should not get into. But there one of the major I guess I am going to get into it. One of the major themes of the exit the posting guy that everybody's chuckling, like, okay, we're running late now. One of the major themes uh that you're gonna find in these post exilic prophets is this idea of renewing or the remnant or having the purity of the remnant. Uh the idea is finding the Davidic king, the Pruva coming of Messiah, they're very preoccupied with this. If you read in the histories, there are several instances where uh they are commanded to not marry foreign women. Uh as a matter of fact, this is the reason that Nehemiah started And he tells them, Divorce those women, get rid of them. And why is that? Well, if you go back from Further in their history, you see what happened to Solomon, right? Solomon's heart was carried away by foreign women. Right? Solomon's heart was carried away by foreign women. Then you see this kind of pattern develop where the women that they they They take these foreign women, they bring these foreign gods, and they start serving these foreign gods. So that's definitely one aspect. But the other aspect is they're wanting to sh ensure national Israel for the purposes of the coming of Messiah. Right, so there's two pieces to this that you will see. Some commentators will say that they there's no command, but that's clearly wrong, because here you see in Malachi the command that they should not be married. Marrying these foreign women. Um so just be careful with some of that. But the the the reality is is why is it he's saying don't take on foreign women and the answer is that. He needs the the that they are in earnest of seeking the Messiah, the coming of Messiah, so that's part of it. But then the other part is that historically that has caused them to fall astray, to lead that th these foreign women have led the nation of Israel astray. So it's like, hey, don't go back to your old ways. You just got out of rehab. Right? Don't go drinking with your buddies. Right? You just got out of rehab. Don't go running off with your friends. Oh but I won't drink, yeah, sure. Sure. Right, sure. That's that doesn't fly. So that's that's kind of the idea here. Uh I I thought that was important because then he's gonna go on about being faithful in marriage. Um and versus um oh I didn't write the verses down. Uh I think it's fifteen and sixteen. So if I go to Yeah, yeah, I think All right. Did he not make them one with a portion of the spirit in uh in their union? And was and what was the one God seeking godly offspring? So guard yourselves in your spirit and let none None of you be faithless faithless to the wife of your youth. For the man who does not love his wife, but divorces her, says the Lord, the God of Israel covers his garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. So guard yourselves. In the spirit and do not be faithless. So God will judge those who leave the wife of their youth. God takes divorce very seriously. Seriously. And why is that? Because it's a symbol of the covenant that we have with him. Right? And guess what? It's not always a great, happy, wonderful thing. Not for her, not for me. We have to struggle and we have to contend with one another. That's part of marriage. Marriage makes you holy in that sense, right? But but God the moment you break That trust is the same as following off with another idol. You you you break covenant. And that same idea of breaking covenant God likens over and over in Scripture as as uh Israel's breaking of covenant. with them and so here you see this this interplay now as well and God says he's gonna put judgment out for those who uh because at this time there's people who were married to the wife of their youth and they saw uh apparently beautiful foreign women and they divorce or they give a divorce decree to their old wife and then they go get a new wife. I don't know that that happens in the modern day, that some middle aged crisis guy runs off and buys a sports car and takes on a woman and, you know It's the same kind of thing, right? It's the same kind of thing. So uh God will judge you for that. Uh and then this sets up uh the part that um I want to get to and and I'm gonna make sure I Plenty of time to cover, so I might go back to that if I have more time, but I want to get to this. Where is the God of justice starting in verse 17? You have wearied the Lord with your words. But you say How have we here wearied him? And he says, By saying, Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delights in them, or by asking, Where is the God of justice? Have we heard this theme come up before? This is kind of a recurring theme in the minor prophets, right? This is uh I I believe the uh I believe the term is theodicy, the question of God's justice in the face of evil, right? Is God just in the face of evil and you have Habakkuk that says, hey, wait a minute, you're gonna judge Judah by people who are more sinful than Judaism? How is that fair, God? How does that that doesn't make sense? You have Jonah who's trying to run as far away from God as possible because he doesn't want to go and preach repentance to Nineveh? It's a question and it comes up. It's an interesting question, and it brings about what is the true justice of God. And here it's presented again. Where is the God of justice? And God answers, Behold. I send Malachi, my messenger. But this is not the Malachi writing. This is an eschatological Malachi, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. temple, and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming and who could stand when he appears? For he is like the refiner's fire and like the fooler's soap. He will sit as refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the Lord. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be. Be pleasing to the Lord as in the days of old, as in the former years, then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress, the hired worker and his wages, the widow and the fatherless against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. So is there going to be judgment? But what comes first? Grace. Grace comes first. Is that a good thing? I personally I am very glad that Jesus did not come back 17 years ago. Personally, I'm very glad. You know why? Because 17 years ago, if Jesus had come back I would have been tread upon. Right? I would have been the blood that tattered his robe 17 years ago. I've said this before, how about you? How many of you by show of hands are glad that that Christ didn't come back twenty years ago. Twenty-five years ago. How many of you glad he didn't come back twenty-five years ago? Right? 40 years ago. How many of you were glad that the God of justice who's going to judge the earth didn't decide to judge the earth before he sent grace to you? Before he sent grace to you. And this is the prophecy that he's giving. Yeah, I'm going to come and judge. I will draw an air for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sword. sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely. But first but first there's going to be a messenger. Anyone know who that messenger is, by the way? And those of you might be familiar with this particular there's obvious there's some New Testament quotations of this particular verse. Who is the messenger that paves the way? John the Baptist. John the Baptist. Yeah, that the the there's a um a lot of A lot of people that I've read and commentators will tell you that John the Baptist is the last Old Testament prophet. That John the Baptist is literally the handoff between Malachi stretching across four hundred years to handshake John the Baptist. John the Baptist points to the Messiah and the prophetic the time of the prophets ends at that moment. Right? No more do you see. You won't see anymore. That John the Baptist is the last of the Old Testament prophets and he points the Messiah and then he's beheaded. Persecuted like every other one of the prophets, right? That's what Jesus says. Right? But Um but then he pays the way he pays the way for the one whom you seek will suddenly come into his temple. And the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. hosts who can endure his day of coming did the Jews receive him when he came when Jesus entered the temple what did he end up having to do Turn it over the tables. Right? Right? You you're not gonna do this in my father's house. Right? Did they receive him? Did they, oh you've come, finally we've been Waiting for you, Jesus. I mean they started off that way, right? On the day that he came into Jerusalem on the donkey. He started off that way, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest, but it wasn't wasn't very long after that they were saying what? Crucify him. Crucify him. Why? Because he wasn't the Messiah they wanted. And here it tells you he will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver and he will purify the sons of Levi. What did Jesus do to the priests? The priests all loved him, right? They just they were like, oh, this is the guy right here. This is the guy. We've studied our Bible. This is the guy. This is that's what they all said. They just loved him, right? And then Peter and John, they go out and they're preaching. They're like, step on up here on the top of the steps and just preach. Is that what they did? No. They didn't want anything to do with him. They didn't want anything to do with him because he was a refiner and a purifier of silver. He will purify the sun. of Levi and refine them like gold and silver. And only then will they bring offerings of righteousness to the Lord when they're refined. Now when do they get refined? When do we see that happening? We have to we have to flip the pages a little more, right, to the right. We have to go right a little bit more. Past you know, past the Gospels, past Paul, right? Keep going, keep going. Get a little hint in in 1st and 2nd Thessalonians. We get to Revelation and then we see it. Right? We get to Revelation and then we see it. When they are purified. And they will bring offerings. Right? So uh yeah, so this prophecy about the may obviously Jesus quotes this about John the Baptist being Elijah. So you see that as well. And you see, you know the This uh y you see this literally just transpire in the gospels. I mean this right here is this is what happens in the gospels between Israel and the Messiah. This right here. This. This is what happened. Uh his refining, okay, so God will bring about justice, but before that you see the messenger, you see his refining work. Then you will see his judgment. Uh and then in 6 and 7a, uh you see uh how long he has suffered, right? His long suffering. For I the Lord do not change. There's his what is that the doctrine of? That God doesn't change. The doctrine of what? Immutability. Immutability. Right? God doesn't change. Are we glad that God doesn't change? Because I I I am sure glad that that my vacillating doesn't change the living God. Right? I am really, really glad that my vacillating is not Affect the Lord and his promises. I don't really want it to. Wherefore, you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed. Because the Lord doesn't change, O Jacob, you are not consumed. From the days of your fathers, You have turned aside from my statues and not kept them. Return to me and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. And then he'll go on in seven B. We'll we'll flip the script in to do that because we are going to run out of time. But uh okay. Uh but you have robbed God. But you have robbed God. How have we robbed you in your tithes and contributions? You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you. Bring the full tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and thereby Put me, and this is a fascinating verse, and I want to I really want you to hear this. Put me to the test. Bring the full tithe into the storehouse that there may be food in my house, and there Thereby put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts. If I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need, you give your blessing. best to me and I will fill up your storehouse. Testing. Testing. That's a really fascinating verse. I don't know of any other promise in Scripture where it says, test this. Test it. Go ahead. Just give. Just give. Just give a full time. Just test. Tithe. Just give your offering. We'll talk about what a tithe is in a minute because we need we didn't need to talk about that. What does that mean? But you give your offering. You give your full, you give your best. And see if I don't bless you for that. Does the economy of God require money? No. No. It doesn't. The economy of earth does, so your church needs it. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying it doesn't. The economy of earth earth requires money. But is God really concerned whether you give twenty-five cents or two thousand dollars? No, what what what is Jesus' one teaching on tithing? Who who is he talking to? What is the woman that that gives one what was it? Shekel. It's not a shekel, it's uh Yeah, it it's like it's like a penny. all she has. It's all she has. And these other people are like, oh look at what I'm giving and they're pouring money into the tin and they're trying to make it rattle and they're trying to make a big show of how much they're giving. They're so proud of themselves. And this woman's just like, hey, this is all I got for you. This is this is it. This is this is everything I have, and I'm giving it to you. And Jesus says, she gave more than all of them. Because in the economy of God, money doesn't matter. In the economy of God your heart matters. So what is a tithe, Christian? Is it ten percent? Tithe stands for ten percent. Tithe stands for ten percent. I mean that's what that means. It's a tenth share. A tithe stands for ten percent. But is that what we are we subject to this tithe? There are some that would say we should actually give more. Right? Because grace has abounded us more. But the reality is you give everything that you can. You give them your best. You give them your best with your life, you give them your best with your money, you give them your best with your actions, you give them your best with your time, you give them your best in your devotion. You give him the best in your week. Give him your best. And tithing is no exception to that. Except that I think God, in his mercy and His grace and his unchanging nature knows how hard it is to give money. Because it represents your welfare, right? Your livelihood, how you're going to feed yourself. And so he asks for you to give the best, but he promises you. He promises you. Test me. Test me and see if I don't give you everything you need. I dare you, God says, test me. I just love that verse. I just love that verse. Because it's really an encouragement. Are you giving the Lord your best? And and if you are, then He will pour out His blessings. Uh are we all sufficiently beat up and convicted now like that? I've had to go through this all week. You've had one day. Alright? I'm just gonna tell you I've had all week with this, alright? Uh I'm kidding, I'm kidding. Uh it's been it's actually been a blessing. I I I a certain time I was gonna tell you a story. So I've had this Bible for a lot of years, okay? And it it had to be like the week because it always happens this way. The week after I got it, my daughter, Peyton, gets out of Sunday school because she was little bitty at the time, she was like four or five years old and she comes and she's got this bookmark for me, you know? And she daddy, gave you this bookmark and And so I stuck it in my Bible and I think, Oh it's so wonderful. I stuck it in my Bible and it was glue. And so it did this to my to my Bible. In Ezra. In Ezra. And if uh if I didn't need anything else to convict me that I had not spent enough time, right in the middle of Sunday school during Haggai was the first time that I had flipped open to read out of Ezra from this Bible. And I went, Oh I can't do that here. Let me get my phone. But uh but anyway, all that to say, that's been a huge blessing. I hope you guys have been blessed with the class. Um choose your next class wisely. Um you'll probably see me again in the next quarter. We'll see. I don't know how that works out. Maybe they read the tapes and they're like, no We're not letting him do this again. But uh I It's been a a genuine pleasure to to teach you guys and I I I hope that you're encouraged.