This is an intimidatingly this is an incredible piece of scripture and as a teacher it's it's also a little intimidating uh because there's so much here Uh and you know, of course in the context of a uh of a survey class, which is what we have, I I can't dive into everything and so I have to make decisions as to what material we're gonna cover. Uh uh how we're going to cover it and um and just hope and pray that you guys uh are encouraged to go explore the remaining portions of the scripture because there's fourteen chapters here uh and I have no intention of going going in detail over fourteen chapters in an hour and a half, otherwise uh the ladies call for us to be leaving on time, well that that's gonna that's that's gonna fall away. So um uh and I'm gonna just skip ahead little bit okay. I'm gonna skip past this, didn't add anything to this, but I'm keeping this here for documentary purposes so that you can see where my res resources are coming from. And then as I add resources, I did add any this week. Um so uh there's n nothing new on this page. Um I almost almost and I wanted to review this because uh next next week Elias is here and I came really, really close to breaking Hosea into two different pieces. And so you kind of see that here. But I just wanted to show you also where we're at in the course and the study and where we're going from here. wanted to show you um and and maybe the dates would have been a little bit better uh that we are in the section of what some commentators call the A Me prophets. That's Anos, Hosea, Micah and and uh um Isaiah. And they are segregated out a little bit uh from the rest of the group because their messages tend to be similar. There tends to be a similar pattern in their messages. They were all given at a certain point of history, which we'll talk more in detail about. But the Ami prophets are the last words of the prophets before judgment comes. Upon Israel. So they are, of course, speaking about the coming, uh the coming captivity. They are speaking about the coming judgment upon Israel for its sins and calling it to So if you look back and you think about Amos, and we went more in detail through Amos. You got a picture of him saying, Look, uh, I'm judging you for these things, and they pointed out specific sins, and it it talked about nothing. Worshiping with their whole heart, and we talked about well, this is a period in of time where there's prosperity throughout Israel. Okay, and we're going to talk about why that prosperity here in a minute, because I'm going to take you through this history. Um but there There is a period of prosperity in Israel, and of course, if you're Israel, you're saying, hey, all is well, and yet you have these prophets who are telling you, there is judgment coming. Repent from your sins. Quit following after idols. And now Hosea will be the last of the prophets that are going to make this statement before Assyria comes and carries them away to captivity. So just know that also with Micah, as we go through, you're going to see a lot of the similarities within the uh with within the the the scripture. You're going to see a lot of similarities in the the words and the way that it's being being broadcast. We're going to cover those subjects. in detail well we won't cover Hosea in detail. So that's kind of the the the idea that we're gonna work toward towards today. And uh hopefully uh if if I do this right and I I communicate this well The Lord blesses our time. You're going to walk away from this class going, Wow, God. God is amazing. Because His word is incredible. And uh and this is an opportunity to just look at something that it's in the It's in the section that you you tend to blow past when you're doing your annual reader, you're just reading it to get through it. Okay? Um look I'm guilty too, so I'm not I'm not that's not a judgment. It's just a reality, right? We tend to read past these, but there's so much treasure in these books. And so hopefully you walk away today going, wow, God. And that encourages you to go and read the rest. So we're going to cover the first three chapters of Hosea, but we're going to really cover in depth the Themes that are presented. Okay. Before we get too far into that, I want to talk about judgment on Israel. There were from the time the department. Divided kingdom. So of course, if we go back even further than this, you have Deuteronomy, right? Then you have uh the giving of the law, and then the Israelites cross over into the promised land and Joshua begins to conquer the promised land. right? They were not completely faithful in their conquest and God said to completely rid themselves of the Canaanites, but they didn't do that. They left the Canaanites there, right? They left some of the Canaanites there. They they did conquest. But Joshua was unsuccessful at fully conquering the land. And they ultimately gave up getting rid of the remaining pieces of the Canaan, the remaining areas of the Canaanites, so they were unfaithful in that. Then you get to Judges, and when you read Judges. What do you read about? You read the constant failure of the people of Israel to obey God, and then these judges would come to rescue them from their sin, rescue them from their their enemies that were surrounding them, and there's this kind of That you see in judges, right? Where the the the judges come, they're lifted up, they become more obedient, and then shortly after the judge sits sets back, they fall right back into their pattern, and so there's this cycle. Michael when you study Judges. And then of course you get to Samuel. We want a king like the Gentiles. We want to be like them. And God gives them a king. He gives them Saul. Saul, right? He gives them Saul, he gives the Israelites Saul, and Saul begins to conquer, but Saul falls away, and Saul becomes uh given to to uh idolatry, and Saul be you know he falls away, and then here comes David. David. David was the king after God's heart. He said, You wanted a king like the Gentiles I gave you Saul. You saw the pain that that caused you? Now let me give you a king that's after my heart, when it follows after me. But of course, David also. Also sinned, right? David sinned with Bathsheba. Although the record is clear, he's written the Psalms, he's done great things, but he also had moments of failure. And then we get to Solomon. Now Solomon took the failures of David and compounded them by a thousand, right? He took on many wives, he began worshiping idols, he and all of these things that Solomon did. And the judgment on Solomon for his behavior was to divide the kingdom. Right? Divide between the north and the south. You had the the Judea in the north, and then you had uh you had Israel in in the north did I get that right? No, reverse order. I'm sorry, Israel in the north, Judea in the south. So you should be king. And Judah Judah in its time has I believe it's six kings where the Lord declares that they were good kings, that they followed after the Lord, that they sought after the Lord. Israel had 20 kings. Twenty of them were evil. Twenty out of twenty. They bat 1,000 on evil kings and developed this Pattern, we start with Jeroboam the first. Now Jeroboam he comes in, he conquers, he is now sitting on the throne in Israel, and he makes a decision that he doesn't want the people of Samaria. Samaria worshipping in the temple in Jerusalem. Okay? So out of fear for his political stability, he sets up uh he sets up shrines and altars in in Dan in Bathshah in in uh Bethel, Dan in Bethel. Uh and he sets them up, and in this place where you're supposed to go and worship Yahweh, there were golden calves. So they were already the moment that Jeroboam took look over, already engaging in idolatry, already beginning in idolatry. And as we go through the list of kings, it repeatedly says, followed after the ways of Jeroboam, followed after the ways of Of Jeroboam. They never repented from the sin of idolatry that Jeroboam I started upon the dividing of the kingdoms. None of them repented from that. But then you look at their history. You had Nabab who was the son of Jeroboam was assassinated by Bashah. So there was a political coup. So somebody else took over. So Bashah uh slayed the entire household of Jeroboam. Okay? And then uh Then of course uh Bashah goes for twenty-four years, then his son Elah is then assassinated by Zimri. Zimri was slayed uh after seven days. So you have this terrible political turmoil going on. Early in the kingdom, right? So Elah, Zimri, Tidni, there was a civil war. Tidni ultimately survives and prevails. Again, neither repenting from the sins of Jeroboam, just trying to take control, just trying to take to assert political authority. Tidney then his house uh uh would be Almri and Ahab and everybody of course knows the story of Ahab. There's a lots and lots of stories about his failures as a king King, uh also his some of his successes because he did manage to secure some of the border. Uh and then you have uh Ahaziah who was Ahab's son, and Jehoraham, uh, was also uh uh in the house of Ahab. And uh because of Ahab and his sins, in particular, one sin in particular, which pertains to the lesson that we have today, was the sin in Jezreel. Ahab in the middle of conquering uh goes and he finds this this um uh we call it a farm it's uh it's a uh an area uh uh uh a man named the bat is is he's prospering here he's got this beautiful farm this beautiful vineyard decides he wants it. So he's the king, so he just goes, hey, I want this. And the bat says, no, mm-mm, no, that's good. I'm good. It's my land. I want to keep it. So Ahab walks off. He's depressed. He's upset. Jezebel Bell says, Oh, wait a minute. You're the king. We can fix this problem. And so they go and send people uh who would serve as elders, okay, and elders in that area who testified against Nabad. and called him, uh said that he was raising himself up against God and the king and they stoned him and killed him and then Jezebel says, There, go take your vineyard. So God judges Ahab for that sin and he says, I'm going to send somebody and He sent somebody, okay? He sent Jehu. Uh my my former pastor calls Jehu the Terminator. This guy was a murderer, okay? I mean he was a vicious, vicious killer. He kills seven. Seventy sons in the house of Ahab. And he's not done yet. Then he goes and he rounds up all the worshipper, all the Baal prophets, and he slaughters all of them as well. Okay, and then he goes back to Jezreel and he says, Hey Anybody who's in this house anybody who's in this house who belongs to the Senate, they're gonna die so and the the the the servants in the house they have ultimately end up killing them because they're like, Well we don't want you coming here. So they ended up killing them too. So he slaughtered everybody. He went into uh Judah and he's he killed uh Haziah I believe his name was one of the kings there and and so I mean Jehu was it was the terminator. Just think of him as the terminator. And God says for the The effectiveness of your judgment, I'm going to give you four generations of kings that fall underneath you. And then so the next four kings that follow after Jehu, Jehoahaz, Jehoah, Jeroboam, Jeroboam II, who is now contemporary, right? Because this is Hosea's time, Jeroboam II, and then finally ending up with uh uh Zechariah. Uh those next four kings were in the line of Jehu, and then you begin to to see this pattern of assassination and this pattern of of kings taking over and killing this house and killing this house. All the way up uh until Peta, who rules for twenty years, uh Syria attacks Um under Tiglath Piliezer. So we talked about him a couple weeks ago, how he had put these shrines up, about how he forced people to pay tribute and how he conquered. Well, he conquers a portion of Israel. And Hoshea comes along and assassinates that king uh because he's viewed as weak because he lost this this portion and then of course then the Assyrians come in and the captivity begins, they're completely washed away. So that is the brief history of Israel. Uh, all in about gosh, how did I do that? So the points that you should take away here are a couple fold. They never obeyed the Lord. Right? They never obeyed the Lord. And uh if we go back to Well let's go back to Deuteronomy twenty-eight, which was the second uh w which was the giving of the law, right? The punishments that would occur. And we start in Deuteronomy twenty-eight, and then we go all the way through, and we're just going to keep going to the right here, through Judges, through 1 Kings, through 2 Kings. Right? We might as well throw chronicles in there too. Before finally. The time in which God says, I will punish you for idolatry, to the time that he actually does punish Israel for idolatry, there's quite a bit of pages in there. quite a bit of of time that elapses. Is God a patient God? Is God a gracious God? How patient would you be? How patient would you be if your children were disobedient. I want you home at ten o'clock, shows up at noon at midnight. I want you home at this time, comes home drunk at 2 a. m. How patient would you? be? How patient would you be? Comes wandering in your house, taking your food, walking off, going out with friends, doing their thing, do it completely following in their own way. How long before you said Son, it's time we had a talk. You can't just come walking in here, taking my food, coming in drunk at 2 a. m. , living this life, living this way, going your own way, stealing my car. You can't just keep doing that. You can't just keep taking my blessings and following after your own way. That is not okay. How long before you put judgment on them? Would you be as patient as God? I know I wouldn't be. There's a lot of pages between Deuteronomy twenty eight In 2 Kings 17. There's a lot of pages. Right? God is good, and God is gracious. So when we think about his judgment, we have to remember and think about It in the context of his goodness and his graciousness and his long-suffering. Because God is also faithful and his word is true. So if God doesn't bring about judgment, it If God doesn't execute what he says he will do, then he's a liar. Right? And so God warns them and warns them and warns them. Over and over and over in different ways, and we went through the book of Amos. I sent famine, I sent locusts, I sent incursions from these people. I kept and you would not turn away. How many well he goes through all of that litany in Amos and he's going to go through a similar litany here in Hosea, uh which you can also read, and we won't cover as much of that. But also you get the similar sense here. in Hosea that he says that. But how patient would you be? Here's the outline of the book of Hosea. Again, it it is the longest book in of the The minor prophets. So it's it's 14 chapters. So I know the writing here is pretty small. He starts off in chapters one through three. Hosea's own family is going to be the image that He is going to project in in the context of of his relationship to Israel and his purpose for judgment. Then chapters uh four through six is a second series of oracles of judgment against Israel and also Judah. In that same uh in that same set of verses in six one through three, Israel will seek forgiveness, but then fall immediately back into their ways. So chapters 6 through and through chapters 11 is Israel's ingratitude, is what that's called. So Israel's still in rebellion. And he says, I'm going to put you away. And that of course is a reference with Which we'll talk about like a marriage type reference. And then promise uh but he promises to restore. And then finally, 11 through 14, one more oracle of judgment and an oracle of restoration. So there's This pattern of judgment and restoration, and judgment and restoration, and the army prophets will repeat this pattern. Okay, they'll repeat this pattern. Uh so you get that from from this. So I'm going to take you through the first it's call it two but it's kind of one series of uh I'm gonna take you through chapters one through three, uh which will talk about Hosea and his family because uh I I feel like this is an an amazing image. The name Hosea in Hebrew means salvation. So if you think about Jesus, right? Yahweh saves, okay, this is just salvation. Joshua. Yahweh saves. This is just Hoshea salvation. So this book, by the way, is also very much about God's salvation and his saving grace. Also in here, you'll get a picture of God's God's what's called his Hasidic love, his covenantal love for his people Israel. So we're going to talk about all of these things today. Okay, so Hosea takes a wife. Starting in Chapter one and uh uh I I should mention as we get into this uh and I'm only gonna touch on this briefly because um it's it's not particularly relevant to the lesson that we have today, but it it we could do a whole nother series of lessons about uh interpretive difficulties within prophecy. Okay. Hosea presents a number of difficulties in terms of prophecies. And you you're confronted with one right away when God tells Tells him, uh, okay, so the word of the Lord came to Hoshea, son of Biri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel. He said, When the word uh when the Lord first spoke through Hosea. Hosea, the Lord said to Hosea, Go take yourself a wife of whoredom. Uh go and take yourself a wife of whoredom. Did you have a question or oh okay. Take yourself a life of wardom. And that's literally what the Hebrew means. Go take as a matter of fact, some will say that it's a reference to a temple prostitute. Okay, um that like literally go and grab a temple prostitute and take that temple prostitute for your wife. Well, that a lot of commentators um think that the actual context here is you take a y he's taken a wife who is pure when they marry but falls into harlotry. There's some there's some there's some evidence of that also in the scripture, so I'm not just completely dismissing it, but this particular verse by itself, standalone, suggests that he was to go take a wife who was already involved in harlotry, already a whore. But there's some sense here that maybe that's not the case that he took a wife uh that was pure but fell into harlotry. Uh it it a it's important in relative based on how you want to interpret what the image is here of Israel. Okay? So when I look at it and my personal belief, just reading the context, it's it it it's a reality, right? You are called, you are elected. Hosea goes off, and he just pulls someone not deserving of his love, not deserving of what he could give, not deserving of his place as a prophet, not deserving of his place in this i Israelite society, not deserving of anything, he just grabs her to redeem her. Okay? And and to love her purely by choice. She's been picked. Uh the name Gomer, uh, which he says uh means complete. And the idea is is that Gomer is complete in this relationship. He she had everything she needed. She went from being a temple prostitute to having everything she needed. Right? Uh and the Lord uh so so she had everything she needed. So he's just he's just picked her out. So he went and took Gomer, daughter of Diblaim, and she conceived and bore him a son. So th we're gonna take a look at this wording because he's going to um uh he's going to have three sons, um or three children, I'm sorry. He's gonna have Jezreel, and of course now you know why I talked about the history of Jezreel. Uh and then he's gonna have Low And then Lo Ami. The first one he says, in the first verse there, he says, She conceived and bore him a son. In the second sets of verses, she conceived again and bore a daughter. Call her uh call her Lo Ami or Lo Rumama, uh for I will have no mercy on the house of Israel. And the second the l the third uh child the language is the same. So the idea if you're a believer that he took a wife who was pure and she fell ill into hierarchy. Jezreel is his actual son. The other two were illegitimate children born outside, so it's like they're born in like, oh, this doesn't look like me. This child doesn't look like me. It doesn't it doesn't have my my face, it doesn't have my eyes, it doesn't have my hair. This is not my child. Right? And so if you're looking at this from the other way, you're seeing Israel's fallenness and his pres her presentation to Hosea or Israel's presentation to God is one of faithlessness and harlotry. Right? It's a legacy that it's leaving is leaving a legacy of you are not like me. You were called to be like God. You were called to be priests on the earth. And instead you conceived and you bore this. Instead, this is the result. And then of course we can talk about Jonah. Right? We can talk about Jonah. Who was the only thing that was disobedient in all of Jonah? Jonah. Right? The rest of the the rest of the world, the w the earth, everything, obeyed But Israel did not. Right? That's the idea that you're getting here, right? When you think about Jonah. Jonah as a picture of Israel. Everything else around obeys the commands of the Lord, but Israel resists constantly. And here is another picture of falling into idolatry. Um so you have this. Um uh see, I'm just checking my notes over to make sure I got uh we talked about the Terminator. Who's the Terminator? Jehu. Jehu. Very effective Terminator at that. So yeah, so okay, so the idea of Jezreel, I will punish the house, but I will punish the house of Jehu. Remember Jehu. And the second is the third of four in line, right? So I'm going to punish the house of Jehu. And he brings up the slaughter uh in Jezreel as as uh a reason for that. Um I will have no compassion. I will no longer have compassion. So you've born this illegitimate child, and I will no longer have compassion on Israel. Because you have fallen into idolatry. You're producing illegitimate children. You are producing these things. This is the image. And then finally, Loami, and this is the one that just haunts you. You are not my people. You are not. My people. How'd you like to hear that from God? Then it just suddenly chills down your spine when you think about it. I mean, you are not my people. You are not my people, and I am not your God. And so as a result, uh moving into chapter two, um I'm sorry, no, I I can't go to chapter two yet. I missed, I missed God. But now so he says, You are not my people, I am not your God and then immediately follows up uh with verses ten ten and eleven uh saying uh yet the number of the children of Israel shall be like the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured or numbered. And in the place For it was said to them, You are not my people, it shall be said to them children of the living said to them children of the living God, and the children of Judah and the children of Israel shall be gathered together, and they shall appoint themselves one head and they shall So he's he has immediately said, Judgment is coming, and then immediately following that, I will bring you back. I will bring you back. Um so uh just making sure. Okay, so yes, now it's time to go back to Deuteronomy. go back to Deuteronomy and I just want to point this out. Go back to Deuteronomy chapter 20 or chapter 30 So he has now gone through Moses is now given the second law, dudo namas. right, the second giving of the law. Okay. And uh he has told them that when you violate the law, and he has gone through this long series of of things that will happen to them when they violate the law. Uh And and and he he basically tells them he will take them out of the land, he will punish them, he will chase them, he will continue to chasten them. Uh but when they repent but when they repent when we go to chapter thirty, when all of these things Come upon you. The blessing and curse. Actually, does somebody else want to read uh just uh thirty verse one through uh six? Oh, I'm sorry, verse seven. And when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before you, and you call them to mind among all the nations. where the Lord your God has driven you, and return to the Lord your God, you and your children, and obey his voice in all that I command you today, with all your heart and with all your soul. Then the Lord your God will restore your fortunes. And have mercy on you. And he will gather you again from all the peoples where the Lord your God has scattered you. If your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of the heaven, from there the Lord your God will gather you. And from there he will take you. And the Lord your God will bring you into the land that your fathers possessed, that you may possess it. And he will make you more prosperous and numerous than your fathers. And the Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring. So that you will live, so that you will love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live. And the Lord your God will put all these curses on your foes and enemies who persecuted you. So there is a promise to Israel here, right? On the one hand there's the giving of the law and the expectation that when they violate the law, that the Lord will punish them for that sin. But here you have what's called the Palestinian covenant that when you obey the land will be restored to you. And inside of the Palestinian covenant is something else is that that that is important, not just the land, that I will circumcise your heart. I will circumcise your heart. That is a, by the way, one way covenant. That is God's promise to the people of Israel, that in spite of their disobedience, he will make them obedient. He promises to make them obedient. Uh so we're gonna hold on to that. So he says, Yet the number of Israel the number of the sons of Israel will be like the sands of the sea. So he's referencing now this covenant. Right? He's referencing now this piece of scripture which cannot be measured or numbered, and in the place where it is said to them, You are not my people, it will be said to them, You are sons of the living God. They will be returned to that place. They will be restored to that place. And the sons of Judah and the sons of Israel will be gathered together. So they're split now, but one day they're going to be together. Okay, I'm going to reserve this next piece for that, for that for another page. But and they will appoint for themselves one leader. One leader. So they'll have one king. Is there going to be a time when Israel has one king on the throne? Is there going to be a time When the son of David will sit upon the throne in Jerusalem and it will be one people? Is God going to restore Israel? Who are they restoring him under? Jesus. When Jesus sits on the throne. And they will go up from the land, for great will be the day of Jezreel. And now I want to talk about the remnant. Because we hear and and I've been asked actually to supply some some additional data so this is as good of a place as any to have this conversation. This idea of a remnant of Israel. And why is this important? Does everybody know when I s when I use the term remnant of Israel, does everybody Everybody that is it are we familiar with that terminology? What does that mean? Something that's left over, a remnant is something that's left over, right? Like if you're sewing a shirt or cloth, right? You get you get scraps, right? What do you make scraps of? What is a remnant? What is a remnant of Israel when we talk about a remnant? What do we mean with in the context of Israel? I think it's the Jews that are going to ultimately be saved. So in Romans we talk about um how the Gentiles came in because of the Jews' unbelief but there will be a remnant that he will bring back and I guess if you're a dispensationalist that would be during the tribulation period design unique thing for them to repent and so the reason this is important, okay, and the reason I bring this up is exactly what you're talking about there, this idea of dispensationalism or covenantal theology. Are we a replacement for Israel? Did God promise to Israel that they would be replaced? No. He promised them that he would do what? He would restore them. Right? So the actual literal fulfillment of this prophecy on Hosea, and by the way, many other other prophecies throughout, especially in the Ami prophets, but also in Jeremiah, can't be literally fulfilled if there's not a true physical remnant of Israel. Can't be fulfilled if they're destroyed completely. Right? He says, I won't destroy you. This for me is personally and whatever your personal eschatological views are. Be whatever they are. But this makes me dispensationalist. This tells me that there will be a remnant of Israel. And when in Revelation comes up and it talks about the hundred and forty-four thousand, now I know that they are literally people. people from Israel saved. And I can read it literally, which I also like. Right? So this is why uh if you're a dispensationalist, this is why you believe in a remnant of Israel. But uh Deuteronomy twenty nine talks about when they disobey that they'll be scattered, right? Daniel sees the Israeli the Israeli and Judean exiles as fulfillment, literal fulfillment. Of Deuteronomy 29. So if you read in Daniel chapter 9, uh where he gives the great 70 weeks prophecy immediately before the 70 weeks, and let's go, let's let's flip over there to Daniel. Maybe. I guess I'm failing in my sword deal today. There we go. So if we go to Daniel chapter nine I love this by the way about this is my favorite part about Daniel that that um his his faithfulness and his belief in in God literally fulfilling Scripture. In the first year of Darius. The son of Ashwas, I'm not going to try and pronounce it, de- uh, by descent a mead who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans. In the first year, I, Daniel, perceived in the books the number of years that according to the word of the Lord. The Lord to Jeremiah the prophet must pass before the end of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely seventy years. So Daniel's sitting there and he's like, wait a minute. Jeremiah says we'll be restored in 70 years, and then if I do do the math, it's been 70 years. We're gonna be restored. Right? So this is his mindset. This is his thought process. He's like Hey, we're about to go back home. We're about to go back home. He's looking at the scripture, reading it literally, and saying, this is literally going to be fulfilled. And what does he do? What does Daniel do at that point? Anybody know? What's the next verse say? Verse 3. I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy. That should be us. Right? That should be us. We should be looking through these scriptures. We should be anticipating the fulfillment of them and setting our face to pray. What what days are we in eschatologically? What do we call these days? Anybody know? The last days, right? The last days. And we're the period of the church age, right? Before we're waiting for something to happen. What are we waiting to happen? Christ coming back, right? Raptured, to be raptured. Go up in the clouds. We're going to be there with them. Shouldn't we be praying for that? Who's looking forward to seeing Jesus in the clouds? Who's looking forward to seeing Jesus come to earth and bring the Lord's righteousness? righteousness on the earth. Because man, if you don't anticipate that, then you're missing out. You are missing the boat if you don't if you don't wake up every morning and hope and pray for that. You know, and and again, I'm just as guilty as the next guy, I probably don't pray nearly as much as I should for that. Right? I I'll pray about oh I you know I want my daughters to this and the Lord my son and my wife and and and and Deborah and and all I pray about my family. I pray about You know, just scripture, reading back scripture. I don't know that I pray enough to go, Lord, just come back. Just come back. We're waiting for you, Lord. Come back. I'm reading the scriptures. I know you're coming. I know you promised you're going to return. Come back. Well that's what Daniel's doing. Right? That's what Daniel's doing here. He's saying, come back. It's time. It's time for us. And so he begins to plea for mercy with fasting and And Sakraph. And he begins to plead for the return, right? Which is the promise of Deuteronomy 30. Right? It's prophesied by Jeremiah, it's supposed to be 70 years. He knows it's promise of God because it says Deuteronomy 30. And he's saying, Let's do it, let's do this thing, let's fulfill it. And you go through his prayer, and that's what he's he's praying for. And then uh uh and then Then Gabriel comes and answers him. Boy I wish Gabriel would come and answer me on some of these things. That'd be pretty cool. While I was speaking and praying, confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel And presenting my plea before the Lord. So he's not even done praying yet and Gable's coming. Because God knows what he's praying. Right? God sees Daniel's heart before Daniel's heart. Right? God sees Daniel's prayer before Daniel's prayer. Right? And he gives the 70 weeks prophecy. Okay? And in the 70 weeks prophecy, he says, Yeah, Daniel, you're going to return to Jerusalem in 70 years. years, just as it was said. Seventy we uh seventy years or seventy weeks is decreed upon the p on your people. Uh and he gives this prophecy to say, Seventy weeks are decreed uh about your people and your holy city to finish the transgression, to put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity. Well that's a little bit more than just going back to Israel. Right? That's a little bit more than what Daniel asked for. He's like, hey, I just want to go home. And you're gonna finish the transgression, put an end to sin, and atone for iniquity. And God opens Daniel's eyes to his plan over this 70-week period. To bring everlasting righteousness to sin. And then he goes on about going through, and I don't have time to go through the entire 70 weeks prophecy, but there is a period here where he talks about the coming of the Messiah, and that Messiah will be coming. cut off. So he's basically telling them, yeah, Jerusalem will be restored, but the ultimate restoration is even further ahead. Right? The ultimate restoration is even further ahead. But it talks about so we're building up this idea of what is the remnant of Israel. So yes, you're going to go back to your land. Then Deuteronomy 29 is going to happen again. Then Deuteronomy 30 is going to happen again. Right? And then what's going to happen next? Messiah's gonna return. Right? So that's that's that's this. But the remnant is there. Uh so if I look at Isaiah, I'm sorry, Jeremiah thirty, so can someone go to Jeremiah 30, and then someone else park in Isaiah 53, verses 4 through 6. And then someone else park in Revelation. Okay. So start with uh Jeremiah thirty thirty verses five through seven. Thus says the Lord, We have heard a cry of panic, of terror and no peace. Ask now and see. Can a man fair child? Why then do I see every man with his hands on his stomach like a woman in labor? Why has every face turned pale? Alas, that day is so great, there is none like it. is a time of distress for Jacob, yet he shall be saved out of it. Well um yeah but you can go ahead and read eight as well. And it shall come to pass in that day, declares the Lord of hosts that I will break his yoke from your neck from off your neck, and I will burst your bonds, and foreigners shall no more make a servant of him. But they shall serve the Lord their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them. So there is going to be This time of great trouble. It's called the time of Jacob's trouble. So Daniel also speaks about that. I meant to read that before we moved on. So just there's going to be a Period of Jacob's trouble. But in the midst of that trouble, what happens to Israel? What does Israel do in the midst of this great time of trouble? your neck and I will burst their bonds, and foreigners shall no more make a servant of him. But they shall what? I'm not sure you should have read verse 92, I guess I'm sorry. Read verse nine. But they shall serve the Lord their God and David their saint, whom I will who I was willing for them. See are you picking up now and you're seeing where I'm born with this? They repent. They repent. And when they repent, who do they serve? And David. Again, is there going to be a time when the line of David will sit on the throne in Israel and reign? I mean I I'm a simple guy, but I can do this. Okay, Jeremiah was written after Deuteronomy, right? And and Jeremiah is speaking how many years after David has passed? So is he talking? Is he talking about David or is he talking about the line of David? Is Hosea talking about David or is he talking about the line of David? He's talking about the line of David, right? There is going to be one king, one, one king One king. Uh it but it comes only at the point of Jacob's trouble. Now read I who's got Isaiah fifty three? Um sorry, can I have a quick question? Yep. So what we just read Jeremiah thirty. Um are are you saying that this wasn't fulfilled in the Babylonian captivity and the restoration of Jerusalem? Or that's gonna be fulfilled. Well it couldn't have been, right? Because there's not one king sitting on the throne in Jerusalem. Right? There's no king there right now. So it couldn't have been literally fulfilled throughout. So it's partially fulfilled. And that's what that's what Gabriel is explaining in part explaining to Daniel. Part of the reason for the giving of that prophecy was to explain to Daniel. There will be this period, you will be restored in seventy years, as the prophet Jeremiah said. But There's more. Right? There's more to come. There's more to come. Right? And and uh and of course we all know that there's more to come. So it has not been fulfilled. And there's going to be a time of great trouble, of great tribulation. And then Isaiah 53. By the way, some of my favorite sections of scripture. Who had Isaiah 53? How do you do what verses? 4 through 6. Surely our grace he and shall four and our self. Sorrows he carried, yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken, smitten of God and such a street. But he was pierced through for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities, chastening for our well being fell upon him, and by his scourging we are healed. All of us like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. But the Lord has caused the iniquity of us all to fall on him. So what tense is that in? Past. Past. Right. This is Uh there's this by the way a a great sermon from John MacArthur on this particular topic. But it's past tense. But it's eight hundred years before Christ is born. And who is who is he was So we know who he was, but who is our transgressions, our iniquities, the chastisement that we deserved fell on him. Who is that? MacArthur suggests, and I I do agree, that this is the repenting of Israel. This is an image of Israel repenting and looking back on the Messiah whom they appear in the Wilderness, which we'll talk about in Revelation seven, right? In that moment repenting and believing, and the hundred and forty four thousand that will be saved. That's MacArthur's opinion. I think it's a really strong reading of that given you know I'm not a Hebrew scholar but I I'll take his word for it. But I I think that's right. I think that's a hundred percent right. Now if we go to Revelation seven, did I say is there's somebody to grab Revelation seven? I've got it. Okay, and then oh I didn't write the verses down. So good thing is it's easy to find Revelation because it's all the way at the end. We get to read ahead, right? Revelation seven and then uh we want to read uh I think it starts in verse three. Maybe ver maybe go to verse two through verse eight. Angels descending from the rising of the sun with the seal of the living God, and he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had given power to speak to the earth, saying, Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we have sealed the servants of our God. uh on their foreheads. And I heard the number of the sealed, one hundred and forty four thousand. Sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel. Actually we could stop there, but it's twelve thousand from each of the tribes of Israel, right? We don't have to go through twelve thousand from these and these and these. But the idea here is these are now, if we take this all literally, literally children of Israel. Right, we can now literally say this will be literally fulfilled. Was that does anybody have any questions on that or have I fully unpacked this remnant idea? Anybody? Questions? Okay, one last piece of scripture. Who was in Isaiah before? Can you go to Isaiah chapter ten? I missed this one before, but I I really like this one as well. Verses um twenty and through twenty three. Now that day the remnant of Israel and those of the house of Jacob who have escaped will never again rely on the one who struck them, but will truly rely on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel. will return the remnant of Jacob to the mighty God. For though your people, O Israel, may be like the sand of the sea, only a remnant within them will return. The destruction is determined to overflowing with righteousness. For complete destruction, one that Okay, so there again, the remnant of Israel and the discussion on the remnant of Israel. Now, Elias did a really nice job of talking about how And the army prophets are um probably the biggest example of doing this where they they give you the full picture because they're we're looking at it uh at like like a mountain chain, right? Uh we have these two Three things that are going to happen. What has happened in the past, or you know, or what is happening now, what's happening in the future, and what's happening in the far future. But when you look at the mountains side by side, they look right next to each other. But as you approach that mountain, you realize, oh goodness, there's a huge valley between here and there. There's a a massive valley between this and this and then of course the church age, which isn't necessarily foreseen by the prophets, also is in there, right, in that period of time. And so Hosea as well as Isaiah, Jeremiah, the prophets that are speaking here are speaking about all of these things almost as if they happened side by side when in fact when you look at Daniel you see there's supposed to be some distance in between. Right? There are some periods in between. There are some marked periods in between. Foreshadowing. Foreshadowing, yeah. Very good. So um all right, so then now we're going back to Hosea. Uh because that's what we're supposed to be studying, right? Okay. Where was I? Um, so going back to Hosea. Uh so We have this picture of judgment, right? Starting in chapter 2. Say to your brothers, you are my people, and to your sisters, you are my people. You have received mercy. Plead with your mother, plead, for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband. So this is Hosea's response to Gomer's infidelity. This is her. her his response to her uh harlotry and bearing her him now two illegitimate children. So he's been gracious, he's been merciful, he's pulled her out of this a a estate And she has continued in her harlotry beyond their marriage, right? And so now he says, I'm putting you out. He's putting them away. Uh that she put away her horn. So let me ask you a question. Is it is is Hosea righteous? in this decree? Is Hosene righteous in this decree? To put her out for her harlotry? I mean, who would go up to any man and say, you're right To divorce your wife or put out your wife because she has borne you two illegitimate children. Who? Wouldn't it be anybody? Go ahead. I think he would be right in putting her Well within, right? Because sh they broke covenant. That person broke covenant. You step before a a a priest or a judge or a pastor or whoever you step before When you're getting married and you're I do and you're I do and oh honey I love you. I'm gonna love you forever. You don't think forever is long enough? No, I don't think it is. But then guess what? Guess what? Now you played the harlot. Now you've broken that conversation. Covenant, now you've broken fidelity. And nobody in their right mind would say that that man or the woman, if in the opposite case, was unjust in casting that person out. Nor is God unjust for casting Israel out for their infidelity. They signed on the dotted line, Deuteronomy 29. We will do these things. Second law, yes, we will. Will follow this. They went in and they disobeyed, and then they disobeyed, and then they disobeyed, and then they disobeyed. And finally, after all of this, God cast them out. And this is the picture that is being given. Right now, notice. He says put away. He doesn't say divorce. He says put away. Upon your children, her children also I will have no mercy because they are children of whoredom. I I'm not even recognizing those children. Because they aren't my children. Hosea says, that's somebody else's kid. It's not me. That look like me, got curly hair, I got straight hair, whatever. They don't look like me. Right? Uh for their mother has played the whore. She who conceived them has acted shamefully, for she said, I will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drinks. something in here uh and I'm gonna run out of time if I keep unpacking at this pace, but this idea of seeking out lovers. Um there's a a a Hebrew allusion to to the um the sexual rights in baal worship. Okay, so I mean this is really pointed at Israel. You get a much stronger sense of this when you're re you know f from the from the from the scripture. But As you go through, you should recognize immediately that this is really a depiction of Israel following after Baal, following after Asherah, following after Moek, all of these hideous gods, which we can go one by one and talk about. But it in in this is God's putting away Israel because of its idolatry. Um um so the children are evidence of her sin. Uh And and he and they are saying and she says, Well they're the ones who are giving me my wool and oil and flax and drink, but who is providing for him for Gomer? Who's provid who's who's providing for Gomer? Hosea. Right? Gomer means complete. She was complete. She had everything she needed. Everything she needed in Hosea. Israel had everything they needed in God. Everything they needed in God. But they they they went after so who God was providing them their ben their their welfare and they and they were seeing it as Baal is giving it to me. That's the i idea here. Um so he he brings about judgment. judgment. There I for I will hedge her up hedge up her way with thorns, and I will build a wall against her. You can't come back, so that she cannot find her path. This is the image of exile. Notice that the hedge her way up with thorns. Thorns. She will pursue her lovers but not overtake them. She shall seek them but not find them. Then she shall say, I will go and return to my first husband, for it was better for me then than now. And so now the illusion here is I mean notice the idea of thorns and thickets. This is not a um uh locusts coming and eating the the the fields. This is not famine. This is not drought. This is exile. Right? The image here is uh is of exile. It's the vineyards won't be kept. Right. Of exile. Um then Immediately following, beginning in uh uh verse verse fourteen, therefore, behold, I will allure her And bring her into the wilderness and speak tenderly to her. So he's put her out in exile, so they're gonna go away. But he's gonna bring 'em back. Bring uh I will allure her and bring her into the wilderness and speak tenderly to her. There I will give her her vineyards and make the valley of Akor a door of hope, and there she shall answer in the days of her youth, at the time when she came out of the land of Egypt, and they will declare you are my husband, and no longer will you call me my Baal. See you say here you get this idea, like you you then you'll know the Lord is the one who did this for you and you'll stop calling me calling it the work of Baal, but you'll call it the work of God. Okay, this is the image that It's now portraying. And in that day I will answer, declares the Lord, I will answer the heavens, and they shall answer the earth, and the earth shall answer the grain, the wine, and the oil, and they shall answer and they shall answer Jezreel. Uh that again, the reference to Jezreel. And I will sow her for myself in the land and I will have uh and I will have mercy on no mercy and I will say, Not my uh I will not say, not my people I will say, You are my people, and he shall say, You are my God. So here he's he's now coming right out and saying, I will redeem you, you will be redeemed. Yeah. And now this is um, and then I again need to hurry up, but uh I want to touch this. Um he tells Hosea, go and retrieve your wife. Go back and get your wife. Now this is a picture. Of redemption. Go back and get your wife. And he finds her with another man already. He finds her with another man, already with another man. And in slavery, he has to pay her back. fifteen chec or pay for her back. He has to buy her out of slavery. So how did it go for Gomer in her time in the wilderness? Not real good. Not real good. It fell pretty fast, didn't it? It went pretty bad. But aren't you glad? Aren't you glad that someone came and redeemed you, bought you for the perfect price? Aren't you glad that you've been redeemed? You think you're better than Israel? You think you're more deserving than Israel? Look better? Smell better? Make a better wife. No. This is a picture of Israel? It's a picture of you. Right? It's a picture of Israel, but it's a picture of you. The Christian I I think yeah, I'm just extending the analogy, right? There there is a picture. This is obviously about Israel, but but keep in mind that that we're the same we are the same way, right? I I mean the reality is is is um this is really what is so applicable in this and how Jonah kind of feeds I kept thinking about Jonah in all of this, right? What was the Abrahamic covenant? Go to Genesis. It's chapter fifteen in Genesis. The Abrahamic covenant. It's that one way covenant with the second priority or something. Yep. What does he promise through it? What does he promise in the Abrahamic covenant? Um You shall be a a blessing to the nations, right? So here you have a Disobedient Israel, who is going to be put in the belly of a fish, but through the rejection and the disobedience. Obedience of Israel, who inherited the blessing? The rest of the world. Right? It's because of their disobedience. What does Paul say in Romans ? Why are you here? To make Israel what? Oh jealous. Jealous. Right? So is there a seed from Abraham through which all of the nations have been blessed? Absolutely. Is there a person who's going to sit on the throne of David and reign over one kingdom of Israel? Is that literally going to happen? Yeah. All of that, in spite of and even through, Israel's disobedience. Through Israel's disobedience. So Uh he says go and and bring her. Uh and he says uh so he's renewing this covenant with her. Um I'm trying to find My place here. Uh I have lost my place in this. So there is a in that day I will also make a covenant for them that with the beasts of the field, the birds of the sky, and the creeping things of the ground. I will abolish the bow, the sword, and the wall. Lord and warfare in the land and I will make them lie down in safety. And this is uh a reference then also to Jeremiah thirty-one. So maybe if someone was in thirty-one. It's like the easiest verse to remember because it's thirty one thirty-one. It's thirty one thirty one. When I went to the covenant, the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Not like the covenant that I made with their father when I took them by the hand and bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant that they broke, though I was their heads of the closeting Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declared the Lord. I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their And no longer shall shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know them, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord, for I will give their iniquity, for I will Forgive their iniqu iniquity and I will remember their sins no more. So and I gotta wrap up because we're out of time. Um was this fulfilled? Is there a new covenant? Yes. I hope I was really hoping you guys would say yes, because we would be really late if you didn't say yes. What does Christ say? Take this, right? My body. For the new covenant, right? The blood is for the city. the new covenant. Right? And so Luke 22, verse 20, the new covenant. But but did Israel accept that covenant? Not yet. Will they? Absolutely. So hopefully uh what we've managed to do here today is um oh yeah this is one quick point here. Uh there's an illusion here. I I don't have I'm I'm really out of time and I'm I'm gonna stop. But there's an allusion here to the woman in the well uh that Jesus speaks to, right? This uh this Gomer who is uh had uh I think four husbands, five husbands, and he and Jesus of course goes to this woman in Samaria and says says you're with a man who's not your husband, right? You're with a man who's not your husband. Um you've correctly said, for you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband. Uh This you have said truly. So she of course knows he's a prophet because he sees that. Okay, this is the estate that Gomer is in. Uh that was the point that I was trying to make with that. Um and uh here is if you can go through and This is the the combination between the judgment and the restoration. Um and hopefully what I've done and I I I ran out of time even when I shortened the lesson significantly. What I want you to see Is the connection, right, between the judgment of Israel in Deuteronomy, the promise of what would happen and the exile, and then of course the redemption of Israel and the Palestinian Covenant and how that plays a role in the greater scheme of God's redemptive plan. Um in in all that that is happening. He promises, I'm going to circumcise their heart, right? That's what he says in Deuteronomy thirty. Right here in Jeremiah you read about the new covenant. uh and and I will put my law into their heart. I will circumcise their heart. So God is in a plan of restoring Israel and because of that plan, he has also brought us into it. Right? Through that plan he has also brought us into it. So this idea of the remnant of Israel and the redemption of Israel plays this larger part in the redemptive history of God. And so I really wanted you guys to take some time to see that. and how that all played in together. Uh I'm sorry that I've run now four minutes over, so I'm gonna pray and uh maybe Elias will will help where I failed a little bit to uh fully articulate some areas, but uh let's pray.