So my name is Carrie Kane. I'm the uh coordinator for Growing Disciples. Scott filled in last week. Um this week I Christopher will be back. I think he's teaching new members uh during this hour, so he'll be back then for the rest of the quarter. So today we're going to try and tackle two pretty big good-sized books with which have a lot in there. So Scott and I were talking after the class last week. Doing a survey is uh is a certain beast, and I'm gonna try and teach it from that way. So I think my goal is to give us let's look at the big picture, the overview, and and even uh as I was studying this, uh uh to look at both letters almost kind of simultaneously. These two letters were written close to one another. Uh and it's a correspondence with what's going on in the church So let's do a little background. Uh I always put this in the writer. Uh you'd be surprised you read commentators. A lot of books are always questioning about, well, did Paul actually write this? This is these two books. are pretty unanimous even amongst the liberals. They agree Paul read these books. I put these names down here and I repeated it again for uh the same ones recognized 2 Corinthians Uh as you see these names and you look at this, uh hopefully it'll ask uh you'll ask some questions. Uh who are these people? What importance are they? These are church fathers Um I put down in a note on the s on s uh 2 Corinthians uh Polycarp. Polycarp, you'll see his name uh pop up. Uh Polypopum. You see Polycarp's name pop up. He was a disciple of John. So And it's it's interesting it's good to know, okay, what is a tradition? And another little tangent I'll send you on We talk about authority of scripture, about as inspiration, how do we know we got it? A lot of the church fathers, if you go with their writings, you can practically write the whole New Testament from works that they wrote where they would quote it. And so we have it it's just a another way we know that this word is secure. It's it's not just a random thing. The New Testament was spread rather widely uh with copies and those kinds of things. The Old Testament you had the Greek uh Greek scholars, it was more confined. They were the scribes. They were that was their job to copy and uh uh verify the and once their uh copies got old they would destroy them. So enough of that I did not put this in your notes. I didn't want to print it. So this is where we are. This is has all this is uh has all the missionary journeys. So obviously we're looking at Corinth, is here. Okay, Paul has come down. He was he he he was up in uh Philippi, Thessalonica, uh Berea, he came down to Athens, if you remember Acts. uh seventeen we're in acts eighteen it comes to Corinth. This is a um Corinth is a uh It's a cosmopolitan city. Uh it's about forty, forty-five miles from Athens. It was established uh it was a wealthy city. Uh um Ancient 600 BC is when it was first established. Romans destroyed it. But then they just they decided it's strategic. They wanted to rebuild it. It's strategic because it's a port city. It they can come down this way, okay, and come over down and around. The w the winds and everything get kind of strong, especially in the wrong seasons. They the the ships did not like to go around here. If they could they would come down here. Now uh there's a little land bridge here. So what they would do is they would transport the ships on these kind of like little log railroads and then they'd bring them across the strip of land so they could come on the other side. But if you also notice, look at Corinth, and if you notice his journey, where does he go? He goes over to Ephesus. So you got two parts. You know what happens in reports. I mean, you know, you study history, uh you come out of the uh the the dark ages. What did they what it what happened If you read history, it's always the city-states, right? They they tend to emerge. This is what you have here. These are city-states. There's commerce. commerce, there's also uh a transfer of ideas, thoughts, uh cultures. Okay, you had people from all over the world here. So I the the reason we need to do this is because one of the professors, uh Dr. Heater, he said, look, in order to really study uh to know a book or anything, you really need to know the historical background And this is a difficult thing because y you have to sift through and and determine what, you know, history is it can be embellished in people can draw wrong conclusions. But what was the environment that the letter was rigidly written to? And this city was cosmopolitan, as you know. Um I'm just gonna I don't think I'm gonna read this. Um Well it was a crossroads. You could you would go uh you would go air east and west. It would kind of be a north and south route Uh uh again, uh Greece or Corinth actually uh affected this area here. You'll see it in the in the uh 1st and 2nd Corinthians, Achaea. Obviously from this church spread Up to here. Okay, this is the and this all this domain. So this church had a strategic location If you remember, God uh told Paul, he goes, look, it's safe here. I have lots of conference here, stay here. Ephesus, another important Ephesus really was the nucleus for this whole area. A lot spread from Ephesus. If you remember, Paul was in Ephesus for a long time. Uh he wrote this letter from Ephesus. Okay, he had left Corinth. He heard uh uh we'll get into that, he heard some of the problems that was there and he wrote this letter back from Ephesus, 1 Corinthians. Um so again, they reestablished this city, it became a cosmopolitan, he had five hundred thousand people. That's a lot for this day. Uh Look at how populations expanded here. Uh I grew up in this area. Uh there was nothing here. I remember when the beltway was built. So, you know, you you see how cities grow. The population is expanded. You had the temple Aphrodite, goddess of Love, they had temple prostitutes. They also, uh the connotators um seem to agree on this. These prostitutes also worked on Saturday nights And so it wasn't just a religious thing. People came to Ephesus for commerce and for pleasure. It was kind of uh a conglomerate. Think of New York City with a combination of Las Vegas Yeah, well California too. Yeah. So I mean nothing's changed, right? We modernize, but people are doing it. It's the same thing. Solomon said that, right? Ecclesiastic. Same thing It's the same voice, the same things. We sophisticate it, modernize it, but the same uh goals uh or the same pleasures and uh things we're tempted with So Paul again come to this. He always what's Paul do when he first goes to a city? What's the first place he goes? Synagogue. Synagogue Right? Those to the religious people. You have a lot of Jews here. Interesting thing. I kind of learned this from uh my study of uh Zechariah. We taught a class here on Zechariah And uh well uh one of the uh commentators uh kind of alerted me to this. When is when Israel got captured, taken off to Babylon They were primarily an agricultural community. When they came back, they were more of a merchant community Much more because that's and they weren't farming in Babylon. And if you remember, a lot of the people that were taken there did not come back. If you've if you read any of that, a lot of them stayed. Why? Because life was good. They were satisfied. They had planted roots. It it's the same it's materialism, the same thing we're dealing with. And in Zechariah he deals with that in one of the chapters and it's a it's a very If it hadn't been for Merrill Longor, I don't think I would uh most people had a difficult time, is when the uh woman comes and uh she's carried off in a basket and she's carried back to Babylon And really the the the basket and the lead weight that's on there was actually uh a balance for a talent of weight. They were all commerce terms And I think what what the what he was saying was that Babylon is commerce, and if you look in Revelation 17, we have the destruction. of Babylon, the fall of Babylon. It's the religious and the material. Chapter seventeen and eighteen Right? This all started in Babel. These threads run through here. And that's what we have to see in these. This is what we are. We're looking at a survey class, we're looking at major themes. Uh we're not going to be able to get into a lot of the weeds here, but uh the detail. Uh it's so it this was written. Um I use a book. This is primarily from Robert Gurmacky. You'll see the footnote at the bottom. If you want a survey book, I highly recommend this. One of the things I like Kurmackie's one of these people that can take a big picture, put it down in plain English, and give you some meat while going on a survey level. Very good. He also gives you paragraph or thoughts. So Hugh goes to each of these sections, which you'll see in your in your notes But he goes through each paragraph or each thought you because paragraphs are sometimes broken in funny places Uh the Bible doesn't always break in the right places. But he goes through thoughts and he gives you a description of each throughout the whole New Testament. It's excellent work. Robert Gurmacke, you'll again it's in the footnote, you'll see it at the bottom. Um one quick thing I got turned on to him by a paper I did. He wrote a book called The Virgin Birth, I highly recommend it. If you're interested in it, his apologetics for The the birth, why Jesus had to become a man, he answers all those theological questions. Baker approached him to write the book. It wasn't his own initiative. So Uh this guy's good. He's he taught at uh Cedarville for years. If you're familiar with that. So anyway, here's Gromackey's his is this is his synthetic view of the book of of uh Corinthians. First Corinthians. So, right, so we have the introduction. And I'm going to go through this, then we'll go back and work through some of this as time allows. Introduction, right? There are states. Which is amazing when you look at every most of you are probably familiar with some of the stuff the Corinthians did and you're thinking, these guys were believers? Right? Well we'll look at that in a in a minute, Saints Sanctify. He uses both words there. Right? So this is the introduction. Here's his other division. These are personal reports. Right? He this is what he hears. He goes, I hear from Chloe's people, right? You remember that? We'll look at that maybe Uh I think we'll have time. So what you got here in uh uh 110 through 422, you got divisions in the church, right? Well uh what's he saying? Am I, you know, Paul, Apollos, who are you following? You should be following Jesus Christ. Uh look, we had the same poem today. I mean let's face it, we get some pastors that are really Off the chart preachers, people tend to go to those. You the churches get to you know, you th I think it's why you have such big churches. Five thousand, ten thousand people in church. Huge. Why? 'Cause a guy's a good speaker apparently. Uh you got fornications, right? Uh if you remember, we'll look at this maybe. Uh the man had his uh stepmom, probably not his mom, uh uh Uh he was uh having relationships with her. Right? You go into lawsuits. These are all reports that Paul's getting back, right? And we got the body, the purity. Uh we will I think we'll stop and look at uh chapter six. That's that's uh excellent chapter. Uh now is the letter. So these are personal reports. This is what he's getting. This is the flow of the book. Okay, we're trying to get handles on it. Now he's reporting back. This is what he's writing back. So he's dealing with marriage, right? Relationships, really, family relationships, virgin, right? He deals with that all in chapter 7. uh whether a believer should leave uh a non believer uh uh w you know about marriage. So Uh I think we can highlight that. Uh we have women in chapter, excuse me, uh Christian Liberty Right? Uh should you eat meat sacrificed by idol? But this was a this was remember Think of the environment that he's in. This is a city You might know the know the history of this, but New York and Las Vegas explain it fairly well. These aren't stupid people But they're not intellectuals like the the uh Athenians, right? In over in Greece. They're uh But they're not dumb. They they're commerce. They're making money. So they're they they're not just all down and outers. But they are indulging heavily in this stuff. Okay? They're they're this is uh their lifestyle Uh I said that because uh they're coming out of this And you don't wanna uh uh entangle somebody. These people were saved, they weren't some of you all have been raised in Christian families, you'd know Jesus Christ was crucified, died for your sins, um before you really had any idea what that was. Think about it, these people were living in this, and now they've got to come totally out of it. Um and this happened of course all around, but just nonetheless, just remember that environment. It's not easy. Habits are not easy to break. This is why we try and teach our kids, don't even get involved with it. Because now you're gonna have to get rid of it once you get it in there. It's not easy Uh we have good habits and bad habits. And bad habits, let's face it, they're the ones everybody catches. So this is what he's talking about. Liberty. He doesn't want him the uh these people to cause somebody to fail Okay, this might send them back to idolatry. Uh women in the church. This is a debated thing. Was was chapter uh see this 11 too? You can see the uh people in the Bible probably got the wrong break there. Most scholars take uh eleven wine. Uh uh with the end of chapter ten. So anyway, this is women. Uh the uh head coverings you uh we may touch on that. Laura and then he goes into the Lord's Supper. Um and as you know that uh the first section they were eating and drinking, some of them were getting drunk, we have our And he has to correct them. Okay, this is the this is Christ, this is a theology. You y this is what you need to focus on Uh spiritual gifts, this is a huge section. Remember, from 12 all the way to 14, including Chapter 13 is just a little thing. He says, look, I'll show you a better way. They were bragging about their gifts. Uh and It's intoxicating. You get a little power, you get a little nod, it goes to your head, you think, you know, you have to be careful. Uh and then finishes up with uh collections here Uh conclusion. I think what I'm gonna do, because I mean you can see it's uh we're moving along. I think again I'm going to go over the highlights or the main thing for 2 Corinthians right now, then we'll go back to first and we'll look at some of the detail. Because I know what happens with discussion or I get off on a tangent and Tom's just gone. It's a lot to get through. But think of these two letters almost right on back each other. This ri they're not sure what the the dates are. Some speculate maybe a month apart, some say six months. But they were it was and and if if you're familiar with uh the these Corinthians letters, he says, Well I wrote to you But that letter obviously we'll have. It wasn't inspired. Okay, if it was inspired we'd have it. But it was just the ladies just talking. It was a correspondence. Talking about what's going on Uh so this is the he he's corresponding back and forth to them. So I'm gonna say these two books together. Which we don't tend to do. We uh uh we'll teach through First Corinthians, but uh Second Corinthians is not taught that much, is it? But there are some real nuggets in Second Corinthians. I don't know if you guys have read through it, but there's some uh just some really meaty things in there. So again, let's look at the highlights. Again, the writer's Paul. I gave you some notes on uh the the DACA. It's um it's down in your footnotes. First century document to begin with, the Lord's teaching to the twelve apostles to the nation. This is an important document. Some people quote this. They saw this later You'll see this all the time if you do any uh biblical work. And just a segue or a promotion, sometime in our Growing Disciples we will teach a class called Forerunners of the Faith It's a workbook, kind of like if any of you are familiar with uh foundations of the faith. Um Uh it's good because it's a nice church history. You we it's good to see where that where this is coming from. How did this all fit together? What were these guys wrestling with? And uh Uh yeah, I think it's a good workbook because it it you will be it's interactive. You won't have somebody up there lecturing, you will actually be s it kind of engages you to to read through it and study yourself. So anyway, that's uh the let's look at the themes now. So the themes of this are the the pre uh present the purpose of his sufferings. Paul had to deal with several things, but one of the things he had to do with as as a when he got away was The wolves came in. They were undermining his ministry. They were saying Paul is nothing. He had good speakers. You saw that. We'll see that in 1 Corinthians, right? I'm of Apollos. of this you know character and he goes, no, you have Christ. Okay, you need to get back to the spiritual thing. Jews were in there because you'll you'll see that. Especially in Second Corinthians, uh when they read Moses and the law, the the unsaved Jews, he says they're blind, the veil still is over them. Uh so he's a lot of this letter is he's establishing his authority. Uh And and at the same time trying to bring them back to the foundation. He goes, Man, you're in Christ. It's spiritual. It's kind of a Galatians. Galatians, he says right off, he goes, I can't believe you guys are following another gospel already. Right? He goes, were you saved by the law? No, you're saved by the Spirit. And uh it's kind of what he has to wrestle with here. This is the the norm of church history, isn't it? Uh the unsaved come in. I think the I think Southern Baptist Church is dealing with that. Any church that's that big Has a lot of unsaved people in it. You and I both know it. And when unsaved people vote, they're not gonna vote for spiritual things. How can they? They're blind. Uh they're they're wrestling with that big time right now. So uh he's he has to defend. W uh one of the things they were accusing of is well Paul said he was covered back, he's not here. They were slandering him. He has to explain why. To give instruction concerning the discipleship and reconciliation of the offender. It's debatable. Was this uh the character in chapter five of 1 Corinthians who repents? We don't know. Uh somebody repented and it's a difficult thing. When somebody really sins against a church, you have to we have to be mature if we're really going to accept him back. Because look We have this is a spiritual thing. We're not totally sanctified, are we? No one is. No pastor is. Remember that. It's about Christ. No pastor is totally sanctified. Yeah, hopefully he's really far down the scale. Because he's gonna get pressure, isn't he The enemies the enemy loves for a pastor to fall. It just sh it it's a heart shot to the church. It messes the body up So uh he wants to report uh it's kind of a revival. These people have uh restored him. Uh this is uh uh Chapter 7 of 2 Corinthians is a great description of what true repentance is. Hopefully we'll get time to park on that for a little bit. Uh great explanation that uh uh to establish a superiority grace over law Okay, he's defending himself, but he's also gone ahead and he re-establishes uh the spirit Because that's what moves us along, isn't it? You know, I thought about this and and um our church has um we've been wrestling with that, right? We lost Pastor Lee I I have to believe what kept this church together was the body and we had a bunch of maturing the body thinking, okay I want another pastor leak or, you know, we're ready for that, but we also know it's really my responsibility. It is our responsibility The the church is individuals, it's not a nation. Okay? Is e Israel was a nation. They had a different economy. We're individuals. Our sanctification, salvation, uh is is strengthened by the church. We help each other, but at the same time it's individual responsibility So are we feeding on the word? Are we feeding ourselves on the word? Number one. It's always go back to that. You look at an unsaved church, what's the first thing they do? Throw out inerrancy, throw out uh uh inspiration of the Bible. It's the first thing. You've got to undermine it But it's our responsibility to have that word here, not just here. So that's that's uh sanctification So, uh let's see, where are we? Uh exhort them to separate from false teachers. You have to be aware of false teachers. First John does that a lot. First John, he wants you to test your faith. Uh you know, as we're uh uh uh Pastor Mike's teaching now in in the sanctuary. It's a test. Like with that test, if you know you're safe, you could look at others and go, I don't know where this teacher is coming from. Right? So we're we need to be bringing it. We need to go back and check the word. Well, is what they said right? Uh to urge the church to fulfill their pledge to the poor Um, this is a spiritual thing as much as money. You know really what Jesus said? Where your heart is, right? That's where you're gonna be. You can't love money and God at the same time. Money's a good thing It's a good thing. But we ha y but you know, do I do we use money for our our you know, our good or does m money really get to control us, can't it? Yeah, it can we. It can. It can and it's money, you know, uh people think they like to be rich, but money is a pain. You gotta manage it. It's like a child. It it goes away in a heartbeat, you know what I mean? You're like, I'm tired of looking at this stuff. Can't even deal with the bank anymore You know, we got you know it's I I'm off on a tangent, but we have we belong we have a bank that's a big bank. There is one branch in Howard County for that bank One branch. You remember when there was a branch every and it was another bank before it got bought by those big banks. I'll be dumb with that. Vindicated apostleship and authority over those of the false teachers. Remember that whole litany went went with? He tells them, you know, he's a Benjamite, he's a Hebrew. What he's doing is it this is and he's and if you look he's he's uh um kind of apologizing throughout all this. This is foolishness, he says. Because it is. It's not about Paul. The only reason he's doing it is because he's false teachers and he's going, look This is what I did to give the gospel to these people. Look at what they're doing. They're coming in, asking for money They're probably wearing good clothes, you know what I mean? Is it about the gospel or is it about them? And and you know, let's face it, without grace It is about us, is it not? Even even with grace we have to fight the flesh, don't we? I do. So, let's go back. Let's look So, first Corinthians, Chapter One Uh let's see. Instead of me talking all the time, maybe what I'll do is ask some of y'all to to read s a little section here. Uh let's see. How about somebody read uh chapter one, verse three uh through seven? Any volunteers? One three three seven. I can do that one. All right, do it for us. Grace and peace be t um to you from God our Father the Lord Jesus Christ. I always thank my God for you because of his grace given to you In Christ Jesus. For in him you have been enriched in every way, with all kinds of speech and with all knowledge God thus confirming our testimony about Christ among you. Therefore, you do not lack any spiritual gift as you eagerly wait for our Lord Jesus Christ to be revealed. They have every spiritual gift and and all they have all speech and knowledge These are saints. He's talking about saints. So it yes. Just look at that. Look at the screen. Oh. Thank you. Unfortunately I don't like PowerPoint. I like manipulating this, but you do, uh yeah, we don't want to done with fun. Look at verse ten. Now I exhort you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all agree there be no divisions among you, but uh that you be made complete in the same mind and in the same judgment. For I have been informed, say he's be hearing Concerning the brethren I'm Chloe's people that there are quarrels among you. Right, I mean this, that uh each one of you has a saying, I am a Paul, I am Apollos, I am Cephas, I am of Christ. Has Christ been divided? was not he uh uh Paul was not crucified uh for a year was he was he? Excuse me Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God I didn't baptize you. But see, you could have these divisions We can have these leaders and I get it. Don't get me wrong. Uh it's nice having a a a pastor or a teacher, preacher There there is a gift, there's no question about it. It's not an education, there's a gift. And then they're educated. But some guys just have a gift and it's a gift from God and and uh they can be uh He yeah I Pastor Leek, you you could see the spirit coming out, especially as as he was were t towards the end, and we were thinking it's all spirit. That's powerful, I get that. But Yeah, it's kind of like the uh Old Testament priests, right? They died. They they don't last forever. It's Christ. And again, uh it's difficult, but it it is it is it's so important that we are feeding ourselves uh so that we are are uh leaders or at least directing ourselves in the path that we need to go. But division happens all the time. We see it all the time here. We see church splits. We see uh it's it's uh unfortunately more common th than we like to think So, this is what he's writing to. He's trying to give him wisdom. He says, let's see. Um Verse 21. For since the wisdom of God, uh wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom did not come to know God God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message uh preached uh having a hard time focusing here uh to save those who believe. For indeed Jews asked for sign, Greeks searched for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified to the Jews of Stumbling Block to the Gentiles' foolishness But those who are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, the wisdom of God And that's what we have to keep going back to. It's the spirit. We've been changed. We've been we are different. It is a calling. He's gonna need his people. Um Let's see, verse thirty. But by his doing you are in Christ. That's huge. You see that in Christ, in heaven, in It's it's uh it's fear, it's sphere, it's location. The these the one of the most theological things is in in Christ, in God, in the Spirit Okay? You're talking about Christians. You're talking about believers. It is not us. It's the power of God working in us. Who became to us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. So that just as read, let him who boast boast in the Lord. I think I've got this here. So what is it on your page? I think to me this is the essence or the uh it's the it's the power and the explanation to to me to this whole book uh this letter. Because Paul's talking about this and a lot of you are probably f uh familiar with this, the natural man So let's let's kind of read through it. And when I came to you, brethren, I did not come with superiority of speech or wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God, for I determined to know nothing except Jesus Christ and if crucified We're here in that same theme, right? Because it is. That's the essence of it, isn't it? He died for our sins. Uh I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling. And my message and my preaching were not uh persuasive words of wisdom, but demonstration of the Spirit and of the power. Now think about these things addressing what these people are into. Okay, you might have these charismatic speech or uh speakers, but again, it's about God, it's about the power of God. This is what I gave to you. I gave to you the words of God. Really is what he's going to say. So that your faith would not rest on wisdom of man, but on the power of God. Yet we do speak wisdom among those who are mature, a wisdom, however, not of this age, nor of the rulers of this age who are passing away But we speak God's wisdom and a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages to our glory. The wisdom which none of the rulers of this age had understood, for if they had understood it They would have not they would not they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Now think about it. I mean that's a statement we just read over, but really, you know Could you imagine they realize? Oh this is the Son of God, we're gonna put him on a cross. Uh think about that's how blind. Remember how blind We get to look back twenty twenty. It's not really fair. Uh uh uh I I uh I do jail ministry and you have to understand sometimes where people are going. You're you can't just rush in with the gospel, sometimes you have to plow and move some rocks uh you have to connect with them a little bit so uh they can hear what you have to say. Otherwise they just turn you off. Ah Jesus. You know and they go into the you know, you lost them So look at verse 10. For to us God revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. You have revelation here. Right? So you have revelation. Verse 11. For who among men knows the thoughts of a man except the spirit of the man which is in him? Even so the thoughts of God no one knows except the spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the things freely given to us by God. Now, if you're going to know, how do we know? Illumination, right? We talk about that. The spirit illumines us. Um I went to a growing disciples class in a unsaved church and I was unsaved. We were reading through a lot of the Bible Well you you can't I we did a lot of everybody in there didn't really believe the miracles and the things that happened after I got saved I went back, I go, oh I know it's true. How'd I know that? Spirit told me. I didn't it wasn't me. Then I went back and said, okay, why is he telling us this? It's it's totally different perspective. Now is it true? Why is he revealing this? So illumination, it's huge. Remember, we went to a church with a lot of very intelligent people They're blind. They cannot see. Uh let's see. Which things we also speak in the words taught by human uh no excuse me. and words taught let me try that again. Which things we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words Inspiration. How did Paul speak this? It wasn't Paul's word, it wasn't his logic. He told us that in the beginning. I didn't come to you with wisdom. God, right? He he was inspired. What he spoke was was God's word. He was inspired. It was inspiration. So you got that. Gromackey helped pull this out for me, but you you we have to wrestle with the word. What is he saying with that? What are the implications with that I I I I if I encourage you to do anything, pull the word apart, tear it apart. Even if you get it wrong, uh put it back together. Go to a commentary, go to somebody else, but at least meditate on it. God wants us to think He could have put a lot of things in a lot simpler ways. I believe uh he's got us as we search, we find him Uh Ann'll tell you, she's in the word heavy, she teaches it. You learn so there's twenty things you learn when you teach that you can't share with people. You don't have time. It but do this for yourself. It's oh man, you just run into some riches, you're like, wow, I never knew that before. And he you know, I got that. So we have revelation, illumination, inspiration. So let's turn the corner. Verse 14. But a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them. They are spiritually appraised. It is frustrating, isn't it, when you talk to somebody who's very smart and you're like, don't you get it? No, they don't. And it you you can't explain it to 'em. You can't Talk them into the kingdom of God, can you? That's the Spirit's work. But he who is spiritual appraises all things, yet he himself is appraised by no one. For who has known the the mind of the Lord that he will instruct him. But we have the mind of Christ. See this is where verse 3 or chapter 3 kind of goes in it. This is a what we believe is the same thought And I, brethren, could not speak to you as spiritual men, but as men of flesh, as infants of Christ. I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not able to receive it. Indeed, even now you are not able. For you are still fleshly. For since there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly? Are you not walking like mere men? This is not an easy walk. This is not an easy religion. We really need the spirit to look beyond people's Fallacies, mine, yours, each other's. We need to look beyond that. We need to see the spiritual truth So, to put this together, you got the natural unsaved man in verse 14. You got the spiritual man, the saved believer, or 15. You got the carnal fleshly man, right? In in chapter three, verses one and three. So to me, this is the essence of the book. Think about it. What is our what is our what is our key? What is our key to getting church right, the body right? A relation it's relational. I mean the our relationship with God is the hardest thing we gotta deal with, but then that's a piece of cake so does the deal with I mean yeah, we are stubborn and slow. I mean uh I'm yeah, we're I am. Well you know, we all are. It's like why it take me so long to get that So you have right the foundation. What is the key to doing it? Revelation. Right? We need to read the word. Illumination. We need the Spirit to uh uh teach us. Uh and then inspiration. It has to be the inspired word. We have to read the Bible. Uh we can read books about the Bible. They're good, they're helpful, but read the word. I had a Professor said, read the word. Go to the commentators later. Go read it first. Because typically we go to the commentators first. Don't do that if you can't. Backwards. But here's the result. To the natural man He's not gonna get it at all. You're gonna have that in the church. You're not everybody in church is not gonna be saved. That's not a bad thing. At least they're hearing the word. They're they're uh uh being around Christian people. Uh the spiritual believer, right, he's gonna be able to to discern. But here's where the big category is. I think what degree are we carnal, fleshly, are we not operating under the spirit, under the walk of the spirit, am I not uh giving myself over humility? Because that's what it takes to walk by the spirit. Well my pride gets there or you know, it's bad. You know, I don't know about you, but I find my biggest dilemma is when I get on a mountaintop. That's dangerous. 'Cause then it's like, yeah, I like it up here, you know, things are good and we're being blessed and you know, wow. Uh you have to be careful. 'Cause then I started driving instead of following. But that's what we have here. I think we have a large kernel population. And you probably had unsaved believers doing some of the things in this church. But the church, yes, can't allow it. Yes it is. It's usually a fast ride down too. It happens fast. So I spent some time on that, I know, I mean you you look at the clock, uh uh uh but I think that's the key to this book I mean that's uh that's their issue. If we are walking in the spirit, we are not really we know we're we're we're not gonna be doing a lot of these things. But at the same time we are fleshly. We have to guard against all that. So what can we get to? We're at we're out of time. Why don't we look at uh at six I think six is a a a good chapter uh for unbelief because God You know, uh Jesus he you know, he says uh John three sixteen, right? Uh he has got the love of the word, he said his only begotten son, whoever believes in him shall not perish have eternal life But the next verses are great. You know, he says, God didn't send his son into the world to judge the world, but to save the world But then he goes on, he goes, look, man love darkness rather than light. And that's our problem. We love that. It it appeals to our flesh. So but when I'm dealing with people that are know they're unsaved and I do jail ministry, so these guys know it, sometimes they're closer to the truth than to than the uh the others though. At least they know they got a problem. Verse nine, or do you not know that unrighteousness will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers. Will inherit the kingdom of God. Such were some of you. He goes, but you were washed, you were saved, you were sanctified. uh you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of God. So I and I think if you we read to this this uh section, I yeah I know most of you know this, right? Um uh w let me just finish up at the end. Verse nineteen. Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own? For you have been bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body. Um who knows? Some of these people well It's easy to, you know, when you imbibe all this stuff, you grow up in a culture like that, it's easy to get go back to it from time to time. Uh you could get sucked right back into that lifestyle. Uh but uh yeah, they could in fact be believers that were doing this. And I think with the way that uh the flow of the text reads, I think is he is he's talking to believers. Um Unbelievers don't have the Holy Spirit inside their body. They're sending out the temple of the Holy Spirit. So you're talking about body purity, marriage. Um this obviously this is such a controversial topic. Um I think MacArthur handles this well. Uh his commentary I would recommend. Uh there is still great division over marriage, divorce, remarriage. Uh a and this kind of spells some of those things out. You can you can read through it, you can wrestle with it. Uh I know there's people on both sides of it. A lot of people do not believe in remarriage Um I was divorced. Um I was unsaved. When Laura and I got married, we still weren't saved. We came to faith later. I I and I get it, uh but uh I know I certainly take one tact, but th there are uh different tacks. This is the chapter look at. Read it. Uh you a lot of you guys are mature. Uh you can discern for yourself. Read it, reread it before you go to the competitions. Because you will find people on both sides of this. Um Eight. Again, we talk about Christian liberty. Uh uh a verse I skipped over. This is one of my um you don't have to turn there, but Uh I love this verse because it helps keep me humble in perspective. 'Cause he's talking about again uh he's on that theme about uh who's Apollos, who's Paul, who these different people. And he says, For who regard you as superior? What do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it What do we have that we do you we get so prideful so quick? It's good to say, wow, uh that was really neat. I was able to do that. Thank you, Lord. Okay, give give that's fine. It's good it's okay to recognize uh something that you're gifted at, but just give credit to the one who gave it to you. So he talks about liberty eating uh food to idols. Um uh you know, you can look through that. Um Some of these this section here um he goes in chapter ten. He's talking about how the the people of God they they tested uh God in the wilderness. Uh you see that in Hebrews. Um Now these things happened as examples for us so that we would not crave evil things as they did also. And he talks about rock. They they had the spiritual water, which was rock. The rock was Christ. He says, these things happen for our instruction, so they would be an example. Verse 11 were written for our instruction upon um whom the ends of the ages have come. So he says, look, when you read Moses, they have a veil over their eyes, these Jewish uh men. Uh they have the law, but the law won't get you there, will it? And it's always just kind of a works. What can I do? We have to be careful about trying to sanctify ourselves too I think sanctification, the hard part is, is bringing your stuff to the light, open it up to God saying, All right, I need help here. I need correction. That's the work, I think. Uh you know, not oh don't get me wrong, there are disciplines, right? Read the word. Even if you don't want to sometimes. Hopefully by the time you finish reading you'll say, oh wow, I'm glad I did that Uh, prayer. Prayer is a discipline. I don't know about you, but my prayer life could definitely be uh I'm trying to expand it into thinking about God uh more often, like periodically, throughout everything of the day. Praying for things. And I forget oftentimes or forgetful. This section here in chapter eleven. I won't go over a whole lot of it. There's a controversy. These women that are praying with uh head coverings uh is this are these women in the church? Because there's a real if you look at it, there's a contradiction here. He says in chapter 14 Uh he wants uh the women to be silent in the churches, right? So how do you reconcile the two if they're praying and prophesying in church? And uh most people take it as uh uh these women were in the church. I'm not so sure Um I don't I don't think it necessarily points to that. Uh because there's a transition in in uh verse seventeen He says, for giving this instruction, I do not praise you, because you come together not for the better, but for the worse. For in the first place, uh Okay, he if he was talking about, okay, that they should have head coverings, why would he say in the first place? He wouldn't he say, Well, you know, another thing. He also says, in giving this instruction If you look down at the end of verse 22, I praise you. Excuse me. What shall I say? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? In this I will not praise you. So if you notice that, he's talking about uh it's an ecclesio, uh uh bracketing, bookends, whatever you want to call it. I think this is a section unto itself. And as he moves from this, he goes right into the Lord's Supper, how they should be doing it. They were drinking, getting drunk, he and some of 'em were asleep. Means really, they died. Uh because they were making a mockery of God's church. Remember, this is the early part of the church. Uh God doesn't take us out. Necessarily. He may. Somebody sends uh to a point where y he he may take may he may they may lose their lives. And that's a real controversy we have, uh Olific chapter eleven. Spiritual gifts Um again read this as a section all the way from twelve to fourteen. It's a unit. Don't divide it up. They were bragging about their gifts. Huge uh verse here. Verse 13 and chapter 12 For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks. Excuse me. Whether slaves are free, we are all made uh we were all made to drink of one spirit. This is huge. This is the church We are baptized. What is baptism? Baptize mean. Identified with Any others? What is the simple word baptized? What is what did it mean? What? Dumb. Immersive. Immersed. Yeah, immersed immersed in in water. Well, no, not necessarily. It's just a mercy. Jesus talked to the disciples, he said, Are you all ready to drink the cup that I'm gonna drink? Are you ready to be baptized? immersed into the suffering, and I'm going to suffer. So it's immersed. So and I just say that, but we are immersed into the Spirit. And the spirit's in us, which is so, I mean it's it's in s in a in an aspect w it's our oneness with God, right? It's I mean this is huge to comprehend it and to think about it, to contemplate it all the time. We are one body, no more Jews or Greeks. Uh let's see. He talks about in 14 proper for talking in tongues, uh debate about whether it's uh language, I I tend to think it is. Uh But it's it's not really specified. You needed somebody to interpret it. They want it done in order. It's a lot different than the charismatic movement today. Uh that's another uh big topic. Did the spiritual gifts, uh these of healing and tongues, did decease? Um our church takes the position, and I believe this, that they did. When I say ceased, it didn't that God can't heal, it didn't that people can't uh uh speak, but this was um more of a ministry of identification similar to Jesus' miracles. Yes, he wanted to heal people, but it was more to verify. Hey, pay attention God is among us, right? Pay attention to these apostles. They were healing people. Say, wow, what is this guy doing? Let's listen to what he has to say. So as you can tell we didn't get hardly anything. I got a couple minutes left for Second Corinthians. Oh yeah. Well I did skip over fifteen. Obviously you all know fifteen. Fifteen should be read and reread because there's so much there Not only talk about Christ being raised from the dead, he goes into a long litany of how uh we it's our hope, right? It makes this difficulty Bearable, right? This is temporary. We know that. Uh we've been to funerals lately to people that were unsaved. Good friends of ours, a church we grew up in, they're unsaved. It's sad. It's our hope. We can put up with a lot thinking, you know, like the Jewish saying, this too shall pass. This is not our destiny. Uh and that hope is huge. It really helps us. Um I used to do a similar thing to my boys when they'd get into something, especially the one, he he'd be all worried about something. I said, Are you gonna die for this? And he goes, well anyway I'd go, or is this gonna kill you? And he'd have to stop and think and he go, No. I said, it helps put it in perspective, doesn't it? Eternity helps us put it into perspective. We are beautiful in that we know we have X number of Seconds, milliseconds, days, months, years of life, right? Of disbody life. Everybody does. But we just get to go right on into eternal state. They do too, but it's an eternal state. They definitely don't want lying to it. Sit. Fifteen is huge. Um what I wanna highlight. Uh blah ba ba There's a lot here and I'm skipping over this. So here's where he re- here's where he read talks about Moses. He's talking about the Jews, right? And Paul's really defending himself heavily at this with this letter because he's getting reports back. They're undermining him. They're saying Paul's nothing. And Paul's like, yeah, I'm nothing But I laid the foundation. These guys are false teachers. They're false apostles. Don't be led astray. I he's pouring his heart out. You hear him? He's weeping over them. He's crying. He he's he he gives them more this is the most personal letter that Paul's written. And he's doing it for one purpose only. Okay? Uh it's it's not really about me. This is what I poured my life out for. I did it for the gospel. What are these guys, again, what are these guys pouring themselves out for? What are they willing to sacrifice? So he's talking about the Jews. Verse uh chapter 3, 2 Corinthians, verse 14 But their minds were hardened, for until this very day, at the reading of the Old Covenant, the same veil remains unlifted, because it is removed in Christ. But to this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies over their heart. But whenever a person turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away. Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. But we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror, from glory uh uh from the glory of the Lord are being transformed into the same uh image from glory to glory, just as from the Lord does spirit. That's it, we're being washed, being changed, we're being sanctified About out of time, but I need to say this 'cause I've been reading some different things and what and and all of all of us agree and it just keeps coming back. We are so busy with these screens, with these phones and with this, and it's it's taken up our time. We are not going into quiet spaces, we are not meditating, we're not wrestling. It's not just a word. We're not even taking time. The busyness is the world system. Most of this stuff when we look back I don't know about you. You talk about funerals. You look back over my dad's death, I'm thinking So what? He did a lot of neat things I would never do, but I was thinking, so what? Is that it? It's not yeah. Take time to meditate. To wrestle with this, to think. Good Lord, if we look at what the world's doing, they're obviously not thinking. It it's stupid on all levels, even even to the unsaved person. Uh and yet there's that Mo manor, it's just we just watch the system. People are just going along to go, well, you know Well uh it's stop and meditate. The veil is lifted. Who's blind in their eyes? Chapter 4 Verse three, and even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing, in whose case the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving so that they might not see the light of the gospel or the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. For we preach we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus is Lord. And ourselves is your bond server for Jesus' sake. Again, he's going to teach them spiritual truths in here. I knew I'd run out of time. There are a lot, read 2 Corinthians, there are a lot of really neat nuggets in here on spiritual truth. Right? Chapter five he tells us we're in a tent. He goes, Look, I want to be absent from the body and what? Right? And then he says another thing too though. He goes, Man, we all must appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Why? What do we do? Uh do we build with straw, hay, stubble, silver, gold, right? Do we do kingdom work? Uh again, it takes time. Uh you'd be surprised. The world is blind. We have the we have the the words of life. Uh share it with somebody. Befriend them, come alongside. They're not gonna listen to you. Right? Just that Yeah. Most people don't listen to us when we just sit there and and hand out tracts or gospel. They they kind of they're they oh yeah But if you connect with them, okay, to talk to 'em. Uh I was amazed, I I'll end with this. Uh I did I went to the uh outreach we did at the um What's the name of that thing? Some mall. Where the gamut casino is over there. There are no mills. I hadn't been there in years. I was like, wow, people still go to the mall It was crowded. Oh my I guess they do. Uh actually I was surprised. Uh maybe God directed me to the right people, but I people actually are still open to talking about spiritual things. I didn't ru certainly none of them see I had a I had one guy maybe think about something. He was Catholic. I I really I said, look, read the word. I know what you've been taught. And he agreed too, because a lot of that stuff was was wrong. But they're more open to the word than you think. They the if we watch the media You you go out and talk to somebody, they're gonna shoot you. It's not it's bad, but it's not that bad yet. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you so much for this time, Lord. Uh Uh two great letters, Lord. Um uh Second Corinthians two has so many uh spiritual truths in there. I thank you so much for this time. I thank you, Lord, for this group. Lord, may uh you bless us today and may we glorify you. May we worship you. Lord, as we transition now, let us lift up your name, let us sing your praises, and Lord, let us do it from the heart. May your word be fed. May uh Pastor Mike uh give your message. May you empower him. uh to give us a word of of uh encouragement, of truth, uh Lord, just to glorify you, to recognize you, and to praise your name. It's in your name we pray. Amen.