Before we jump into Romans today, what I'm going to try and do as we cover each of these books is really just kind of give this overarching theme. And so you'll see that today. But so I'm going to quiz you So we've covered several books so far. So Matthew was, what was the theme there? Remember, it was the manifestation, if you will, of Jesus Christ. And so Matthew represents Jesus as King. Right, so Ann, you can't answer anymore. So check. Matthew mark Jesus as Servant. Servant. Good. And then we get into Luke and we see Jesus as the Son of Man. Good. Human. And then we get into John, and John is really a book about what? Jesus as God, his deity. Right, good. Right. And then we talked last week about this incredible transition that happens. Right? And and we see the focus. So what's the theme of Acts? The Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit is definitely one of them. What else? What what happens? What institution do we see come on the scene? The church. So I think both of those are important, right? We see the church, the growth and expansion of the church, and then we see the Holy Spirit, you know, move in a different way, if you will. This permanence as believers. Good. All right. Excellent. One of the commentators you see at the top of your notes there. Highlighted Acts is this, a book with no conclusion. In a sense, the book of Acts never ends with the church continuing its work today until the return of Jesus. You guys are writing history of the church still. Now, I'm not suggesting that's going to go in here. Don't mis uh understand me. But you understand, right, that this age is still going. We're a part of it We're a part of the purpose of the church. And so I wanted to hit the application question I had from last week, but we didn't have time, so that's what I'm bringing up front here. And here's the question How might the history recorded in Acts change or renew our mind regarding the role of church and our role in God's redemptive plan? As you, as we learned, right, the purpose of the church, let me phrase it this way, if you had someone come to you and say, They've been they've been coming to the church for a while and and you say, boy, you should, you know, have you thought about being a member? Have you thought about taking the membership class? And their response is, Why You know, I read my Bible. Um I can watch sermons online. I don't really need to be a member. How would you respond to them? Just some some things that you might start that conversation with. Yes. You need accountability. Okay. Yeah. Accountability is an important one. Good. Encouragement. Encouragement. Right? This is a tough we live in a fallen world. We need the encouragement of the saints. Miss Ann. Church membership seems to be important to the Holy Spirit because he mentioned it so often in Acts that there were so many added to the church. To fulfill the role of a Christian and and as a believer to serve one another, pray for one another. And minister to one another is all part of um being part of the body. Yes, good, good. What do we, as Christians, as new believers, what do we all have? At least one Gift. Right? And how are we to exercise those gifts? You know, primarily within the body. That's the institution the church set up so that we can do that. Right, so we can we can grow and be equipped and be protected, be accountable, but also to evangelize, to share the gospel. Right? The church is there as a blessing for us. And so I hope our understanding of going through acts really cements that, right? It's not about the membership, if you will, it's not about this building, it's not about necessarily HBC. Right? It's being a part of a a Bible preaching church where the word is applied. That's how we're going to, you know, fulfill what the Lord, the Great Commission. That's what he's asked us. to do. That's the importance of the church. So I just encourage you in that way, if you're interacting with folks, to have that ready, right? To have those answers ready as to why it's important to be a member in a church. Okay? Good. All right, back to um just kind of where we're at like we always do. So we um a little bit out of order like I told you simply because I'm gonna be gone the next couple weeks. So I wanted to make sure I covered Paul and Romans because it's It's just such a great, great book. And then we'll get track. And the way we're trying to do this is align it with Paul's missionary journey. So we talked about his three journeys uh missionary journeys last week and the intent is to try and line our study with those missionary journeys. I'm going a little bit out of turn here simply because I won't be here So next week, Scott Keene is going to do Galatians and 1st and 2nd Thessalonians, and then 7 July, Terry Keene will do 1st and 2nd Corinthians. I will tell you next week I'll be here, but what we're doing with the membership class, if you notice, I think the first time ever, membership class is actually part of this Growing Disciples Hour. And we've debated that for a long time. There's pros and cons. Um one of the pros is child care. So people can come and and have their child and or children in child care and that's not a hindrance The other thing, it it can be a very long day, right? To come to this hour, go to church, and then have membership afterwards One of the difficulties though, a big part of the membership is we want the elders to to rotate through and teach those classes. So it's my turn next week. I think that's great that we do that But um so so that's how you get some of that disruption. But we have some wonderful men that'll jump up and and help with that teaching. Okay Alright, so where we're at, again, we're in Romans, and like I said, Romans was written during his third missionary journey, and I'll get to that in a second. You can see the timing of this Around 58 A. D. and not you know 10 years prior to Paul's death. So it was getting towards the end of his ministry. And then have shown this many times. The four gospels, how they represent Jesus in a different way, so you get a complete picture. And then Acts the propagation of the church. And now all through the epistles, we're going to get the interpretation of that manifestation. We're going to get it in the way of doctrine. We're going to see a lot of doctrine today, as well as how to, as Christians, how are we to live? How are we to be sanctified? So pretty exciting stuff. And then character sketch. So last week we talked about Peter. This week, obviously, the main character is Paul. And I know many of you know Paul, but here's just some some trivia. I don't know if you knew, but he is also from the tribe of Benjamin, just like King Saul was. Obviously a Roman citizen. And this is interesting to think about. He was born about the same time as Jesus So he he th his I'll call it um his career if you will, I won't call the ministry up front, but his career ran in parallel with Jesus. We don't see that there's any interaction until the road to Damascus. Right? Where those two came together. And I don't know if that ever happened, but here is Saul being trained as a Pharisee. And here's Jesus growing and then starting his ministry, and we don't know if those two ever overlapped, but quite a contrast, but I thought it was interesting to see that they were about the same age. A Pharisee, you guys know, aggressively persecuting the early church. We see significantly that that episode with Stephen, which we didn't cover in detail last week, but You know, he gathered the garments, if you will, of those who were stoning Stephen. So he certainly uh condoned it and was a uh a leader or a catalyst in that persecution. You're all aware of the conversion on the road to Damascus, and again, that was shortly after Jesus' death, right? Where he saw the risen Lord. And it's interesting when he first got saved, he spent three years kind of in isolation getting direct revelation from the Lord. He wasn't being trained by anybody, he was getting direct revelation from the Lord. And as we know, you know, Paul was probably the chief proponent in spreading the gospel throughout the Roman Empire. So exciting to see that conversion. I meant to look up the s uh statistics and I I forgot to do that, but the number of times that he was beaten and stoned and imprisoned and shipwrecked, I mean nobody would want his life Right? Just uh incredible persecution. And yet we're gonna see he was sold out for the Lord. Just absolute sold out. Obviously I took this picture from the internet. I don't think it's an AI version, but I took a picture of him and I it's speculation. Here's what I would tell you though is um many of the commentaries uh suggest that he was a very unassuming man. He wasn't like King Saul, right? This this prominent feature. He this might have been what he looked like. We get indications that he may have had some health issues specifically with his eyes. And we'll see in Galatians where he talks about see how how large the letters are that I write. You're going to see at the end of Romans that there's a name that's called out there and that's going to be his scribe. So he often had a scribe that was um you know annotating these letters or dictating dictation what have you. So we'll see that um come out there. So Very, very interesting life of Paul. And then from a map, um this was the third missionary journey that I showed you. And again, what would often happen You know, Paul was primarily out of Antioch. That was the big hub. Um that Jerusalem and Antioch were big hubs. And This was kind of the path he often took. You remember the first one came up and then through Galatia. But you know, it was very customary for Paul to revisit these churches he had been to. He goes to these churches, he helps establish them, he encourages them, he admonishes them, sometimes he rebukes them, and then goes back and tries to encourage and make sure that they're on solid footing. But you can see uh his third missionary journey extended quite a bit. And then he actually returns, we saw uh at the end of Acts, he actually returns to Jerusalem. So we're going to cover this in a little bit. He always wanted to go to actually he wanted to go to Spain and he was hopeful to go through Rome in order to do that. But it talks about him being hindered a couple times, and one time hindered by the Holy Spirit. And another time hindered by Satan, but God allowed all that so that he could actually minister to this region. Right? It just was not time for him to go. He will eventually make it to Rome. under some difficult circumstances as we know and will end up dying there. Yes. I know I mentioned this to you last week. So how long would it take from A to go around. I mean I don't know if the path was up, north, south, east you know, that direction. But it that seems really smooth. So something like that, how long would it have taken him? Three years? Eighteen months. I had it, um just looking at my notes from last week 'cause I thought I put it on there. You're right. His uh his third missionary journey, which is what we're looking at, was four years. Four years. Now, obviously that some travel that stayed in a place for a certain time, so it all depended on what he was trying to do in the region. region. But yeah. If you go back to the notes from last week it had a rough estimate of the years for each of those journeys in parentheses. How many pairs of sandals did you wear again? I'll make that the wheelchair at that point. Yeah, no kidding. Um let me stop there. Yeah, let me stop there. Okay So getting into our notes, again the theme of Romans is really it's the gospel of Jesus Christ. I mean, pure and simple. Let me read from a little bit of commentary at the beginning of this book in my Bible. The commentary says, Paul's letter to the Romans, the most profound work in existence. By far, the book of Romans contains Paul's most comprehensive statement of the full meaning of the cross of Christ. So we're going to see in the first basically eleven chapters Paul really laying out the gospel and the doctrines. And then we'll see 12 and 16, the applications. So that's how you can kind of think of the break in your head, if you will. Let me read an introduction from uh MacArthur's commentary that I thought was pretty comprehensive and good. Gives you a little background. Rome was the capital and most important city of the Roman Empire. It was founded in seven fifty-three BC. But it is not mentioned in Scripture until New Testament times. Rome is located along the banks of the Tiber River, about fifteen miles from the Mediterranean Sea Until an artificial harbor was built by nearby Ostia, Rome's main harbor was Patoli, some 150 miles away. In Paul's day, the city had a population of over one million people. I've heard estimates as high as four million. So it was large, many of whom were slaves Rome boasted magnificent buildings such as the Emperor's Palace, the Circus Maximus, and the Forum, but its beauty was marred by the slums in which so many people lived According to tradition, Paul was martyred outside Rome on the Ostian Way during Nero's reign. Some of those converted on the day of Pentecost. So you remember back in Acts we talked about the beginning of the church in Pentecost. probably founded the church at Rome. So as they were, remember after Stephen's death, the church was highly persecuted and they were scattered throughout by God's sovereign design. So it's very possible that it started there. Paul had long sought to visit the Roman Church, but had been prevented from doing so In God's providence, Paul's inability to visit Rome gave the world this inspired masterpiece of gospel doctrine. Paul's primary purpose in writing Romans was to teach the great truths of the gospel of grace to believers who had never received apostolic instruction. The latter also introduced him to a church where he was personally unknown. But hope to visit soon and I'll end it there. So yeah, just an incredible, incredible document Or book, I'm sorry. And you'll see right now it has one of my favorite chapters in all the Bible, and we'll talk about that in greater detail. So all right, so if you haven't already open your Bibles to Romans and we'll just gonna walk through and again it's a survey, so we can't cover all of the material. We're just gonna hit the the high tops, if you will And obviously if you have questions along the way, please shout out. So it's always interesting, I feel, especially the epistles, to see the greeting, to see how the author introduces themselves. And so let's just read that starting in verse 1. Chapter 1, verse 1. Paul, a bond servant of Christ Jesus Called as an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God. So really you see Paul doing a couple things here, right? He's establishing his authority as a called apostle. Right? Very few were called as apostles. And what were they given as apostles? The ability to do what? Miracles. Miracles, right? To heal. So many miracles they did, but that remember was an attestation, if you will, of their authority, of the message that they were providing. That was the purpose of it. Alright, so I am an apostle, one who is sent Right? Again, pointing to Jesus Christ. It wasn't of his own doing. But I love this word also bond servant. Um dulos, servant. Paul uses it to describe a servant who willingly commits himself to serve a master. he loves and respects. Um I'll sh I'll share a real short story. We were at our home in Massachusetts and out in the front of our yard was this tree that was starting to encroach on the house and it was small and scrubby and I said, I'm gonna cut it down. So I'm out on the front lawn with an axe in my hand, cutting down this tree, and up walks a Jehovah's Witness. So I I stopped what I'm doing. I still have the X in my hand. It wasn't on purpose. But so so we had uh we started having a dialogue. And long story short, I said, you know, we got on, you know, what do you believe in Jesus? Jesus Christ, right? That's where you want to go with them. And at the end of the day I said, Well, I I am a bondservant of Jesus Christ. And she was kind of taken aback because we don't usually talk that way, do we Um, so it was kind of funny. But that's how I felt, right? I'm a bond servant. My my will is sold out to the Lord. Now that doesn't mean I do um I'm sinless, of course, but I mean I want you to just think about that that term and meditate on it a bit, we should all be bondservants and and associate ourselves that way with Jesus Christ. So I think that's interesting. So the first part of that is his greetings and and introductions to and the the um audience here are believers in Rome. That's who he's writing to. And as believers, do we need to continue to hear the gospel? Absolutely. Right? We need to be not for our salvation, but as a reminder, as an encouragement. Your children, if you have children, constantly sharing the gospel with your children. So that's the first part of it. And then Paul's going to jump right into the state of man, right? Condemnation. So let's slide over to starting in verse 18. And this is where you're going to see Paul really start to lay out the major doctrines of the Bible. And so I had created this slide for another class, but I I think it's helpful. Again, I'm a visual guy And here's how I have this laid out. Kind of on the outside of this ring is the idea of general revelation. We have general revelation and we have special revelation. And I don't want to, we'll get to this in a second, okay? But within special revelation, we need to help us understand general revelation. Who is God and who are we in this crazy universe? And then that gets broken down into theology proper and then all of the doctrines. And so I'll keep this up as we kind of walk through, we're not going to touch all of these, but you'll see how they kind of fit together as we walk through this. Alright, starting in eighteen. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Because that which is known about God is evident within them. For God made it evident to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes And what are those? His eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made so that they are without excuse Let's pause there for a second and understand the gravity of what was just said. Now, in this display of creation, is that special revelation or general revelation? General revelation Is general revelation enough to know that there is a God, the God? Yes. Absolutely. Yes. It just said, right? You are without excuse Right? That's critically, critically important. Now, is special revelation um can we understand the way of salvation in general revelation No. No. Right? By just looking at creation, we we don't know how to be saved. We know there's a God, and we don't really even maybe understand the condition of our heart. We need special revelation. Ray, did you want to add something? Well I was just saying that Psalm said the skies declared the handiwork of God, you know. So you see the it the power of his creation behind his creation. Yes. Yeah. And uh that's that I love doing that stars, for example, if you don't allow who's a gods. Yeah, yeah. So I love that. Even in the mere fact of of creation, right, that men will be without excuse. Okay? So there's that piece of it, but God also gives us a conscience. So flip over to chapter 2 And so in that general revelation, you know, we start to see this doctrine of theology proper. Who is God? And we talked about um just a couple of the traits that we see. right, his invisible his eternal power and divine nature. Through progressive res revelation, we will continue to see other attributes. That's so important to understand, you know, um the totality of who God is But in two go to starting in four um verse fourteen, chapter two, fourteen. For when Gentiles who do not have the law do instinctively the things of the law, these not having the law are a law to themselves. and that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness, and their thoughts alternately accusing or else defending them. So what's happening here is God, when we are made in the image of God, we are given a conscience. Right? And and and even though we don't have the law, what he's saying is the Gentiles didn't have the law. They didn't have the do's and don'ts, but in their heart they knew. Right? Again, they will be held accountable because they've been given a conscience. Now, because of that, let's flip over to chapter 3. And this is when the hammer falls. You know what is the capability of man in this fallen nature? And we're going to start in verse, let me start in 8, verse 8, chapter 3, verse 8. And why not say, as we are slanderously reported, as some affirm that we say, let us do evil that good may come? Their condemnation is just. Verse 9. What then? Are we better than they? Not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside, together they have become useless. There is none who does good, not even one. If there is any doubt that you feel you can earn your salvation, you come back to Romans 3 and understand the true state of our fallen nature. I said this, I think, day one, and you'll hear me repeat it because I think it's so important. As we go through life, as we are sanctified, as we sit in growing disciple classes, as we hear preaching We want to cultivate a really high view of God. And we do that by understanding the totality of His attributes. At the same time, we want to have a correct view of man In our fallen nature and as Christians. And we're going to get to this a little bit more. Because I think that's really important that we also have a boldness of understanding who we are as children of God. Okay? So you want to continually be cultivating that understanding. So here we are clearly condemned in our sinful nature. Right? Unable to be reconciled to God. We are broken from that relationship. That's the state we're in in our fallen nature. But then God comes on the scene with justification. Starting in verse 21. And here we get into this doctrine of soteriology, right? Salvation. How do we then get saved? How do we then reconcile with a holy God? And holy is important. Right? Because he can have not one single iota of sin, you know, a relationship with that. We must somehow become righteous in his sight. And that's where justification comes on the scene. Right, starting in verse 21. But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law in the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe, for there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation. What does that big twenty five cent word mean? Propitiation. Satisfaction. To appease the wrath. The wrath that is due us, that's what propitiation means. You have a substitute that's going to absorb or appease that wrath. Good. As a propitiation in his blood through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness, because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time, that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus Where then is boasting? It is excluded. That's really important, right? If you think you can earn any portion of your salvation, that's a work that you now get credit for. And and we can have none of that boasting. We need to boast in only what? Christ. Jesus Christ. Alright, where was I? Twenty-seven. Twenty-eight. Twenty-eight. For we maintain that as a man is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also. An amen to that Since indeed God, who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith, is one. Do we then nullify the law through faith? May it never be. On the contrary, we established the law. Justification, let's look at that word. You can see the definition there. Comes from a Greek concept meaning to declare righteous. with all the virtues of Jesus Christ. So often when we talk of this definition, think kind of two parts. There's a declaration that he now sees us as righteous. So let's pull that thread a little bit. Are we righteous? Are we infused with righteousness? Absolutely not. There are some um beliefs that that's exactly what happens. I told you I came from the Catholic Church. That is one of their beliefs, that at salvation you're actually infused with righteousness. Not true. Alright? Think of it this way. We are positionally declared righteous before the Lord And I like to think of it this way, that the Lord is now, or God is now looking at us through these glasses, and this is Christ's righteousness. So when he looks at any one of you believers, that's what he sees, is righteousness We're going to see in this fallen world will we continue to struggle with sin? Yes, we will. Yes, we will. Alright. But so this idea of justification is you are positionally now declared righteous before the Lord. I was gonna say when I was teaching the kids, you know these balloons that have toys and stuff inside them, I would tell the kids We are inside a red balloon and when God looks, he looks through the red balloon, which is the blood of Christ, to see us. And that's how we're justified. He sees us through the blood of Christ. Yep, yeah, that's a that's another great visual. I might add a balloon and say what he actually sees is the white balloon, right? We are now clothed in the righteousness. through the blood of Jesus Christ. So I'd just add a balloon to your analogy. It's okay. There there's another aspect here, right? So there's this position we have now or declared, but this idea of imputation, right? This idea that our sins past, present, and future are now imputed to Christ's account. That's what he bore on the cross. Wrap your head around that. And then his righteousness is imputed to our account, credited to our account. So now that's what the Lord sees. So just remarkable. And and you can go back to again be because if you look at the attribute of God's holiness in in total separation from sin And the fact that we are completely fallen, right? There's no other way that this can happen except through God doing a work, justification. That's the only way we can be reconciled. Alright, but you say, what about the Old Testament? How were people saved in the Old Testament? Let me ask, how were people saved in the Old Testament By faith. By faith they believed. Right? A great example is Abraham. So let's take a look at that. And in chapter 4, let me start in verse 1. Chapter 4, verse 1. What then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh, has found? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness Now to the one who works, his wage is not reckoned as a favor, but as what is due. But to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justified the ungodly, his faith is reckoned as righteousness. Just as David also speaks of the blessing upon the man to whom God reckons righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven. and whose sins have been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. Is this blessing then upon the circumcised, or upon the uncircumcised also? For we say faith was reckoned to Abraham as righteousness. So the question was, was Abraham circumcised at the time that this happened? How then was it reckoned? While he was circumcised or uncircumcised? Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised? And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all who believe without being uncircumcised, that righteousness might be reckoned to them. And the father of circumcision, to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also follow in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham. which he had while uncircumcised. For the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would be heir of the world was not through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. So who are the descendants of Abraham When at the end of the day. Right? Well, Jews, but but believers, right? We'll see later. You don't need to be from the lineage, right, to be a descendant of Abraham. It's all those of the faith. So let's pull this idea of Abraham because I think it's fascinating. Go over to James. You can put your fingers, keep it in Romans, but go over to James Right after Hebrews, we see this idea of Abraham come up again. And James is talking about faith and works, right? So he's talking about justification, but the evidence of that through works. So let's pick up, I'm in chapter 2 And 21, verse 21. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac his son on the altar? You see that faith was working with his works, and as a result of the of the works, faith was perfected. And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. Now, some of you were in the theology class, so Nicholas, you can't say anything. What was happening here? When When was that declaration, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness? When did that happen? In this story of offering up Isaac. What would you glean as you read this passage in James 2? Mm-hmm. Okay. And then he believed that God would bring him back and he Yeah. It's a great thought, Karen, but it's wrong. Okay. I and I say this as I have read this many, many times as a Exactly the thought I had. But you almost that sounds like a work, doesn't it? That that through that um testimony, if you will, of being willing to offer up the son Now he's predatory with righteousness. That's not when it happened. Is there because he didn't he so trust God that he didn't held his own son. Like he he knew he was God and now he became like He's serving that's not even his dungeon. Yeah, you're pulling the right thread. And here's the question, you what you're at what is the context, right? So here's how this happened. This is where it happened Where is the Abrahamic covenant? Do you remember what chapter? Genesis 12. Genesis 12, where he gives the promise to Abraham, the land, the seed, the blessing. And this is your homework assignment. Go to Genesis 15. So now it's several years later, and this promise, he has no heir. So he's like, Lord, you promised this and and we got nothing. And God tells him, and you remember this, go outside of your tent and look up. Mm-hmm. Which is wonderful, right? There was no work done. What's happening here is the evidence of that faith. When he offers up Isaac It's now the evidence of that. And that's what James is trying to say. Is if you say you have faith but you have no works, your faith is dead I will show you faith true faith with works, and that's the example he's trying to give here. Does that make sense? Yeah. Good. Ready? Well second first part is justification without works and the second part would be sanctification. Um Yeah, uh it's the evidence of it. Once we're saying alone by graceful to faithful in Christ alone, he says we're then we're unto good words, yeah. Yeah. I guess And we're going to talk some more about that. But go back to verse 21. Was not Abraham our father justified by works? That word justified has a slightly different meaning in that context. It's more of a affirmation versus a declaration of righteousness. Alright? So that's again why it's important to study words. So does that help? Does that make sense? I always thought that was pretty fascinating. So All right, and then uh we'll finish up this section in f uh chapter back to Romans chapter five verse one. You know what is this beautiful gift now that we're justified? Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace. with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. In our sinful nature, in this point of none are righteous, did we have peace with God? Absolutely not. You might have thought you did, but you did not. You were actually hostile to God. And now this beautiful picture of under Christ, we now have peace with the Almighty God. And we're going to see later how do we address God now? Ah, the Father. That's like calling him Daddy. It was a very intimate picture of our relationship with God. And this is again where I want to really want to emphasize today, having a correct view of who we are in Christ. Right? Because it's really easy to go back to our sinful nature and who we were in our fallen state Okay, good. And so Ray, to your point, now we're going to kind of start jumping into that sanctification process. So let's uh flip over to chapter six. Actually, I I want to um jump over to seven and we talked earlier. So now we're saved And I don't know about you guys, but you you all have probably gone through a journey of I'm saved now and I should just be getting better, better, better, better, better, better, better, and sin should just pretty much disappear while I'm here on this earth And we know that's not how it works, right? But here we have Paul, the apostle Paul, who's going to address this issue. And remember, all of what I just we just talked about. is to the Roman believers who have had no apostle come through yet. This must have been such an encouraging letter to them I mean just imagine that, that you're not under the teaching of a pastor, you're not in growing discipleship classes, right? And now you get this letter affirming the doctrines of God's truth. How miraculous that must have been. Alright, but but Paul says, you know, here's all these doctrines, but here's reality. So I'm picking up uh chapter seven verse fourteen For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of flesh sold into bondage to sin. For that which I am doing I do not understand, for I am not practicing what I would like to do but I am doing the very thing I hate. But if I do the very thing I do not wish to do, I agree with the law, confessing that it is good. So now no longer am I the one doing it, but sin which indwells me For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For the wishing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. For the good that I wish I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not wish. But if I am doing the very thing I do not wish, I am no longer the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me. I find then the principles that evil is present in me, the one who wishes to do good. For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man, but I see a different law in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind and making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members. Wretched man that I am, who will set me free from the body of this death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord Jesus Christ our Lord. So then, on the one hand, I myself, with my mind, am serving the law of God, but on the other hand, with my flesh, the law of sin. Let me touch real quickly again MacArthur commentary. I won't read all this only to say that there are some different views on this passage. And some believe that Paul is actually talking to unbelievers here. Right? I don't believe that's the case, but here's the commentary from MacArthur. Paul's use of present tense verbs in verses 14 through 25 strongly supports the idea that he is describing his life currently as a Christian For these reasons, it seems certain that chapter 7 describes a believer. However, of those who agree that this is a believer, there is still disagreement. Some see a carnal, fleshly Christian, others a legalistic Christian, frustrated by his feeble attempts in his own power to please God by keeping the Mosaic Law. But the personal pronoun I refers to the Apostle Paul, a standard of spiritual health and maturity. So in verses fourteen through twenty-five, Paul must be describing all Christians, even the most spiritual and mature, who when they honestly evaluate themselves against the righteous standard of God's law, realize how far short they fall. Is that your life today? It's mine, right? Um just this constant struggle with The reality that we live in a fallen world. I remember for those of you, how many were in Pastor Day's Romans class Do you remember when he taught on this subject and and he was such a funny guy, right? He's he's like, hey, you're a new Christian, you're going to the Christian party, but you're dragging along, you know, you get this fallen chain, that old sinful nature, right? And it's just it's It's reality. Right. We should be growing and growing, putting off and putting on. We're gonna see that in a second. Yes, Red. Well just it's along like the battles, if you know that. Yeah. Kind of a I'm not a bad aren't we should But it's this bound between the word and the flesh. He says, live in the spirit, kill in the disease of the flesh. Right. Yep. Yeah, good. Alright, so we're going to get to my most favorite chapter in the Bible right now, Romans 8. And I say that because I get excited, the struggle we just talked about, what is easy to happen to ourselves in Highlight it. Romans 8. Let's go there. Romans 8, verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation. It's used three times in the New Testament. It's all here in Romans, and it's the opposite of what we just learned about justification. It's to render a verdict of guilty and the penalty it demands. Who is the great accuser? Satan. That's his job, is to condemn mankind. Who is the other great condemner? Ourselves. Ourselves. Do we not struggle with that? And so here's my encouragement, and that's why I want you to live in Romans 8 for a while. I want you to underline these promises that we have as children of God. And it starts with, we are under no condemnation. Remember those glasses or the balloon that God sees us in? That's permanent. Right? No condemnation. It's so important for us to make sure we understand that that pillar, if you will. Sir. But Christ overcame those Amen. Yeah. Yeah. That's a great, great point. I think also as new believers, I know many of my children, I just remember the struggle of um You know, because we Karina and I would give a testimony of when we got saved, you know, here's the things we just stopped doing. We stopped the drinking, we stopped the swearing, we stopped the and so I think my children had this impression that When you become a Christian, you know, all that sin just stops. And it was like, no way. You know, so that was a revelation for me that how we were messaging that to our children is we still struggle with with you know items in our life. And yet No condemnation. To your point it's true, but we're not condemned. Jesus paid the price. Alright. So I think that's that's a big piece. Let's go to another part. Um verse, let me start in 15. The spirit bearing witness with our spirit. For you have not received a spirit of slavery, leading to fear again But you have received a spirit of adoption as sons, by which we cry out, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, errors also Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him, in order that we may also be glorified with Him. Boy, a lot packed in here. But what I want to highlight is as believers One of the evidences of being a believer is what? The Spirit testifying with our spirit. And how do we see that manifest itself? We cry out, Ah the Father. You didn't do that before you became saved. You might have prayed to God, God the Creator. But you weren't crying out to Abba Father. So that is one of the evidences that we have. What are some others? Because this really gets into the security or the assurance of our faith. Alright, and there's a couple things that I laid out in the theology class. One is you have a current testimony that Jesus Christ is your Savior. Right? Just daily you can confidently say you trust in that. You know, that's the evidence of your faith that Jesus Christ is your Savior. Another evidence is what should be happening. We talked about sanctification. What should you be observing in your life? The fruits. The fruit of the sphere. Think of Galatians 5 as just one reference point, right? You should start to be seeing these evidences in your life. And then the third piece is really, and I think combined with that is a desire we talked about earlier to be part of the church family. because you want to use those gifts to serve the body, to serve Lord. Right? So if if you're not um participating in the church or active and understand what I'm saying. People go through different seasons. I'm not trying to say you need to be here 24-7. That's not what I'm saying. You understand what I'm saying. How are you using your gifts to serve the body And that changes as you go through seasons of life. But that should be another evidence of your faith. Okay? And then the last one is really just the longevity of seeing that evidence over time. You should see yourself improving and growing. That's the sanctification process. What is it meant to be sanctified? Set apart. Holy, we're being conformed into the image of Christ. Right? That is progressive, but it should be increasing over time So those are just kind of three evidences or steps you can take, or as you're helping children or others, you know, counseling, if you will, to have this surety, this assurance that you are a child of God. Right? The other piece of this, what it talks about, let's look at 17 again. And if children, heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified him. We love to think about that time of glorification. Love it. I joke with my kids and they hate it, but I said, I'm going at 75. Seventy-five, I'm I'm out of here. Because you know, I don't want to go through the the chronic illnesses or what I'm joking of course. But Absolutely. But but we often think of that state of glorification. When we wrestle with sin Well, we can't wait until that day when we there'll be no more presence of sin. And yet it clearly says what is going to happen along that path. Suffering. Suffering is the path to glorification as a believer. I think that exactly means the suffering. Does that mean I I always struggle with that a little bit. Because like we go through hard times in life and It's really hard but usually you don't say, Well, I'm suffering for Jesus. It's it's a consequence of the world you live in, the people you're with I'm gone. Ex-husband. Um but what does that mean like to suffer with him exactly? Well let let me throw it out to the class. What do you think And we'll offer up that suffering to the Lord. In other words to when you talk about being conform to Christ, it's not having a a pity party for yourself necessarily, but it's like Lord Uh it it's a sanctifying process and when you understand that it it draws you closer. In fact, generally speaking, personally I I pray less when things are going well. Things are going well. I'm I'm good, I got it. But when I'm suffering, I I really spend time in the Word and spend time really. Yeah. So so Karen, I think you're absolutely highlighting what happens through suffering, but I think your question is what is suffering? Throw it out there. What what is suffering in this world? Ray, give me just one couple things. Huh? Being persecuted. Persecuted for your faith. Yeah, my Facebook it's an erase you and doing that. Yep, good. What else? I think it's the difficulties in life that causes us to to focus in the in in and and and look towards God. I mean whether it is the car that breaks down at the very wrong time, the the difficulty with uh you know growing old with family members. Yep. Um watching people, the people that you love suffer, die in in the heartache that that brings to you. that drives you to Christ. All of those things that drive you to Christ is is is suffering. Yeah. Yeah. So so bottom line, it's it's all of life circumstances. all of the trials, the tribulations, and it looks different for everyone. But here's what I would tell you. God knows exactly, you know, that friction you need. Because he's working that sanctification. He's conforming you into the image of God. In those times like like you guys mentioned of trouble, where are you? You're down on your knees, right? It's not during the good times and things are going well. We want to cultivate that we should be. Bottom line, it's just the living in a fallen world and the circumstances that happen. And what does it say? God uses all things for his good, for his glory. I was just gonna say and I think it's these trials that make us stronger for most of us. For most Christians, I think that's what embolds us and gets us to really seek the Lord Absolutely. I've often said the great sanctifiers, marriage and kids. I say that as a blessing. I really do. Not as a trial and the tribulation. But there's there's you guys know there's a lot of stuff that goes with that. also brings us back to chapter seven. He was suffering in his soul because what he really wanted to do he wasn't doing. And he was doing those things. And it's like the road to sanctification is not just up. It's up and down. Up and down. And always down. But the trajectory overall is uh you had those times and you're suffering in your soul. Absolutely. Absolutely. So let's keep going. In those times though, what do we have? Again, continue with some of these promises. Go to verse twenty-six. And in the same way, the Spirit also helps our weakness. Right? We just talked about our time of weakness, for we do not know how to pray as we should, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. Isn't that a wonderful visual? So not only is the Holy Spirit interceding for us, we'll see later in the chapter, Jesus Christ. sitting at the right hand, interceding for us. So yes, we go through these times of sorrow, difficulty, suffering, and yet don't forget. The Holy Spirit is interceding for you with groanings, with words we can't even begin to understand. And then I just talked about it in verse 28. And we know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. Alright? So these are verses you want to underline. These are your meditations you want to go back to when you're in the midst of suffering. Oh yeah, everything is happening for for my good and your glory. All right, and then when we get into twenty-nine and thirty, let me show you this chart. Um it's called Ordo Salutis, meaning what? The order of salvation. And it's just uh I want you to think of it this way, as a good logical representation of of how salvation works, right? Don't think of it necessarily as temporal. Some people get hung up on the timing of all of this. But I just want you to think because understanding this in in my mind really gives you greater knowledge of how the Trinity is at work. And that's what I love about this, and that's what I want you to take away from it. And I just wanted to show you a couple side by side. They're very similar, but here's from MacArthur and here's from uh Brutom. And like I said, they're very similar But you're going to see some of these words as we go through the next passage. Paul is going to be referring to this order salutus. Let me get my commentary out again, just with a couple definitions. Yeah, so we are in 29. Let's pick up in verse 29. So we're here's where he's going into this order of salvation. For whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conform. to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. And whom he predestined, these he also called, and whom he called These he also justified, in whom he justified, these he also glorified. Now you don't see all of the words in the passage we just read, but you can kind of see the book ends there, right? And I want to highlight a couple of the words there. We talk about in 29, he foreknew. The definition, not a reference simply to God's omniscience. That in eternity past he knew who would come to Christ. Some believe that, right? That's not what's being said here. Rather, it speaks of a predetermined choice to set his love on us and establish an intimate relationship. It's God choosing to select some. Alright? And we'll come back to that in a second. And then predestination to mark out a point or determine beforehand. Okay? So I like to think of it this way when we think about God selecting, is if we have this pool of people and all of us in our original state are fallen sinful, and what is our Our due um what's our due? What what should we receive in that state? Punishment, hell, death, wrath, the wrath of God. That's what we all deserve. Why? What did we learn in Romans 1? All have sinned. We're without excuse. We will all be held accountable. Right? And so here we all are. God comes along and decides. To select a few. I don't know what the number is, but don't get in your mind that he's selecting you for salvation and he's selecting you for hell. I just told you, everyone gets hell. The fact that he's selecting any is an incredible act of mercy and grace Right? And that's what that points to is his mercy and grace. Does that make sense, that distinction? Right? It's really important to make that distinction. He's not deciding you go here and you go here, we're all going here. He's just deciding to take some out of that. Right. I'll say real fast. I'll just take a think about this and correct me if I'm wrong. Um it says it's comes before the foundation of the world, so it means that there's no earth It was no day six and then you know so it's kinda like like we when we have a basketball team we pick pick people, we see them, but he didn't have it, it might have been it was empty compared to all those things like he had no one alive in front of him. He probably would just in his I would not look out use of knowledge. Yeah. But he chooses people like in an empty courtroom basically because there's no one there. Yeah. It's it's quite a quite a mystery and it's hard to wrap your head around that, but that's what we read in Scripture. So that's what we're trying to ascertain. What is Scripture telling us Let me end with this in Romans 8, and again, it's just a wonderful, wonderful promise, and one you need to highlight in your Bible, starting in verse 31. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? Paul always uses that type of term, he asks a question, right, to answer his own question. He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how will he not also with him freely give us all things? Who will bring a charge against God's elect? Right? Who will condemn us? God is the one who justifies. Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is he who died, yes, rather, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. So there you again you can see the Holy Spirit and Jesus Christ interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress Or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? Just as it is written, For thy sake we are being put to death all day long. We were considered as sheep to be slaughtered. But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through him who loved us. For I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Nor any other created thing, no other condemnation or judgment from another human being, even your own, about yourself, even your sin. Nothing can separate you from the love of Christ. He stayed pre-destination. Dad already knew who was going to accept him or not or got picked. God chose He he chose to show his affection on on the elect versus I know that person is going to choose to believe in me. That's not what we're saying. He chose to elect. And I know it's hard to wrap your head around that. But that's what the scripture says. people feel who are not chosen. I mean how hopefully scared, hopefully fearful, hopefully. Well will they be able to understand? Right? That's that's the issue. We we didn't cover it, but in Romans 1 it says that they they decided to replace the truth for a lie. They suppressed the truth. And what did the Lord do? He handed them over. When it talks about uh heart, you know, Pharaoh's heart hardening, right? Yes, God chose that, and it's hard to understand that, but that was after repeated efforts where Pharaoh chose that. He willed that Right? And God gave him over to his hard heart. Now, we'll see though, the demonstration of that was to show God's power, to show God's mercy, to show mercy on some. Right? That's why this is all playing out. You gotta remember when it's difficult to understand, point back to why is this gotta point back to God and his glory and his purposes. And sometimes it's hard to understand. More on that? It's hard to explain to people who will say to you, I I will never be accepted by a party because I've always been chosen I'm not going to chosen Mm-hmm. And you wonder how do you tell someone no, you have the opportunity to shoot yourself to be a good idea. I think you go back to the gospel, the sweet gospel of You know, people love to cling to God is love. Let me show you how God is love. Right? When there was no way for us, he sent his only son. For our salvation. However, God is also holy, so he would be justified to condemn us all to death. That's where you have to bring in the total attributes of God in that gospel message. Yes, Karen and then I'll come up front. And once I learned more about the attributes of God, his sovereignty. So if we said that our salvation came from God's foreknowledge, like I I knew Karen was going to be smart enough to pick me or want me and so forth and that would really make us have a problem. How could he be sovereign? It would be like having to say, well gosh, I wanted Karen to come but the wind did she you know or she didn't come so you you basically eliminate or weaken dot sovereignty if you base it on, well, he knew beforehand that's why he chose us. He chose us out of his 'cause he's God and he can do anything he wants And um that is hard. I I fought for a long time with that, but we bow the knee to God and And like Chris was saying, we're all evil and we're helpless. We're actually helpless unless he calls us. And even that calls, even repentance is a gift Like we don't repent independently. We repent because he gave us the gift to want to see him in the first place. So our nature is evil. When I listen to people they're like That's not true. Why not? If you but we kind of no, we are. We are we're wicked, we're sinners. And that's where, you know, understanding especially the first part of Romans, you can let's go to the Word. Let let me walk you through Because that was me at one point. Right. That was all of us at one point. And so you just have to continue with the gospel message. Let me read something real quick and then I'll come to your question down here. Go to I was going to cover it, right? This is the big debate in chapter nine, this doctrine of election. Let me start in verse 18. And I know we could probably have three or four classes on this, so we don't have time for that. Um verse eighteen. So then he has mercy on whom he desires, and he hardens whom he desires. You will say to me then, why does he still find fault? For who resist his will? On the contrary, who are you, O man, who answers back to God? The thing molded will not say to the molder, why did you make me like this? Will it? So Paul's not really addressing the question, but he's basically saying, Well, you just said, Karen, he's God. Who are you to question God's sovereignty? Right? And maybe that's not the answer you want, but as we've just discussed, that's what's laid out in scripture. Comment up here? My question is I guess this first respon answers because like I I feel the struggle with the for this nation is not with the the lost but with the believers. It's very hard for other beliefs believers that don't believe in in predestination to accept that. At least in my in my circle it's like when you say, well, God predestinated us, he chose us and then other beliefs say, well, that's sort of unfair if God chooses. Some so I always struggle to tell those people like, well, he's God, he can do whatever he wants but they always say, then it's not fair because those Unbelievers had no choice. So how do we explain to those believers? Yeah, you you go back to what is fair. Ask them what is fair. If God was fair, we would all die. Right? If God is free, we talked about that earlier. If God was fair, this whole room would would be condemned to death. That's what's fair. What is merciful is that he chose anything. Right? So that's what you want to that's why you've got to bring it back to the the high view of God and a correct view of man. Always take it back to those basics and that will really help with the gospel. And let me say this guys Let me say this up front. Let this not be a dividing point. I have dear brothers and sisters that do not believe in election. Election for me was a journey I mean it wasn't until fifteen so years ago that I tr uh and it was through Romans like how can I not believe in this? But that was my journey. Right? There are people on different parts of that spectrum, and it's not to say we we know everything and don't go there. Let it not be a division between brothers and sisters. Okay. Let me get this question and then I gotta keep going. I only got five minutes to get through the rest of Romans. Whenever you look at people sharing the gospel of the apostles to totally focused on like uh God kinda they come to save everyone, witness to everyone to the gospel to everyone. And then like after they believe, it seems like they focus on the election. Yes, that's a great point. You go back to the very basics Here's your condition as a fallen man, right? Go back to Romans 1 through 3. Don't focus on the election people Let that come after. That's a great great point. There's one little word though in verse 23 that Ann Hayes off makes And and it blew my mind because it helped me settle it. So if you look at verse twenty-two, it says, What if God, although willing to demonstrate his wrath and to make his power knows, endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction. N twenty three. And he did so in order that he might make known the riches of his glory upon the vessels of mercy, which he and that was and which he prepared beforehand for glory. So he prepared those few for I mean, if you're election believer, that helped me to accept it, that he had the right to the authority as God to prepare some of us for glory. Because there's that little word he prepared in 23 for glory. Whereas in 22 it just says Vessels of wrath which we all were prepared for destruction. And twenty-three he prepared. I thought that was rich. No, that's good. And I think the other important point, and we covered it in those two verses, is why What is the purpose, right? That his power be known, that his mercy be known. Again, we're trying to understand these doctrines. Point back to who God is. Right, theology proper. Good. Alright guys, I gotta keep going real quick because I want to make sure we just cover this. In this discussion, right, there's also this question about Israel. We we've been talking about individuals, but there's also this discussion about in um Israel, and I I won't go over it just for time's sake, but in chapter ten, nineteen through twenty-one, there's basically this question that's set up that says, what about Israel? You know, they rejected Christ. Are they going to be rejected forever? You know, is that what's happening here? And Paul addresses that in chapter 11, right? A partial hardening until the fullness of the Gentiles has come. So this period that we're in really focusing on, I'll call it the salvation of the Gentiles. Yes, Jews are being saved, but when it talks about the times of the Gentiles, that's really that's all that's left until Christ returns. Right, the finality of whatever that is. And we're maybe just one salvation away from that happening. We don't know. But then you're going to see a focus back on Israel. You know, that promise of the new covenant, right? You remember the the covenant of the land and the seed and the blessing. The extension of that is the new covenant in Jeremiah 31. And what does that basically say is I'm going to put my law back on their hearts. And they're going to worship me. And that's a blessing for all the nations. That's for all of us. But specifically, that's going to be applied to the nation of Israel. So um so if you want more on that again chapter eleven is how he addresses that. I wanted to spend a little bit of time so the rest of the book of Romans is so Paul has laid out these doctrines and now he's basically going to apply it. What does this mean to us? This is how we are supposed to live now. with the knowledge that I just shared with you. And again, remember if you were receiving this letter for the first time, what an incredible encouragement it must have been. Yeah, it's in the it's actually towards the end the conclusions, but I I wanted to highlight he's actually encouraging uh the Roman church, right? He says, we've heard great reports of your faith. Remember, they've never seen him before, and yet he's trying to encourage them. You'll notice he doesn't address some kind of uh difficulty in the church. He does that in other epistles. He's not doing that here. It really is a letter of encouragement But you see in section um seven there, the application, and we'll just cover some of those really quick. This is where you start to see, you know, we often talk of the one-another's. Let's go to twelve um one through six real quick. I urge you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. This is again where we're using our gifts. to edify the body body. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. For through the grace given to me I say to every man among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think so as to have sound judgment. As God allotted to each a measure of faith. For just as we have many members in one body, and all the members do not have the same function, so we who are many are one body in Christ, and individual members of one another And since we have gifts, um how come I'm not getting to Yeah, let's move down to verse nine, sorry, twelve verse nine Let love be without hypocrisy, abore what is evil, cling to what is good, be devoted to one another in brotherly love, give preference to one another in honor. There are I forget the exact number, but many, many one-anothers in the Bible, right? And so being a part of the church, being a part of the small group, is your ability to practice those one-anothers Being a part of a family. Again, that great sanctifier. Every day you get to practice the one-anothers. So we see this dedicated service, practicing the one-another's. Here is where Paul brings up the idea of governments, right? God instituted the government. So the three major institutions that God has um developed, if you will, is what marriage, the church, and governments. And this became a really big deal during COVID. How many of you watched the Essential Church that we showed? Yeah, okay, not many. If if you're able to see it, it's a really good video. And it walks through John MacArthur's church as they dealt with the whole COVID thing. But really had to wrestle with the church individually and how do we relate to the government also an institution of God. The church that I I was in split shortness the point. That one decided to close down because of COVID that we all had a go away. Yeah Yeah, yeah, it was hard. And I I know many of us struggled through that in many different ways, but um we that is an institution that God um has instituted and he rises them up and he brings them down. I'll say this, maybe it's heresy. I don't know that the US gets any special um Privilege in this context, right? For whatever reason, he is using us as an instrument in many, many good ways Right? We don't deserve any of it. But I'll just leave that out there. Let me let me close with this. Um in thirteen 12 through 14, it's this idea of putting off and putting on, laying aside the deeds of darkness. You see that in Ephesians 4 as well. This pattern of as new creatures, we put off the old self We renew the mind and we put on the new self. Is that a one-time deal? It's a daily deal. That's part of sanctification. That's being filled with the Holy Spirit. So let me leave you with that encouragement. That Romans 8, I want you to go back and just meditate on Romans 8, underline all those promises, and be encouraged, as I'm sure the Roman believers were when they received this letter from Paul. Let me close