Hebrews. Hebrews, Hebrews. Alright, here's where we're at. We're getting close. It's August. Last few chapters. So again, we are in the section of the general epistles. Who wrote Hebrews? No one knows. We don't know. We're going to talk about that a little bit. Right? This is one of the few books that um scholars just cannot agree on, although there are some some ideas on who that is. At the end of the day, does it matter? Who is the final author of Hebrews? Right? It's the inspired word, and we know that for sure, so we'll dig into that. Alright, where are we at from a timeline perspective? Again, I think it's very helpful to always kind of see where these books are written so that you can understand the context. So here we are. Again, in the the um last times, but we are before 70, right, when the temple was destroyed. So I think that's important to note. You can see, and again, these are rough timelines, but what's happening with Paul during this time? Do you remember? It's about 67-ish Yeah, right. So he was in the house imprisonment, and as we talked about the last couple weeks, it looks like he was he was out. and was still ministering throughout the region, ultimately though he would end up back in prison, and that's where he wrote Second Timothy 2. But you know the timelines are very similar. So could Paul have been the author? Absolutely Right? And you're going to see there's a lot of similarities. But at the end of the day, we just do not know. What also is happening here, you know, I'm kind of highlighting here, there's a lot of persecution that's happening Right, so that's the context of what's happening right now. And a little foreshadowing, Hebrews is deliberately to the Jew, to the Jewish believers predominantly. We're going to talk a little bit about where there are other audiences. And we'll talk about that, but predominantly to Jewish believers, right, that were going through intense persecution. Now the temple was still standing, so was their temple worship still happening Or the Levitical system, the Jewish system was still in place, right? And we'll talk, that's really one of the primary reasons of this book. Alright, so that's the context. Alright, so let's jump into our study here. And let's start with this idea of the author, and I'm taking it from the the Geisler New Testament Survey resource. And I thought it was helpful to read that because he does it pretty concisely. There are several possibilities as to who wrote Hebrews. And go ahead and open your Bibles if you haven't to Hebrews. Luke is one of them. The evidence is the Polish Greek, his association with Timothy, who was mentioned in 1323, and the similarities with Paul's doctrine Paul is also a possibility. The evidence is the Pauline doctrine, the early fathers in the East attributed it to Paul, and again the reference to Timothy, his trusted companion. Barnabas. The evidence, he was an associate of Timothy. Um hell uh yeah that was the big one. Apollos and then Priscilla and Aquila. Now that'd be kind of neat, right? Uh husband-wife team, but no Many things are known about the author of Hebrews. He was not one of the twelve apostles. You see that in chapter 2. He wrote before the destruction of Jerusalem. We just talked about that. He was well-versed in the Old Testament, 98 citations from the Old Testament. He wrote in a more technical Greek than the other New Testament writers. He emphasized Jesus' earthly ministry and high priestly ministry. He was associated with Timothy, and he was in Italy when he wrote it. That is in chapter 13, I believe. And again, like I said, Paul was potentially out of that first imprisonment at this time, so it could have been Paul. Paul, Luke, Apollos, and Barnabas all fit these characteristics, but Paul fits them best However, those who reject Paul's authorship point out many things are unlike Paul's other letters. Let's go to the very beginning. Tell you what, just go back one book to Philemon. I just turned the page over. How does Paul start? Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus. You see that often, don't you? Paul, an apostle of God. Paul, a bondservant. Go back to Hebrews 1. How does it start? God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers, right, you don't see that normal greeting or or a salutation, if you will, from Paul. It doesn't mean he didn't write it, but I just I I always love to see how letters are um introduced and that stands out as not typical of how Paul introduced his letter. So take that for what it's worth. I just thought that was interesting. You can see the little gray box there. Whoever the author was He wanted to reassure Jewish believers that their faith in Jesus as Messiah was secure and reasonable, and that Christ's system was vastly superior to the abolished Jewish system. You can see the theme there, the superiority of Christ. That, if you take anything away from today, that's what Hebrews is all about, is you had these Jewish believers that were reverting back to that Levitical system. And what the author is trying to say here is Christ is vastly superior. His system, if you will, vastly superior. So I want you to be thinking about that as we get to the end, the application for us today. What what what you know it's not um I'm not fearful of you going back to Jewish tradition. But what are we doing to um migrate away from that vastly superior system? So so be thinking about that, okay? the superiority of Christ. So there's a couple things that the author is going to address here, and we'll hit on those. One being the angels, but again, this idea of going back to the Levitical system is really the the cornerstone of Hebrews. Okay? Alright, let me give you the intro from MacArthur. Again, always does a good job of summarizing the context of what's happening here. It's important to understand the issues before we dive into the text. Emphasis on the Levitical priesthood and on sacrifices, as well as the absence of any reference to the Gentiles, support the conclusion that a community of Hebrews was the recipient of the epistles. Now I want you to note here, this is MacArthur, and what he says here is a community of Hebrews. He's going to have the view that predominantly this was written to Jewish believers. But that there were Jewish unbelievers also in the audience. That is his viewpoint. I'll share that in a second. But again, I want to emphasize that's his viewpoint. But you can see that here where he says the community of Hebrews versus Hebrew believers. Although these Hebrews were primarily converts to Christ, there were probably, I guess I'm just saying it, there were probably a number of unbelievers in the midst who were attracted by the message of salvation. but who had not yet made a full commitment of faith in Christ. And we'll talk about that a little bit later. One thing is clear from the contents of the epistle the community of Hebrews was facing the possibility of intensified persecution. As they confronted this possibility, the Hebrews were tempted to cast aside any identification with Christ. They may have considered demoting Christ from God's Son to a mere angel Such a precedent had already been set in the Qumran community of Messianic Jews living near the Dead Sea. So there was precedent here. They had dropped out of society, established a religious commune, and included the worship of angels in their brand of Reformed Judaism. The Qumran community had even gone so far as to claim that the angel Michael was higher in status than the coming Messiah. How does that happen? You drift from what? The truth. That's exactly right. That's exactly how that happens. You drift from the truth These kinds of doctrinal aberrations could explain the emphasis in chapter 1 on the superiority of Christ over the angels. The generation of Hebrews receiving this epistle had practiced the Levitical sacrifices at the temple in Jerusalem. Jews living in exile had substituted the synagogue for the temple, but still felt a deep attraction to the temple worship. Some had the means to make regular pilgrimages to the temple in Jerusalem The writer of this epistle emphasizes the superiority of Christianity over Judaism, and the superiority of Christ's once-for-all sacrifice Over the repeated and imperfect Levitical sacrifices observed in the temple. Continuing One of the key theological themes in Hebrews is that all believers now have direct access to God under the new covenant and therefore may approach the throne of God boldly. The book of Hebrews may briefly be summarized in this way. Believers in Jesus Christ as God's perfect sacrifice for sin have the perfect high priest. Through whose ministry everything is new and better than under the covenant of the law. Alright, so that's the main thrust of this book as we go through it It is often said, Romans, such a beautiful, beautiful book written by Paul, Romans is to the Gentiles as Hebrews is to the Jews. That's the main audience there. And again, the emphasis, Christ is better than anything else. Let's start in chapter 1, starting in verse 1. And I already noted the salutation there, right, where you don't see Paul's typical salutation. First of all, he is talking about the prophets, and right, what was written in the Old Testament. God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions and in many ways In these last days has spoken to us in his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world Alright, so they would have been very familiar with the Old Testament books, the prophets and the law. That's a summation of the Old Testament books. That's how God spoke to his people. Right? Through the prophets and signs and wonders. How does he speak today? The author is trying to emphasize we now have Christ. God speaks now through Christ. What does it say in John? John 1. In the beginning was the Word, right? And the Word was God. And the Word became flesh. That's Jesus Christ. So right off the bat, he's emphasizing, you know. To not rely on God speaking through the prophets. That's how He did it in the Old Testament. But through His progressive revelation, now today it's through His Son, Jesus Christ. Jesus fulfills what the prophets foretold. You know, the Old Testament was um was all about pointing to this time of Christ Right? The fulfillment of the Old Testament is in Jesus Christ. Alright, let's go on. Verse 3. And I this is one of my favorite verses in all the Bible. And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature. And upholds all things by the word of his power So think about the beginning of that verse. He is the exact representation of his nature. I tell people, if you want to know God, and what did we talk about? We want to cultivate a really high view of who God is. Right? A really high view of who God is. You want to know God? What does this verse say? Study Jesus Study Jesus. You want to know God? Study the life of Christ. Now I'll put a plug in. Pastor Allen will be teaching in the fall, Growing Disciples class, the life of Christ. And it walks through the four Gospels, right? The life of Christ. You want to know God, you want to increase your desire, your understanding of God, I would encourage you to go to those classes. No Christ. You want to know God, know Christ. That should be one of those underlying verses in your Bible. Alright, and now the author is going to jump into this focus on the angels. For whatever reason, they were focused on the angels. So let me read those passages, and I'm going to take you all the way through verse 14. So we have completeness. And then let's talk a little bit about angels and our understanding of angels. Let me pick up in verse 3 again. And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature. In upholds all things by the word of his power, when he had made purification of sins. He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High, having become as much better than the angels, as he has inherited a more excellent name than they For to which of the angels did he ever say? So now he's starting to confront, you know, why are you worshiping the angels, guys? Verse 5 again. For to which of the angels did he ever say, Thou art my son? Today I have begotten thee, and again I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. And when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, and let all the angels of God worship him And of the angels, he says, Who makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire? But of the sun, he says, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever And the righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated lawlessness, therefore God thy God hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy companions And thou, Lord, in the beginning, didst lay the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thy hands. They will perish, but thou remainest. And they all will become old as a garment, and as a mantle thou wilt roll them up. As a garment they will also be changed, but thou art the same, and thy years will not come to an end. But so this is all that was said about the sun. But to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand, until I make thine enemies a footstool for thy feet? Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to render service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation? Who is he talking about in that last verse? He's he's um in verse thirteen, but to which of the angels has he ever said, Are they not all those are the angels he's talking about? Right? That is the purpose of the angels Ministering spirits. But they have falsely substituted a worship of the angels, it looks like or appears like, and as we read from MacArthur's summary. to to put um the status of angels their authority above that of Christ. Again, that happens because They're they're getting non-truth, if you will, right? They're listening to heresy and they're being pulled away. They're drifting Which is why, you know, soaking ourselves in the truth of God is so so important. Alright. So just a visual, right? Nothing nothing cool here. This is just from uh the internet. So is that what angels look like? I don't know I don't know. We do get some description of angels with the wings and but um I just tried to grab a couple of pictures here. But let's go through the that one in the middle definitely Good. Good care. That was a test, Ann. All right, let's go to some of the notes here under angels and again be thinking about who are they and what are they purpose. We just talked about one of those and in verse 14. I'm grabbing these from what we teach, our statement of faith, if you will. So these come straight from those notes. Angels are a class of spiritual beings by God to worship and serve Him. We see that throughout the Bible, don't we? Right? Ministering, we see Him them ministering to Jesus. Where give me an example of that. After the temptation in Matthew 4, right? Good. And note, and I've said this before, does it say that the angels, so created beings, does it say they were created in the image of God? It does not. We are the only ones that have been designated with that. We are the only ones who are representative or image bearers of God. And again, I highlight that to signify how precious we are. Right, we talked last week. We are choice and precious if you are a believer. Choice and precious in the sight of God. But that's not how the angels are represented. They were not made in his image. They proclaim God's holiness. They execute his judgments. They carry his messages in war against evil. You see that throughout the scriptures, don't you? And they proclaim Yeah, and we'll get to that. Excellent point. The second point there. Angels are not to be worshipped or prayed to. And they exercise no mediation in human salvation. They're not in that chain at all. Right? They play no role in mediation or in salvation. There are a vast number of angels who are ordered by ranks and classifications. We see that in Scripture. Angels are intelligent persons who study the works of God and continue to learn. Are they omnipresent? No. No. Are they omnipotent? No. No. Right? They don't have those qualifications as God, as the Godhead does. Um can a little trivia, can you think of um does the Bible ever name angels? Michael Gabriel. Give me one. Michael and Gabriel. Michael and Gabriel. Good. That's it. I don't know that um Satan is I don't know that scripture actually says that he is an angel. He is a creative being. If you can find that reference, let me know, but I'm not sure the scripture actually says Satan is an angel. Or the angel. If you can find it. It does say he is um what does it say the as a deceiver, the angel of light. Yeah. Right? I think is the one reference, but regardless, he is a created being for sure, and when he uh fell, a third of the angels went with him, right? We know that too. Right, good. So we don't have outside of that a whole lot other than some of those descriptions. What are some of the other, you see the notes there, but the other heavenly beings that are described in the Bible. And that's what I tried to capture on some of these other pictures. So you've heard of the cherubim, right? Where did you see that? When Adam and Eve were pushed out of the garden and the cherubim were sent to to kind of close that entrance, if you will, access to the tree of life. I think you b you see it also in Revelation, the uh or no, it's over the tabernacle. Um they have the over the Ark of the Covenant, you have the symbolism of the cherubim. How about the seraphim? We see that in Isaiah calling out holy, holy, holy. I love that. That's another one of my favorite passages. And the living creatures also claiming holy, holy, holy in the book of Revelation. I like You know, just kind of a pause, this idea of holy, holy, holy. You guys know when you see um word repeated, it's for emphasis. This is the only time you see that characteristic or an attribute of God repeated three times Right to really highlight the emphasis. And that is really the start of the gospel message, is it not? The fact that God is holy means he has to be totally set apart from sin. Totally. And that's why we and our fallen nature, right, having a correct view of man, we are hostile to God. That's what it says in Romans. That's how we start out in our sinful nature. We are separated from God and there is a need to be reconciled. Again, angels don't play any part in that. Could. I haven't thought about that. Yeah. I I think what I have studied and seen is just um the emphasis the grammar part of it that is emphasizing that, I'll call it the chief attribute of holiness. Kind of surrounds all of his other And like I said, is really the beginning of the gospel message. That's why we need the good news. That's why we need Jesus Christ. Because He's holy, holy, holy. Right? That sets the foundation, the condition of what he expects, his holiness. All right, um, let me ask you this. Are there guardian angels? And by that I mean are we each assigned an angel? I have a question regarding that. You can't ask a question with a question. When Peter is released from prison and he comes knocking on the door and the housemaid says, you know, it's his angel Okay, so that let's hold that there because that is one of the texts that people use to say there are guardian angels. So let's let's hold that text. Chapter one verse fourteen. At the end it says the angels are sent out to render service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation. That's us. That's the saints. Absolutely I would characterize that as slightly different than hey I'm assigned, you know, angel 51369 or Angel uh Jeremiah or so we have a a text here that we have to deal with. Any other thoughts? Mark. Doesn't it say one day we will judge the angels? It does, yeah. So we are elevated at that point. Right? Good. Any other thoughts on that? A guardian angel assigned specifically to us. Uh when uh uh Basically uh of um Jesus is talking about the children and they're and he says that they're angels Report. Yeah. Thank you. That's the other text that that people will use to potentially justify that. I'll be honest with you guys, I don't know the answer. It is my opinion that there are not guardian angels. What I have heard about that one specifically, Willie, is that there may be Angels assigned not specifically to children, but a host of angels to children in general. The analogy if you think of sports is a zone defense versus a man-on-man defense I don't know if that's true or not, okay? Same with with the passage you brought up. Was it for that particular moment to minister to Paul, right? We see that manifestation I don't know. What would be the implications though if we, let's think through this, if we had a guardian angel? What might be our temptation To worship the angel. To pray to the angel. That's why I I'm of the opinion, again, this is my opinion, we don't have a whole lot of scripture to justify we have a guardian angel, and I think the danger would be we would be tempted to worship the angel versus Christ Right? Yes. Well no that that's we need a host of angels for that. That's not one angel. That's not one angel. Good. All right. All right. I just thought it'd be to be good to think about that. And again, I I don't have a danger um of you guys worshiping the angels, but that's what was happening here. They elevated something other than Christ. And that could be any idol. That could be, you know, secular wisdom. That could be riches. That could be fill in the blank Anything could could pull us away from Christ as our chief advocate, as our high priest. And that yes, sorry. That's a great point. talk about an more I heard more talk about angels protecting you than Jesus protecting. Right. And there's some um religion um I don't know if it's what I think whatever, but they say Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um, good point. I think you we saw a lot of movies come out, you know, focused on ja angels and and that happens. Yeah, so you bring up a good you you bring up a good point. Is are angels real, first of all? Absolutely. Is there spiritual warfare going on? Absolutely. Are angels involved with that? Absolutely. So good good point. I don't want to dismiss angels. They are created beings, but you have to put them in the proper context, is all I'm trying to say. Was there a comment in the back? Yeah. Um about earlier when you studied their evidence that the fallen Angels and Satan are angels. It says in Second Peter two four for God did not bury the angels when they sinned but cast them into hell and committed them to change Yeah. We're definitely in Yeah, let me clarify. Agree with that. What I was trying to say is I don't know that scripture specifically says that Satan was an angel Yeah, that's that's the difference I was trying to make. But absolutely those are angels that were were fallen for sure. Alright, so that's that's the author trying to confront this idea of angels and what they were doing as far as they were they were taking angels out of context. Right? And they were worshiping the angels over Christ. So let's go on now to what they were also doing was going back to the Levitical system. They were putting their trust in the Levitical system. Carrie's not here this morning, is he? I think he's going to be Kerry Kane is going to be teaching on Leviticus next quarter. So if you really want to dig in deep into um the Levitical system and the the worship and what was happening, I encourage you to take that class. Number one, because what that did, well let's just talk a little bit about it. God, you know, you had the Exodus, he pulls his people out of Egypt. He needed to set up a system to teach them, this is how you worship a holy God. Right? This is the system I'm going to put in place. And this was before Christ, of course. Right? So this is the system they had. And it wasn't to necessarily have a checklist of do's and don'ts. It was Goes back to what? Holy, holy, holy. This is how you are to be holy in front of me. So here's the laws that I'm going to give you, right, for your obedience and for your protection, really. But also this uh idea of the sacrificial system. And again, this is just a neat picture of what that might have looked like back in the day. And look at the size. So there was an outer court And how they faced was very specific. So the opening always faced to the east, but you can see the actual tent, which is a blow-up right here, was about half of a football field. It was really big And anytime they moved, remember they followed the cloud or the flame, anytime they moved, they had to pack all that up and move to the next location. And Leviticus describes really the end of Exodus into Leviticus talks about how this was built and all the intricacies of it. But you can see some of the elements You know, the altar of sacrifice. So that was the intent. To sacrifice, to present an atonement, a covering, if you will. Did that sacrifice ever take away sins? No. Right? It was a, I'll call it a temporary covering at the time to atone for the sins. Now what was the problem with that? He had to do it again and again and again and again. And Christ fulfilled that. Right? So he only had to do it one time. So you can see very intricate a lot of symbolism there, the showbread, the perpetual flame, and this is where they um wash themselves. No, over here, I'm sorry. This is where they cleanse themselves. And you have the altar of incense. And then you go into the Holy of Holies. And this is where the high priest, only the high priest Like Aaron could go into the Holy of Holies. And this veil was a big thick veil, and I love uh the account when Jesus died, what happened? Right, that veil was torn. And I've been told From the top. From the top, right, which is unusual. I have been told that it was and this is probably dating myself, but as old as like a New York City phone book. I mean it was thick It was thick and just torn in half. And I love the the visualization of that, right? We were separated from God. That was our condition. We were hostile and separated And the symbolism of that veil being torn away, we can now be reconciled to God through Jesus Christ. But what was um so we had the Ark of the Covenant was in the Holy of Holies where you had the The Shekinah glory. Now, God obviously omnipresent, but he chose to manifest himself during that time, right, in the Ark of the Covenant. That's why it was so special. Alright, a little trivia. What was in the ark? Raise your hand for me, please. Give me one. Aaron's robbed that button. Aaron's robbed that button. In the Ark of the Covenant. Oh, in the Ark of the Covenant. The Ten Commandments. Okay, the Ten Commandments. So we have the the rod that was budded, the Ten Commandments, and Mana. Mana. Good. All right. Has nothing to do with our study, but I thought it was fun little little trivia. Okay, good. Alright, so and then um the high priest himself had this these really uh elaborate um uniforms, if you will. um with with emeralds and all kinds of stuff. The the uh twelve tribes were written on the epitaph that that held but really the whole uniform was to support this breastplate that you see in the middle And inside of that they had two stones, and you can see here the Urim and the Thumum. And think of it as um casting lots, if you will. These stones would go in there, they would go into the Holy and Holies, and however these were configured, would give direction. And that's the system that God used at the time. Right, we don't do that today, obviously, but that was part of the system back then were these stones and the best plates. So very elaborate, again, that all had to be picked up and moved Anytime they were led by the flame or the cloud. Now, this is the system that the author is confronting here. This is what the Jews are going back to. Right? The system that they knew. The traditions that they knew. Okay? And he's trying to contrast and say, no, guys Christ is absolutely vastly superior to that old system. So let's cover some of those passages. And you can see there it's covered in chapters four and five and seven. We're not going to go through all that in great, great detail But I do want to capture some of the language that's in there. So let's start in chapter five. We're going to be going back and forth here a little bit. Alright, chapter 5, I'm going to start in verse 1. And again, we're this contrast between the high priest. So think of somebody like Aaron, a man, versus Jesus Christ. For every high priest taken from among men is appointed on behalf of men in things pertaining to God, in order to offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins. He can deal gently with the ignorant and misguided, since he himself also is beset with weakness. And because of it, he is obligated to offer sacrifices for sins as for the people, so also for himself. So even the priest had to offer sacrifices for his own sins. And no one takes the honor to himself, but receives it when he is called by God, even as Aaron was. So also Christ did not glorify himself so as to become a high priest But he who said to him, Thou art my son, today I have begotten thee. So Jesus Christ, there again, our high priest. Let's flip over to chapter 7. Alright, chapter 7, starting in verse 25. Hence also he is able to save forever those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. For it was fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. Who does not need daily, like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people, because this he did once for all when he offered up himself. For the law appoints men as high priests who are weak, but the word of the oath which come after the law appoints a son made perfect forever. So again we talked about the need for this continuous sacrifice Jesus Christ once for all. And I love the attributes, right, that you see in 26. Holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. One more, let's go over to chapter 9. Chapter 9, starting in verse 11. But when Christ appeared as a high priest, priest of the good things to come, he entered through the greater and more perfect tabernacle. So again, we just showed you the the secular human, human-made tabernacle. He this talks about Christ's entering through the perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation, and not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood He entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. Amen. Absolutely. Good Alright, so let's cover some of these notes. Again, this is from our What We Teach, and I thought really succinct, talking specifically about Jesus Christ as our high priest. So Jesus Christ was tempted in every way that we are, yet without sin. Either in his body or soul, he always did the will of the Father. So when we often talk about the work that Christ did to earn our salvation, Right? We need to include his life as well as his death. We often go right to the death, right? He hung on the cross, but it was critical That he lived a perfect, sinless life as well. That's how he became our perfect substitute, our perfect sacrifice. So that's why having uh quote um parentheses there, his life Right? He learned obedience, it says in 5. 8. Second statement there. Our Lord Jesus Christ accomplished our redemption through the shedding of his blood. And sacrificial death on the cross, which fully paid for all our sins. So that's the death part of his work, right? His life and his death. Jesus' death was voluntary. He laid it down on his own initiative. He wasn't forced to do that. It was substitutionary Provided for our benefit again that that sinless substitute, that sinless sacrifice that was required And propitiationary, satisfy. That word propitiate, right, is to satisfy wrath. And in this case, obviously, satisfy the wrath. of God. His sacrifice was complete, sufficient, to satisfy that wrath. Jesus is the all-sufficient Savior of man. There is no other Savior. Jesus ascended into heaven and was exalted to the right hand of the Father in his glorified human body. Right? It wasn't just his soul or spirit. It was his human body, his glorified human body. At the right hand of the Father, Jesus Christ now mediates as our advocate and high priest. So again, you know, the highlight here is the angels have no role in mediation. Right? No need to worship the angels. It's Jesus Christ that is our intercessor, our mediator who sits at the right hand of God. And then the last statement there, Jesus Christ is the only mediator between God and man. Here. In Christ's work. Isn't it also important to um to emphasize his resurrection as well. Because his resurrection is is that actually the proof absolutely. Yes. Yes. Yep. You know his his it's important to emphasize death, burial, and resurrection. All of that is is critical to that process. Absolutely. Good point. Thank you. Ann. I was just gonna say were you talking about the veil and how it was torn from top to bottom? In chapter ten, verses nineteen and twenty it says Since therefore, brethren, we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way which he inaugurated for us Through the veil, that is his flesh. Yes. He's torn. Literally torn from the veil. Excellent. Good. Good pickup. Alright, let's um let's cover real quickly. Go back to chapter seven, and there's this dude, Melchazadech. Who is Melchazedek? Yes. It's always been a little bit confusing to me who this who this guy is, but let's read in chapter seven For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him, to whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth part of all the spoils, was first of all, by the translation of his name, King of Righteousness, and then also King of Salem, which is King of Peace Without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God, he abides a beast a priest perpetually. So was Melchizedek a person? Was he real? Was he is this a symbol? What's going on here? He's certainly a type of Christ, right? He has referenced that in other documents. of everything he he can, so he has to be a person. Okay. Angels can appear as a people. Yeah. Angels are nobody else. He was both king and priest. Yep. The role of Christ. Yeah. Well I always thought he he had he had a birthday but they omitted because Christ, you know, is is eternal. Yeah, yeah. It's um it's a bit confusing. Let me read you the commentary from MacArthur. Um and I've heard Pastor Allen express this view too. We don't have it written down in our statement of faith. It's uh It's a secondary issue, right? It's not a gospel issue, but I I thought it was interesting because I've always been a little bit confused by it. Obviously he was a um highly regarded high priest such that when Abraham came through He needed to stop and and give this person um a tenth of of the offerings, if you will. But what the author is trying to relay here is comparing um Jesus Christ as as you know high priest similarly to Melchazadech right who was a type of Christ it says but here's what it reads The Levitical priesthood was hereditary, but Melchizedex was not. His parentage and origin are unknown because they were irrelevant to his priesthood Contrary to some interpretations, Melchizedek did have a father and a mother. The ancient blah blah blah gives a more accurate translation of what was intended by the Greek phrase, whose father and mother are not written in genealogies. So because Melchizedek was not from the Levitical line, his genealogy was not recorded. It was irrelevant. You have no history of it. Guess what? What line did Christ come from? Judah. Judah. It wasn't the the Levi's, right? Yes, his geolog genealogy is recorded, but that's what he's trying to say here is Melchizedek did not come from that line of of Levi And so that genealogy would not have been recorded. We don't have a history of it. Christ didn't come from that line either. It wasn't because he came from the line that he is now our high priest. Right? That that's what's trying to be emphasized here. So I thought that might be helpful because that can be a uh I've always been a bit confused by Melchazedek and who that is. Okay Alright, let's take a look. Let's go back to chapter four And in the context of Jesus as our high priest, let's start in chapter or verse 14, chapter 4, verse 14. Since then, we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize, who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore draw near with confidence to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and may find grace to help in time of need. Flip over real quick to 1 Corinthians, and you guys probably covered this I think it was Kerry that preached on Corinthians. First Corinthians, a familiar verse, 1 Corinthians 10. 1013. No temptation has overtaken you but such as is common to man, and God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. But what the temptation will provide the way of escape also that you may be able to endure it. So we have a high priest who can sympathize with our every temptation. Every tempt there is nothing that is unknown to him that he did not experience in some way, shape, or form. Alright? And we also have here that God will give us a way, provide a way of escape from that temptation. Right? That should be give us just great hope and encouragement. So my question you can see there, and let's talk about that a little bit How does the advocacy of Jesus on your behalf before the Father influence your everyday life? He understands us. Do we cling to that? Right? It's easy to say that standing up here, but when the trial hits and the waves hit, do we cling to that? Lord, I this is hard, but I know you understand me. Right? Let that be a hope and encouragement. So good, he understands us. What else? It comforts us. Comfort? Okay. In what way, Raymond? Uh well that's that one part of Buster did. I I trust the God for everything. He made it. He put everything in place just as I did it. He knew that, yeah. I was gonna go through that. I didn't know it, yeah. Yeah. Yeah And Raymond, uh if I can share, his car was not busted into once, but several times. Um okay. But just to go through that ordeal again, you know, repeat it again, um, and yet to to rely on the comfort of our high priests. Good. What else? Our strength. Right. Good. What I'm trying to get at here, guys, is is I would encourage you to spend some time meditating on what does it mean that Jesus Christ is our high priest and how does that affect your daily life? It should have a tremendous effect. on how we how we operate throughout the day, right? How we treat others, how we run to prayer as our first response to trial and temptation. All right. Also because the advocates on our behalf, we have renewed merces every day. And that's so crucial. Yeah. New mercies every day. Good. Uh Romans eight. Talks about Jesus as our intercessor, but also the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit groans with words we can't even begin to understand Right? Yes, we need to be in the Word, but we have advocates that know the Word much better than we do. Right? And they're advocating on our behalf. That should be such a source of comfort. Was there another comment, Mark? If we look at life our life. Jesus was tempted by every temptation possible. And he always lived his life for his father. Yep. So as we go through life, everybody doesn't belong to us, our life belongs to him. Amen. And we should focus on his way. Yeah. Because that's what he did as well. Yep. What was um what was Jesus' view all the time? Right, whatever the father wanted, whatever his will. This is this heavenly view, right? Looking up. And that's the same encouragement we need. So often we get caught up in, we get pulled into this We get pulled into our surroundings or circumstances and we gotta look up. Was there a comment here? So I think we could feel them load. But we're not alone. Amen. That's a great, great point. Yep. That's a great, great point, because many of us can feel that way, right, in the trials of life. Good. Was there another yes? We are weak. We are weak. Yeah. Amen. Amen. Right. We can fall into the trap of Lord, the temptation was just too great. I'm weak, but what did we just read? You will always provide a way if we believe that, if we hold fast to that. Yeah. I think like when you feel in like you fall short and you you sin and something you get like discouraged and it's like I can't do this. Yeah. But it's good to me it's comfort knowing that Jesus understands that and he before God because sometimes when you fall it's hard to get up because you get destroyed. Yes. It's very complex knowing that Jesus is before God and I always picture him say to God, this one is mine, this one belongs to my God. You know, I like to say that to myself. Yeah. So you bring up a great point. You know, as as you go we sin, um, and it can cause us to stop and get discouraged. And what do we often do to ourselves? Counter to Romans 8. 1. We condemn ourselves. We condemn ourselves, and that starts this spiral of activity Now, I'm not saying we can't cry out to God. You see that in the Psalms all the time. You see David do that all the time. And yet, usually those Psalms end with, But God, you are holy. You are my strength. So guys, it's okay. We're emotional beings. It's okay to cry out to God, but our our reaction, our response has to be back to who is God. And that's why I always emphasize cultivate that really high view of who God is. The reverence and the power of God. That's it. Because I I'm secure in knowing he can't be capable of doing everything you promised Yeah. All right, let me keep going. We can come back to this if we have some time, but I want to make sure we we cover everything. Um with all of that in context, I I love this This view in chapter 4, and let's let's cover that. Um the title in my Bible is The Believer's Rest. And I think that's so precious. And my question, are you enjoying the believers rest today. So remember, outside of God, separated from God in our natural sinful nature, we're hostile. We're separated. We don't have peace. You may not understand it at the time. Why? Because your heart is hard. Your heart has been hardened. But you do not have peace with a holy, holy, holy God. That's a fact Alright, verse 1, chapter 4. Therefore, let us fear lest while a promise remains of entering his rest, any one of you should seem to have come short of it. For indeed we have had good news preached to us, just as they also. But the word they heard did not profit them, because it was not united by faith in those who heard. For we who have believed enter that rest, just as he has said, as I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest Although his works were finished from the foundation of the world, for he has thus said somewhere concerning the seventh day, and God rested on the seventh day from all his works. And again in this passage they shall not enter my rest. Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly had good news preached to them failed to enter because of disobedience And again, fixes a certain day, today, saying through David, after so long a time, just as it has been before, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken of another day after that. There remains therefore a Sabbath rest for the people of God. For the one who has entered his rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from his. Let us therefore be diligent to enter that rest, let any one fall through following the same example of disobedience. For the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. I love this this visual, if you will, of entering God's rest. As a believer, that's what we've entered into. And what the author is trying to get at here is for you to go back to those traditions, to go back to the Levitical system. There's no rest in that. There's no peace in that. Right? That's the gospel message that we want to give out. People are longing for that peace, that restlessness, that that anger, that guilt that they're carrying around is a heavy, heavy burden And that's why they need the gospel message. Any thoughts on that? I just I love the visual there of entering the believer's rest. And that's the precious gift we have as children, to enter that rest. Alright, let's flip over. Alright, quick note on the peril of falling away And go to six, and this is where we introduce this idea of maybe there's a different audience being talked about here. Let's go to verse six and let me start in verse four. What chapter? Sorry, chapter six, verse four. For in the case of those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come and then have fallen away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance, since they again crucified to themselves the Son of God and put him to open shame For ground that drinks the rain, which often falls upon it, and brings forth vegetation useful to those for whose sake it is also tilled, receives a blessing from God. But if it yields thorns and thistles, it is worthless and close to being cursed and it ends up being burned. Um often I liken you go back to the parable of the sower, right, with the different kinds of seeds, you see some of that analogy here. But y you get the sense, as I just read this, of you could read this and if we say we're talking to um the Jewish believers here, is it possible they can once believe and then fall away? Right? You can take that from this passage. And that's why MacArthur believes that there is this message is being directed to um Jews but to unbelievers. Alright, now I'll read that commentary for you. I do want you to notice just in verse 3 And this we shall do. There's a lot of we and us. Notice what happens in verse 4, though. In case of those, chapter 6, them, they themselves. The pronoun changes. Right? So it's possible that there's a different audience being talked about here. You can see in the gray box just kind of a summary of what I'm about to read you. A proper interpretation of this epistle requires the recognition that it addresses three distinct groups of Jews. Again, this is MacArthur's view Believers, unbelievers who were intentionally convinced of the gospel, and unbelievers who were attracted by the gospel in the person of Christ but who had reached no final conviction about him. Failure to acknowledge these groups leads to interpretations inconsistent with the rest of Scripture So the primary group that we've talked about addressed were Hebrew Christians who suffered rejection and persecution by fellow Jews, although none have yet had been martyred The letter was written to give them encouragement and confidence in Christ, their Messiah and High Priest, like we've talked about, right? That's the main foundation of or purpose of Hebrews. They were an immature group of believers who were tempted to hold on to the symbolic and spiritual powerless rituals and traditions of Judaism. The second group addressed were Jewish unbelievers who were convinced of the basic truths of the gospel, but who had not placed their faith in Jesus Christ. as their own Savior and Lord. They were intellectually persuaded, but spiritually uncommitted. These unbelievers are addressed in such passages as 6, 4 through 6 that I just read. And then the third group addressed were Jewish unbelievers who were not convinced of the gospel's truth, but had experienced some exposure to it. Chapter nine is largely devoted to them. So I offer that just as a Something to think about, oops, as you are reading through, and that's why it's so important to gain contact Understand the audience of a book. And sometimes it could be very difficult to interpret Hebrews if you feel like he's speaking to Jewish believers here. What we do know What we do know from the rest of Scripture is once saved, you are secure in that salvation. You cannot lose it. Yes? Isn't there like a different translation in that for the part of chapter four that says who have shared in the Holy Spirit, because that's the part that seems to be where are you at? Six four. Six four. In my translation has who have shared in the Holy Spirit. Well yeah, mine says once been enlightened, so so what does that mean? Right? Um And I I didn't read all of the commentary there, but you we we'd have to dig into that, right? That is a passage um that we would have to dig in a bit more to mean what does that mean to be enlightened? Is it simply you were given knowledge or that you were indwelt with the Holy Spirit. What we can say is if you were indwelt with the Holy Spirit, you cannot lose that You are sealed. So it can't mean that they were indwelt and then they lost it. That we know for sure. That I can say with confidence. Right? So, but that is confusing for sure. Yes. So I think verse eight clarifies it it talks about land that bears thorns and thistles is worthless and will be cursed. So I mean if you go back to the parable of the sower, you know it Yes. Whoever that is being talked about is not good sweat Yeah, that's a great point. And I notice that too in verse eight. Very very much a contrast, very similar to the parable of the sower, that they truly did not have the faith to begin with. Right? Again, we know that from the rest of Scripture. So all I would say, guys, secondary issue, not critical. You can study it further if you wish, but I think sometimes It can help when you have confusing verses like that. Boy, has the audience changed. It would have been really nice if he just said it outright. Here's who I'm talking to. They would have understood it back then Uh uh Paul talked about there's gonna be a time when they will not endure uh sound doctrine. Yeah. And basically, you know, that's somebody among the church kind of you you would think are with the church, but they have rejected sound doctrine. And we know the great point, Willie, in the last days that's going to happen, right? It's going to happen, which is all the more reason we have to be so grounded, all of us, right here, right, to understand the truth. All right, let's keep going. We're going to cover the last three chapters fairly quickly, but very typical to Pauline style, the first ten chapters was really heavy on doctrine. And then the last three chapters are really more of an application. And I like the summary here of faith, hope, and love. So let's let's cover that. We'll skim that pretty quickly. So chapter eleven, right? Great, great chapter, Hebrews eleven is is what? The hall of faith, if you will. But let's start in verse one. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. One of the commentaries I think did a good job of the several actually in some of the study Bibles This is not necessarily a definition of faith. It's a description of what faith does. It provides assurance. Right, of things present and future. That's the faith that is being described here of all of these people that are listed in the hall of faith, if you will, in chapter 11. We know it's the testing of our faith that proves our genuine faith. We saw that when we covered 1 Peter. And what did we see in James? works are the manifestation of that true faith. So I'm not going to go through all these people other than to mention last week we talked about Abraham In Rahab, right? Abraham specifically, where he believed and it was credited to him as righteousness before the event with Isaac. But the the manifestation or the realization of that faith was what? Through his works, willing to sacrifice his heir, right? His only heir at the time, Isaac. So again, genuine faith, right? Testing proves that faith. That's why we rejoice when we're tested. It's proving out, it's giving us endurance. to persevere. And it's our works. That's our testimony. Right? Go back to verse 8 that we just read. You'll know them by their fruits. Right? Alright, so faith. The application of faith is through our obedience, just like as Jesus we mentioned, right, did the will of the Father. What does it say? That was his food. Right? What is your food? Because they're like, hey, where'd you get the food to eat? My food is to do the will of the Father who sent me. Always. That was always his focus. Alright, let's go over to chapter 12. We talked earlier about where do we need to fix our eyes, starting in verse 1. This is the hope that we have. Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses, talking about chapter 11. Surrounding us, let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfector of faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross What do you what comes to your mind when you think of this idea of the author and perfecter of our faith? If our faith obviously comes from Jesus Christ, how can it be perfected? What is that process of perfecting our faith? Our sanctification. Right? We talk about that often. While here on this earth it's obedience, it's continuing on, it's persevering, it's setting aside, right, putting off our sinful nature That we were slave to at one point in putting on the righteousness of God. But our hope comes from the fact that we have a high priest that now sits there advocating for us. And he is the author and perfecter of our faith. He is perfecting our faith. What else, though? Let's go down to verse 4. You have not resisted to the point of shedding blood in your striving against sin. Right? We talked about that. Jesus, in his temptation, took the full brunt of it. We often give in before we get there. Right? He's saying you've not received the full brunt of that. Our high priest has. And you have forgotten the exhortation which is addressed to you as sons. My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when you are reproved by him. For those whom the Lord loves, he disciplines And he scourges every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you endure. God deals with you as with sons, for what son is there whom his father does not discipline? We don't like to be disciplined, though, do we? Right? But this demonstrates God's incredible love for you, his children, when he disciplines you. And praise God that he does. He will not allow you to continue on in that sin. Discipline is a gift, a gift from God. He disciplines those that he loves. Again, let that be your focus, let that be your hope, let that be your encouragement, even times of being disciplined Because God loves us. So we have faith, hope, and the last one of course is love. Chapter 13. And again, this is this is really getting after more of the application. This is how we are to live. Let love of the brethren continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality. And here's uh interesting on our first discussion Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for by this some have entertained angels without knowing it I don't know if you've ever had strangers to your house, but do you ever wonder? Right? Is this an angel? Is this an angel? So again, not to be worshiped, not to be not our advocate, but they are working amongst us for God's glory. for our help and you just never know. So be hospitable. But this idea, right? Let love of the brethren continue. Let that be your focus. It talks about other aspects. Marriage, number four, verse four. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled For fornicators and adulterers God will judge. You remember the three institutions I talked about, one of those the family. The family starts not with children. The family starts when a man and a woman get married Right? And he's saying, hold that in high, high honor. Let the marriage bed not be defiled. Verse 5, we've talked about contentment. Let your character be free from the love of money, being content. Again, we often talk about when we see contentment, it's usually in the context of material or finances. Be content with what you have. For he himself has said, I will never desert you, nor will I ever forsake you. So that we confidently say, The Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What shall man do to me? And do you remember Paul had the secret of contentment? Having a lot and having little. What was the secret? I can do all things through Christ. Again, what's the focus? Jesus Christ. I can do all things through Christ. Alright, God-pleasing sacrifices. Down to verse 15. Through him, then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God. That is the fruit of lips that gives thanks to his name. And do not neglect doing good and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is pleased. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they keep watch over your souls, as those who will give an account Let them do this with joy and not with grief, for this would be unprofitable for you. Here they're talking about church leadership, so elders myself, and here's what I can tell you, and I can say this confidently from all the elders, it is an absolute joy. You give us joy. You know why? Because you're so desiring to please the Lord. You, I can characterize you this way, you are meat eaters. Right? You you've gotten off the milk and you are meat eaters. And that is an incredible joy to be a part of a church that are meat eaters. And I don't mean any uh Anything against vegans, any of that. You understand the context I'm talking about here, right? You are meat eaters. And let's close with the benediction starting in verse 20. Now the God of peace, again that believers rest, that believers peace, who brought up from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep through the blood of the eternal covenant, even Jesus our Lord, equip you. in every good thing to do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen. If we fulfilled that little statement right there Right, our eyes would be clearly set on Christ, our advocate, our high priest. Alright, any comments, questions? We've got about a minute left. I was about to say he would be beneficial candidates and services Like every Sunday gets awesome. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why we do that, Raymond. Good good point. Good. All right, we're about to go um into our worship service. And and I want you to be thinking about as we sing, as you hear the exposition of God's Word. Think about that in the context of Jesus Christ, our high priest. Alright? Put him in his rightful place.