For those who do not know me, my name is Scott Keen. I've been at Hope for about two and a half years um have ten children, uh nine of which should be here today. Um Gabe, who's on sabbatical, but uh from also Pastor Mike. He's real excited and he's learning a lot and um yeah. Give him a few more years and then he'll be ready. So um As a review, we are on uh week five today. Uh Pastor Christopher has gone through the Gospels in Acts and last week touched on Romans. And as he said The course is set up to kind of be presented as the books were written chronologically. Uh Romans is the exception, because he won and really keep and I don't blame him. That's a great, great epistle. But so we're gonna take a step back and talk about Galatians and the first second Thessalonians. Galatians was part of Paul's first missionary journey and the Thessalonic or Thessalonica was in his second missionary journey. So as a timeline here, you can see on the right hand side, I'm gonna Disagree with some of these dates on the right-hand side. And actually most of the commentaries you will read probably have these dates a little bit sooner. I missed when Pastor Christopher was teaching Acts, so I assume he covered this, but I don't know. But the in Acts 15, the council at Jerusalem, where He goes before the church at Jerusalem and says, hey, what are the requirements for new Gentile believers? And they give out four points Most people put that at AD 49. And that was after Paul's first missionary journey. So Galatians most likely was written before AD forty nine and then the uh the first and second Thessalonians after. So we'll get into some of the dates here, but That's where we are. We're part of the early church. One of the references that Christopher is using is Wilmington's massive book. I forgot what it's called, but um in in there these three books He has in the section of the early church and not as the section on epistles. So that's just gives you an idea that these were the first letters written by Paul. And uh as again as review, um we're looking at the interpretation um The upward look of the New Testament as our relationship to God. So Paul's first missionary journey. Let's get into the background for Galatians. He starts off in I'm not as text out. So I'm just going to use my finger rather than the highlighted cursor. But he starts off in in Antioch, works his way through Cyprus, comes up to Pergot. And then he hits the other Antioch. So Antioch, and then he goes to Itonium, Lystra, Derby. And then Paul circles back around to Elizabeth, Myconium, Antioch, and then kind of heads his way back to the Antioch in Syria. So, if you look at the very first verse of Galatians, it says, to the churches of Galatia. This is the only epistle that's written to multiple churches. So you will see Antioch, Iconium, Lystra, Derby. Those are all part of the province of Galatia. So as Paul writes this epistle, he's writing to these multiple churches. So let's open our Bibles. We're going to spend a lot of time in the Bible today to Acts. Acts 13. And we'll read. What Paul encountered in each of these cities and I should say Paul on this missionary journey is um Accompanied by Barnabas, they were sent out by the church in Antioch as the first missionaries to the Gentiles. And in Acts thirteen, um Paul arrives at Antioch, he gives this wonderful sermon, which you can read for most of That chapter. But then in verse 44, the next Sabbath, almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord. But when the Jews saw the crowd, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict what was spoken by Paul, reviling him. And then we go down to verses verse 49. And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region, but the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city. stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of the district. But they shook off their f shook off the dust from their feet against them and went to Iconia So Paul, Barnabas, they come to Antioch, they preach to the Gentiles. The Jews don't like that. It's like, hey, all the attention is go are going to these guys, not to us. They stir up trouble, and they um persecute Paul and Barnabas. So they go to Iconium. So in verse 14 Or chapter 14, verses 2 through 5. But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers. So they remained for a long time, speaking boldly for the Lord, who bore witness to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands. But the people of the city were divided, some sided with the Jews, some and some of the apostles. When an attempt was made by both Gentiles and Jews with their rulers to mistreat and to stone them, they learned of it, and fled to Lysra and Derby. cities of Lyconia and to the surrounding country, and there they continued to preach the gospel. Once again, the Jews are coming. And they don't like what's going on, they're stirring up trouble. Then they go to Lystra. Alright, verse 19. Um after Paul and Barnabas had been at Lystra, we see in verse nineteen But Jews came from Antioch and Iconium, having persuaded the crowds, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing he was dead. But when the disciples gathered about him and he rose up and entered the city, and on the next day he went on with Barnabas to Derby. So now we see the Jews are following Paul. They came from Antioch. They came from Iconium. They show up at Lystra. They are, you can say, trolling him. Making sure the trying to do their best to make sure the gospel is not spread throughout the region. And then In verse 21 through 23, when they had preached the gospel to that city, meaning Derby. And had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch, strengthening the souls of the disciples. Encouraging them to continue in the faith. And saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God And when they had appointed elders for them in every church with prayer and fasting, they committed to the Lord in whom they had believed. And so now we see the fruition of Paul's labor and Barnabas' labor. They were able to settle in. Um maybe they were doing more underground churches or I don't know, but they were able to avoid the Jews. And maybe God's hand prevented the Jews from following them. But they were able to minister to Derby, go back through Lystra, Iconium, Antioch. Set up the church, appoint elders and leaders of the church so that the church can grow. So we see the pattern here Paul and Barnabas show up a city, Jews come in, stir a persecution, and they and they move on. So Paul then arrives back in Antioch, and it's most likely about this time that Paul writes the letter to the churches of Galatia. Paul's missionary journey we think took about two years, uh AD forty six to AD forty-seven, and then this the letter was probably written about A. D. 48, prior to the cancel in Jerusalem. Now, what is the purpose of the letter? So let's go to Galatians chapter 1. And Paul gives us, near the beginning of the letter, why he's writing this epistle. In chapter 1, verse 6. I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. So here he has been it's been reported to him that the churches of Galatia are not following the gospel that he and Barnabas preached But there's been some infiltration trying to distort the truth and have the believers follow a different gospel. Jews, most likely, because they're the ones coming in stirring up trouble. And we can see some of the the pressure that the Jews are putting on the believers in in the letter. If we turn over to uh chapter five I'm going to start in verse 6. For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything. but only faith working through love. You were running well. Who hindered you hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion is not from him who calls you A little leaven leavens the whole lump. I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other you, and the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty whoever he is. But if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why am I being persecuted? In that case the offence of the cross has been removed. I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves. So, Paul's saying someone in the church is causing trouble. Someone is taking you down a different route. Don't follow them. And you see this mention of circumcision and uns and uncircumcised. That is one of the main cruxes for the Jews and their interaction with the Gentiles They want Gentiles to be circumcised because you're not a follower of God if you're uncircumcised. And this was before the council at Jerusalem, where the apostles agreed, you do not need to be circumcised. So we see the theme of circumcision throughout the book. If we go to chapter 2, verse 3, you'll see, but even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was Greek. If you go back to chapter 5, verses 2 and 3, it says, Look, I Paul say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again that every man who accepts circumcision, that he is obligated to keep the whole law. And then turn over a couple pages to chapter 6, verses 12 and 13. It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh who would force you to be circumcised. and only in order that they may not be cur persecuted for the cross of Christ. For even those who are circumcised do not themselves keep the law, but they desire to have you circumcised, that they may boast in your flesh. So the Jews are pressuring the Gentile believers You need to be circumcised. You need to be circumcised. And is this a requirement to become a believer of Christ? And it's not. But Paul is warning them: hey, they want to boast that they've got some power over you and forcing you to be circumcised. And Paul's saying, no, don't do it. And then the last clue that we have about the Jews and their influence in the church comes from chapter 4. And verse 10. And it says, You observe days and months and seasons and years. When God gave the law to Moses and the Israelites at Mount Sinai and implemented feasts and festivals and Sabbaths and sacrifices. There were observances of days, seasons, years. And Paul says That was given to the Jews. That's not given to the Gentiles. We are outside of the law. So I give all of that to you to say, okay, this is why Paul's writing a letter. There's Jewish influence into the church, and Paul's saying, guys, guys, look at the gospel, look at what I preached. And we'll talk about Paul's explanation of that. I should have had that up. Um as we were going through acts, but um Paul's missionary journey talked about the cities he hit, Jews coming through, and then on the return trip, Paul and Barnabas were able to appoint elders, and as we just talked about, the Jews created Confusion into um in the church after Paul left. So what is the theme of Galatians? It's freedom. This is this is the only great slide slide you're gonna get from me today, but um For those of the younger generation who may not know what this is, this is Braveheart, William Wallace and the Scots fighting for their freedom. The beauty of Galatians is we have freedom in Christ. But we don't have to fight for it. It was given to us. So As we talk about Galatians, you can see there are three different sections of the book. Most of Paul's epistles you can see that he had the first part The first half of the book is about the doctrinal state. And then the second half of the book is about application. Paul somewhat follows that Pattern, but he inserts a personal level to the book at the beginning. Theories could be, well my theories would be: this is his first epistle. So he you can see in this first epistle he doesn't quite follow the pattern that he has for his other epistles. There is no There is no commendation or praise or thanksgiving at the beginning of the book. You'll see, and we'll see this in Thessalonians. When Paul starts a letter, he says, Paul, Apostle Christ Jesus, grace and peace to you. I thank God for you for this. And I pray for you, I'm always praying for you for this. Paul doesn't do that here. Let's just turn to the beginning of the book. He does say Paul an apostle. He does say grace and peace to you. But then he doesn't say, I thank God for you, I am always praying for you. He says, I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting Him who called you in grace. So he gets right after it. No no uh no pleasantries to them. And he also doesn't necessarily mention at the end of the book the believers who were with him. So there are certain elements in this epistle that aren't in this epistle that are in most of his other epistles. But He starts off defending his position as an apostle. So part of what the Jews are trying to convince the church of is Paul has no standing um in developing the church. He has no authority. He's not considered an apostle. Why would you listen to this guy? And Paul starts off the book saying, no, no. That's I am an apostle. And And this is my defense and why I am considered an apossible apostle of our Lord Jesus Christ. Chapter 1, verse 1 starts off right off the bat. Paul, an apostle, not from men, nor through man. But through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead, and all the brothers who are with me. So here he starts off. I am an apostle. I am called by God, not by men. And who has greater authority, God or man? God. And then he goes on in verse 11 after chastising them. He says For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel was preached by that the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel, for I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it. But I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. And uh in verses sixteen and seventeen Actually, let's start with verse 15. But when he who had set me apart before I was born and who called me by his grace, was pleased to reveal his son. to me in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles. I did not immediately consult with anyone, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia and returned again to Damascus. So Paul becomes a convert, becomes a believer, and then he received his instruction, he received his training. Not from the other apostles But he went to Arabia for three years and there received direct revelation from Jesus Christ and received his training. Three years disciples were with Jesus for approximately three years in his earthly ministry. Paul received the same um time frame of his instruction. And uh And I would imagine his instruction was a little bit more intense because it's just him and God. Um he didn't have to worry about following Jesus uh and all the time he spent healing people and and um and being quizzed by all the Pharisees that Paul was Receiving direct revelation from God. And then it says, then he returned to Damascus. And he comes to verses chapter two, verse eight and nine. And it says, For he who worked through Peter for his apostolic ministry to the circumcised worked also through me for mine to the Gentiles And when James and Cephas and John, who seemed to be pillars, received the grace that was given to me, they gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go to the Gentiles, and they to the circumcised. So Paul receives his revelation, he comes back to Jerusalem, talks to the apostles, those that actually followed Jesus. And after meeting with them, they said, Paul, you're one of us We'll handle the Jews, we'll minister to the Jews, but there's this whole big demographic called the Gentiles That make up 98% of the population of the world, you go that to them. You and Barnabas, you go out and preach the gospel to them. And so here Paul is saying I didn't receive my gospel from men, but from Jesus. And after that, even the pillars of the church said, I'm fit as an apostle. And then we come to the crux of the epistle. A beautiful verse in verse 20. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And now I live. In the flesh, and the life I live now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. And here he pivots from establishing himself as the apostle to what he's going to tell others. of not I that it's not that I that live, but it's Christ who lives in me by faith. And that's what he wants the churches in Glacia to do the believers in the churches in Glacia do to live not of themselves but have Christ live through them. And so after defending himself as apostle, he then starts through the doctrinal position of the of the book. And he's basically posing the question, are you justified? By faith, by the hearing of the gospel of Jesus Christ, or are you justified by works of the law And because guess what? The Jews, the Pharisees, they believe they can attain salvation by works of the law, by keeping the law. And Paul will say, well, sorry guys, but that's not correct. As you read through Galatians, you will find a lot of similarities to the book of Romans. It's just shorter. Paul has a different purpose. He's telling people this is what justification is by faith. And it's um one of the commentaries I read said um Galatians is the Magna Carta of the Epistles where he lays out the basic doctrine of justification by faith. And then if you read Romans, then he kind of goes through that argument in a little bit more detail and um in Romans is written for a different purpose to really lay down the foundation of of justification doctrine. But here he sums it up quickly. And in your notes you'll see I I took uh what Pastor Christopher um I left left his definition of justification from ends in there. It comes From a Greek concept meaning to declare righteous, is a legal act wherein God pronounces that the believing sinner has been credited with all the virtues of Jesus Christ. Yes, it is a legal decree, and we are all deemed guilty, but God Forgiving our debt, placing it upon Jesus, taking Christ's righteousness, placing that on us, we have been justified. So, how do we receive the Spirit? Is it by works of the law? No, it's by hearing of the faith. And we see that in verse, chapter 3, verse 2. Where Paul asked that question, let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by the hearing of the faith? He asked several questions in this paragraph, and that's the key one. And in in verses seven through nine, he says, Know then that it is those of faith who are sons of Abraham. And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham. saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then, those who are of faith are blessed, along with Abraham, the man of faith. So we see this argument in Romans and Pastor Christopher touched on it, but when was Abraham credited as receiving just receiving righteousness. It was before Moses, before the law was given. And how this is worded is just beautiful, where it says God preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham. We often think of the gospel coming out after Jesus Christ's life and death here on earth. But here Paul saying Abraham, he was preached the gospel. He believed, and it is credited to him as righteousness. So Gentiles We have this opportunity. We don't have to live by the law because righteousness was given to Abraham before the law was given We see this Abraham as an example for the Gentiles that they can receive justification without going through the law. And uh just continuing on that fact, if you flip to uh verse eleven. Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law. The righteous shall live by faith. But the law is not of faith. Rather, the one who does them shall live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written, curse is everyone who is hanged on a tree So that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. So Paul says, hey, if you're going to live by the law, you're going to be judged by the law. And guess what? You no one can keep the law perfectly. No one can keep the law all the parts and minutiae of the law because if you fail at one, you fail at it all. First to fulfill all the laws. Only Christ and he came not to abolish the law but to fulfill the law. Yes. When was Abraham justified? Yes. when he in faith took um Isaac to be sacrificed believing that he could raise him and would raise him from the dead. He said, Oh no. He was actually justified If I remember correctly when he was given the promises of the land, the nation In chapter fifteen it was Yeah. So that's that's when and be and be and because he believed it, that's when he was justified. So it goes back to it. Yes, it is the faith. And and so yeah, Abraham was received the promise in Genesis twelve. Yeah And then it was reinforced in Genesis fifteen and that's where it says that ye believed. So maybe even at the beginning he did not have that faith, but we do see in by Genesis fifteen he had faith in it. talking about James, I think that's how we related it is that faith without work is dead. So the work was sacrificing Isaac. Yes. So what is the purpose of the law? If God gave the law to the Israelites, what is the purpose of the law? And we see in verses Twenty one to twenty six. You know, I I certainly thought about just we should just listen to the entire book and The book can explain itself and you don't have to listen to me, but um because we're seems like we're reading about half the book here, but um Chapter four, verses twenty-one and twenty-six, tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you know do you not listen to the law? For is written That Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman, one by a free woman. The son of the slave was born according to the flesh. The son of the free woman was born through a promise. Now this is interpreted allegorically. These women's are two covenants. Excuse me, I don't know if I got the right verses written down here. The but I'll I'll just continue though. Um one is from Mount Sinai bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar. Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem for she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem above is free and she is our mother. Here um Paul talks about Abraham having two w sons, one by a slave woman and one by a free woman. Oh, excuse me. I was supposed to be in chapter three. My bad. Let's go to chapter three. Okay. This is what I wanted. Is then is the law not then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not. For if a law had been given that could give life, the righteousness would indeed be by the law. But the Scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. But now faith, now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian For in Jesus Christ you are all sons of God through faith. So here he Paul uses the term guardian. The law was our guardian. It was a guide as to what right, what's wrong, how we should live our lives, but we can never achieve all The requirements of the law, and we are trapped, imprisoned, a slave. Until Christ came. And then when Christ came, we are now set free from the law. We have faith in his death and resurrection. and no longer need to be considered uh prisoners to the law And then he wraps up in verse chapter four. Now we'll go to chapter four, verses eight and nine. Formerly when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not gods. But now you have come to know God, and rather to be known by God, you can now turn back again to the weak and worthless How can you turn back to the weak and worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to become once more? So Paul's saying, hey, you have freedom in Christ. You can you're not enslaved by the law. Why would you want to go back to the law? Why would you want to subject yourselves under the rules and the precepts of the law? It's just gonna bind you and keep you captive. We don't have to do that. And and that is true for us. The uh we tend to be legalistic at times and we tend to make up rules for ourselves and and uh bind ourselves and Paul's warning the churches, the believers, and Glacia here, and it's a warning to us. Hey, we are free. Don't subject yourself. What don't go back to the old way of life. You are free. And And then as he goes from the doctrinal to the practical, he starts off with chapter 5, verse 1. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoga slavery. Just a challenge for us. Just don't go back. Now We have freedom. We cannot abuse the freedom. There we are to walk by the Spirit and not by the flesh. And that's where Paul shifts from the doctrinal to the practical. He says, here's the law. We're not justified by the law. We're justified by faith in Christ. Because of that we are free. Now, walk by the Spirit, not by the flesh, because if you walk by the flesh, You're abusing the freedom you you're given and you're not following what God has in your life. So um Many of you know these two sections in verses 19 through 23, as Paul says, these are the works of the flesh. And these are the fruits of the Spirit. But as a great reminder, let's uh read them. Now the works of the flesh in verse 19, chapter 5, the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions Envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. Live by the Spirit, walk by the Spirit, not by the flesh. The flesh will take you down paths that is not glorifying to God. But if you walk by the Spirit, as Karen said, the fruit of our work will be evident. And those evidences are love, joy, peace, and so forth. And then as he wraps up the book, Paul goes from Application to your own life to how you relate to others in the church. And we have the one another's with restoration in chapter 6, verse 1. If anyone is caught in a transgression, you are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself lest you be tempted. Another one another is bearing each other's burden. Next verse, bear one another's burden, and so fulfill the law of Christ. And then Going down to verse 7, do not be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that he will also reap. Walk by the Spirit. Live in peace with the other brothers. Restore them gently if you see anyone convinced, then restore him gently. Bear one another's burdens, and you reap what you sow. Any questions on Galatians before I go into the Thessalonians? Just to comment that even when you try to walk by the law it doesn't work. You're a slave, yeah. You know, you try to pull yourself up by your own bootstraps, I'll do better here, I'll do better there. You reali and then when you actually get how you can look by the spirit and how God takes a temptation away that you don't even have to wrestle with because the spirit is active and living and the Holy Spirit is just so great that it really does work. Yes. It's amazing to me. Um yeah. It and it takes time. Uh w one thought I had as preparing this is the church is about twenty years old here. Let less than twenty years old. And I've been a Christian twice as long as that. And I'm still working through a lot of stuff. So even in Paul's um admonishment against the church and and rebuke against the church Yeah, they're young. It's it's a young group. You know, the he wrote this letter two years after fo after the churches were founded and Yeah, it takes time. It growing and the process of sanctification is a lifelong process. What would the later understood the injunction for walk by the spirit to the As you mentioned, at a very practical level, I mean this is bringing it to the level of data data level. Um if I'm not mistaken at that time, um they probably did not individually have copies of the New Testament to be able to refer to So uh they're probably the ones that were maybe Jews probably heard the Torah and the prophets were at all Yes. So exactly how that they have understood the injunction to walk by the spirit to mean. And I say that because today there are people that understand it to mean um Um being guided by some inward intuition of something of that kind And there there are those who would understand it to mean being so um completely immersed in the Word of God that you're thinking That's a great questi question, Henry. Um what would they have known how what it means to walk by the Spirit? So not knowing exactly everything that was going on here, but they would Paul would have been teaching them what Jesus taught. Do not commit not only not commit murder, but don't hate. Not only don't commit adultery, but Don't lust. And and I th uh he he probably would have been working with them saying walking by the Spirit is following the moral aspects of the law, but it's got to be within the heart. Um it's not just the actions, but it is the heart level. That probably that would probably be my guess. I don't necessarily see I mean you can read more in chapter chapters five and six here, maybe a little bit more clues as to what um What Paul meant by walking by the Spirit, we see in the last verse of chapter 5 here, if we live by the Spirit, let us also keep step in step with the spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. Um so yeah, he must have been while he had these churches, he must have talked about the spirit and how to walk and live by them And maybe it's Lou here is, hey, don't become conceited, don't provoke one another, don't envy one another, love one another. And and the fruits of the spirit I think that's probably what he's talking about is, hey, do things that produce love. Do things that produce faithfulness. Do things that produce self-control. That's the best I can do on that answer. Alright. So Paul's completed his first missionary journey. He went to Jerusalem. The council in Jerusalem says Gentiles don't need to be sacrificed circumcised. donate animals with blue with the blood cylinder and a couple other things. And then Paul and Barnabas go out, or Paul goes out on his second missionary journey. Again he starts Over here in Antioch. And here he's able to revisit the churches of Galatia. So he does it Derby and Lystra and Iconium and Anioch. So he's able to reinforce what he spoke about in the uh letter to Galatia. And then he was able to go up north. Eventually get up to Philippi, and then he kind of works his way down to Thessalonica. So what did Paul do in Thessalonica. Well, let's go back into Acts and we'll read about his encounter there. And again, it's probably very similar to what we read about his visits to the cities in Galicia. But in chapter 17 in Acts. Now when they had passed through Amphispolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. And Paul went in, as was his custom, and on three Sabbath days he reasoned with them from the scriptures, explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead. This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ. And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a great many of the devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women. But the Jews were jealous, and taking some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jacob, Jason, who seeking to bring them out to the crowd. And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting, These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also. And Jason has received them, and they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar saying that there is another king, Jesus. And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things, and when they had taken money and security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. And then it says the brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. So Paul's in Thessalonica for about A month, th at least three Sabbaths. And then again the Jews they create an uproar. This time they got some Greeks, some Gentiles involved. Thessalonica, although it's right there in Greece, it was one of the Roman um It it was more of a Roman city than a Greek city at that time. Rome in their empire would place would adopt certain cities and say, we're going to build our Roman culture in these cities and hopefully that culture would spread out to the region. So that's Lank was one of these uh cities. And so because of that, the Jews told the the peop the citizens of Thessalonica, hey These guys, they're so they're so they say there's another king around, not Caesar. So they're trying to do a political play here to Get the crowds to go against Paul and Silas and um And so they cause a riot and eventually Paul and Silas have to leave by night. Um The letter is addressed to the Church of the Thessalonians. And oh before I go there, after going to Berea and then Athens and Corinth Paul settles down in Corinth and he's there for at least 18 months. He's there for a year and a half. And we believe at this time, this is when Paul most likely wrote the Book of 1 Thessalonians. We see through Acts that Paul got separated from Timothy and Silas. And was alone in Athens. Eventually he made his way to Corinth, and that's where Timothy and Silas rejoined Paul, and they gave Paul a report. um about how the church in Thessalonica was doing. And we see that if we go to First Thessalonians. We see that um in chapter two, verse seventeen But when we were torn away from you, brothers, for a short time, in person, not in heart, we endeavored the more eagerly, with great desire to see you face to face. Because we wanted to come to you. I, Paul, again and again, but Satan hindered us. For what is our hope Or joy a crown or boasting before our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming. Is it not you? For you are our glory and joy Therefore, when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone, and we sent Timothy, our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ to establish and exhort you in the faith. That no one be moved by these afflictions, for you yourselves know that we are destined for this. For when we were cast from you, we kept telling you beforehand. That we were to suffer affliction, just as it has come to pass, and just as you know. For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I set to learn about your faith For fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in vain. But now Timothy has come to us from you and has brought us the good news of your faith and love. and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us as we long to see you. So here we see Paul He had a great time in Thessalonica. Thessalonica. And he built this great rapport and relationship with the church there. But because of these riots, he had to leave. And he wanted to see them again. He wanted to go back. And so he said, Timothy, Timothy, go back. And so Timothy goes. And Comes back to Paul, reports, hey, Timothy gave me a great report about your faith. And so after receiving this report, Paul pens this letter. And the purpose of the letter, I have it, it's to encourage the church and to continue to live out their faith in the midst of affliction in accordance with the hope they have in the return of Jesus Christ. So the brothers and sisters in the church in Thessalonica, they were receiving persecution, they were receiving affliction Because we saw in Acts seventeen, persecution, riots were coming upon them. And And Paul's encouraging them, hey, you have strong faith. Continue to live out your faith. But do it in the perspective that Jesus Christ is coming. And that's the thread. You see this thread throughout 1 Thessalonians of the coming of Jesus Christ. You'll hear it often. It's mentioned in every chapter, the coming of Jesus Christ. Now, Paul didn't necessarily write in chapters, but he did finish a lot of his thoughts with that in mind. So we'll we'll look at this thread. Quickly. Um chapter one uh verses nine and ten Well, let's just go to verse 10. To wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. We're waiting for Jesus from heaven. Chapter 2, verse 9. No, sorry, verse 19. For what is our joy, or what is our hope or joy, or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at our at his coming? Is it not you? For you are our glory and joy. Again, he mentions what is our joy before Jesus Christ that is coming. Chapter three Verse 13, so that he may establish your hearts, blameless and holy, in holiness, before our God and Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. Chapter 4, verses 16 and 17. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead will rise in Christ. First, then we who are alive who are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. And then the last chapter, verse 23. Now may the God Of peace himself, sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. We see the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ all through the book of 1 Thessalonians. So the book's kind of broken down into two sections. I was working on my alliteration yesterday, and so hopefully uh the peas will will work for you. Um pleasantries, verses chapters one through three. pleasantries of the church's strong faith. You see throughout this letter Paul's love for the church. In w uh last week or two I I listen on my commute, I listened to the first to to the letter um audibly. And that's something if you're just a reader, I I would encourage you to to listen to the reading of God's Word. You you'll pick up a lot more. And like on my commute, uh I listened to the whole letter while I was on the ICC and it didn't even take up my whole commute. So um It it goes by quickly. Um and I would and you'll pick up things. You you hear Paul's love for the church. He references as a mother. I did this. As a father, I did this. So he has a dear faith for them and their strong faith. I'm going to have to pick up my pace here, but you can see his love for the church. And then the last couple chapters are Persuasion and Living with Perspective of Christ Coming. Um if you go to chapter four, verses one through three Finally then, brothers, he says finally, and he still has two more chapters to write. We ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us How you ought to walk and please God, just as you are doing, that you do so more and more. For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality. That each one of you know how to control his own body and holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God, and he goes on. Um but he encourages them to To live a life to walk and to please God in verse one there. And then As he talks through the rest of the chapter in verse 13, we says, brothers, but we do not want you to be informed, brothers, about those who fall asleep. So part of the purpose of this letter is there's some confusion. that Christ is coming, his coming was going to be immediate, and uh-oh, some people in the church have died. What's going to happen to them? And as we already read, we see that, hey, they're fine. Christ is coming. The dead will rise first. The believers, those who have been justified by faith, they're going to be taken up to the clouds. And then we will join. Those of us who are alive will join our Lord Jesus in the clouds. So he does not want, he wants to clarify some of this confusion. And then let's uh go to Second Thessalonians, and we think that this letter, so Paul wrote the letter of 1 Thessalonians. It went up to the church. It was received by the church. There were still questions, though. And then the report came back to Paul in Corinth, and he wrote 2 Thessalonians. And this time, with all the persecution going on, they're wondering, well, has the day of the Lord already arrived? And we see that in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 5. Do you not remember that when I was still with you, I told you these things? So he's saying, hey, I was with you, I talked about these things, don't you remember what I told you about? And and it's in the context about whether the day of the Lord would arrive. So The purpose of the letter was to clarify confusion about when the day of the Lord would come, and then admonish those who were living idly. So the first chapter through chapter two, verse twelve Paul gets into some eschatology, and as Pastor Christopher mentioned before, eschatology is the study of the last times. And And he this is probably uh one of the most clear sections about what's going to happen in the end times. other than Revelation. Revelation spills it out, but this is a great section about what's going to happen. In um But the believers are suffering, and so they're thinking, are we in the tribulation right now? We have we are experiencing persecution. And we see this in chapter one. Verses five through nine. This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering. Since indeed God considers it just to replay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted. as well as to us. When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. They will suffer punishment of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might. So So Paul tells the believers here, yes, you may be suffering right now. You may be enduring persecution right now. But guess what Those who are persecuting you, those who are inflicting punishment on you, they will receive their just reward. Christ will punish them. And then we get into more of the eschatology when it comes down to the man of lawlessness that we see in chapter 2. And in verses one through four. Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together with him, we ask you, brothers. not to be quickly shaken or alarmed, in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Let no one deceive you in any way. For that day will not come unless a rebellion comes first. and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself against every so called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. Paul clearly says here, the Antichrist, the man of lawlessness, he has to come before the day of the Lord. So there's timing issues here, and he wants to clarify the timing of this So in 1 Thessalonians, we read over and over about the coming of the Lord, coming of Jesus Christ. But the day of the Lord is more about his return. So As Pastor Dave would say, good and godly people disagree about eschatology. And um You'll see m clearly see what my eschatology is here. And you can agree with me or not, but as Paul's saying, so We're in the church phase right now, and then Jesus Christ will come. He will not come return to the earth, but he's going to come in the clouds. And that's when us, the church, believers, the dead first, those who are alive second, will join Jesus in the clouds and be raptured. And then we have the seven years of tribulation here, and then Christ returns, and his kingdom will be brought upon earth, and he's going to clean house. So there's the judgment. There's the the day of the Lord is when Christ comes down and establishes his kingdom on earth. So keep that in mind when you're reading the two epistles. 1 Thessalonians focuses on the rapture, on the coming of Jesus, whereas 2 Thessalonians addresses the day of the Lord. Um and the tribulation time and and Paul's gonna tell him, hey, you're not the man of lawlessness has to come first, but you'll be gone. You won't be on earth during that time. And then the last check last uh part of the epistle talks about how to live with Christ's return in mind. Again, the people, the believers, the church, there were members that thought Christ's return was imminent, so they were loathing They thought, oh, we don't have to do anything. We're Christ is going to come any time now. They were letting their flesh get to them. And uh Paul says, no, you need to be diligent. You need to live diligently, you need to be working, parents. This is a great verse for your kids. Um so if we go to um chapter three verse um The second part of verse 10 and then verse 12, if anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. So There you go. That that's the verse for your children. Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living. And in here Paul mentions that, hey, when we were with you, we were working, we um we were not just sitting there receiving money from you to to do a living. We we're building our tents and and working diligently among you So that's that's these three great epistles. Just a quick summary. Again, I was working on my alliteration yesterday, but Galatians Living in freedom through walking by the Spirit, 1 Thessalonians living by faith with hope of Jesus' coming, and 2 Thessalonians living diligently in anticipation of Christ's return. Um I forgot to mention if you have the notes, um you'll see a number seven. The last three lines under number seven, those were from last week. You can cross those out. I didn't clean it up. I noticed that this morning. So um that was from last week. And any uh questions before we adjourn? Yeah, right. I was just saying about you know really the scared of being blameless. I always didn't understand that. I thought how would I be blameless if I would realize If I don't drink and get drunk, I don't crash my car, I can get late or get built somebody. Yeah. Isn't that kind of like that, but also then It's such a great thing. This is without doubt that I said before. Uh he said, We're not what we used to be No, we're not where we are going to be later on. It's like sanctification, yeah. So and um I've used the most built Yeah, fashion. And uh trying to live that way and gratitude instead of the word also. All right, thank you. Praise God for growth and sanctification. Absolutely. Alright, yes. Are they are they talking about the racks of the church when they're listening to price to them or are they talking about So I think they did, because when Paul goes through the letters, he says, Don't you remember what I told you. So I think Paul addressed this. And it it's it's amazing because he was only there for three weeks. And and yet it seems like he covered a lot of ground in those three weeks. Now Again, what they had as far as New Testament was nothing basically. The Gospel of Mark was possibly written and then he had written Galatians. So, I mean we pour everything into our Bibles, into the Word, and they didn't quite have that at that time. So he covered a lot of different things in a short amount of time there. Alright, let's pray.