Here we are, week three, and like I said, we're going to be focusing on the book of Acts. And Acts really is a historical document, right? It covers a lot of what happened in the early church age. little bit of uh the the ministry of Jesus, especially after his resurrection, but before his ascension into heaven, right? So that time period of about 40 days He was on the earth and had sightings with his disciples and apostles, ten of those. But that's the history and transition we're going to now talk about. Okay? Timeline, I continue to show this again to set context. And you can see we're in the book of Acts again a historical document. I want to point out though, and and I'll say this again, don't get too hung up on the timelines. Let me show you an example because these two charts actually don't agree with each other. So for example When we get to Galatians, this has an earlier writing or belief, if you will, around the 48 AD time frame We're here, it's 55. So there are some different views on specifically when was Galatians written, but again, what I want you to notice is that there's a clumping of the writings here around this time frame Specifically, though, I want to talk about Luke. So Luke was the author of Luke, of course. Who was the author of Acts? Luke. So he continues this historical document. Luke was a what? He was a doctor, he was a physician. He was also a historian. And and the way he did his writings is he he culminated information from a bunch of different sources. And that's what you see in Luke and Acts is the culmination of that historical writing. Right? So we want to make sure you understand it's so easy, this is something I do, is it's easy to flow from the Gospels right into Acts and just keep going. But you gotta understand the significance of what's happening here, the historical significance, this transition that's happening between the Gospels, the the Old Testament, the Gospels And now what's happening with the church age and what's happening with the Holy Spirit. So if you take anything away from today, that's what I want you to focus on. Right? What is happening with the Holy Spirit and what's happening with the church. And so what does that mean to us today? That's the application at the end. Okay? So that will be our focus. And again, geography. We're actually going to extend beyond this, and I'll show you some maps later as we get into Paul's missionary journeys. Antioch becomes a big player now. So you have Jerusalem down here. Antioch is off the page, up to the north. Alright? So just so you can kind of get your geography And then we talked about how the the um this particular common commentary broke it up the the Bible into four sections, but we talked last week um a review of the Gospels, right? This was the manifestation of Jesus Christ. Everything that was talked about in the Old Testament you now see manifested on the earth in the God man, right, in the Gospels. Now we're going to see again this transition into Acts and really the propagation of the gospel, the propagation through the church. Alright, so that's our focus today on Acts. And then we briefly talked about dispensations. Again, I don't want to hit this too hard. It is not a new form or new way of salvation. There is disagreement on the number of dispensations. We're not here to debate that. But there is a clear distinction in the way that God is administering his relationship with his chosen ones. Right, there is a change that's going to happen, a a new stewardship arrangement as we enter what is often called the church age. Alright? One transition from the law to now grace, the vehicle through the church. Okay? And then obviously a lot of characters are introduced as we get into Acts and as we start to go through the epistles. And so every so often I'm gonna kinda do a character sketch, if you will, to highlight some of these prominent um individuals. Not all of them though. And and I will note that although Paul is talked about often in Acts, I'm going to wait until next week when we cover Romans to actually introduce Paul. kind of do this synopsis. But Peter, which means rock, um, you all are very familiar with Peter. He was bold, he was courageous, he often put his foot in his mouth But he certainly matured as a man of God, and we're going to see that. A fisherman, brother of Andrew, fishing partners with James and John. You remember that inner circle we often talk about? Peter, James, and John So these guys were buds, right? They bonded on the sea. One of the twelve original apostles present at the Transfiguration. Who else was there? Peter, James, and John. Peter, James, and John, right? That inner circle again. Obviously you know the story of him walking on the water, having great faith, but then doubting and starting to drown. You know, that's that epitomizes Peter, right? Denied Jesus three times. Three times as Jesus foretold. And I can't imagine how he must have felt at that moment. And yet he would go on to be a pillar in the church. God spokeman primarily to the Jews. Not not, you're going to see, that's going to open up to the Gentiles, a very exciting segment that we're going to cover, but his primary focus was to the Jews, where Paul was to the Gentiles. And then if we have time, I'll go over this. If not, we'll wait till we get to Galatians. But Paul actually confronts Peter. There's something that happens that Paul needs to confront the pillar of the church, right, Peter. Very interesting set of events there. Right? So that's that's Peter in a nutshell, and I'll leave that slide up as we go into uh our lesson here So again, as I mentioned, you know, Luke is the author of both Luke and Acts, and in both accounts, he addresses it to this person named Theopolos. We don't know a lot about Theopolis, right? The Bible doesn't tell us much. He does regard him as most excellent Theopolis, which means he was probably someone of high standing, of dignity. But we don't have a whole lot about who that is. But again, both books are trying to tell this history. Luke about Jesus Christ and his ministry here on earth. And Acts about the Holy Spirit and the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And we're going to focus a lot on that today. Here's something interesting, though. The disciples still did not understand what was written in the Old Testament. the true meaning of why Jesus had to come. So we talk about the road to Emmaus in Luke 24, right? As Jesus is walking with these two disciples, they didn't understand, right? They were discouraged. They were down because Jesus was supposed to be their king. He was supposed to put on the crown and be a king. They didn't, so they believed in Christ, but they didn't understand why he needed to die. All right, let's go over to uh Matthew sixteen. Let's talk about our good friend Peter. Matthew sixteen, and I'm going to start in verse thirteen, reading from the NASB. Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he began asking his disciples, saying, Who do people say that the Son of Man is? And he said, Some say John the Baptist, and others Elijah, but still others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. He absolutely recognized Jesus as Christ. And Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonh, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I also say to you, that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, obviously referring to himself, not Peter. And the gates of Hades shall not overpower it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven Then he warned the disciples that they should tell no one that he was the Christ. And here's the part From that time Jesus Christ began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed. And be raised up on the third day. So now he's starting to prepare them. This is what's going to happen, guys. And this was all told, foretold in the Old Testament, was it not? And Peter, being the bold one, took him aside and began to rebuke him. Can you imagine? Rebuking the Christ Saying, God forbid it, Lord, this shall never happen to you. Understand the gravity of what Peter just did, and now you understand the reaction from Jesus But he turned and said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan. You are a stumbling block to me, for you are not setting your mind on God's interests, but man's. So clearly did not understand what Jesus needed to do in this plan of redemption. But now again we're going to see this transition with the Holy Spirit. And that's what Jesus promised, right? I need to go so that the helper, the spirit of truth, can come on the scene. And what we're going to see is after that happens, what happens to the disciples and the apostles. They now understand and they preach with boldness the gospel that needs to go forth. Okay? Remember. What did Jesus command them to do? After his resurrection, before the ascension, he gave them the great commission, right? Go and make disciples And now you're going to see they're empowered to go do that. And what you're going to see is the church is now his instrument, God's instrument to get the gospel message out. Okay? But we have to talk a bit about and set the stage for the Holy Spirit. In the Old Testament, we we see very little of the Holy Spirit, actually. You see a potential, not a potential, absolutely a reference in Genesis 1, right? When when it's stated we Right? Will make man in our image. There's a plurality there. It doesn't say Holy Spirit, but we know now that that included the Holy Spirit. We also see the manifestation periodically of the Holy Spirit Ascend himself, if you will, on certain men for certain seasons. Great example is King Saul. Right? He was absolutely blessed and empowered by the Holy Spirit for a time It was conditional until he sinned, and then the Holy Spirit left him. You see that in a couple other instances, right? You're going to see that change now, where now the Holy Spirit becomes permanent. At the point of salvation, the Holy Spirit is now permanent in our lives. But there's this transition period. Right, that we're gonna see here. And you gotta understand that that's what it was for. We're gonna talk about why, right? What it meant and why it happened that way. It is not normative for today And you've got to be really careful about that. It was a transition period. Does that make sense? We'll talk more about it. Alright, so let's dig in a little bit about the Holy Spirit. As we see now in the New Testament, there is a lot that is said about the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is extremely active in the life of a believer. In many, many ways. So I want to cover a couple of those. First of all, we often hear this term baptism in the Holy Spirit. Baptism in the Holy Spirit. What does that really mean? Bottom line, it's a positional. You are being positioned or placed into the body of Christ. Right? You're being placed in the church as an adopted child now. And it happens at the point of salvation. Let me read you this commentary from John MacArthur. I think he summarizes it really well. Holy Spirit baptism is a positional act taking place in the life of every Christian concurrently with regeneration. The texts in Acts that refer to a post-conversion baptism of the Spirit are associated with the transitional nature of the period described in Acts. 1 Corinthians 12 records the normative doctrine of spirit baptism, stating that it results in a new position in the body of Christ for all Christians at the moment of faith in Christ The church, the spiritual body of Christ, is formed as believers are immersed by Christ in the Spirit and united with all other Christians, beginning with Pentecost. Holy Spirit baptism is not an experienced defeat, but rather a salvation reality for which to thank God. Alright? So when you hear that term and you see that term, are we ever commanded to be baptized in the Holy Spirit? We are not. We are commanded to be filled by the Holy Spirit. We're going to talk about that in a second. I don't know if I shared. I was raised in the Catholic Church, and over time You know, that kind of dwindled to periodically, and then uh I was I was saved uh the last year, the summer before going into my last year of college. And what is really exciting is Karine, my wife, also saved at the same time. So we started that journey together right before we were married. But it's not uncommon Long story short, my mother got saved and and she ended up going to a charismatic type church. And that's not uncommon. And so I experienced some of that. So our first church as a married couple and our first duty station We went to a charismatic church. Right? And so these thoughts or perceptions about how the Holy Spirit manifests itself was very different than what we know today. But isn't God gracious? to pull us through um that journey. And I'll tell you what, those people loved Jesus Christ. Don't be mistaken. This is not a criticism. But it's important to have a correct understanding of what's happening with the Holy Spirit here. That's the point I'm trying to make. Okay? So that's baptism in the Holy Spirit. The indwelling of the Holy Spirit, right, happens at salvation. The Holy Spirit living within the believer. You're going to see a little bit different during this transition period, but it is a transition period. Filled by the Holy Spirit. This one is always one that gets a little bit misconstrued as well. Bottom line, it simply means to be to yield or to be controlled by the Holy Spirit. Let me read you this summary by Paul Enns. The filling of the Holy Spirit is distinct from the other ministries of the Spirit, inasmuch as it is conditional. Whereas ministries such as the indwelling, baptism, regeneration, and sealing are non-experiential and occur but once at the moment of conversion, the filling of the Spirit is experiential and also repeated. The basis for the filling of the Spirit is Ephesians 5. 18. Be filled with the Spirit. And do you remember in Ephesians 5. 18, what is it being contrasted with? Right, being drunk with wine. Right? When you are drunk with wine, what is happening? You are being controlled by the alcohol. It makes you do silly, stupid things. All right? The contrast here is don't be controlled by something external, be controlled by the Holy Spirit. The command to be filled with the Spirit is given to contrast to the warning, do not get drunk with wine. Drunkenness exhibits the inability of the person to control himself The nature of the Christian's life is to be in contrast to the nature of the uncontrolled drunkard. The meaning of filled is control. The indwelling Spirit of God is the one who should continually control and dominate the life of the believer. Are we commanded to be filled by the Holy Spirit? Yes. Yes, that is the one command we have in regards to the Holy Spirit. And so think about that. We can't ever lose the Holy Spirit, right? I want to be really clear with that. But what's happening is what happens when you grieve the Holy Spirit, right? You cause him to be sorrowful. Number one, that tells us we have a Holy Spirit with emotions that is affectionate towards us. And it grieves him when we aren't controlled, when we aren't yielding ourselves to the Holy Spirit So I don't want you to think of being filled like you got a cup and you got to continually try and fill that up and you sin and it goes down. That's not what's happening You are in dwelt with the Holy Spirit. The difference is the actions you take to be controlled by the Spirit each and every day. Does that make sense? And did you have a comment or question? not to quench pursuit. Right. To grieve or to quench, right, is to not be controlled. Right? Is to follow the other pursuit. And I should say, right, you can be controlled by by alcohol or any other vice. You know, fill in the blank there. And that's our challenge is to continually be filled. And how do we do that? Through prayer, through being in the Word, fellowshipping with the saints, being encouraged. All right? Good. All right, and then lastly, sanctification through the Holy Spirit, being conformed into the image of Christ. And those are all actions of the Holy Spirit So just in summary, here's how the Holy Spirit is moving today in our lives. The baptism, right, being placed into the church body, the indwelling being filled with his power, the sealing. We saw that in Ephesians 1. He has sealed us for the time of redemption, glorification, sanctification. Be so easy for the Lord to say, all right, you're saved now. Good luck with that. He gives us the helper to conform us into the image of Christ. The filling, we talk about being controlled or yielded, and then the illuminating, right? Helping us to understand Scripture, to understand God's sufficient, authoritative truth. Okay? Any questions on that? I just thought it was important to really hit that home because many times people will take this transition period in how the Holy Spirit manifested himself as normative today. And it's not meant to be. All right. And we'll talk about what was happening here and why the manifestation the way it did happen. Yes, I explain more of the difference between God like my understanding was it's God that fills us with the Holy Spirit versus being filled with the Holy Spirit through prayer and believe in the word. So if I know a couple of people that they know the word, they pray, but they don't really say that um manifestation of Holy Spirit in there, who that is the Holy Spirit. Yeah. So is it really truly or through God? Yeah, so so let me let me say it this way. Great question. Um I I think I hope I can summarize you you kind of gave an example of those who uh maybe claim to be filled by the Holy Spirit and are reading the word but you're not necessarily seeing the fruits. Is that fair? Yeah. So I think it's important let's let's use the right terminology, right? Everyone is indwelt with the Holy Spirit at the point of salvation. Alright? No mistake about that. Being filled is I'll call it a synergistic act where we play a part in that. So we can read the word, we can pray. But we also need to act on that in obedience to Christ. And our ability to do that consistently, right, will manifest itself in what people see, in the fruits of our life. So we know to be a believer we should be exhibiting the fruit of the Spirit. And if we're not, it's a time to self-examine. When you're looking at others, if you're not seeing that fruit, it's not to be judgmental You don't know truly the heart, but you can be praying for them. So being filled as a daily action, you can be encouraged and strengthened through the reading of the word, you know, putting on the full armor, if you will, but it's also that acting out. Acting in obedience when you are faced with that choice, when you are faced with that temptation. And you can pray. This is a great prayer Lord, fill me with the Holy Spirit. I want to be controlled. I want to yield to what the Holy Spirit is telling my conscience. And as you continue to obey, you will become more and more sensitive to that. Right? And you're going to hear that voice very clearly because you're you're now sensitive to the Holy Spirit. Does that make sense? Okay, that's how I would frame that Right, good discussion. All right, really quick, we talked about this dispensational uh framework. Really, again, it's just a stewardship arrangement, but we are seeing something change. There is a transition that is happening here Acts, it's a very exciting book, actually. It's a bridge from the Gospels to what we're now going to see in the epistles. It's a transition from a focus on the Jews and the nation of Israel to Christians, right, to the church. And as I mentioned, we're going to see now this institution of the church being developed Right? Is now God's instrument to do what? To carry out that great commission we saw in Matthew 28 that he gave to his disciples. Go and make disciples. The church is going to be that instrument. That's the stewardship arrangement he now has. Okay? A little bit of ecclesiology, right? The doctrine of the church And this is a couple snippets from what we teach, our document of faith, if you will, at HBC. The formation of the church, the body of Christ, began on the day of Pentecost. It will be completed at the coming of Christ for his own at the rapture. The church is distinct from Israel. And we're going to see that in Romans 11. It's very, very clear. A mystery not revealed until this age. So that's the beauty of the closed canon. We understand it now. It has all been revealed to us As I mentioned, the initial conditions are temporary. You know, those apostolic offices and the gifts were temporary. They were for a purpose, and we're going to talk about that. We don't need the office of apostle anymore because we have all the writings. It is all sufficient. Everything we need to know is right here. We don't need those offices anymore. And those miraculous gifts were really just an attestation of the authority right in the message that the apostles had. That's what we're going to see. I just read that. Also the gift of tongues, right? And this is something when I again when I went to the Charismatic Church it was a it was a big deal. And I'm like, boy, I I need this gift. And I remember down in my basement one night, I had the candle going and they started to speak in tongues. It was all gibberish. Gibberish. But credit to my wife, you know, I talked about that experience and she's like, no, no, that ain't real, right? And it's not Here's the gift of tongue. It was a supernatural ability to speak prophetically in a foreign language, right? Never learned by the speaker Remember, during Pentecost you had all the Jews were congregating around Jerusalem. So you had people from every region and all these different dialects. And here you had the disciples speaking languages that they would have never learned That's what was happening, foreign languages, but it was a supernatural manifestation. And really, here's why. It was to attest that the Holy Spirit was now upon them. This is how the Holy Spirit moved during those times. And this was simply a sign or a manifestation that these people were now indwelt with the Holy Spirit. And we're going to see this a couple times throughout Acts. Alright? So again, the miraculous gifts were there to attest the message, the authenticity of the apostles, and the tongues of fire, the foreign languages. were to um to attest to the Holy Spirit now upon these individuals. Okay? Does that make sense? Alright, good. Alright, so now let's get into the outline, if you will, of Acts. And it's basically three major sections. Chapters 1 through 7, we're going to see the formation of the church that we just talked about. Chapters 8 through 12, you're going to see the transition of the church starting to expand. And actually expand to whom? The Gentiles Praise God for that, right? For all of us, the rest of us, right? And then the last part of that really gets into the three missionary journeys. of Paul, where you're really going to start to see the expansion as then we then transition into the epistles. Okay? So that's the order of the day. And we'll start back with uh chapter one and the transition of the church aid It describes early on in chapter 1, verse 8 of Acts. If you want to turn to Acts, we'll be flowing through there. And kind of tells you up front, right? Threefold outline of the book of Acts is described in chapters one through eight. When Jesus said, You will be my witnesses both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the remotest uh part of the earth. So you're going to see that when we get to the maps here of how that's starting, you know, I I mentioned you have Jerusalem, then Judea and Samaria, and then Galilee was up above that. Let's just go to our map real quick Right? The focus in Jerusalem and then broader Judea, Samaria, Galilee, and then it's going to expand even further, as we'll see. Again, up to this point, the focus has been on God's untiring love for the nation of Israel, right? For his chosen people. But from Acts forward, the second part of God's purpose to Abraham in Genesis 12, again, that's the Abrahamic covenant of the land, the seed, and the blessing. That blessing, though, is for all of us In you, all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Praise God. Amen. That he includes all of us. But you're going to start to see the manifestation of that. After the ascension of Christ, the early disciples return to Jerusalem, gather together in the upper room. And let's uh let's start this um storytelling, if you will. Let's go to, I'm in Acts 1, starting in verse 12. What I want to show you is the the rapid expansion of the church in these very early days. Okay? Then they returned to Jerusalem from the Mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away And when they had entered, they went up to the upper room where they were staying. That is, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Elphesus. and Simon the zealot, and Judas the son of James. These all with one mind were continually devoting themselves to prayer, along with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers And at this time Peter stood up in the midst of the brethren, a gathering of about 120 persons, was there together. So you start out with 120 people. Right, gathered in probably a very large upper room. What comes next? Again, Peter, the kind of the leader of this group of eleven men at this time, Peter's first order of business was the need to replace Judas. From someone who had been with them the entire time. That was the condition, had been there from the beginning, from the baptism of Jesus to his resurrection. So it says that they prayed and the lot fell to Matthias. So yes, they cast lots, but it also says that they pray Right, so don't be mistaken. Casting lots was very much an Old Testament, you know, methodology. Um you see it with uh the high priest back in the Old Testament in their breastplate they had two stones And those were uh those were used in a sense to cast lots. But it was after praying. It was after approaching the Lord. So again, that's normat not normative for us today to cast lots. I don't advise that in making decisions. Okay? But so don't get don't get hung up on the casting lots. What did it say? They were devoting themselves to prayer, right? So they were absolutely in prayer regarding who should be included in um the group of twelve, if you will. All right, let's go over to Acts two and we get into now the day of Pentecost. I'm going to start in verse 1. And when the day of Pentecost, excuse me, had come, they were all together in one place And suddenly there came from heaven a noise like a violent rushing wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. And there appeared to them tongues as of fire distributing themselves. And they rested on each one of them. Those were the tongues of fire that I talked about up front. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit was giving them utterance. Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men from every nation under heaven And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and were bewildered, because there were each one hearing them speak in his own language. Right? That's the foreign languages that are being heard. And they were amazed and marveled, saying, Why are not all these who are speaking Galileans who are speaking Galileans? And how is it that each one hear them in our own language to which we were born? Corinthians and Medis and Elamanites and the residents of Mesopotamia Judea and Cappadocia, Pontius and Asia, Viagra and Pamphylia, Egypt and the districts of Libya around Cyrene, and visitors from Rome with Jews and proselytes. So again, everyone had descended, if you will, on Jerusalem for Pentecost, so you had people from all over the place hearing their language. Cretans and Arabs, we hear them in our own tongues speaking to the mighty deeds of God. And they all continued in amazement and great perplexity, saying to one another, What does this mean? But others were mocking and saying they are full of sweet wine. Isn't that interesting, right? We go back to the contrast, not being filled by the Spirit, but being filled by the wine. They thought they were all drunk, right? Filled with the wine. But here we here we have again Peter, so in verse fourteen. But Peter, taking his stand with the eleven, raised his voice and declared to them, Men of Judea, and all you who live in Jerusalem Let this be known to you, and give heed to my words. For these men are not drunk as you suppose, for it is only the third hour of the day. Alright, little trivia. And we talk about time. Right, basically two time scales happening here. You had the the Jewish clock, if you will, and you had the Roman clock. For the Jews, their day started at six AM For the Romans it was actually 12 p. m. I guess it would be. So when you see it was the third hour, the sixth hour, the ninth hour, you have to understand context to understand which of these is used Not something to get hung up on, but it does help with your understanding of context of the word. I'm sure it would. Alright, a little trivia. Alright, let's flip over. So so now Peter stands up and he tells them, he starts to spread the gospel, if you will Let's flip over to verse 36. So he gets done. He says, Therefore, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ. Jesus whom you crucified. Remember, we talked about Peter up front. He didn't understand. Right, Lord, I'm going to rebuke you. This can't happen to you. No, it has to happen. And here now, Peter boldly proclaiming the gospel in the need for Jesus to die on the cross as our Redeemer. Picking up again in verse 37. Now when they heard this, they were pierced to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brethren, what shall we do? Don't you love that response? They hear the truth. And they respond affectionately, What must we do? What must we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and let each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and your children, and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God shall call to himself. And with many other words he solemnly testified and kept on exhorting them, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation. So then those who had received his word were baptized. And there were added that day about 3,000 souls. Right? So you go from 120 quickly to 3,000. I do want to comment. Sometimes people can get hung up on Verse 38, and Peter said to them, Repent and each let each of you be baptized. Right? This certainly would contradict the rest of Scripture that says Repentance in faith, right? Jesus is the only way of salvation. Paul is not trying to say here, you must repent and be baptized to be saved. Right? He talks later on about you've been saved. Let's go get you baptized. Right? So I want to make sure that's clear. Paul or uh Peter is not trying to say that it's a combination of Repentance and baptism. Baptism is the manifestation of that faith. And so he's quickly just saying: your first order of obedience is to go get baptized after being saved. Okay? Alright, let's jump down to 47. Praising God and having favor with all the people and the Lord was adding to and the Lord was adding to their number day by day those who were being saved. Alright, so again you see this very rapid expansion. And it was meant for this time, right? The church was just starting. It needed this rapid expansion. Alright, let's flip over to Acts 4. And obviously lots of material to cover here, so I can't cover everything, so um bits and pieces to try and walk you through this story of the growth Acts four, beginning in verse one. And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple guard and the Sadducees came upon them. being greatly disturbed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in jail until the next day for it was already evening. But many of those who had heard the message believed, and the number of men came to be about five thousand. Right? So just continuing to grow. And obviously the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection, right? So that's why they were they were getting all uh in a tizzy. Let's go down to verse 8, same chapter, chapter 4, verse 8. Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, right? He's now controlled by the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers and elders of the people. If we are on trial today for a benefit done to a sick man as to how this man has been made well, let it be known to all of you. And to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by this name this man stands before you in good health. He is the stone which was rejected by you, the builders, but which become the very cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else For there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. So here Paul clearly Right? Jesus is the only way. I mean, again, go back to his denial, his saying, you know, Jesus, this can't happen to you, to this boldly proclaiming the gospel message, right? Filled with the Holy Spirit. All right, so early church is getting started. Um there's an act that's going to happen that is showing the seriousness of God's early church. Flip over to Acts 5. You're all familiar with the story, but the fate of Ananias and Sapphira. And I'll just summarize, right? The episode of Ananias and Sapphira, the seriousness of obeying God, setting the precedent. You all know the story. Let me jump uh for time's sake to verse eleven. Right? So Ananias dies Sapphira dies and in that word spreads out. So verse eleven, and great fear came upon the whole church and upon all who heard of these things. So the seriousness of what God has put in place now. The seriousness of the authority of the apostles is clearly witnessed here. Go back, though, I did want to mention When it talks about Ananias, verse 3. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back some of the price of the land? Verse 4, while it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not under your control? Why is it that you have conceived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God. So here you see a manifestation of kind of a proof text of the Holy Spirit is God. Right? He lied to the Holy Spirit, which in effect was lying to God. So again, you see the Trinity in action here. We talked earlier, right? The Holy Spirit is has emotions, right? We can grieve, we can quench the Holy Spirit. And that's what Ananias did here. Right? He was not controlled by the Holy Spirit. He actually grieved or quenched the Holy Spirit. And the role of the Holy Spirit, you've got to make sure you understand this. Is not to glorify himself, even though he is God. It is always, always about pointing to Jesus Christ. Everything you'll see him do in the New Testament in our lives. is trying to point us to Jesus Christ, to conform us into the image of Christ. That's really, really important. You don't see this work of trying to receive any of the glory, even though he is fully God. All right, let's move over to Acts 6. So the the church, as I just mentioned, is rapidly expanding. You can imagine now some some issues arise. Acts 6, starting in verse 1. Now at this time, while the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint arose on the part of the Hellenistic Jews. against the native Hebrews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving of food. And the twelve summoned the congregation of the disciples And said, It is not desirable for us to neglect the Word of God in order to serve tables. But select from among you brethren seven men of good reputation, full of the Spirit and of wisdom whom we may put in charge of this task, but we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. And the statement found approval with the whole congregation. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Procurus, Niconor, Timon, Parmen, Parmenus, and Nicholas, a proselyte from Antioch And those they brought before the apostles, and after praying, they laid their hands on them. And the word of God kept on spreading, and the number of the disciples continued to increase greatly in Jerusalem And a great many of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith. So I just want to pause there and say this is where we now start to see this office or this role of deacon. Right, the Achonus. We often refer to it as proto, right, the first, the first deacons. And yes, they were servants, but you see they were they were faithful, godly men that were chosen It's an important office, and we see that because in 2 Timothy, right, we see a description. Here's the qualifications to be a deacon But it was this pattern, you know, recently we revisited the role of deacon here at Hope Bible Church. It was it was going back to this to say what did the pattern look like? And what was happening again was here was a little bit of a blur between maybe very servant-focused efforts. kind of blending into word ministries and that was getting a bit confusing. So it was kind of go back to the square roots of of what is the intent here. But I don't want to undervalue, you know, the importance of the the character qualities of a deacon. Right? They have to meet very high standards. And you see that in Stephen. We're not going to cover Stephen in detail here But he was a man of God preaching the gospel, right? One of the first martyrs. And so I just wanted to emphasize, you know, us trying to be very intentional about the scriptural pattern. of a deacon and and so grateful for the men we have added to um our deacons here at HBC, clearly exemplifying the qualities laid out in 2 Timothy 3 and very clearly servant leaders um at our church. So blessed by that. Alright, so we kind of walked through the initial stages of the church, and now the exciting part is going to expand beyond the Jews to the Gentiles, which is great news for us. And as I mentioned, I'm going to skip chapters 8 and 9 is a lot about Paul and his conversion. We're going to cover that next week. So if you want to flip over to Acts 10. Acts 10, let me start with. So we have this event happening with Cornelius, a centurion, right? It means he would govern or oversee a hundred soldiers, and Peter. Starting in verse 1. Now there was a certain man at Caesarea named Cornelius, a centurion of what was called the Italian cohort, a devout man, and one who feared God with all his household and gave many alms to the Jewish people and prayed to God continually. About the ninth hour of the day he clearly saw in a vision an angel of God who had just come to him, come into him, and said to him, Cornelius And fixing his gaze upon him and being much alarmed, he said, What is it, Lord? And he said to him, Your prayers and alms have ascended as a memorial before God. And now dispatch some men to Joppa and send for a man named Simon who is called Peter. Let me show you where that is on the map. Joppa is over here. Okay, so that's where Peter is praying. Picking up in verse 6. He is staying with a certain tanner named Simon, whose house is by the sea. And when the angel who was speaking to him had departed, he summoned two of his servants and a devout soldier of those who were in constant attendance upon him. And after he had explained everything to them, he sent them to Joppa. And on the next day, as they were on their way and approaching the city, Peter went up to the house top about the sixth hour to pray, and he became hungry, and was desiring to eat. But while they were making preparations he fell into a trance, and he beheld the sky opened up and a certain object like a great sheep coming down, lowered by four corners to the ground. And there were in it all kinds of four-footed animals and crawling creatures of the earth and birds of the air. And a voice came to him, Arise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said, By no means, Lord, for I have never eaten anything unholy and unclean. And again a voice came to him a second time, What God has cleansed, no longer consider unholy. And this happened three times, and immediately the object was taken up into the sky. So the story goes on that these servants of Cornelius actually make it to Peter's house. Peter invites them in. Peter invites them in, and so let's pick up in verse 23. So he invited them in and gave them lodging. So this is in Joffa where Peter was. And on the next day he arose and went away with them, and some of the brethren from Joppa accompanied him. And on the following day he entered Caesarea. Now Cornelius was waiting for them, and had called together his relatives and close friends. And when it came about that Peter entered, Cornelius met him, and fell at his feet and worshipped him. But Peter raised him up, saying, Stand up, I too am just a man. And as he talked with them, he entered and found many people assembled. And he said to them, You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a man who is a Jew to associate with a foreigner or to visit him, and yet God has shown me that I should not call any man unholy or unclean. That is why I came without even raising any objection. Amen and amen. Right? All made in the image of God. Let's jump down to verse 34. So there he is in the household and opening his mouth, Peter said. I most certainly understand now, right, it's clicking with Peter. I get it now. I most certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality. But in every nation the man who fears him and does what is right is welcome to him. The word which he sent to the sons of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ, He is Lord of all. You yourselves know the thing which took place throughout all Judea, starting from Galilee, after the baptism which John proclaimed. And he goes on to basically present the gospel. And let's go down to now verse 42. And he, talking about Jesus, ordered us to preach to the people and solemnly to testify that this is the one who has been appointed by God as judge of the living and the dead. Of him all the prophets bear witness that through his name everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins. While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who were listening to the message. And all the circumcised believers who had come with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out upon the Gentiles also. What do you think the manifestation was? For they were hearing them speaking with tongues and exalting God. Alright, so here you see again that manifestation. And what is it for? It's to testify that they are now filled with the Holy Spirit. That's the sign. That's what's happening here. We don't need that today. Alright, we see as we continue on, the apostles and the brethren throughout Judea were perplexed. They now recognize God has granted salvation to the Gentiles as well. Let's go over to chapter 11. 1 through 3. Now the apostles and the brethren who were throughout Judea heard that the uh Gentiles also had received the Word of God. You gotta understand how how astounding this would have been, right? For the whole Old Testament was about the Jews, the Jews, the Jews, and now the gospel's going out to the Gentiles. Sir. uh explain the uh the transition that's that's talked about here as um uh you know tongues were every every time you hear tongues in It's talked about in act it was usually in the presence of Jews and was a it was a signal to those Jews that the Holy Spirit that this salvation is of the Gentiles also because the same thing that happened And in uh Pentecost, where the Holy Spirit came, they spoke in tongues, the same thing is happening to the Gentiles. And so therefore Yeah, that's a great point and did you catch that, right? The initial initial manifestation was on the Jews, and now that same manifestation is happening on the Gentiles. Right, the gospel is for all. And the and the significance to the Jews is yes, the Gentiles are now included. Right? That's the the excitement or the perplexing a aspect of what's happening right now. I'm making one of the epistles, I don't know which one. The Jews require a sign, but the Gentiles To seek wisdom. So it was a sign to the Jews that yeah. Yeah. Yep, great point. Good. And and one other thing. Yep. All the way back in the Old Testament In Joel where it says, I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh. And this is an example of that the spirit being poured out upon all flesh. Yep, very good Right, so Peter returns um to Jerusalem goes back to Jerusalem, right, and he's telling everyone about what happened. That's what I just read Now the apostles and the brethren who were throughout Judea heard that the in verse one, the Gentiles also had received the word of God. When Peter came up to Jerusalem, those who were circumcised took issue with them. But go over to 15, verse 15. And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell upon them, just as he did. He's retelling the story Just as he did upon us at the beginning. Back to your point, right? At the beginning he fell upon us, the Jews, and yet here he is falling upon the Gentiles. And I remembered the word of the Lord, how he used to say, John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Alright, so that's what's starting to happen, this transition now to the Gentiles. Very, very exciting. We didn't mention Stephen, but because of what happened there, his stoning and his death, you know, the persecution continued. And it was it was scattering. Remember the the rapid expansion of the church. These these Christians were now being persecuted and that was expanding them further. And another hub outside of Jerusalem was Antioch Right, that became a another uh large center for Christians, if you will, because of the persecution. And this is where we start to see other uh individuals come on the scene, particularly Barnabas. So large numbers were were being converted. And so Barnabas was sent from the church in Jerusalem. They said, Hey Barnabas, you go up to Antioch and figure out what's going on here. Right? We're hearing some things, what is happening And actually in verse 1126, often when we use this term Christians, you don't see it very often. This is one of the instances where you do see it. They were first called Christians at Antioch. And that's in verse 1126. So Barnabas goes up there to investigate and he's really encouraged by by what he sees, right? The gospel has now been expanded to the Gentiles. And so he sends for Saul, who was at Tarsus. So he knew of Saul. Saul, we'll talk more about Saul, which is Paul. um next week. He found Saul, he brought him to Antioch. And again, I just want to emphasize that these are two m um independent churches if you will, not covered by a denomination, and yet united in spirit, right? Working together, working hand in hand. Much um like our local churches today that can be independent. All right, so now we see Paul come on the the the scene and we're going to quickly cover um his missionary journeys. So picking up in 13, Paul's first missionary journey. You can see in the notes there I put the rough timeline and the rough number of years that are considered as far as how long it took him um on that missionary journey. So let me get to the map here. So you can kind of visualize the scope of what's happening. So right, they're at Antioch, and that's where he's going to launch out from And he's primarily going to go up into this area of Galatia and to establish the churches up in Galatia and then return back to Antioch. Alright, so that's the geography that we're talking about here. Barnabas and Saul were set apart and sent out by the Holy Spirit to preach the gospel, targeting the area of Galatia. Verse 9, we see the change in name. This is where we see the change from Saul to Paul. Right, so Paul was traveling with Barnabas, and we talked about this earlier, and John Mark, right? That's the the author of the Gospel of Mark. We know though that John, John and Mark left them at Perga and returned to Jerusalem. Now, that's probably considered the source of contention that we'll see later in Acts. Between Paul and John Mark, not wanting to take him on future missionary journeys. Again, we don't have a lot here. We can only speculate. Um but Paul, even in this first missionary journey, was persecuted. He was stoned. Right? Um I don't know that that Paul was carrying around, you know, resentment towards John Mark, but the fact that he went through that kind of persecution Without John Mark there, he might have felt like he alienated him. Again, speculation. Don't know. But something happened to cause contention and strife between the two of those. We do know though that later on they reconcile. We see that in Timothy So as they go through, um Paul and his companions go through this area, that they're meeting in the synagogues and they're just simply preaching, proclaiming the law and the prophets, which is a reference to what The Old Testament books, the Old Testament writings, talking about Jesus Christ. Paul then turns to the Gentiles. So let's go to chapter 13. And I want to pick up in verse 42. And as Paul and Barnabas were going out, the people kept begging that these things might be spoken to them the next Sabbath. So here they are preaching in the synagogues. And they hear the word, and they're now hungry for the word. And they're like, we want you to come back. However, look in verse 44. And the next Sabbath nearly the whole city assembled to hear the word of God. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy, and began contradicting the things spoken by Paul, and were blasphemy. And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly and said, It was necessary that the word of God should be spoken to you first, since you repudiate it and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life. Behold, we are turning to the Gentiles. For thus the Lord has commanded us, I have placed you as a light for the Gentiles, that you should bring salvation to the end of the earth. And when the Gentiles heard this they began rejoicing. Of course they were And glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. And the word of the Lord was being spread through the whole region. But the Jews aroused the devout women of prominence and the leading men of the city, and instigated a persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district. But they shook off the dust of their feet in protest against them, and went to Iconium And the disciples were continually filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. So, yes, they were met with persecution and trial and tribulation throughout. And yet I love that last verse. The disciples were continually filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. Alright, so they go on this journey and like I talked about, they return to Antioch. Let's flip over to chapter 14. And they tell all the believers there, look at what happened. Look what's happening with the Gentiles. Verse 27. And when they had arrived and gathered the church together, they began to report all things that God had done with them and how he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles. And they spent a long time with the disciples. So you can imagine just the wonderful, exciting news of returning to the hub of Antioch. And here's everything that's been happening. We went out on this missionary journey. Here's everything that's happening. Alright, so that's Paul's first missionary journey. We now turn to Acts 15, where you see kind of the first council of the church at the church in Jerusalem. And we're going to cover this when we get to the book of James, but James Um the the brother of Jesus, half brother technically, right? He wrote the book of James. He's actually like the senior pastor here in Jerusalem Right, so he is a pillar of the church. Um, and you see him play out here. So they they have a dispute, if you will. Um let me read the beginning of 15 to set the context. So the problem statement. Should the Gentiles, co converts, be forced to submit to the Jewish rite of circumcision? So you have Gentiles being converted, but the the Judaizers are trying to lay on top of them, right, the old traditions. The right of circumcision, the need to be circumcised. That's what's being debated here. And the issue arose in Antioch, where Paul is. So let's pick that up in 15 starting in verse 1. And some men came down from Judea. I have not been to Israel. So when it's coming down, again coming down and going to Antioch. So that's what's happening here. So men came down from Judea and began teaching the brethren, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. So this is what's being spread. Right? They're trying to add on top, they're trying to keep on top of salvation. And when Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them, The brethren determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain other of them should go up to Jerusalem to the apostle and elders concerning this issue Right, so this Paul is getting right in the middle of this. He's like, no, I've just been on the journey. This is not needed. Right? This is not what the Old Testament says And so he he is debating, and they're like, we need to go up to Jerusalem. We need to get this figured out. And that's where you have the council. And so they have the brothers get together, therefore being verse 3, therefore being sent on their way by the church, they were passing through both Phoenicia and Samaria describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and we're bringing great joy to all the brethren. So on their way to Jerusalem, right, they continue to spread the gospel And then when they arrived at Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they reported all that God had done with them. So You can consider that kind of a public debate that's happening. But certain ones of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed stood up saying, it is necessary to circumcise them. And to direct them to observe the law of Moses. So the debate continues. Then they go to a private meeting, and the apostles and the elders came together to look into this matter. So public And now they go to a private setting. And then back to the public again. And after there had been much debate, right, who stands up? Peter. The bold Peter stood up and said to them, Brethren, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by the mouth of the Gentiles That by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God who knows the heart bore witness to them, giving them the Holy Spirit, just as also He did to us, as we described earlier. And he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. Now therefore, why do you put God to the test? By placing upon the neck of the disciples a yoke which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear. But we believe that we are saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus in the same way as they also are. And all the multitude kept silent And they were listening to Barnabas and Paul as they were lating what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles. Again, the testimony. of what had happened. So you see this this this debate. Um they debate it publicly, privately, and then they come out with a decision. And and who speaks here? It's James, right? The senior pastor of the church. Go to verse 19. This is James speaking, therefore it is my judgment that we do not trouble those who are turning to God from among the Gentiles. But that we write to them that they abstain from things contaminated by idols and from fortification and from what is strangled from blood. Right, so they basically generate a policy letter or a memorandum, whatever you want to call it, that is now going to the churches, right, to address this issue of this added weight being placed on their neck Right, you do not need to do that. Here's what you need to do. So that letter is now sent um to the churches. Okay? So we jump into Acts 16, where we now see the second missionary journey of Paul. And what I want to do is just summarize really quickly, because we're we're getting short on time There's just so much exciting material, so I gotta work on that. Can you put up a picture of the second? Yes, thank you, Miss Ann. Keep me honest here. Thank you. All right, so so what you see is from Jerusalem, and and what does he do? He goes back to those churches he met in the first missionary to encourage them to continue to build out those churches, to establish elders. But you see it goes much farther now. He extends much farther into Greece and then back to Jerusalem. All right, so just uh some quick highlights. In his second journey, we see Timothy now on the scene. So Timothy joins him. In Troaz, Paul is forbidden by the Holy Spirit to preach in Asia Minor. He receives his Macedonian vision, and Luke now joins him. So Luke, I think, was uh present for both his second and third missionary journey. In Philippi, three f thrilling salvation stories. A businesswoman, a demon-possessed girl, and a prison keeper. In Thessalonica, the gospel is once again opposed by some unbelieving Jews, so he got that throughout his travels, the persecution And then Berea. Here Paul finds a group of devout Bible lovers. This is where we often talk about, be like the Bereans, right? They searched the scripture and compared it to what was being what was being proclaimed. That's how we all need to act. Let me just pick out a couple more here. In Corinth, Paul makes uh meets Aquila and Priscilla, right? The Christian couple, the tent makers, do ministry together. Let me go back to Athens, right? So his time in Athens, and you're you you uh often hear about his the famous sermon on Mars Hill. Alright, and this is uh the Athens had a temple and they were worshiping uh the inscription was the unknown God. So he says, Let me tell you about the God. He talks about God the creator of all things, God is Savior of all things, and God is judge of all things. And the result is very similar to the parable of the seed in the soils, right? Some mocked the message. Some delayed in their belief and some believed. Right? That's true of any time we give the gospel message. And then he eventually returns to Antioch. All right, the third missionary journey, starting in Acts 18. Map, thank you, Ann. Right, again he travels through the same region trying to encourage and lift up, establishing elders And then all the way back, but he actually returns to Jerusalem this time, leaving Antioch and returning to Jerusalem. I wanted to highlight just one trip that he made, and that was to Ephesus. So Acts 19, let me read this, starting in verse 1. And it came about that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper country, came to Ephesus and found some disciples, and he said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? And they said to him, No. We have not even heard whether there is a Holy Spirit. And he said, Into what then were you baptized? And they said, Into John's baptism. And Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in him who is coming after him, that is, in Jesus. And when they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. When Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and guess what? They began speaking with tongues and prophesied. And there were an all and about twelve men. Right? So again you see this evidence again and again. Um I don't have time to go over Uh the miracles, some of the miracles at Ephesus. I was, you can read for yourself there the you know the story of the seven sons of Skeva, where um The the sons of this high priest felt they had the power. Right? So they were trying to take on the demons themselves. And what happened? Right? They got overpowered, stripped, mortified, right? It's only the Holy Spirit that can do that. And then I just want to highlight at the very end of that story with the Ephesians, um oh let's go to that. Acts nineteen I think I have the wrong pastor, but basically he's about to depart and he's telling them that I'm probably not going to see you again. Right? And they weep over him. They kiss his neck As this might be the last time that we see our brother Paul. There is evidence though that he will return to Ephesus, but eventually he will end up back in Rome. Right? And it's there that he is going to die. I don't think the scripture specifically says how that happens, but tradition has it it was by the sword. Acts twenty. All right. So we will we will talk more about this. Who is Paul um and his his message to the Romans and a little bit about more about his uh the end there. next week when we get into that. So I I want to leave you with this. You know, again, focus on Acts as you read it, understand the context, this incredible transition of how we see the Holy Spirit working. We see the introduct introduction of the this institution of the church. And so one of the applications questions I had for you, we don't have time, but you can be thinking about it You know, how might this change your view of the church, the local church, and the need to become a member? If you have someone come to you and say, I I don't really need to become a member, you know, I I got my Bible, what are you going to tell them? Why is it so important to be a part of the church? I want you to think about that, and maybe when we start next week, I'll ask you to maybe share a little bit your thoughts. Let me close in prayer.