Alright, if you can open your Bibles to Revelation, I'm curious for your translations. Fourth and final. But then we'll spend some time kind of walking through this timeline just to describe some of the events so you can understand those better. And again, you have to wrestle through to make sure you know your your conscience is clear with with what view you have. Alright, so I just put a summary up there. Great point. You see Pentecost, the church age, the church is ushered in. Okay? And he treads the wine press of the fierce wrath of God, the almighty, and on his robe and on his thigh he has a name written King of Kings and Lord of Lords And he laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, who is the devil, and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years, and threw him into the abyss. Right, that's what's happening during these thousand years. And death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged every one of them according to their deeds. And there is I've been to the temple institute in Israel where they are getting ready. They have some of the implements made of pure gold. And that's why I say how I often frame it is theologically, here's what scripture says. That's how I frame it for folks. God's redemptive plan, which actually we see on the scene what? I'm a Christian, I do everything, but there's no urgency in life quite coming out. It's a tourist attraction, as you can imagine, right? You know, this is what the early church looked like, and then here we are today, right, lukewarm. We could be both about those real churches and represent those in churches today. Right? So I like that word image. So the red heifers to purify the temple. That's a great point. Yes. Yes, I forgot. it's what hot to me was the love for the children. The apostles were trying to shoo the children away. I mean and he was, yeah, absolutely. And that's where John was exiled when this revelation was given to him. was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. You know, you would stand trial there. And so John would later continue to go back to Ephesus and some of those surrounding churches. And again with all the intense persecution, that's why he was exiled onto the island. While on Patmos, John received a series of visions that laid out the future history of the world. Apparently they were singled out because John had ministered in them. John's vivid pictures of worship in heaven both instruct and exhort believers. The career and ultimate defeat of Antichrist, Christ's thousand-year earthly kingdom, the glories of heaven and the eternal state, and the final state of the wicked and the righteous. In this view, the book contains neither historical illusions nor predictive prophecy. With what we have in our statement of faith, and that's okay, we remain teachable, all of us, and we continue to to work through the Word of God, right, for His glory. Right? The intent of this class is not to spend a lot of time on the specifics of it. And from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth, to him who loves us and released us from our sins by his blood. to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatera, Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea. And all the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. And who is to come, the Almighty. Continuing on in verse 9. The compliment, you are rich in good works, and there was no complaint against the church in Smyrna. If someone is looking from the outside in, if God is looking down, how would he describe Hope Bible Church today? It's easy, I'll tell you. So it's really a challenge to ourselves to make sure you know we are being diligent, contending earnestly for the faith. A seven-year period of tribulation where the Antichrist will come on the scene. Right, and bring you out on the other end where you're going to have a new covenant. So what's depicted here is from the time of Nehemiah, right, the decree to go rebuild the wall, to the time of Christ, the death of Christ is sixty-nine weeks. That's the church age. So this is often a passage that is used to proof text, if you will, the rapture. And on the wing of abominations will come one who makes desolate, even until a complete destruction, one that decreed is poured out And he will make a firm covenant, this is the Antichrist, with the many for one week. on the one who makes desolate. And in righteousness he judges and wages war, and his eyes are a flame of fire, and upon his head are many diadems These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire which burns with brimstone, and the rest were killed with the sword which came from the mouth of him who sat upon the horse, and all the birds were filled with their flesh. That's a party for the birds, isn't it? and shut it and sealed it over him, so that he should not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were completed. and upon their hand. And the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are also, and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever. If anyone says that that hell is not for eternity, this is it. and will come out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog to gather them together for the war. And they came up on the broad plain of the earth, and surrounded the camp of the saints, and the beloved city, and fire came down from heaven and devoured them. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Right, that second judgment that's going to happen. that will walk you through. And part of the thought there is, what did I say in Daniel 9? Let it be a discussion point. Um I don't know if I align with that. The temple has to be rebuilt. Um I should have included a chart that I did during the Old Testament survey that shows the state of Israel today. he will put an end to the sacrifices. The reason the sacrifices are not happening now is because there's no temple in which to do the sacrifices. What are some of the non-negotiables? But then I thought also Christians have to answer for the deeds that they're going to be. If you remember Ann's analogy of traveling the globe, right? But all this better more. In the decree to rebuild the wall until Christ's death. What was that sixty nine weeks to be in clean? And now we see Jesus manifested through the Gospels. And also the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Right up front, initial chapters were a lot about the doctrine, reinforcing the doctrine, but then the application. And then we culminate in the revelation that we just talked about. to any particular book you can you can understand where it fits in the broader context of the message okay so i i love doing these classes i think they're pretty exciting but And then the the prophets, right, the major and the minor prophets, again pointing to this time of Jesus Christ. It means complete. we see in Deuteronomy 6. just died of natural causes. But I wanted to show you when we talk about the seven churches in Revelation, these are the seven churches. Was it these specific churches that the message was to? uh intense persecution that was happening, uh just like in the day of of Paul and and some of the others. Jesus Christ. So Rob went through Pastor Rob went through the book of Revelation. A lot can be said about how people interpret the last times. Don't ever let that be a division between brothers and sisters. That in chapters 1 through 3. There's a couple things that everyone should believe as as brothers and sisters in Christ. Finally, only Daniel rivals this book in declaring that God providentially rules over the kingdoms of men and will accomplish his sovereign purposes regardless of human or demonic opposition. So it's important. And I won't go through John MacArthur kind of explains why he doesn't believe in that, but I just want to give you the highlights. insists that the events of chapters 6 through 22 are yet future, and that those chapters literally and symbolically depict actual people and events yet to appear on the world scene. John to the seven churches that are in Asia, grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come And those who hear the words of the prophecy and heed the things which are written in it. So the the admonition, the encouragement here is to read it, hear it, listen to it. Now, here's the question, and here's a couple of views. um age, the the church age, if you will, until today, right? Another option is this is representative, this whole list of the types of churches you see in the world today. I don't know the right answer, to be honest with you. with where we're at. Right, that has to be our goal so that we are not falling into this this um one of these categories and just the boldness that they have to have. And he was going through the book of Jeremiah, inquiring about how long was the captivity going to be. And tells him 70 years, 70 years of captivity. for your people and your holy city. to seal up vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy place. Okay, and that's where we find ourselves right now in the last days. shall not precede those who have fallen asleep. Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. Alright, so that's the rapture. And he has a name written upon him, which no one knows except himself. And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying, To all the birds which fly in mid-heaven, Come, assemble for the great supper of God. in order that you may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of commanders, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of those who sit on them. and the flesh of all men, full of free men and slaves, and small and great, and I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies assembled to make war against him, who sat upon the horse and against his army. Chapter 20, starting in verse 1. and because of the word of God, and those who had not worshipped the beast or his image, and had not received the mark upon their forehead Blessed and holy is the one who has a part in the first resurrection. He is actually put in prison. And I saw a great white throne in him who sat upon it, from whose presence earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them. And books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books, according to their deeds. your physical birth and your new birth, your spiritual birth, then you will only have one death. So to me it makes sense that we would be caught up before that happens. But understanding what did it say up front, right? quick um being a pre-trip it makes you um conscious that the person coming right yeah and you stay in check. If you believe in a pre-trip, right, that we will be caught up, what revelation are we waiting for before that happens? Or it might be a lot, but I don't think that'll happen. But it talks about until the fullness of the Gentiles is complete. They've made the parts. Um that temple is not um I think the security Israel owns the security, but all faiths can worship in that temple. Okay. So that they can have the three and a half years of sacrifices which he puts an end to in the middle. So that that is a view, for sure. All right, so let that be your your takeaway. Any other comments or questions on that? that way because we don't know when it could take us either. point but for us today you don't have an opportunity after death again we are in the last days why it's so important to be sharing the gospel message you will either spend eternity in heaven or hell I still think there's an immanence, right, that we have to live by, and we see that again and again in epistles of we are in the last days, and that's how we have to behave Because you could have something that like can happen in a couple of days or something. Right? Right? And a correct view of man, mankind. Righteous. The five the great white throne judgment I believe is only for unsaved. The children that will be born going the millennium. And yet it's the Holy Spirit that regenerates. Um again they can only be saved by faith, but that faith comes from where? for children. for those that have lost um a baby. Um we talked when we were talking about the angels that there appears to be angels that minister to the children. that after his days he fasted and mourning that he would see the baby again. There is no devil. And everyone can see him and there you start with all believers, but after I don't know how many generations is a thousand years Right, this is how you are to worship a holy God, this is how you are to act. At the end, Satan, when he's released, has no trouble finding an army as big as all the grains of sand on the seashore. The chart came from um somewhere else. And then Pastor Allen, the life of Christ. Um, I learned that that is more magnificent than I ever thought and more powerful and mighty. I do for my own kids at least. Don't start adding, right? Okay, good. Again, I find this chart really helpful as I'm trying to explain different aspects of it. Yeah. We're not meant to know it, at least not during this season of life. It doesn't say revelations, does it? apostles or or early church leaders, if you will, that was not martyred. So here we are at the close of the century in the book of Revelation. use this as a place of exile. And of course, where he received and wrote down the revelation of Jesus Christ. The gray box there to the right from MacArthur's commentary, the Gospels unveil Christ as his first coming in humiliation, right? Revelation reveals him in his exaltation, in blazing glory over his church, as its Lord in his second coming and establishes his kingdom, which we will get into. Revelation's primary theological contribution is to eschatology, the doctrine of last things. So Daniel and other passages, again we're not going to go through all of those. In Revelation. We're going to talk about four different views. Again, I just want to affirm what we do believe here, and that would be a futuristic view. couple questions for you. Because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. Alright. You will notice on this particular chart that the author believed that this was representing kind of describing the churches through time, starting with the apostolic Right? While I'm talking, Daniel 9, so you'll be there. You have this church age that continues, has continued for 2,000 plus years. And that talked about the image that was talking about the four kingdoms, successive kingdoms. One of the views, and again if it's a futuristic view, if you have a hermeneutic that is literal, grammatical, historical, you would say there is a rapture. or a catching up of the church to Christ. Bro, bring with him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus. And his name is called the Word of God. And from his mouth comes a sharp sword, so that with it he may smite the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. We know when church when Christ first came, what was his purpose? He's going to be the ruler now, and everyone's going to recognize it. And the beast was seized, and with him the false prophet, who performed the signs in the presence, by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast, and those who worshipped his image And I saw thrones and they sat upon them, and judgment was given to them. Prowl around the earth to irritate us, right? What book do they have? But then there was the Book of Deeds, and that's what they're going to be judged by. Or they can have two births and only one death. We are uh would label ourselves as pre-trib, meaning we believe the church will be caught up before the tribulation. Right? You can have post-trib. There are some that are Omil. I said, if the church age goes through the tribulation period, why does the church age live that go through the church you know the tribulation? By understanding again how they come at you with their eschatology says a lot about their hermeneutics. When that happens, that's it. The salvation is only for the Jewish that there'll be no uh Gentiles. Right, so the church would be caught up first, and then you would have this this miraculous time of peace. It's just going to be miraculous. Okay. So I I cannot conceive of him now standing before the God Almighty and now he's recounting all, you know, he says, I will not remember those as far as the east is from the west What a wonderful thought, eh? If you enter into the tribulation period, you will believe a lie because it's all it's all from the truth now if you don't know the truth. Okay. people with special needs that have not reached the point of reason. And and look what happens. And so he answers it by the things that he he he um plans and and does in the world. Okay? That I thought was a pretty good depiction of just kind of covering the Bible at a very high level in its overall context. Taking this and now diving into more specific books, that's what we do with some of our other growing disciple classes. Right, and we've done that periodically. We are to be growing, to be more and more conformed into the image of Christ. What else? It was like there was a lot of things in there that he couldn't explain to us and he said that The reason why it's like that is because God didn't want us to know. and to know that in the end everything's gonna be alright one way or the other. Absolutely tragic. And there was there was intense persecution happening at this time, right? located in the Aegean Sea southwest of Ephesus. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice, like the sound of a trumpet, saying, Write in a book what you see, and send it to the seven churches Seven golden lampstands and it continues. Seventy weeks to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness. Daniel twenty seven. And again, the 70 weeks was was describing who? Right? And probably didn't get good correct teaching, but there's a lot of different terms. You know, and then what are the purpose for the hundred and forty-four thousand if you already have the church and president? Right. It's imminent, which means us up. Nehemiah built the wall in what? So let's take a look at your notes there, the non-negotiables, right? Not not just the season. Alright, it's for eternity. Right. And then we walk through this just marvelous journey of the epistles, right? Revelations, Pastor Rob. Again, it's a tricky one when it comes to children, right? All right, everyone's like good. you know, it's hard for us to understand the whole thing with the children, like but it's for us to trust God Not that he didn't have anger or could do miracles or whatever, but Yeah. Journey to Rome. Revelation is a is a tough book. So they see, so that's I'll leave it at that. What does that look like? Is there literal symbology? The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his bondservants the things which must shortly take place, and he sent and communicated it by his angel to his bondservant John. Who bore witness to the Word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw. Oh, is this specific to the seven churches at that time, the time of John, or is it representative of the types of churches that have existed throughout the church age? Go to don't get ahead of myself. So what's happening is Satan what is Satan allowed to do today? and two deaths. and uh pre-mill. He could come at any time. I just want to know one thing. Now, remember I mentioned two books. It's you are now going to receive your reward, whatever that is in heaven, based on the good deeds that you performed here on this earth. The lives will be horrible. Yeah. What what I would say to you is theologically how is anyone saved? I believe one of the purposes of the millennium is to show us the depravity of the human heart because gone to hell so to speak because there's all these unbelievers. is just came to light fuller. And then at the end of that we have what's called the the second resurrection or the second judgment, and that's where you will have eternity past that point. So that's the 70 weeks that he's talking about. I like to think that everyone has one of two choices. also carry my family along, my son along. Um after the rapture, the next people are not looking to even care about talking about rights anymore. The revelation of Saint John the Saint John. So that's our focus. The historist approach views revelation as a panoramic view of church history from apostolic times to the present. Which view do you think we ascribe to here at Hope Bible Church? Right? I vote Smyrna. And they were a model church, and yet what did he say to them? Daniel was on the scene as a major prophet. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brethren, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as do the rest who have no hope. Then we go into the millennium, this thousand-year reign of Christ, you know, uh sitting on his temple, his his uh kingship, if you will, for a thousand years. I find it hard to believe that we as Christians need to receive that judgment. When we talk free mill, it means we would believe that Christ is coming again to set up his thousand-year reign. So so Mark, you bring up a good point. And I was going to say to what Donna said, it goes back to Daniel when he says that the man of abomination, it says in the middle of the seven years So you so make sure you always draw back to that. Everything else is burned up as chaff. For the millennium, the ones who enter into the millennium of Christ, they're all believers. We could never fulfill the law. Or or uh Esther talking about the history again, pointing towards Jesus Christ. As we've gone through these 13 weeks, from an application standpoint, is there anything new that maybe you learned that you feel is going to help you? And John on the island of Patmos. Fourth and final. Approach interprets revelation as a description of first century events in the Roman Empire. So I don't know if you caught that. I want to start though with Daniel. Just to say, again, as we describe these events, I just want you to show some of the passages that are being used to describe that point. Mark. So for example, Ephesus, and you remember Paul's letter to the Ephesians. Was one of the great prophets versus a minor prophet, and why do they call them minor prophets, you know? So that's where we're at right now. Alright, any other comments or questions? Amen. And that word revelation, the English word, that's where we get the English word apocalypse or uncovering, to take the cover off, especially of the glory of Christ and what the future holds. Many other rich theological themes find expression in Revelation. Okay, let's keep going. And I know one of the guys, Scott, did you have this one or carry? 927, Daniel 9, 27. And there's one of two choices, right? The dome, right. Now the aborted baby, um the baby that um you know, those who have children, their sinful nature is evident pretty early. Look at Jesus, right? The complement, you hated the deeds of the Nicolaitans. Then we have, no kidding, the second coming of Jesus Christ. Any other that's a lot I threw at you, but hopefully gives you some context when we talk about some of these terms and these periods of the order of those. We are declared righteous. So so Raymond's um talking about if I can summarize real quick, just children, what what happens to aborted babies or children? But so pastorally that's what I would tell you, theologically they have to be saved through faith. The science and art of how we study our Bible. Continue on. The complaint though was little strength, right? We're going to now start walking through this chart here. What this is saying is you have the Old Testament, right? As a saved person, your name is in the book of life. That many unbelievers. Um and I just would encourage you to go back, go to the scriptures, and and let that be your foundation for for what you would believe there. What do we do? Chapters 2 and 3 is specific to the seven churches. I have heard that. Oh right, or Solomon's temple. Alright, let me do this. Yeah, excellent. Okay. Alright, let me go here. First Thessalonians four and we'll pick up in verse thirteen. Now he comes just by the description in full battle array, right? All right, so again my intent here was uh a lot of I know when I became a new Christian, um I really was absorbed with with a lot of this. If you guys if we sit here and we're silent, I've failed you all. So good. And then you then you now have a foundation to have a more fruitful discussion. We should always be striving to protect the flock, to preach the word of God, right? But what I wanted to make sure is we just had a big picture of some of these events so you could understand them. Amen. Okay? That's where we are right now. Revelation 19, starting in verse 11. And they came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. Alright, so as we talked last week, right, when you talk about John, he is at the very end here. Laodicea, no compliment, and yet a complaint. One of the benefits of being in the military and traveling around the world, and you guys know this um often from following some of our missionaries. And when the thousand years are completed, Satan will be released from his prison. So because you I wake up every day myself and I I praise God for that and I just live for today. Where what view does that fall into? Um let me ask this final question. So this was after his three missionary journeys, and then he's taken to Rome, right, to stand trial. Continuing on at verse four Bayatira, tolerance of Jezebel, idolatry, and immorality. That's okay. None. It's tough. He's down there. All right. Party for the birds. They even have a herd of red peppers. That's the danger that we have. When that Roman Emperor died, it's it's like the um verdict was was let loose, if you will, right? All right, good. Now, I want to give you a summary of some of the different views of people as they try to interpret Revelation. Sorry to be flipping all over, but I think this is really neat to tie a lot of this together. And that's the deception that will come on the scene to bring that type of peace from around the world. For everything that we need to know about God in this life, to know about um our condition, both as unsaved and saved, everything we need is right here. So that's the format. I don't know if I believe that. It's an indictment these Christians weren't raising their children to believe in Christ because How do we interpret scripture? It could have been specific to those seven churches, but it's also applicable to us today. Revelation 19, and I'm going to read 11 through 21, because it's really important to distinguish Revelation 19 from 20, right? Fifty-two days. That's just to show that on this earth it it would never be right because that's the perfect conditions. And that's what he's going to walk you through. I've learned knowledge-wise, scripture-wise, but the urgent thing we can write these every minute Okay. We are in the last days. Genesis, most recently with Pastor Rob. Right. But yeah, good good distinction, right? Yes. Um those are all posted on um you know the class group for this, so I think you can go back if there's anything you wanted to reference. Um you bring up a good point and and Ann brought it up earlier, right? Behold, he is coming. Right? But you will be rewarded for the acts that you do here on this earth. For sure. We have Precepts with Anne. And that's hard. And for me it was the love of Paul for the church. Right? The seven churches to whom the letters were addressed were existing churches in Asia Minor, modern-day Turkey. Now we're going to get to the end of that thousand-year reign. You will die physically and die spiritually. Yeah, so because there's no time. Mark? It's tough. His own patmos, if you will, the abyss. That's the one, yeah. Alright. Now what that means for us is we need to be diligent about spreading the gospel. But um I've heard about that some people believe that before certain things can happen that's Um I know of some churches that believe in annihilation, meaning you will go through a period of punishment, but then you just cease to exist. Yeah. And again, we know John wrote both um the the gospel as well as the books of John 1, 2, and 3 and then Revelation much later in life around the 95 time frame. For sure. Yeah, so the in Daniel we read about the seventy weeks. Let me wrap things up and then we can come back to this discussion if there's any other comments. And we'll we'll see that he was um exiled on the island of Patmus. To go see where John was um you know on the island there. So this revelation John is giving and Jesus Christ is giving to the seven churches that we will discuss shortly. When we talk about a week, it's really seven years. Right? There are some that are post-mill that believe Christ will come at the end of the thousand-year reign Mark. Just gaining knowledge about this time period, you can now have that discussion, right? As brothers and sisters, we should all have this in common. So we'll be walking through the four gospels. The church is caught up to Christ. Right. These could be a hastily built. Get it. How did that happen? I think Pastor Allen has it in his uh theology class, but I wrote in the 69 weeks is from starts from the time of Nehemiah So, you know, there are um some classes you can take to really dig into um a lot of the meeting. So bottom line, I'm going to talk about, you can see in the note there, Hope Bible Church, futuristic view, we are pre-trib and pre-mill. And you can see in one column, most of them have a compliment. Daniel nine, verse twenty seven. And that would be you would not believe that the church would be caught up beforehand. Right. There's a I always thought there were two not judgments, but there's judgments by those that are unsaved. So if you are in Revelation, we're in chapter one. And I turned to see the voice that was speaking with me, and having turned, I saw the Right, this Alpha and Omega, an expression of God's fullness, the beginning and the end, his comprehensiveness. So again, he's saying, write this down and you're going to give it to the seven churches. Who's this to? Who are we talking about here? They don't believe in a literal thousand-year reign. But um agree, but we know who changes heart, right? I, John, your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and perseverance which are in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos. Let's go to Daniel nine. That's funny. So this is describing that period of tribulation. Read, heed, do the things that are written in here. I have heard that the imminent doesn't necessarily mean there's not like one more sign, but it does mean that there can't be like a long period of signs It's a very tough topic for sure. You can't say the devil made me do it. Even so, amen. And it's easy to get complacent here in America. So they're getting ready. Right. I would have to do more study on that to be definitive on on what um I would believe and and I want to make sure I would use scripture to do that. So so that um is going to happen during the tribulation. So he's not going to run through the list and say, hey Christopher, do you remember that day? Yeah. And then we started into the the historical books that really go from basically Joshua to Ezra. You saw the Holy Spirit move differently in the Old Testament. And to me that's an encouragement because that's cultivating a high view of God. That takes time, right? What do we use primarily to interpret scripture? This is a list of the churches. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first So it can happen. That is my understanding. We're not perfect in this flesh, but positionally, God puts on his Jesus glasses and he sees us as righteous. Jesus says, Let my children be. Was it a broader message? And it's for all. There's two books I just described. But there's also a side the there's no word in scripture that said that the temple has to be a lavish temple like So this I I grabbed this picture from the internet, of course. Absolutely. I know there could be a message in here for us to say, what kind of church do we need to be? Either the eternal torment or to reign eternally with Christ. Yeah. Verse 7, sorry. None. You have the book of deeds, that's for the unsaved. Where are we at in the timeline? The 70 weeks were for who? Suppose his his words were let my children go. We don't have a whole lot of passages, and we use scripture to interpret scripture, so let that be your guide. Don't start adding. So let that be an encouragement. And have confidence in that. It's the revelation to John or of John. For my research, as long as that Roman Emperor was in place And I'm going to jump to slide nine just so you can keep track of this. He was, because of that persecution, his boldness, he was now in prison, if you will. We want the best of all of these is what we we should be striving for. Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people and your holy city to finish the transgression. To deceive us, to instill fear and intimidation. When I deal with pastors who are post trib raptures, believe me, I ask a couple questions. Christ will come again. So two great, great classes and encourage you, if you've not registered for that, to do that, please. Did you find slides and notes helpful? Jeremiah 31, where he's going to put the law on their hearts, and they will be his people Everyone's going to recognize that Jesus Christ is Lord, that he is ruler. We read that in the epistles, did we not? Right? In Genesis 3. There's a lot of symbology. Anne is on what book or um segment four of Revelation. We will we will um go to Daniel, but it's important to look at all that the Bible says to help interpret what's written here. The idealist approach interprets revelation as a timeless depiction of the cosmic struggle between the forces of good and evil. So here we are, this is no kidding, right? And in our fallen state, we know what that looks like, but as a child of God, what are we when we are justified? It has such a yeah it was more than a commitment, it was like love for the for those people, real genuine love. Specific to those seven churches at that time or representative of So that's what this is depicting. Come on, Daniel. By God's design, he did not have 69 flow right into 70. Ms. Alright? Okay, good. Yeah, the island life, right? They don't have the larger ones like the menorah because they don't have enough gold yet. It's um it's emotional, it's hard, um, no doubt about it. So, you know, that map I showed you of the seven churches, that's where John was primarily focused in his ministry. It starts at Nehemiah and the rebuilding of the wall around Jerusalem. But Daniel goes on to explain an extended time. For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord Was it to judge? Okay? Yeah. So you could absolutely become a believer during that time. But I'm just describing, when we say pre-trib, that's what that means. Because there are some that that do believe that needs to happen ahead of time The Roman authorities had banished him there because of his faithful preaching of the gospel. That means the sacrifices had to be happening for the first three and a half years Not because of Satan and his influence, it's because of the depravity, like the pastor said, we're born in sin. Having a heart of Christ in them. So just for context's sake, that's the area that we're talking about. Alright? Alright? He doesn't come down on the earth yet. It's easy to get confused with this, it's easy to to cause division having some of these discussions And then time is short, we are in the last days. I was thinking Philadelphia because Philadelphia had had was very good. Over those the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him for a thousand years. Yeah. There's nothing left that has to happen, which means what Again, that was a really high level of revelation. Those are forgotten. Ann. And what did it do? Um the war is between God and Satan and um the questions that have arisen that God answers, how can he have grace, mercy, and be a judge? Yeah, you did. Yeah. That's right. And we have to accept that. Just like when we read the epistles, we don't say, oh, this was only for that church. We talked about in Acts the Holy Spirit, the helper, permanently with us. Alright, so that's where we're at, 69 weeks. And I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key of the abyss, and a great chain in his hand. Again, the the intent of the Old Testament was to kind of give that broad context. Any anything different? We we saw that phase with Nero, but we're seeing another phase with the the ruler in charge right now. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus There's a lot going on here. I didn't write it here. The cows that are getting ready to burn because you have to burn the ashes But you, God will also be judging your deeds. Acts, we talked about historically, that's the beginning of the church, the church age that we are in right now. Go with and if it's unclear, then it's unclear. And we'll talk about some of that, and I'll share what we as a church ascribe to, just so you know what that is. Okay? Futuristic. And so as you're interacting with people and you understand them to have a different view, you know that's a good launching point to say, well, what is your hermeneutic? There's a lot of symbology in Revelation, as we will see. Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him. Let me get there. So that would be during i uh on this chart, in this view, it would be during the tribulation That's it. Sure. Was there anything you're like, boy, I didn't realize that was true? We'll get to that in a second, but uh you can start looking at that Excel still more. And so let me let me just give you context so you can kind of follow along. Many scholars believe this is describing the tribulation. There will still be unsaved. Pastorally, I I think there's um the Lord loves little children, right? The pre-terrorist, not terrorist, pre-terrorist Alright, Daniel nine. So what happens prior to the tribulation? Jesus Christ, right? They're going to be held accountable, right? Yep, amen. That's right. And they all are judged and they all go to eternal fire forever. Everything matters in being right with God. You have to die to self. It's for Israel. Because w what is our you know, we talked earlier about cultivating a really high view of God. One more thing um about the millennium that Mark brought up, which is true. 15, where we start to hear first about Jesus Christ. The Pauline epistles, through all of his journeys, and then the general epistles, but what format did we typically see Paul do? Have rest in that. Here we are. Different viewpoints on that. That's 69 weeks. Again, that manifestation of Jesus Christ. Yeah. And he is clothed with a robe dipped in blood. So you see here, eternal torment in the lake of fire for the unrighteous. One, the Book of Life, where as a Christian, as a child of God, that's where your name is going to be. Just one more quick thing. Next quarter there are two books from the New Testament, actually six I should call it. But yes, of course. Search it, research it, struggle with it. And a lot of that is driven by our hermeneutic I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, who is, who is, and who was Um, that really backs way back here. I think you did cover this briefly in your uh time. So let's go back to Revelation. From Jesus Christ, from God. That's it. The importance, especially if you're a parent, right, to be diligent about passing on the commandments of the Lord. So why was he on the island? The second death is hell. Yeah, great point. The Church is warned about sin and exhorted to holiness. So 70 times 7, 490 years. Picking up again in chapter 20, verse 7. So you bring up a good point. The futuristic, right? So John is getting this revelation, and in chapter 2 and 3, it lists each of the seven churches and the messages to them. I'm not here to say that's that's the view, right? He's coming to do battle. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were completed. It was always pointing towards Jesus Christ So that's one of the purposes I believe of the millennium. And I like the quote there at the bottom. Okay? Alright, so we're gonna now let me go back to the chart. But there was another revelation given to Daniel. Different from the lake of fire that's going to happen later. Right? Our hermeneutic, a literal, grammatical, historical view of the Bible. For the time is near. Israel, the the Jews, right specifically. And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and he who sat upon it is called faithful and true. They can either have one birth and what goes with that is two deaths, the first and the second. They believe we're in that period right now. Christ is coming again in bodily form. Encouraging then. In few other books of the Bible is the ministry of angels so prominent. Yeah. Thank you, Raymond. You see how Jesus brought in the children and said, You must have this childlike faith, just like the children. It is not explicit in the Bible, but tradition has it that he just died of natural causes. Last lesson. There is no way we have the time to walk through all what that means. And then the last view, the futurist approach. Alright, so they they were opposing this this heresy that was happening. They have the clothing for the priests already I just want to help you understand some of the major events that are described. Now, we talk about the tribulation. But in the middle of the week he will put a stop to sacrifice and grain offering Alright, so I just encourage you, if you want more knowledge and understanding, again go to some of these very detailed classes That's it. Now it's a permanent indwelling for those who are God's children. Okay? Forever and ever. That's right. I think early on, maybe twenty-one, twenty-two, I sat through a class, first and second Peter with Scott Mahoney. Have trust in that. Those are covered now by the blood of Jesus Christ. And God can do that. I hope. Let them come. This would be modern-day Turkey today. We are caught up just before the tribulation. There's there can be no confusion. What does it say for the title of this book? Israel, right? And you can see there are others passages specifically in Revelation. Israel. And it was described in Daniel. That's the urgency that we have to go forward. After death there is no opportunity to repent. Great point. Yes. Alright, so that's the 70 weeks. Which then you'll give back the crown to the case. Yeah. Yes. They allowed that to seep in. Another option is it was written specifically to those seven churches at that time. It's gonna be this just you think about the events that are happening today, you're like peace will never happen there. I believe. Alright, a little background. And then there's a thousand-year reign called the Millennium. He was a major prophet though during what? He answers those questions. Right, good. And then I have circled there, you know, really small. So they feel this is describing first century. To contend earnestly for the faith. That's exactly right. And some will not. And John was arrested and placed on this island of Patmos. Regardless, we can still ask the question, right? Run the earth and irritate us. Um I didn't annotate it here. Who regenerates the heart. Yep. We have the poetry, those aspirational books. Yeah. What was the complaint? It's really, really easy because we have things so comfortable Now, I said we as a church, Hope Bible Church, Meaning it might be when the last person that God has designated to be saved I wanted to mention that. And some people will. And we see in the Bible You know that there are things that it's not for us to know and understand. I I love um I don't know if you heard what she described, just uh the magnificence of who Christ is, of who God was We see the implications though of that not happening. The 70th week is designated as the tribulation. To save, right? That's the physical death, but you will never have a spiritual death. There are some that would be pre-trib, but they do feel that maybe one of the signs is that the temple is restored before that happens. I'll start with this admonition. Right? So now he's he's let back out. You can now ask to to help understand their viewpoint and do that with grace and love, just like we do anything else I have absolutely no um doubt that they're going to go to heaven Okay? It was I mean like he always is seeing his books, his dedication love to Christ and Israel. He was tortured, though. Um again, that's not to be critical if you hold a different view. Right? Cut Christ coming to earth and you can see you might be able to see, you know, Armageddon, the great battle that's gonna happen here. So at the end of the thousand years, Satan will be let out for another kind of final battle, but then there is the white throne judgment. And then I each day because I'm looking forward to a second coming. And then the the last, the 70th week, is the week of the tribulation. Hmm So he didn't die there on the island, according to tradition. Um, the theme, back to your notes, the theme, obviously, the revelation of Since it is pri primarily prophetic, Revelation contains little historical material other than One learns about the final political setup of the world, the last battle of human history Scripture. Okay, so that'll kind of be the format here. And thus we shall always be with the Lord. There will be people that will be saved during these thousand years. And death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. We read in Romans, everyone will be held accountable. And that's where the temple will be restored and the worship will be restored. And then ultimately it's what? We we'll come back to that in a slide or two. Again, we talked about the time of roughly ninety-five AD, um the last surviving apostle That should be our attitude. And he is given two revelations. Gentiles That's going to be the judgment, and the wrath they receive is because there's an account in the book of deeds. You didn't treat your wife very nicely. So thank you for that. So you know it's not for us to understand. I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation. And the people of Israel. So again, don't let it be a division joint point. Right? You would have um, no kidding, the temple restored, worship restored in the temple. So what I would tell you is different views, right? If all this lies, the lies going back and forth. Right? It's a small island, as you can see length and width wise. Because he was he was boldly sharing the gospel. This view conflicts with the book's own often repeated claim to be prophecy. And then if we have some time at the end, we'll One birth, uh-huh. That's right. That's um um that's a big topic. Again, starting in the Old Testament. Based on this doctrine, now this is how you're supposed to live your life. So encourage you to take those. Right? Right? Yeah, so not that he wasn't persecuted, yeah. What's going to happen during these thousand years though is he is Also I think By faith alone, through grace alone, through Christ alone, even children, because we are born in a sinful nature. And then we see in the New Testament, right, immediately in the Gospels, the manifestation of what all these prophecies were about. Okay, so keep doing that. And that's true of all of the Bible, but specifically here, because we are in the last times. And then we get into a period that many call or describe as the tribulation. I'm not going to go through all of them. And it's the great big battle that's going to happen before what? We have Jesus Christ in person himself on the throne in Jerusalem When we were talking about the death of children, um isn't there somewhere in the New Testament when they Any questions about the seven churches? That tribulation, this is God's judgment raining down. Right. And the Lord will reveal that at some point So it's the urgency in my heart to live right. And Gabriel is sent to minister to Daniel. And this is where he talks about the 70 weeks. To the Great Commission. Right. So that's how that works. Yep. One thing that Pastor Rob did when he was teaching Revelation We are in the last days, are we not? It was, don't forget your first love. And the event that is showing here, and if you want, go ahead and turn to Daniel. Let's go back to Daniel. Or you can have two births Right? And so yeah, um I'm so happy I was in this I'm in this past And that's what I referenced earlier. Revelation begins with John, the last surviving apostle, and an old man in exile on the small barren island of Patmos. And we take that literally. And here's the verse I want you to focus on. They were lukewarm. Now Daniel Right? That's why these people say, well, the temple has to be in existence when the tribulation starts. That's where that And you can see on this chart I actually wrote them in. Um because, you know, with the gospels and and salvation and him walking the earth it was just saved. Right? The first coming of Jesus Christ that we talked about in the Gospels. Alright, but don't let it be a division. Remember we talked about the apostates were sneaking in. So again, I only say there are there are many different views out there. They will make it through the millennium. And they're the ones that Satan will have at the end of the time. I show this one of the few first lessons Um John is one of the only So that Western Asia part. What was um you know Paul preached or or administered to the church in Thessalonica? To share the good news. And they can't answer that. Yep. And what do we talk about? Yeah. Here's what you're doing well, as well as a complaint. We're not perfect, but you know Philadelphia had just preaching is good here. Pre-tribulation, the church will be caught up. Alright so I don't know if you heard what Don said. Some people will. So he can be both. And the armies which are in heaven, clothed in fine linen, white and clean, were following him on white horses. Yeah. If not, we'll just kind of summarize and wrap things up. So when we come up here, this judgment is for both It's we in it's not in our power. That's awesome. Right? I'm just showing you that could be a description of He's saying there's an extended time that God has a plan for the nation to work through your iniquity. Um, and now I'm applying that to my life. You were freed. And many well And all of this is on that chart if you ever wanted to download that. And and that's where you can start pulling the thread. Now, what will happen is what's left over is all the good stuff. All right. We started at the very beginning of Matthew, and here we are culminating in Revelation. Hold that thought. After these things he must be released for a short time. Yeah. In all I think and find God and being able to carry my family along. The revelation of Jesus Christ. We're going to walk through this. We should never be comfortable He's basically taken out of the scene, and Christ is now ruler with the church And at that time you will have a new heaven and a new earth and a new Jerusalem. So for example, I guess it was two years ago, Pastor Dave went through Romans These are the seven churches that are referenced. They're short. And here's what he's saying. So that's the second there. I believe it's Romans I want to say eleven You know to to Willie's point, you could stand up the temple pretty quick, right? You remember that from a couple weeks ago? The number of them is like the sand of the seashore. That's the revelation that was given to him. So as you now dive in Okay? Right? What's going to happen though, or not the temple, but um uh in the They need pure gold for that. Okay? You do believe that Christ will come again before the millennium, so that would be a post-trib. Raymond. But again I bring in the the the uh uh theological perspective and then the pastoral perspective and that's Let me close. Now keep in mind who who is he talking about here? There's this gap period for his purposes, for his plan. There's this island of Patmos Therefore comfort one another with these words. Meaning a physical birth. Yes. Right? The mystery was finally revealed. You want to know the Father? Okay. Let me just read starting in verse one. That's it. There are some, you can get all kinds of variations now Yeah. Yeah, good. All right? They were spiritually poor. And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne Does that make sense? No Satan and Jesus Christ in person and yet at the end it's all And it's tragic. And So those are the events we're going to describe as we go through time here. The time of the exile. Just as he ascended is how he's going to come back. That's called the beam of seat judgment where the Christians appear. Right? I think we would all love to see, you know, say that to ourselves There's some introduction up in uh chapter one. Mark. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring him Those first few books really set the law Just he just seemed to have a special love and attention for children, as as most of us do. But we need to interpret it against other scriptures. Yeah. Important. There's a lot on this chart, but let me say this up front. We're going to talk a little bit about what are the non-negotiables when we talk about the end times. You could see a smattering of all of that. We're not going to go into great detail into any of them, but any questions or comments? One is the dream that Nebuchadnezzar had We talked about at the end, right, there's gonna be this final decision. That's not how it's going to happen, right? And I'll come back to that in a second. Not physically short, but their books are short. Have you ever heard like people that believe that during the tribulation And that's what we've been talking about today. The millennium starts with all believers Excellent discussion. If it's not explicit Okay, good. But I have to go back to what the scripture says. You guys have been wonderful. Right. Blessed is he who reads, Absolutely. Absolutely. Um I show this map of Paul's um What does that mean? That's a wonderful description of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Was there a comment over here? Okay? There are many in this church that that don't align uh a hundred percent with With the hundred and forty four thousand of the two witnesses get killed. Um but do they die before they get to a point of reason? Go to 1 Thessalonians. This is the first resurrection Great point. Yes, the deception will be ex escalated Let me tell you this though And here's the complaint: you have forgotten your first love. But Yeah, so great point. And I won't go through all of those. This is the second death, the lake of fire Does that make sense They will believe a lie, because it's gonna be sold So let me ask, with a couple minutes remaining And the sea gave up the dead which were in it Um I just I would need to do more study on that. What do you do? So when we talk about, you know, the closed canon as being sufficient And so the Romans Great point. What should our church look like? Before he established his throne here on earth Okay? Anything you guys want to share? There are, however, some very detailed classes So when we talk about literal They were blind and naked. It's just fascinating, right? Does that make sense? Alright, picking up in Daniel 9, 24. We'll come back to that in a second. Um Mark, did you have another comment Yeah. My understanding today is quite plush, and it's a th Right? He was boldly proclaiming the good news of Jesus Christ. But the unborn And we'll talk a little bit about Right, we'll talk about that a little bit Was there a question over here? That's right. Thank you One is Hebrews, so Pastor Rob will be going through Hebrews. So I think like we all They were allowing that to happen. Because we are no longer under condemnation And right now we're in that gap period. The only one of that original that So that really excellent. Okay? Mark And then it comes up to obviously the life of Christ. So the time of the seventy years of captivity in Babylon. That's where you see the sixty-nine weeks. That's not what we just read in scripture We exposed it and too There seems to be this special attention and love. Here's the complaint that I have Wasn't like he had an easy life. Alright, a little background from MacArthur. Seventy weeks have been decreed And I saw thrones Because again, this is a growing disciples class. Don't let that be a division. What do you think So that's what that is describing. And there's a distinction there. Go over to So that's kind of the balance that I have. We'll talk about um the address to the churches. The one exception might be Smyrna. In the middle of that, there's a gap. But right now It doesn't have to be a lavish thing. Right. If it's not in here I have heard of that. We're all sinners. Just chill it. Yeah. Good Um