All right, so we are on lesson two already. And here's the outline that I gave you last week, and so just uh another look at where we're going and how we're going to flow through, if you will, the New Testament. Again, a New Testament survey is to do an overview, right? To kind of get that strategic view of what's happening in the New Testament. And the purpose is wise to really build that context. As you dive into a particular book during your quiet time, you know, it's easy to just jump right into that book. I'm hoping this class will enrich maybe your context of how that fits within the broader New Testament and then the broader story, that progressive revelation that we see throughout the entire Bible. Alright? So that's really the intent here. So as we mapped that out, I gave you this picture and I I also had a handout last week that had the schedule and this on it. If you did not get that, um talk to Jeff or Walter in the back and we can get I did note I made a slight change here, someone highlighted the fact that uh I do have my pointer now, that on the original it had Titus one and two, which doesn't exist, right? So I overlayed that with Timothy one and two and Titus. So I appreciate someone paying attention and catching that. So On your handout, you'll want to make sure you annotate that if you got it from last week, because um I did not make that change. But if you get a new one, I just want you to note that. And I want to highlight again a couple things, right? I have highlighted in the blue, this is where we're going to be today. We're going to be looking at the Gospels. And the Gospels and the Acts are really summaries. They're historical books that really give us a good summary of what's happening in the New Testament. Okay? And that's where we're going to start. And then the idea was to To dive into the books of the New Testament and as they align with Paul's missionary journeys. And there's a few exceptions to that simply because I'll be out and I want to make sure I can't do it. But for the most part, we're going to be aligned to how you see it here on this graph. The other thing I'll mention is There is not consistency across scholars as to the exact time when these books are written. What I want you to take away from that, though, is the grouping. Right? Those books were written in that time frame of about 10 years, 10 to 12, 15 years. Where they were specifically, we're not going to spend a whole lot of time debating that. You can talk to some folks afterwards to understand that. The one exception I'll make is John. Alright, we know that the book of John was wit was written well after these original three Gospels. Alright? Much later. In fact, after the fall of Jerusalem. So much so that you don't really hear John talk about it even in his um in his books. Alright, so I want to keep that in perspective. So John was pretty old at this point, all right, when he wrote these books So is that something to keep in mind, the authors, as you think about who wrote these books, the culture around that, but who they were and how old they were, what they've experienced. Right? So John would have gone through the the uh i um intense persecution and the fall of Jerusalem and then he writes afterwards. Okay? Any questions on that format or where we're headed? Okay, and then just uh again an overview, I think it's so important to understand the geography that you're talking about. And what you're gonna see in um the gospels, a m much of the New Testament is is this region here. Obviously Paul goes into further excursions and and some of the others, but you know when we talk about the life of Jesus, actually a lot of it takes place up here in Galilee. Um obviously a lot of activity around Jerusalem. Now he was born in where? Bethlehem, right? But he was raised in Nazareth. So a lot of time is spent up in that area. Um you know about the the uh we'll talk about it. His first miracle was where? Cana, right? Yeah. So you see that really close to Nazareth. So again, I think it's helpful that to get an orientation of where we're at. But a lot of time spent up here. Obviously, right, we know that Jesus worked throughout that territory though the Sumerian woman at the well, right? But a lot of attention up here to include Paul's missionary journeys. Alright, so good good idea to glimpse of the geography. And again, we had some of you uh chime in last week about you've been there. You understand what the geography looked like. And when we talked today about Jesus' temptation, right, you guys really brought to light what was the geography. It was bare, it was dirty, it was brown Right? There wasn't much there as far as greenery. And that's the picture we have to get to understand the temptation that he went through, the extreme environment that Jesus was in Okay, I showed you this last time. The the resource that I'm using broke up the Bible into these eight sections, and I like it. Because it it breaks up into the four major sections of the Old Testament. But again, this the whole theme is Jesus Christ, isn't it? This this whole theme of the Bible, this pre Progressive revelation as we go through time, if you will, is all about pointing to Jesus. And so the Old Testament is all about pointing forward to Jesus Christ. And here we are now. We get to see the manifestation of Jesus, God, becoming man. We're going to talk a lot about that today. What does that mean? And what does that mean to us? Alright, so here we are focused on the Gospels, right? God transcendent God now coming down and manifesting himself on the earth as God-man Pretty exciting. And pretty perplexing, I'll be honest with you. Alright, so today we are going to do a summary of the gospels. And I let me warn you guys, it's gonna be a real top-level summary. I mean there's so much in the Gospels. And I thought this would be a good overview to just give you some of the themes and understandings. But let me start with this. What is the Gospel? I heard somebody shout it out. It's the good news. It's the good news of Jesus Christ. It's the good news of salvation. It's the good news that In our natural state, we have a sinful nature. We are sinners. Right? That's what the Old Testament all talked about. We are in need of a Savior. The good news is Jesus Christ is that Savior Right? He's the perfect substitution. And we're going to talk about that today. So why four gospels? And why don't they all give the same account? If you read the gospels, it's not exactly one for one, right? They don't all match. And why do three of them kind of match and then you have the fourth one that's way out there? Right? I want to quote from one of the resources I'm using. I think does a good job of kind of bringing this summary together. The four gospel accounts are not biographical summaries of Christ's life. It is not a chronological per se summary. To some degree it is. But it's not a he did this this day, and then he did this, and then he did this. That's not the intent of it. But rather a theological summary. So that's what I want you to remember as you're reading the Gospels, taking them together, all of that together builds this theological summary. Almost all of his early life, from birth to age 30-ish, is left out. We know very little. We got the birth. We know a little bit about when he was a young teen. But other than that, we don't know much about his life. Okay? It's focusing on that time of ministry. So, why are there differences between these four accounts? And here's the summary that the commentary gives. If four witnesses should appear before a judge to give an account of a certain event, And each witness should tell exactly the same story in the same words, the judge would probably conclude, not that their testimony was exceptionally valuable, but that the only event which was certain beyond a doubt was that they had agreed to tell the same story. But if each man had told what he had seen, as he had seen it, then the evidence would be credible And when we read the four gospels, is not that exactly what we find? The four men tell the same story in their own way. So I know often there's the analogy of, you know, there's an elephant in the room and you guys are circled around the elephant and draw me the elephant. And depending on what perspective you have Right, I'm going to get bits and pieces of that, but as you bring that together, now you start to get the whole picture of what's happening. That's how I want you to think of the gospels Right? Some of the gospels share the same account and are very similar. Some add pieces and parts, and we'll talk about some of that. But together you get the whole. Together you get the fuller picture of what's happening in Jesus' life. Does that make sense? And so you see here a lot of the similarity between the synoptic gospels. What is synoptic? What is synopsis? If I say, hey, can you can that book you just read, can you give me a synopsis of that? What is that? A summary, an overview, right? A general overview. So the synoptic gospels simply give a general or common view of the same event That's all that's happening here. And that event is what? The ministry and life of Jesus Christ while he was here on this earth. That's the story that they're all telling. And isn't God wonderful? All of it is inspired And yet, each of these authors are different in their experiences, in how they approach writing Their styles, their backgrounds, I think it's so wonderful the diversity of the authors that God uses as he constructed his word, his closed canon. That's really, really exciting. And I think that is testament to especially our church. The diversity we have in this church is just remarkable. And I love it. And what's important is we all bring those experiences, those talents to bear and need to be used in building up and edifying the church. So we see that even in the authors of the books of the Bible. Alright, so just a little bit of a quick summary of the four Gospels. And again, the three, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, are considered the synoptic gospels. summary telling the the same story and John again written much later right really is focusing on the deity You know, Jesus as God. And I love how each of them kind of have a different theme about Jesus. So Matthew primarily focusing on Jesus as King And remember, the Old Testament was proclaiming Jesus as King. That's what the Jews were waiting for, Jesus as king. So Matthew starts with Jesus as king. Mark has more of a focus on Jesus as servant. And then Luke, Jesus as the God man, where John is more of his deity, Jesus as God. Right? And it's important to get that full glimpse of Jesus because he he encapsulates all those attributes, does he not? And so you can see the different audiences there. Matthew primarily to the Jews, Mark to the Romans. Luke to the Greeks, and then John really to the world. You see that addressed to the world. The emphasis on Matthew, the sermons, Mark, his mirror, Jesus' miracles. Luke his parables, and then John more doctrine. Right, again, you're getting a full picture of Jesus Christ and his ministry. And then obviously some of the major themes, the sovereignty of God in Matthew, the ministry it ties to, right? His servanthood, his humanity. We're going to talk a lot today about Jesus' humanity. It's really important to understand that aspect of Jesus. And then the counter to that is his deity. So we're going to talk about this. It's a really, really important point. Jesus fully man, but also fully God. Wrap your head around that. Right? It's hard. It's hard, but it's really important to try and get a glimpse of that. Okay? Yes. Um I I think it's of interest to note that in the New Testament often when it speaks of Greeks It really means everybody who's not a Jew. Yeah. You know the Gentiles and everything. And Luke, who wrote to them, was the only gospel writer that was not a Jew. Yeah. And we'll talk next week, but Luke was also the author of Acts, right? Um and let me cover it, it's in your notes here, but just a quick summary of the authors and and you know most of this. Matthew, a tax collector by profession, considered one of the lower levels of social strata, listed along with the heathen, one of the twelve apostles. And isn't that the Lord? to use the weak, the the minuscule, the lowly in society, right? Mark, um known as John Mark. John was his Hebrew name, Mark was the Latin. But this is John Mark, who Paul had an issue with, right? He was a companion of Peter. um on on many of his missionary trips. He was a cousin of Barnabas. And you remember, we'll talk about it when we get into Acts. Barnabas and Paul kind of went at it. Because I think Paul had the impression that on one of those journeys, John Mark left them, deserted them. Don't know if that's really what happened. It doesn't give us a lot of detail, but for whatever reason Paul was pretty upset and did not want John Mark to continue. But here he is, John Mark, the author of one of the gospels. Right? Um, I think that's just neat. And and later they did reconcile. So we see in 2 Timothy, uh Paul and John Mark did reconcile, and and isn't that the mercy and grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? So I love to see that and love to see Here's this man they had an issue with with, and yet he wrote one of the gospels. Right? That's pretty exciting. And then Luke the physician, we know that from Colossians 4, companion of Paul, also the author of Acts. And then John, also an apostle, the beloved disciple, brother named James. Often you see John, we'll get there, but he writes in the third person, doesn't he? Right, um the the apostle or disciple that Jesus loved. Now he's talking about himself. So interesting to see the different styles of writing. I think it adds a richness. Maybe one of the youngest disciples, part of that inner circle, you often see Peter, James, and John being pulled away with Jesus in certain circumstances. So even within that inner circle, there were those that Jesus spent a lot of time with individually. And as I mentioned, he wrote well after the fall of Jerusalem. in 70 A. D. So he would have experienced all of that um up until the time of his passing away. Okay All right, any questions on kind of that quick summary? Again, you probably know most of that, but I thought it was helpful to just to see some of the differences. And again, what I want to encourage you to do is you're now again diving into any of these books You kind of keep this in mind. How does this fit with the bigger picture of the description of Jesus Christ? And I think important too is as accounts are identified in multiple books, take the time to read those different accounts because you'll gather additional information. You'll get a bigger perspective of what's happening with that particular parable or miracle or what have you. All right, one more kind of summary before we jump in. Just a brief timeline of the life of Christ. And I want to note something here, that you see the footnote here, the BC and AD. Where did that come from? B. C. meaning before Christ. A D is that Latin term, ano domini, in the year of the Lord. It was a system apparently developed by a monk, and he was trying to get after you know trying to pinpoint um a calendar system, if you will, that started with Jesus' birth He got it a little bit wrong, as you can see, right? So Jesus was actually, most uh scholars believe somewhere around 4 BC. Right before that AD mark. And so that's important when you're starting to talk about timelines. Again, we're not going to get too hung up on, hey, how old was Jesus? Was he thirty four? Was he thirty-five? Thirty-six? Doesn't matter. He was probably in his mid thirties when he passed. Okay? And last week you asked us who have been to Israel to add that I learned when I was in Israel. All the monuments and then you look at Old Testament sites too and New Testament Instead of saying B C, they have B C E. And your guides, all the Jews here, they will actually what does that stand for? B C E before the common era. They don't want to mention Christ. So all of all of their dates when we were there were Yeah, so I don't know if you all heard Anne, but but some are sensitive to before Christ, right, and want to change that. And we're gonna We're going to highlight another event from the Jews where they wanted to change change some signage. All right, so keep that in mind. But yeah, that's a great point. But I think it's really uh it's just important to note that that Jesus was born before that this system um indicates he was. And so um you can see and and these are pretty solid days when Jesus was baptized based on you know looking at the writing and understanding um you know, other artifacts and understanding that history. So baptized around twenty nine A. D. and then he he died in thirty three A. D. So most scholars Um real quick, most scholars believe that Jesus' ministry was about three and a half, four years, and that's driven by the number of Passovers that are mentioned. Question, sorry. Jesus was about thirty-three when he died, but because of this are you saying he was about thirty-three when he was baptized and about thirty-seven when he died? So um let me say it this way. if this is true is BC and A D, it stopped at 1 BC and it picked up at 1 AD. So you lose like two years right there. So mid-30s. I'll call it mid-30s. Does that make sense? Yeah. Excuse me. Yeah. Not quite on topic, but Just really quick. Okay. Go ahead. Uh I think last week you'd mentioned that um the New Testament was written in Greek. Okay. New Testament written in Greek. And you know, all of New Testament. Yeah. Um and for the most part the disciples were kind of common men. They sp spoke Aramatic Um would it be would it be um necessarily thought that it would have been written in Greek if they were kind of Common men, knowing aromatic, would they have been educated enough to know and write and read Um I would love anyone who's been to Israel to chime in here, but just a couple thoughts. You know, we say un and uneducated. Some of them certainly were, but but Luke the physician, right, was I think a very gifted writer. Paul Spent years under Jewish leadership being extremely well trained. So he was extremely well educated. So I would just say there was probably a mix of of um skill sets if you will and again inspired through the Holy Spirit. But anyone want to add, I don't know if you guys got early if manuscripts are in Koine Greek, which koine means common Greek, it would be the common language. And um I've heard some scholars, they often say, the reason God chose Koine Greek to write his New Testament was because That is the most specific language that there ever was. Like we have three tenses. Right. Best, present, future. They got twelve. You know, I mean it's so specific that language that that it was written in. That's a great point. Does that make sense? I I'm not adding a lot of detail because I don't know, to be honest with you. But they found the manuscripts and they're all in Koinate Greek. Okay, that's a good point. Well I can tell you this. Um it's a great question and I I don't know, so I'm not going to try and dance up here. Um I I'm not I know that you know some of the writers of scripture were educated. Yep. And uh it said that uh for example um Hebrews was the most um technically Greek uh writing. in in scripture. So uh but in my thinking in my mind I was just wondering like for example uh uh uh Peter fisherman. Yeah. Would he have been you know, it's it's kind of a a blue collar guy. Would he have been uh as a as as technically versed in writing in Greek, if he spent you know most of his days conversing with his brothers and fellow fishermen in um in Aramatic as opposed to writing in Greek. With the education of the common uh uh disciple been advanced enough to know a second language. Yeah. Kind of bouncing off the fact that we in America, most of us, even even the smart ones, don't know second language. Yeah, yeah. No, I think it's a great point. Um, you know, Matthew Text Collector, I I mean you can go through the list. I think it only points to the the beauty of God and using you know, men of all types uh to to write the gospel. Comment in the back? Yeah, so uh the Apostle Paul was educated and he did he used uh menu ancestors to write So it's possible some of the less educated ones. That's true. Yeah, that's a good point. That's a good point. Great question. Let's keep going. Um good point though. Ultimately, though, we know, inspired by God, right? Um, through the Holy Spirit, and that's the confidence that we have to have, not in the men who wrote that. I know that's not what you were trying to say. While on earth, this is what's recorded. Doesn't mean that's the finality of all he did, but this is what we have recorded in Scripture. 36 miracles. 38 parables, 25 prayers, 16 sermons, and 46 predictions. Right? A lot of activity And what I we're going to cover some of this. So as we go through the rest of today, here's going to be kind of the format. It really is just a focus on Jesus Christ as we f as we follow him basically through his ministry at a very high level. I'm not going to go through here's the outline of Mark and here's the outline of Matthew. That's not what we're doing. Right? These gospels are all about Jesus Christ. So that's where we're going to jump in. And the idea is to kind of take a sampling of the miracles and the parables, to see what was taught, to see how that was taught. And most importantly, how do we apply that to our lives today Okay, so that's going to be the the format. Why we study the life of Christ? Turn to uh your Bibles, John 14. Why is it so important to study the life of Christ? And let me say this too. I got Carrie Kane in here. He works very diligently to put together our growing disciples classes, if you will, over time Right, so the uh idea is a survey like this to give you a good overview, but then we dive into these particular books. So there is a whole um semester, if not more, on the life of Christ, going through the gospels in much more detail. Last year we had Pastor Dave Du Romans, write a really important book. I think Hebrews is on the docket. So there's some some key books. Pastor Rob just did Revelation. Right, so the idea is the survey, and then we really dive into some of those books. So encourage you, we are being intentional about how we're trying to do that. Alright, John 14. And I am reading from the NASB if someone needs a ESV. I think I have a couple copies up here, if needed. John 14, starting in verse 1, again, why we study the life of Christ. Let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you, for I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may also be. And you know the way where I am going. And then Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How do we know the way? And then this is the verse, verse six. Jesus said to him, I am the way. And the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. That's why we study the Gospels. That's why we study the life of Christ. Because Jesus Christ is the way and the only way. and the truth. Alright, let's also jump over to Hebrews. Pass the T's, the Timothy, and Titus. Philemon Hebrews, Hebrews one, Hebrews chapter one And I'm going to start in verse 1, Hebrews chapter 1, 1. God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions and in many ways. In these last days has spoken to us in his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature and upholds all things by the word of his power. Verse 3 again, and he is the radiance of his glory in the exact representation of his nature. Do you want to know God? Know Jesus Christ is the exact representation of all of his attributes. So that's why we study Jesus Christ. That's why we study his ministry. So I want you to kind of have that in context again as you go through the Gospels. Jesus is the way. He's the exact representation of God. You want to know God, know Jesus Christ. Okay, we're going to start jumping into some of those key events and doctrines that we talked about, and we're going to start with uh the genealogy, right, and tie back to the Davidic covenant Both Mark and Luke give an account of Christ's genealogy up front. And that's important. Why? Because it establishes his authority, his sovereignty His lineage, if you will. It's interesting to note the differences between the though. Matthew's account, as you see in the notes there, has 47 names and traces the line forward from Abraham to Joseph. Obviously goes through the line of David and includes the line of Joseph. Alright, the daddy. Luke, on the other hand, includes 77 names and traces the line backwards in time from Joseph to Adam through David and gives the line of Mary. Again, when you combine those now, you get a fuller picture of that lineage. What's important though is the established lineage of Christ's authority and sovereignty. Um I'm sorry. That goes through, right, David, that's important, right, because of the Davidic covenant. I talked the first session about covenants are important. The Abrahamic covenant, that promise of the land, the seed, and the blessing. Right? And that seed through David. And in 2 Samuel 7, it talks about your throne shall be established forever. The Jews knew that. They knew that from the Old Testament. That's what they were looking for. They were looking for their king to establish that throne. Still looking, right? Right? So that's kind of the context of what's happening here and why you see some of the confusion. They wanted they were so excited to have Jesus come because they wanted to place him on the throne right then and there And it wasn't his time to do that. Was there a question over here? Nope. Sorry. Okay. All right, like I said, the lineage established Christ's authority and sovereignty. Now this we get back to one of Ann's comments He was mocked on the cross, though, as king of the Jews. Who wrote that? Who had that inscripted on there? Pilate. Right? And the Jews loved that, didn't they? They hated it. They hated it. What did they they said? No, Pilate, change it. We want you to white it out and put this on there. The man said, I am the king of the Jews Right? Right? They were always challenging his authority. Always. You see that with Satan, the enemy too. Always trying to challenge the authority of Christ. You see false religions do the same thing. If you can do anything to challenge that authority and negate it, you've won. Right? That's always always his scheme. But what did Pilate say? Alright, fulfilling prophecy. So I love that. Alright, so that's the genealogy. We have the tithe, we have the the sovereignty on the authority of Jesus Christ being established through prophecy through the Old Testament. So now we have the virgin birth and his humanity. And this understanding of his humanity is really, really important. So if you want to turn in your Bibles to Matthew 1. All right, we'll start getting into some of the gospels here. Let me read the comment though first. Lord Jesus Christ was conceived by the Holy Spirit. And was born of the Virgin Mary. He had to be virgin born to fulfill prophecy as a sign and to not be born with a sin nature. Right? That's really, really important. Through the virgin birth, he didn't have the the normal means of a man and woman coming together and that sin nature being um inherited, if you will. Right? He bypassed all that. And yet he had to take on that form. Let's go to Matthew 1. I'm going to be starting in 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit. And Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, desired to put her away secretly. But when he had considered this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife. For that which has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. For it is he who will save his people from their sins. Now all this took place that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel which translated means God with us. And Joseph arose from his sleep and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took her as his wife And kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Again, so part of that was to fulfill the sign, the prophecy. But again, this is part of God's redemptive plan. Right? His son had to become take human form so that he would be that perfect substitute. We'll talk a little bit more about that. So what's important, you see the second note there, to be our perfect, spotless, substitutionary sacrifice, Christ's life of obedience was critical. We often think about his work on the cross. Yes. Right? His death, his burial, his resurrection, absolutely important. We can't forget the life of Jesus Christ either. Right? Complete obedience, that testimony of complete obedience, doing the will of the Father. even through severe temptation is a critical part of being that perfect substitute on the cross. Right? So his life and his death are both critical. In his incarnation, the eternality existed, existing second person of the Trinity, accepted all the essential characteristics of humanity, and so became the God man. Again, the Trinity, right? The doctrine of the Trinity. Three persons, each fully God, in essence. But one guy. Right? Wrap your head around that. That's a difficult one too, but that's reality. That's truth. And we're going to see the manifestation of all three of them here shortly. Okay? But now one of them is being asked to now come down and take on human form. I mean think of the gravity of that. Being truly human, Christ experienced all the things associated with true humanity. He grew and developed as a child. He experienced fatigue, hunger, thirst, and pain Jesus Christ truly suffered, truly bled, truly died, and was truly buried. His agony and death included real physical torment. So let's cover some of those aspects again looking at kind of a preview of some of the gospels here. So turn to Luke 2. We talked earlier, we don't have a whole lot of insight into the time from his birth to the the time when his ministry started, do we? But we get a little bit of glimpse of what he m what happened when he was a child. So Luke 2, and I'm in verse 40. And the child continued to grow, talking about Jesus Christ and become strong, increasing in wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. So don't be be mistaken, right? Jesus at birth had full deity, and yet in his humanness still had to grow. Grow in his reasoning, grow in his wisdom, grow in his strength. We have evidence of that right here. Turn over to 52, same chapter. And Jesus kept increasing in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and men. Right? So you see this idea of him continuing to grow. Let's go over to Mark, Mark 14. And I share this with you because I I want all of us to get a sense of When we have now a high priest that represents us right in the throne of God at the right hand of God, it is a high priest that understands our humanness. And that should give us great, great comfort. Mark 14, 33. And he took with him Peter and James and John, right? They're that inner crew, if you will, and began to be very distressed. and troubled. And he said to them, My soul is deeply grieved to the point of death. Remain here and keep watch. Alright, this was obviously in the garden um right before the events took place and you get this sense of this deep, deep grieving and sorrow. That's our Lord. That's our Lord Jesus Christ who has that humanness. Is it okay for us to grieve and go through deep sorrow? It absolutely is because we have a high priest that understands us. How we respond with all that is also important, and we have an example in Jesus Christ. We still are accountable for our behavior, but it is okay to go through some of those periods of deep, deep sorrow because we have a Savior that can understand us. Okay? Any other examples? There are lots of examples of Christ's humanness, if you will. Throw some of those at me. Okay. Thirst, wept, good? He was hungry? He was hungry, right? After the temptation. He was hungry without sin. Yeah. Sleepy. Sleepy? Alright, he slept in the boat, right, where the storm is raging all around and everyone's freaking out and he's he's fast asleep. Don't you wish you could do that sometimes? And the boats weren't that big. They weren't like you know it you didn't have like down below like with Jonah, it was like like a like a put a boat to go fishing in kind of maybe? Yeah, they they were I did a little research on this. They're pr they were pretty big boats, but they still would have felt you know, the impact. We all would have been freaking out if we were on those books. Yeah. Yeah. So good. Lots of lots of examples of his humanists. I want to focus though on um let's go over to Hebrews 2 I told you we'd be flying around today. Hebrews two This is another important um aspect of understanding our high priest and our advocate. Hebrews 2:18. Let me start in seventeen. Therefore, he had to be made like his brethren in all things, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest, like I've been talking about, in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation. That means to appease the wrath of God. for the sins of the people. And here's the verse 18. For since he himself was tempted in that which he has suffered, he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted. You know, when you see passages like that, I hope you're underlining them in your Bible. Those are great sources of comfort. Very similarly, go over to Hebrews 4. Verse 15, Hebrews 4, 15. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weakness, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are. Yet Without sin. He understands temptation. Um I want to read, this is a commentary from John MacArthur, kind of puts this in perspective. The genuineness of Christ's humanity is demonstrated by the fact that he was subject to temptation. By experiencing temptation, Jesus became fully capable of understanding In sympathizing with his human brethren. He felt the full force of temptation. Now think about this. Though we often yield to temptation before we feel it feel its full force, Jesus resisted temptation even when the greatest enticement for yielding had become evident, referring to Matthew 4 and that temptation. We'll talk about that. But do you understand that we often yield quickly? Where Jesus, he never sinned, so he never gave into that temptation. Is it a sin to be tempted? No. What you do with that temptation, that's where the sin can come in. But Jesus would often feel the full brunt of that where we easily give in, right? And don't. So I thought that was helpful to understand. As we have um an advocate, a high priest who can sympathize with us. maybe even to a greater extreme than than we can ever imagine. Alright, so now we get to kind of the start of his ministry, the baptism. So let's flip back over to Matthew 3 Matthew 3, and I'm in 13. Bottom line, Jesus' baptism was the beginning of his earthly ministry. Alright? Matthew 3, 13, and Jesus has arrived from Galilee at the Jordan coming to John to be baptized by him. But John tried to prevent him, saying, I have need to be baptized by you. And do you come to me? But Jesus answering said to him, Permit it at this time, for in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he permitted him. And after being baptized, Jesus went up immediately from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove. and coming upon him. And behold, a voice out of the heavens saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Who do you see here in this example? The Trinity. Right? Here is Jesus, the second person. You see God the Father speaking, and you see the Holy Spirit descending. What do you see later in the in um Matthew 28 when Jesus says, um, be baptized in what? The name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Again, so I think that's kind of that neat connection. You see the Trinity in the baptism. Why the baptism, though? Why did Jesus have to be baptized? It's Jesus we're talking about. Fourfold reason, right, taken from commentaries. It pictures his death and resurrection, right? That we're we will see later in the scriptures. But it also now sets the example. That's why we we baptize ourselves, right? It's a symbol of putting to death our old sinful nature, rising up with as new creatures. Right, so it gives us the same example. It marks his perk first public identification with those whose sins he would bear And affirms his messiahship. Messiah, the promised one savior, right when God speaks, this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. That was for our benefit. That was for the benefit of those around. That was an attestation of who Jesus is, right? Again, going back to his authority, his deity. So it was a public proclamation of this is my son and strap in because now he here he comes. Right? The ministry starts We just talked about all three persons of the Trinity who are distinguishable there as in Matthew 28. Alright, so now we kind of move into, he gets baptized and right away he's put to the test. Right, this temptation. So let's go over to Matthew, well you're probably right there, Matthew four. Right? That is the next event. So Jesus Jesus' humanity on full display. during the confrontation with Satan after 40 days in the desert. And again, you guys did a great job, those who have been there of describing what that desert looked like. Right? It was desert. Forty days, think about it. 40 days. So was he tempted? Was he hungry? Was he thirsty? Was he probably um Strengthwise, just depleted. Absolutely in his humanness, for sure. Matthew 4, 1 through 11. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after he had fasted forty days and forty nights. Now I've I fasted like a day before, and I was pretty hungry. Right? This is forty days. He then became hungry, and the tempter came and said to him, Who's the tempter? Satan, of course. since you are the Son of God. Did Satan recognize Jesus Christ? Absolutely. Did the demons recognize Jesus Christ? Absolutely. It was just the Jews that didn't recognize him. Since you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. Then the devil took him into the holy city and had him stand on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written He will give his angels charge concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. Jesus said to him, On the other hand, it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to him, All these things I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and began to minister to him. So again, this idea of testing was not intended um to watch him fail. When Satan, when we are tested by Satan, right, it's to trip us up. When we are tested by God, it's to prove out our faith. It's never to trip us up. So that's what's happening here. His authority, his deity is being affirmed. You see there, right, I can't quiz you on it. Where did Jesus quote from? How did he fight back on Satan? How did he resist him? With Scripture. That's why it's so important to understand Scripture. We're not told to fight back against Satan. We're told to resist the enemy. And we resist that with the sword of the Spirit. with the Word of God. So all the quotes from Jesus are from Deuteronomy. In all three cases it's from Deuteronomy. Do you think Satan knows Scripture? It says it right there, right, he he quoted from Psalms actually. That's where he pulled from, out of context of course Right? His whole idea was to try and get Jesus, he understood his authority, but trying to get him to act independent of the Father. In his humanity, Jesus totally submitted himself to the Father. His goal was to do the Lord's will. Right? He says that often. And if Satan could trip him up just one time, it would be all over. But he resisted, which is a great example for us, is it not? Demonstrates how we are to resist the attacks of the enemy. Therefore, and this is from James, therefore submit to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Don't go head to head, resist him through Scripture. Jesus Christ was tempted in every way that we are, yet without sin, either in his body or his soul. He always did the will of his Father, as I just mentioned. Alright, we're talking about his humanness, but have to really understand his deity as well. All the fullness of Jesus Christ dwells in Christ in bodily form. As the God man, Jesus surrendered only the prerogatives, privileges of deity, but nothing of the divine essence either in degree or kind. He laid aside his right to the full prerogatives, or privileges you can think of it that way of coexistence with God and took on an existence appropriate to a servant while never divesting himself of his divine attributes. This is a really important fact to understand. He was fully Fully God in his human form, right? We know that he had that nature, and yet he was willing to give up some of those privileges of being fully God. What were some of those attributes that he laid aside for a season? Well he he said if if I want to I could call twelve fifty thousand twelve leaders of angels. Right. I'm not gonna do it. Right. And then that's my favorite one right here because I think uh this other state. Yeah Again, totally the will of his father, right? But think of his all of the omni aspects, right? He laid that aside for a time. Only the father knows when the son's going to return. Right. In that instant in that state, but don't ever believe that he he didn't possess the deity of God Right, the full essence of God. He did. And that's where it gets complex, guys. I get it. Right? How do these two work together? But he is fully man, fully God in one person. Alright? To what extent did Jesus lay aside the attributes of deity? A great passage is Philippians 2, right? Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bond servant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. This Greek word for empty himself, and this is Philippians 2, 5 through 8, is the name, the doctrine of kenosis, right? To empty yourself, conosis. So Christ's voluntary and temporary laying aside the prerogatives or privileges of deity during during his earthly ministry. He didn't exchange deity for humanity. Right? There wasn't a transfer there. He merely set it aside. The use and display of most of his divine attributes most of the time so that he could stay fully God but become fully man So a couple considerations. We'll talk about the miracles. Jesus did not perform miracles continually and indiscriminately. He did not perform every miracle he could have. Right? He just gave a great example of that right. He performed the ones that the Lord commanded him to perform for God's purposes and for the attestation of Jesus Christ and his authority. All right. Righteous living. Jesus lived a perfect life. We know that without any sin. He always did the right thing. However, there's some different views here. Scholars are divided on the theoretical question of whether, as a man, Jesus could have sinned, but successfully avoided it, or whether being God, he could never have sinned And these are actually Pastor Allen's notes from his theology class, so I just want to put that in context. It seems possible that both are true. He didn't sin because he successfully chose not to sin, providing an example for us If it were not possible as a human for Jesus to sin, then it would seem impossible for him to be tempted as we are. Yet scripture is clear that he was. And those were the Hebrew verses that we just captured. We know that he was fully tempted. Right, and and experience the full brunt of that temptation. However, he never sinned. So I'll I'll leave it out to you guys to figure out what view you want to have. He's God though. He could never sin Right? And yet, how did he overcome that sin and in his humanness did he rely on the spirit the Holy Spirit? Right? I'll let you grasp that or wrestle with that, but those are some opposing views. Bottom line though, he never sinned, and yet he fully understands the temptation that we go through. Miss Ann. I just want to give a shout out to my nephew here on raising his children directly. When one of my great nieces was just about six or seven, really young I was talking with her about Jesus and she says to me, He was all the way God and all the way man and I thought, wow, you know, that's that gets it in that really Yeah, that's awesome. That's awesome. That's it has to be incredibly encouraging for you to hear that. So that's great. Good Alright, so we we talk about his temptation. We're now going to move to his miracles, right? Again, another manifestation of Jesus and his deity. Did Jesus perform every miracle he could have? We talked about that. No. Why did he perform miracles? Again, I've talked about this. This is an attestation of his deity and to fulfill the purposes of God. He was commanded to do those particular miracles because of God's purposes. We talked about the first miracle was at the wedding feast in Cana. Changing the water into wine. Was Jesus baptized at this moment? Or did he do the miracle of Cana first and then he was baptized later? How many think he was baptized first? I don't know. A couple, how many so the rest of you think no? Or you haven't had your second cup of coffee yet. All right, let's do this. We've got to go to scripture to find that out. I had the same question. I wasn't exactly sure. So here we are in Matthew. We see that he is baptized. We see the temptation that we just talked about. And then in chapter 4, verse 12, we see Jesus begins his ministry. And specifically down in verse 18, chapter 4, verse 18, and walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, who was called Peter, and Andrew his brother. casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And he said to them, Follow me and I will make you fishers of men. So you see the name Simon, right? Let's go over to John. John is where you see this miracle of the water being turned into wine at the wedding feast. Alright, that's in chapter two. In chapter one, though, we see I guess it's in starts in thirty-five, right? W his first converts, but I wanted to point out Verse 40. One of the two who heard John speak and followed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, but it mentioned Simon earlier. Sorry, I missed that. But it does mention Simon here. Right? So if you flow the two together, you see that in this case Jesus would have been baptized. He would have gone through that temptation. He was starting to call people. We have evidence of that here. And then you have the miracle of Canaan. So it is my belief that he was baptized already at this point. His ministry had already begun. All right. However, yes. My time has not yet come. That's the that's the same miracle here. That's a great point, right? He says that to who? His mother. What what do I have to do with you, woman? Right? Right, right. Right. So we we have to try and understand what does that mean that his time has not come yet. I I you know we'd have to go back and research that further. Pastor Gabe did a great sermon on that Um, but we have to be careful to to we have to follow the evidence. And the evidence as I just laid out says that he was baptized. Maybe it wasn't timed specifically the way that that um obviously all of this is from God the Father, right? But Um in the grand scheme of events, maybe you know, it wasn't his time to do what at that particular point. But the evidence shows that he was baptized. But great, great point. Yes, he did it. Yet he did it. He did it. Alright, we are going to take a look at a particular miracle, though, and that's the raising of Lazarus. So let's go over to John. You're there already. Let's go to John 11. This is a really, really great miracle. As I mentioned, 36 miracles are recorded. This would have been the kind of chronologically the 31st. uh miracle that he performed and it's only recounted um or identified here in in John. So let me read this. It's It's kind of a long passage, but I I think it's so helpful and gives us great insight into our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So I'm s picking up in verse one, chapter eleven, verse one. Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of Bethany. Um do you remember where Bethany is? Right? It's close down here to Jerusalem. So that's what we're talking about. The village of Mary and her sister Martha. Now you remember Martha and Mary before, right? There was a an engagement, and I want you to pay particular attention to Martha and Mary in this case. And it was the Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment. You remember this, right? And wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick, who was in the background, a busybody saying, How come she's not helping me? It was Martha. Watch what happens. The sisters therefore sent to him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom you love is sick. And when Jesus heard it, he said, The sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified by it. Do you see that? The purpose here? It's to glorify God. This miracle. Always the miracles I want you to be thinking about. What aspect is Jesus trying to draw out here? Right? And it's always about giving glory to God. But let me give you the bottom line. In this particular case, it's Jesus' power over death. Right? We see here in this miracle power over death. What do we see death on the cross is victory over death. Right, picking up in verse 5. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. When therefore he heard that he was sick, he stayed then two days longer in the place where he was. That was intentional Right? He could have hurried on and got to Lazarus much quicker, but he says, nope, we're going to stick around for two more days. He knew what was going to happen Then after this he said to the disciples, Let us go to Judea again. Right, back down to Judea. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world But if any one walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him. This he said, and after that he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep. But I go that I may awaken him out of sleep. Did the disciples understand that? Nope. The disciples therefore said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. He'll wake back up Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought he was speaking of literal sleep. Jesus sometimes has to be very direct, doesn't he? Verse 14, then Jesus therefore said to them plainly, Lazarus is dead. Make no mistake, he is dead. And because I waited around, he is dead. And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe, but let us go to him. Thomas, therefore, who was called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him meaning Jesus, right? Because he was going into um a dangerous territory. So when Jesus came, he found that he had already been in the tomb four days. Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. Martha therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet him. But Mary still sat in the house. This is precious Martha therefore said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you. What a change in heart attitude In Martha. Jesus said to her, Your brother shall rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me shall live even if he dies. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? This is great. She said to him, Yes, Lord. I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, even He who comes into the world. I'm sure he was very encouraged that day as well, right, to hear that from Martha. And when she had said this, she went away and called Mary, her sister, saying, Secretly, the teacher is here, and he is calling for you. And when she heard it, she arose quickly and was coming to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met him. The Jews then, who were with her in the house, and consoling her, when they saw that Mary rose up quickly and went out, followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Therefore, when Mary came where Jesus was, she saw him. and fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her also weeping He was deeply moved in spirit. We talked about his humanity today, right? Do you get this? He was deeply moved. He was deeply sorrowful. He was human. He was deeply moved in spirit and was troubled, and said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. And the shortest, most precious verse in all the Bible, Jesus wept. Does that not describe just this beautiful humanness of our Lord and Savior? Jesus wept. And this is not a sniffling, a crying, it's a deep, sorrowful weeping. And so the Jews were saying, Behold, how he loved him. But some of them said, Could not this man who opened his eyes of him was who was blind have kept his this man from dying? So they again all the miracles that had been performed up to this point, attesting to his authority, they're like, could they not have saved him? He could have. Jesus therefore again being deeply moved within came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it. Jesus said, remove the stone. Martha, the sister of the deceased, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be a stench, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I Say to you, if you believe, you will see the glory of God. And so they removed the stone, and Jesus raised his eyes and said, Father, I thank thee that thou heardest me. And I knew that thou heardest me always. But because of the people, here's the purpose again, because of the people standing around, I said it, that they may believe that thou didst send me. And when he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. And he comes forth So really just incredible miracles. Some scholars think it's the greatest miracle because a lot of those miracles were what? Healing of the hand, the woman who was hemorrhaging, these physical ailments, here he brought someone back. from the dead. Right? But had he already raised Jairus' daughter? Yes. Oh, good point. And the widow's son anyway Yeah, great point. Good job guys. Yeah. So all of that in combination, right? Victory over death. All these miracles were Yeah. Yeah. Um it was profane through the Jews that he would So again, right, goes back to those those prophecies, those testaments about Jesus Christ, again attesting to his authority, his deity, fulfilling those prophecies, fulfilling God's purposes. Good. Jesus had to fulfill. I mean he had to feel every one of our temptations, every one of our feelings he had to go through Yeah, yeah. Good. All right guys, I am running out of time, so I want to do this with the the next section was to talk about his parables. And I wanted to highlight one particularly, but we'll just cover one aspect. You're familiar with it, the parable of the four soils. What I want to question or ask is why did Jesus talk in parables? And he actually answers that in the parable of the four soils. And so I'm not going to go through all of that, simply to say this in verse 10, and then I am in Matthew 13 is the parable of the soils. I believe it's also in Luke. But in verse 10, it says, And the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? Jesus answered them, To you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been granted. For whoever has, to him more shall be given and he will have an abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has, shall be taken away from him. Therefore I speak to them in parables, because while seeing they do not see, and while hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand In their case, the prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled, which says, and to Mark's point, it refers back to Isaiah that basically says what he just told them, right? They I'm going to tell them something, they're not going to be able to understand it. Some of the commentaries that I have read describe this as we will be held accountable. And if we understand it and yet don't act on it, right, that's just more condemnation on ourselves. So these commentaries believe that this is God, this is Jesus showing mercy. Right, by blinding them, if you will, they're not going to understand. Yes, at the end of the day, right, in our sin nature, they're going to still be held accountable. But he's not heaping on them more and more and more. Right? These are coming from the commentary. So I'll let you search that yourself. But he clearly used parables to to talk directly to his disciples that even then he had to explain many of them to them, right? But it was to hide from those, and it could be to protect the unsaved, right? So they're not reaping more condemnation. All right, I want to end with this, the Great Commission. Let's go to Matthew twenty-eight. And I did not specifically talk about, you know, his death and resurrection, because we're going to cover that in in great detail as we continue to go through the rest of the new Testament, but really wanted to focus on his life, his humanness, his deity, and how those worked together, um, so you can get a picture of that. But I want to end with um the Great Commission, and you guys for are familiar with it, Matthew twenty-eight, starting in I'll start in verse 16. But the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had designated. And when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some were doubtful. And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations. baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. So here he is at the finality, right, giving the Great Commission to the disciples, the apostles, and we're going to see next week, as we get into Acts, the church. Right? The church is going to be that vehicle to carry out the Great Commission. I included the purpose statement of Hope Bible Church there at the bottom, and let me read that The purpose of HBC is to glorify the head of the church, Jesus Christ, by building up and edifying the local church body so it can effectively outreach through evangelism to the lost world. Our mission is thus upward to God in exaltation, inward via edification, and outward in evangelism. Let that be your battle cry this morning as we go and enter a time of worship the importance of the church, the importance of the fellowship of the saints to carry out the Great Commission. And we're going to start to get into that next week as we look at the beginning of the church. Right, the church age, God's disposition, his administration of how he wants to carry out his plan of redemption. Alright, let me pray and we'll wrap up