All right, here's where we're at. We're already on uh week ten and we've moved away now from the the Pauline epistles, if you will. Right? We finished that up with the pastoral epistles last week with 1st and 2 Timothy and Titus. And any questions on what we covered last week? I love this kind of passing the baton, if you will, and and we work through some of the tone of those messages to Timothy and Titus, a contrast in leadership styles, and yet both men very faithful Establishing the churches in their regions. And that was a message not only to them, but to us, right? To the to the churches today. This is how you are to act. This is how you are to govern. Right? So a lot of uh excellent churches But any questions, comments? Good? Okay. So we're going to move into the last part now is um what we call the general epistles, obviously not written by Paul. And I've just moved the bubble to show that we're going to be working on James and 1st and 2nd Peter. And you can see the timeline difference. So again, I mentioned up front we were not going to do this in chronological order, right? And that was not the intent. But we wanted to work the context around Paul's missionary journeys, and I think I think we did that well, and now we're on to these general epistles. But there are many believe that James was actually the first book in the New Testament. Right? One of the earliest books was James. Now I'm going to show you here. It's hard to read or see, but there's this little line that comes up here before AD 50. So probably 48-ish, 49-ish. So that's a little bit different than what you see on this chart. Again, I mentioned the charts don't come from the same place. There's a little bit of a discrepancy there But I added this call out. You know, we covered the Council of Jerusalem. You remember that in Acts 15? That was a pivotal point in the church. And what were they trying, what was the issue? Do you remember Following the law. Following the law, right? Judaizers were trying to add to the message of salvation. The gospel of grace alone. They were trying to add to it. You need to be circumcised. Right? So that was a really, really big deal. You don't see that mentioned in the book of James. So that's why many scholars believe that James was written before the Jerusalem Council. So that's why you have an early dating now. There are some views that believe it's after, and you can read up on that. But I'm of the opinion, I would agree, that it was probably written before the Council at Jerusalem, which makes it one of the earliest books, like I said, in the New Testament. Okay. Alright, so if you can open up your Bibles to the book of James And the theme of James is the effects of true saving faith. And we're going to get into this a little bit. So he's talking to Jewish believers. Right, that are saved, and what he's gonna really hone in on is these are the effects that we should now be seeing. Alright, and we're gonna have that discussion, it's a good one. But a little bit about James. Who is James? Anyone know right off the bat? One ten minutes, Mark. Hold on a second. Mark, go ahead. They believe he was the half brother of Christ. Yes, he was a half-brother of Christ. That's what I wanted. All right? Many people don't realize that, but he was. How many brothers and sisters did Jesus have? We don't know those. We don't know for sure. Multiple. Right? But when you read scripture, there was at least seven children in that family. It talks about four brothers. Jesus and the sisters are plural. So you get at least seven from that equation. Right? Many people don't realize that was a pretty big family. There was another brother that wrote an epistle. Do you know who that is? Jude. Right? Jude was also a brother and technically a half-brother, correct? Like you said, Mark, of Jesus Christ. So what we see in Scripture, though, um And any of you ever go through this, the Twelve Unlikely Heroes? I know Jim and Becky you guys have. We did this as a small group last year, and it was a good, it was a fun read. Um and one of the unlikely heroes that John MacArthur has in the book is James. So it was very interesting. But initially what we see is all the brothers, and maybe the sisters, but it specifically talks about the brothers, rejected Jesus While he was here on the earth. Now let's pause here for a second. How many of you grew up in a family with siblings Right, most of us. I want you to think about growing up in a family where your brother is Jesus Christ. What runs through your head? Oh it was perfect. He was perfect. Can you see Joseph and Mary? Do you have a favorite child? No, no, we don't. No. But that other that guy over there? Could you imagine? Sinless, perfect So up until this point, up until his death, there's indication, right, and you'll see that in John 7. 5, that they did not believe. And yet James becomes the pillar of the Church of Jerusalem. Alright? It is believed that he was saved after Jesus' resurrection So let me read a little snippet from the Twelve Unlikely Heroes. No indication is given in any of the four Gospels that Jesus' brothers came to believe him during the years of his public ministry. But after his death, resurrection, and ascension, there is a dramatic and miraculous change. His brothers are present among the believers who have gathered in the upper room, awaiting the coming of the Spirit of Pentecost. According to Acts 114, after Jesus ascended to heaven, the apostles continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers James, Simon, Joseph, and Jude, no longer antagonistic, had come to believe in him as Messiah and Lord. What had produced this miracle? How had his recalcitrant brothers, and James in particular, come to saving faith so that they joined the ranks of those who follow Jesus The amazing answer is found in 1 Corinthians 15, where Paul surveyed the post-resurrection appearances of the Lord. So this is Paul addressing the crowd in Corinthians. For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that He was buried, and that He rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. and that he was seen by Cephas, which is Peter, then by the twelve. After that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remains to the present, but some have fallen asleep After that, he was seen by James, then by all the apostles. As this passage explains, Jesus personally appeared after his resurrection to James and possibly to the other brothers also What a stunning reunion that must have been. Undoubtedly it was the moment of James' conversion and explains why he was among the believers in the upper room. He had seen the resurrected Christ and confessed his brother as Lord. So you can imagine, just think about this, this you know, whole time on earth, 33, 34 years. Antagonistic, never believing in Jesus as Messiah. And then he sees him, the resurrector. Here's my brother, who I just saw die, resurrected. What a beautiful miracle that must have been when James was converted. And then he's in this book, The Twelve Unlikely Heroes, because the incredible role that he played in the church at Jerusalem. Right? He was probably their first pastor, but you don't See James moving around on missionary journeys. He was the foundation, the rock at Jerusalem. And played a pivotal role. We won't go back to that, but You can look in in uh Acts fifteen at the Jerusalem Council. After hearing all the debate, he was the one that stood up and said, This is what we're going to do. Right? Credible leadership. We talked about one of the first New Testament epistles written, the pillar, leader in the Jerusalem church. And regarded as a pillar, along with Peter and John. Right? You often heard that. Paul talking about the pillars in the church at the time, James, Peter, and John. And although it's not written in Scripture, tradition has it, he was martyred in 62 A. D. I think he was thrown off the temple, and then he was stoned to death by the crowd. Obviously many of those early leaders were were martyred. Alright, so let's jump into a little bit of background and then we'll jump into scripture. Again, this is from MacArthur's commentary. And good, I think it's just helpful to get a bit of context before we jump in. The recipients of this book were Jewish believers who had been dispersed, possibly as a result of Stephen's martyrdom. You remember that in Acts Right, Stephen was stoned and then there was a dispersion because of the the persecution that was happening. And who was the the ringleader during that persecution at the time, do you remember? Saul. Saul at the time. Again, just amazing God's miraculous work The author refers to his audience as Brethren fifteen times, which was a common epithet among the first century Jews. Not surprisingly, then, James is Jewish in its content. For example, the Greek word translated assembly is the word for synagogue. Further, James contains more than 40 allusions to the Old Testament and more than 20 to the Sermon on the Mount. James, with its devotion to direct, pugnant statements on wise living, is reminiscent of the book of Proverbs. Many people call James the Proverbs of the New Testament. Right? It's very similar in its its format. It has a practical emphasis, not emphasizing theoretical knowledge, but godly behavior. We've seen this pattern, haven't we, in the last several epistles that we've looked at Paul in some of his talks up front about that doctrine, but then quickly gets into application. You know, the books of Timothy and Titus, we saw a lot of application versus a lot of doctrinal truth. Let's see here. James wrote with a passionate desire for his readers to be uncompromisingly obedient to the Word of God. He used at least 30 references to nature lot of nature in his uh epistle. This befits one who spent a great deal of time outdoors. He complements Paul's emphasis on justification by faith with his own emphasis on spiritual fruitfulness demonstrating to faith. And we're going to dive into that a little bit more. We've done a little bit of that here, but we'll cover it again just for review. Alright, so let's jump into the book of James. And we're going to start, and again, this is a survey, so I'm just I'm picking some of the big nuggets from these books for time's sake, and always encourage you to go back and dive in a little bit more. But an interesting one is this idea of testing versus temptation. And so we'll dig into that. Does God test or tempt? Test. Alright, let's dig in. Verse 1. Let's start with verse 1. Because I always like to see how the epistles start. How do they start their introduction? And just like Paul, what does James do? James, a bond servant of God. A bond servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes who are dispersed abroad, greeting. So again, this was not to a particular church, it was to be spread abroad. Yes. Because he's also and he's also a bond servant of the Lord. Yeah. Ah, great point and great point. Yes, I didn't even recognize that. Right? A bond servant of God and the Lord Jesus Christ. My brother. Right? Phenomenal. Phenomenal. Consider verse 2. Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials. There we see it again. Do you remember any other passages that kind of align with this idea of joy during our trials? Anything pop out to you? Thessalonians were at all times prayed with joy. Uh oh I got it halfway through. I heard someone mentioned Philippians. Right? Philippians four we talked about. Rejoice. I say again, rejoice always. Right? And when you pray with thanksgiving. Verse 3, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance. We often look at testing as a negative, right? I'm being tested again. Let these verses encourage you. Testing of your faith produces endurance. Right? There's a fruit that comes out of our testing And let endurance have its perfect result that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. What is that describing? Sanctification. Sanctification. Exactly. Right? That is the process we are going through here on this earth. Yes. Romans 5. 3. Knowing that tribulation worketh patience. Yeah, yeah, good. Good connection there. Very good. Alright, so let's let's continue this thread of testing and temptation. Let's go up to verse 13. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted by evil. And he himself does not tempt anyone. So if anyone tells you, yeah, but I was being tempted by God, you can go right to this verse. God will not tempt us. So look at the little gray box over there. A description of testing versus tempted. So that word testing in verse 3, it's a means of proving, for example, our faith. Right? It's a means of proving versus being tempted, which is a solicitation to sin. The intent is to trip you up. To make you sin. And I have the reference there. Where did we see that with Jesus? Matthew 4. Right? When Satan takes him out, he's taken out into the desert to tempt Jesus. It's to trip him up. That's the whole intent. But it's simply a box to the side, and it gives you a quick definition of testing, right, which is that means of proving versus being tempted. which is the solicitation of sin. And the reference there is Matthew 4. 1. So it's really important to keep those two different. God does not tempt, but he absolutely tests. Why? To trip us up? No, to prove our faith, to help us in our sanctification. Huge, huge difference that we have to understand. Absolutely. That's always important. Because he knows everything, but we don't know everything. Right, right. Karen, did you have to check out the verse? Okay. eighteen is all circumstances give thanks. If you're giving thanks, you gotta be joyful while you're doing that. So all circumstances means what? It's not dependent on circumstances. It's not dependent on how we're feeling that day, right? It's all circumstances. Good, good connection. All right, very familiar first, but flip back over to First Corinthians. First Corinthians ten. 1 Corinthians 10, 13. No temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man, and God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. But with the temptation will provide the way of escape also, that you may be able to endure it. God does not tempt. Does he allow us to be tempted? Yep, and why are we tempted? Hold that thought, we're gonna get into it. Right? Yes, absolutely, there is spiritual warfare going on, but I want you to pay attention When it talks about why we end up tempting or being tempted and why we sin, James doesn't talk about spiritual warfare. He talks about us Alright, so watch that as we go through this. Why is this comforting what I've just read in First Corinthians? Mark. Segments right there to tell you you're no good. Yep. You're not a follower. But when you do something that's out of the ordinary that helps others, you know that it only comes from God. Amen The Holy Spirit. Yeah. Good. Any other thoughts on First Corinthians ten? It's a it's a huge encouragement. What makes a way of escape is like I have here's the one way of temptation, here's the way of escape. You've got to ch you can make a choice. It gives us hope, doesn't it? Yeah. I mean I I would say this. I think all of us have certain areas that we struggle with. Right? More more some more than others in certain areas. I I just I I think everyone has those And yes, we can conquer that sin, that it wouldn't we would not be a slave to it. But it might mean that that that area specifically is a temptation to you. This is the hope that says nothing can overcome it. We can overcome that through the power of the Holy Spirit. What else does it say about Jesus Christ? That he's faithful. And I'm sorry, not particular in this verse, but what do we know about Jesus Christ, his life? He never gave in to temptation. And what does he do now? He sits at the right hand of God, interceding for us, understanding this temptation that we're going through. And here it says, God will give you a way to overcome that temptation. Right? That should be just an incredible encouragement to all of us. So a good good this idea again very important. So flip back to James of testing versus temptation. God does not tempt us. If you believe you are being tempted by God, just shut it down. And go back to the Word of God. Go back to James. It's very clear. He himself does not tempt anyone. Good. All right. So that's kind of a key area of all of this is you know James talking really about sin and the difference between testing and temptation. Let's go after another big area. Let's flip down to verse 19. This you know, my beloved brethren, but every let everyone be quick to hear Slow to speak and slow to anger. What a different world we live in if we would practice this. Even within the church, guys. Even within the church, quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger. For the anger of man does not achieve the righteousness of God. So let me ask you. Can we as human beings ever have a righteous anger? Yes. Okay? What's that look like? Give me an example. You're angry about injustice. Okay. And about things that uh Chinese got. Yep. Okay? Where do we see giving example of Jesus displaying righteous anger? Temple. Temple? Good. Right overturning the tables? Ann, are you going to add that or something else? That movie that we saw at church showed John MacArthur was righteously angered at the government to try to show his church. Great example. She's referring to the Essential Church video that, or documentary that uh we talked about. Good. All right, let me go back to this comment, right? Can we have a even in what's happening in our country today, right? Um You could argue whether we were founded on um godly principles, right? I think we were, but we've moved way far away from that. You can be angry about that, but what often often happens in that anger? We sin. We sin. It is extremely difficult to have that initial righteous anger, and I agree with you, right? It's okay to have that. But what we do next is so very, very important. And I would argue it's rare that we can keep this pure righteous anger. It's rare. Right? So always be on the guard. Good. For the anger of man does not achieve the righteousness of God. It always goes back to the heart intent, if you will. Alright, let's dive in now. James is going to kind of peel this back, and it's really a theme throughout about not only being hearers of the word, but doers of the word. So still in chapter 1, moving down to verse 22. And this is a command, an imperative, but prove yourselves doers of the word, and not merely hearers who delude themselves. For if any one is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks at his natural face in a mirror. For once he has looked at himself and gone away, he has immediately forgotten what kind of person he is. But one who looks intently at the perfect law, the law of liberty, and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer, but an effectual doer, this man shall be blessed in what he does. If anyone thinks himself to be religious and yet does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart, this man's religion is worthless. This is pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father, to visit orphans and widows in the distress and to keep oneself unstained by the world So here you see this contrast. He's attacking the religious people of the day, right? Saying, you speak all the good words. But your actions don't prove that that you are faithful. Your actions don't prove that you are saved And he gives an example right in verse 27. This is pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father, to visit orphans and widows in their distress. That was not meant to be exhaustive, right? Those who are examples of demonstrating our faithfulness By works. And here's where he gets into the big discussion, right, that was happening, and that has caused a lot of controversy, to be honest with you, about faith and works. So let's go to chapter 2 And I'm going to start in verse 14. What use is it, my brethren, if a man says he has faith, but he has no works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is without clothing and in need of daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and be filled, and yet you do not give them what is necessary for their body, what use is that? Even so, faith, if it has no works, is dead being by itself. But someone may well say, You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well The demons also believe and shudder, but are you willing to recognize, you foolish fellow, that faith without works is useless Was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he offered up Isaac, his son, on the altar? So let me pause there for a second. And here's where the controversy starts, right? When you read in verse 21, what does it sound like? And I know we've covered some of this in class before, but we'll do it again because it's important. Was not Abraham, our father, justified by works? when he offered up Isaac his son on the altar. At face value, what does that sound like? Salvation by works. Salvation is by works, right? Adding works to the equation. If you're reading that, you know that contradicts with what you've read in Romans. Just throw Romans out there, right? And that was the controversy. Right, between what James was saying and what Paul was saying, and it's been debated for centuries. I've even read that Martin Luther believed, you know, the Great Reformer believed that that was a controversy. Right? He didn't reconcile that. Yeah, because he did become the church, right? Because they always weren't faithful. Yeah. And and you know, um we've talked about this before, every false religion, what do they do? They they attack the gospel by adding something to it. I mean go look at and I know we have uh Sunday school classes on it, attend those, but you will see every one of them add something to that gospel message. Everyone adds some kind of an element that we play a part in our salvation. Alright? What James is getting after here, and again the theme at the very top, the effects of true saving faith This is what you should be seeing. So in the gray box on your sh on your notes that you don't have I have in there justified. And we've talked about justified before. Let's say back in Romans. What did that mean to be justified? It's a legal term. Declared righteous. Declared righteous. Yeah, it's a courtroom, isn't it? Right? It's it's God saying, I declare you are now righteous. It also has the element of imputation, right? Where our sins are imputed to Christ and his righteousness is imputed. It's in our account. We are now clothed. Anne had the analogy of the red balloon, right? And I covered it in a white balloon, the robe of Christ, right? We are positionally righteous before God. However, in this verse, in verse 21, the term justification has a slightly different meaning to it. And it means to bring out the fact the person is righteous. It's to affirm. Right? To say that Abraham was justified, it's simply affirming that he is justified because of what he did. This is a quote from MacArthur's commentary that I thought was interesting. Salvation is determined by faith alone, and demonstrated by faithfulness to obey God's will alone. Did you catch that? Salvation is by faith alone, but it's demon, that faithfulness is demonstrated by obedience to God's word alone. You can say all you want about your faith. It's all about how it's demonstrated. That's what James is talking about here. That's what he's encouraging and admonishing them to do. All right, let's keep going And see if you guys uh remember what's going on here. Let's pick back up in verse 21. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac his son to the altar? You see that faith was working with his works, and as a result of the works, faith was perfected. And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. So do you remember what was happening here? When did that bold the bold letters in your Bible, if you have them, means a reference back to the Old Testament That phrase, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. When was that written? Alright, a little trivia. You guys have been here before. No, not you, Ann. Not you, Karen. Alex, do you remember? Say. He sacrificed Isaac? Alright, so what what she said is when he sacrificed um or was was willing to sacrifice Isaac's son, that there was this declaration now that um Abraham believed God and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. That's one thought. Sir. Genesis 15. Genesis 15. Which was before this event of Isaac. Yeah. Genesis 15, right? The promise was given in Genesis 12. That's where we see the Abrahamic covenant. Genesis 15, several years later, and Abraham's like, God, you promise this stuff, but I don't have an air yet. He said, go outside, look at the stars. That's the number of your descendants. And it was at that point that this was it was reckoned to him as righteousness. He believed. This is important, right? Because what James is saying is he already had the faith Now he's demonstrating it through potentially sacrificing his son Isaac. That's the proof, the affirmation, the justification in this sense of his faith. Does that make sense? Really, real important. I gotta be honest, the the f First several times I read this, you know, many years ago, that's exactly what I thought. But as you dig into this, I think it's really important to understand that faith came first. James is simply saying that's how he justified his faith was through his actions, which was incredible, right? This was, remember, this was the heir This was it, and he was willing to sacrifice it because he trusted God. He believed that God would be faithful Alright, it gets faith gets better. Let's go down. Verse 24. You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith alone. Again, that term justify is affirmed. Not declared righteous, but affirmed. And in the same way was not Rahab, the harlot, also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way. What was the story there? What was going on? They want to go to about how they know Jericho and destroy so they spend the spies out to see what was going on. Right, so so Joshua, right, is in charge now and he's gonna the they need to go over into you know across the Jordan and go into Jericho and he sends out spies ahead of time. And Rahab, right, protects the two spies, if you recall. And it's credited to her as righteousness, as believing, and she was justifying her faith through those actions. Flip over now, the story gets better to Hebrews. Okay. Can I say something about this too? Yes. Sorry. So I think that it's not just doing something for doing something or like the Parents just sacrificed their sons because they want to do that. But they were understanding and listening to that. So Moses Sorry. Abraham wasn't listening, the command was God and he was able to do it. So he showed his faith because He listened to that and he was able. And Rakhab in the studies, they weren't listening what was happening with the Israelites and how God was Deliver them from Egypt and all the powerful that can show and display and he fears and he believes and his white she adds in that way. Yeah. So it's not that acting for acting over follow a list of commands but just because They believe, they trust, they understand who God believes and they say yes. Great point. Alright, so if you didn't catch all that, it's it's not action for action sake Right? Um, Jesus confronted the religious leaders of the day because they were acting in a certain way. They were acting in accordance with the law That was not a justification or affirmation of their faith. And he confronted them. That was a righteous anger as well. You brood of vipers. Right? And so the point is it's only through faith that is demonstrated, and it's only through the work of the Holy Spirit that allows us to do that with the right heart attitude. So great point. Alright, let's go over to Hebrews 11. You know, that's the Hall of Faith chapter, right? And what's interesting is. Abraham obviously is in there. So let's start in verse eight. By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed by going out to a place which he was to receive for an inheritance, and he went out not knowing. where he was going. By faith he lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, fellow heirs of the same promise. For he was looking for the city, which has foundations, whose architect and builder is God. And then go down to verse 12. Therefore also there was born of one man in him as good as dead, at that as many descendants as the stars of heaven in number, and innumerable as the sand which is by the seashore. Where did that come from? Genesis fifteen. Alright, that's the the context that I just gave you. He went out into his tent, and that's what the Lord said to him. Right? As the stars of heaven in number and in numeral as the sand which is by the seashore. That's what he's saying your descendants will be. He was reaffirming the promise, and that's when he believed and it was credited to him as righteousness So I thought tying those two together was was kind of neat. And again, going back to Hebrews 11 where he is mentioned, you know, his name is in the hall of faith, if you will. But who else is in there? Rahab. Go over to verse thirty one By faith, Rahab, the harlot, did not perish along with those who were disobedient after she had welcomed the spies in peace. So I always find it interesting whose names actually get written in the canon that will go on from generation to generation to generation. And here's Rahab, the harlot. Right, who who demonstrates her faith and her name is written in the hall of faith, if you will. I find that fascinating. Raymond. Um I b I believe that's true. I'd have to go back and look. Mr. Then he would take a a prostitute, I'll be the loveliest people people think oh they're worthless and save him. That's his he is has he's a god of amazing grace. And actually I I believe Rahab um Boaz is in that line as as well as Jesus comes out of that, right? So I find that fascinating too. Okay. God uses everyone. Good. Okay. Let's move over to back to James. And let's go over to chapter three. I'm gonna skip the the tongue aspect, but it's um that's a really good aspect, so encourage you to go back and and read about the tongue, bridling the tongue. And talk more about deeds and the gentleness of wiz wisdom. So picking up in verse 13. Who among you is wise and understanding? Let him show by his good behavior his deeds and the gentleness of wisdom. So there's a purpose, right? Back to the heart attempt intent that we were just talking about. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not be arrogant and so lie against the truth. The wisdom is not that which comes down from above, but is earthly, natural, and demonic Alright, that's the contrast, the worldly wisdom versus godly wisdom. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there's disorder in every evil thing. But the wisdom from above is first pure. than peaceable, gentle, reasonable, full of mercy, and good fruits, unwavering without hypocrisy. Is this not a good criteria or test if you're trying to discern wisdom from above? Is this godly wisdom? These are the characteristics Wisdom from above is first pure. I love that. Pure. Peaceable. It's not causing strife. It's gentle. It's reasonable. It's full of mercy and good fruits, unwavering without hypocrisy. That's what God's word is. Sometimes I think it can be tempting to look at this as a checklist. Here's the do's and the don'ts. And we forget that this is God's precious word. It is pure. Flip over if you can, just hold your finger there. Go over to Psalm 19. Psalm 19. One of my another one of my favorite psalms. I'm gonna get so many favorite chapters it's gonna end up being the Bible, but I like Psalm 19 because we often talk about general revelation and special revelation, and Psalm 19 captures both. So the first couple verses, you know, it talks about the heavens are telling, the daypours for speech, it talks about the sun, is really talking about that general revelation. And we talk about that in what? Romans 1 That all of us are without excuse simply because of creation, simply because of general revelation. However, general revelation doesn't tell us about this universe that we live in It gives us some of the attributes of God, but not the full picture. It doesn't tell us about our standing before God as fallen preachers and what we need as far as salvation. That's why we need special revelation. So starting in verse 7. And I want you to read the the format here is the law of the Lord is, and I want you to pay attention what it says at the end of each of the The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. Do you want your soul to be restored? It's reading the Word of God. That's the characteristic. What I want you to get a picture of is this is not a checklist of do and don'ts. It's what I'm going to describe right now. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the stove. The testimony of the Lord is sure. Making wise the simple. We talked about wisdom. We talked about a sure foundation. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. How can we rejoice? You be in the word. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean. Right? This is not an anxious fear. It is a peaceful fear, an awe. And it's clean, it's enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous altogether. They are more desirable than gold. Yes, and much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, and the droppings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them thy servant is warned, and keeping them there is great reward. These lists of do's and don'ts put off are for our protection. Right? They point us to a holy, holy, holy God. So love Psalm 19 and its description of Scripture. And so as you do your daily quiet times, I want you to start by just thanking the Lord for Scripture. Right? It's at our fingertips 24-7. Right? Just thank the Lord for holy, holy scripture, its purity, its ability to restore the soul. I love it. Alright, things to avoid. Let's go to chapter four in James. Chapter four. This starts to this starts to hit home. Chapter four, starting in verse one. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members. You lust and do not have, so you commit murder, and you are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. You adulterous Do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you think that the scripture speaks to no purpose? He jealously desires the spirit which he has made to dwell in us. Our God is a jealous God. Right? He is jealous for the spirit that he has put inside of us. But he gives a greater grace. Therefore it says God is opposed to the proud. but gives grace to the humble. Alright, let's go back to verses 1 and 2. What is the source of your quarrels? Does it say here the source is spiritual warfare? It's Satan. We know that Satan introduces sin. We know that he's on the prowl each and every day to seek who he can devour. Satan is real. Spiritual warfare is real. But what is it talking about here Sin. Sin, right? Our our own youthful lust. We give in to our own youthful lust is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members. All about us guys, right? And we talk about Jesus being tempted. He full um bore the full brunt of temptation because he never gave in to it. What do we do? We often give in to it. Right? And what did we read though in 1 Corinthians? The Lord gives us a way out of that temptation. He always will, if you're seeking him If you're asking with right motives. Let me encourage you this way too. And our God is a patient, loving God. When we are just burdened with trials and tribulations, the world's just falling apart. What is often the temptation, even when we go here? Um yes, but I'm looking for does someone say it over here? What do we often do when we go here? We're looking for an answer. We're looking for a fix. Lord, how are you going to fix my problem? And you're like, um let me start. Here Psalm 49, uh the folly of trusting in riches. No, that's not it. You understand what I'm saying. Right? The temptation is go, and yes, the answer is here. We saw that in Timothy, didn't we? All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for boom, boom, boom, life's issues. Yes, the answers are here, but are we going here to worship a holy God? To fall on our face asking for forgiveness, starting at that point, looking for joy with thanksgiving. Lord, let me just start by worshiping you. Yes, the answers are here and he will lead you, but I just want to encourage you, be careful that your time of devotion is not looking for that quick fix. Does that make sense? Okay Alright, so if that's the issue, like I said, Satan is out there and he's on the prowl. So how how do we resist the devil? Let's go to verse 7. So, in light of this idea of giving into our lustful pleasures, verse 7 starts with: Submit therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. You kind of get this idea of, we've talked before, like in Ephesians 4, the put off and the put on. And what we often forget is what's in the middle of that. Put off, renew your mind. Right? That's being in Scripture and put on the new South. But we often talk about when we are tempted, and I talked earlier about each of us probably have different areas that are harder than others. I will give you an example Let's say you've had a struggle with alcohol growing up, maybe even an alcoholic to the extreme. And you get saved from that. You conquer that through the Holy Spirit. There might be a temptation that says, I know that crowd. I'm going to go to the bar and I'm going to minister to them. That might not be the best path forward. Right? Let somebody else do that. God may have another purpose for you. Okay? It's fleeing. It's putting off. It's running from that temptation It's not standing in the midst of it saying, I'm going to power through it. Right? We hear it talks about fleeing. Flee, resist the devil, flee from those temptations. Alright? And then do what? Draw near to God. Draw near to God. That's what we see in this passage. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Now, don't be misled. Does the Lord ever leave you? I will never leave you nor forsake you. What do we read in Romans 8 about God's love? Nothing can separate us from the love of God. Nothing. Nothing. As believers. As believers, nothing can separate you from the love of God. And then we see in Ephesians 6 when we covered it, what do we put on? The full armor of God, right? We can be armed with God's word, right? With salvation, the helmet of salvation, the breastplate of righteousness. So yeah, it's a fight. Fight the good fight of faith. Wasn't that Paul's admonition to Timothy? Fight the good fight of faith. But we can do that only through the power of the Holy Spirit. Alright, good. Any questions on James? Alright, let's flip over to 1 Peter. Alright, a little bit about Peter. You guys know Peter, he's a crazy man, right? He was the the bold one of those original twelve uh apostles. He was often the spokesman for that group, and he was part of that inner core group, right? Peter, James, and John. Different James, Peter, James, and John that would often follow Jesus into a more secret environment, if you will. So again, one of the uh twelve he was a fisherman, a brother of Andrew, one of the twelve original apostles, part of that inner circle that I just talked about. Um there is mention that he was married. We often think of these these twelve disciples as just hanging out with Jesus for three years, but some of them had families, some were married, right? And had to to to juggle those responsibilities. You know the story of him walking on water, right? He was a man of great faith, but then doubted, right, and started to sink. And Jesus had to bring him back up again. He was present at the Transfiguration. Again, that inner circle was there. Peter was the one you remember had the vision, or Cornelius had the no, Peter had the vision. Right, of basically saying the gospel needs to go out to everybody. That that was the crux of that vision, and that was the start of the gospel to the Gentiles. He was a pillar in the church. Paul talks about him being one of the pillars. He was present at the Jerusalem Council. And I don't remember if you guys talked about it. I don't think I was here when you covered Galatians But Paul actually has to rebuke Peter, right, for shying away from the Gentiles, for fear of man is what it says. So even the pillars. Right? Even the pillars of the church were human beings that had to be addressed. It is my opinion that that happened during Paul's first missionary journey. And then you have the Jerusalem Council, where Peter speaks boldly, right, in favor of what was written to them to say, no, it's by faith alone. So Peter may have been confronted by Paul and then was a very bold witness for the truth at the Jerusalem Council. And then um tradition has it that he was martyred in 68 A. D. around the same time as Paul. So you remember the the persecution that was happening after the fire in uh Jerusalem and Nero, and these were the ringleaders. Alright? So they they got it. And he was actually hung upside down on a cross. Which is ironic, right? As as Peter um denied Christ originally And here he is suffering for him, dying upside down on a cross. Alright, we'll leave that there as we go through First and second Peter. So 1 Peter the theme, standing firm through suffering. So again, I just gave you the context. What is happening? Great suffering. Great suffering is happening in the church and he's saying you need to fight the good fight. Here's how you are to act through that suffering. So that's the context that's happening right here is great suffering. Alright, let's do a quick background Since the believers addressed were suffering escalating persecution, the purpose of this letter was to teach them how to live victoriously in the midst of that hostility, without losing hope without becoming bitter, while trusting in their Lord, and while looking for his second coming. Right? Again, remember the context. We don't really understand what true persecution looks like in this country. Not yet, at least. Okay? And here he's saying, here's how you're supposed to act through all of that. You need to continue to have hope without becoming bitter Peter wished to impress on his readers that by living an obedient, victorious life under duress, a Christian can actually evangelize his hostile word world. I've talked earlier about when the world becomes a very um contrasted, if you will, between evil and good, evangelism becomes pretty clear, right? It really does. And I think we see that in some of the the the missionaries that we see evangelizing in worlds where persecution is very real real, that contrast is crystal clear. And that helps spread the gospel. Help spread the good news. Believers are constantly exposed to a world system energized by Satan and his demons. Their effort is to discredit the church and to Destroy its credibility and integrity. One way these spirits work is by finding Christians whose lives are not consistent with the Word of God, and then parading them before the unbelievers to show what a sham the church is. Christians, however, must stand against the enemy and silence the critics by the power of holy lies. Go back to what we just read in James. Right? Let your works justify your faith. In this epistle, Peter is rather effusive in reciting two categories of truth. The first category is positive, includes a long list of blessings bestowed on Christians. As he speaks about the identity of Christians and what it means to know Christ, Peter mentions one privilege and blessing after another. Interwoven into this list of privileges is the catalog of suffering. Christians, though mostly greatly privileged, should also know that the world will treat them unjustly. Their citizenship is in heaven. And they are strangers in a hostile, Satan energized world. Thus the Christian life can be summed up on a call to victory and glory through the path of suffering. Remember, we talked about in Romans eight, the path to glorification Will include suffering. Period God. We talked about testing, right? It's part of our sanctification. It helps build endurance. It makes conforms us into the image of Christ. So the basic question that Peter answers in this epistle is, how are Christians to deal with animosity? The answer features practical truths and focus on Jesus Christ. as the model of one who maintained a triumphant attitude in the midst of hostility. So as far as 1 Peter is concerned, that's what I would take away is let Jesus Christ be our example. Right? Let Jesus Christ, who suffered like no one else has suffered, let him be our example. So it starts as I just read with privilege and blessing. Go to chapter 2. Let's start in chapter 2. And I'm going to pick up in verse 4. And I want you to listen, this is describing you as a believer. And coming to him as to a living stone, rejected by men. But choice and precious in the sight of God. Let me pause there. Let that sink in. As a child of God, you are choice and precious. You know, Mark, you mentioned earlier what do we often do after sinning? We condemn ourselves. What does Romans eight one say? No condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Instead, how does God see you? Your choice. And precious in the sight of God. I just I love that. You also, as living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house for a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifice acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For this is contained in Scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a choice stone, a precious cornerstone, and he who believes in him shall not be disappointed. This precious value, then, is for you who believe, but for those who disbelieve, the stone which the builders rejected, this became the very cornerstone Talking about Jesus Christ, of course, and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. For they stumble because they are disobedient to the word, and to this doom they are also appointed. So I'll stop there. Um yeah, I just I wanted to highlight and encourage you. Again, you are choice and precious in the sight of God. And there is this clear distinction between a believer and an unbeliever Jesus Christ being our cornerstone and for the unbeliever a stumbling block. So he starts Peter here with again the privilege and blessing of who you are. Before he gets into how you are to behave through this persecution, a reminder of who they are in Christ. So we look next. What should be the Christian's attitude towards a secular government? We talked about that. I drew it on the board, right? What are the three institutions Institutions, if you will, that that God created. Family. Church And government. And government. Right? That's part of God's equation, part of his redemptive plan. And remember what's going on here. They're being persecuted at this time. Great persecution. And he's telling them, here's how you're supposed to act. So go to verse 13, chapter 2. Submit yourselves, for the Lord's sake, to every human institution, whether to a king as the one in authority, or to governors, ascent by him for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of those who do right. For such is the will of God that by doing right you may silence the ignorance of foolish men. Act as free men, and do not use your freedom as a covering Of evil, but use use it as bond slaves of God. Honor all men, love the Brotherhood, fear God, honor the king Let's go back to a comment that was made earlier. We were talking about righteous anger, that we can be angry, right, when we see that God's word is degraded when we see it abused, when we see it, you know, we see persecution. Um and I don't want to make this a political discussion, but with, you know, um elections coming up, right, there there can be a lot of emotion that's happening. This gives us an instruction. Oh, people are watching. Are you any different in your discussions from the world? in those political discussions. I'm not saying you can't look at politics, right? I like to follow the news, I like to see what's happening. It's my country. Right? I love it. And I want it to be led well. So yes, I pay attention to that. But how am I reacting to all of that? Right? That's the question that we have to ask ourselves. Here, are we praying for our government? Are we praying for our leaders? Right? So, an encouragement of how we are to react to God's institution of government That's not to say we're not to fight for those things of the Lord, for sure. And what you saw was in the essential church, that documentary, was this struggle between these two entities. And where does this become too much Right? That's the wisdom and discernment that's needed. You could argue, though, that the way MacArthur's church responded, they still responded in God in love and grace, but they fought the good fight. Because they felt the government was overstepping its boundaries. That's hard. It's difficult. Right? But we use the word as an example. And here Peter is admonishing us to submit to the government authorities. Pastor, I think of that verse that um they said in the early church we must obey God and not man. And the government is made up of men. Yeah. Not not Yep, for sure. That that's a good point, but don't forget also that it's an institution governed by God or set up by God as well. And you get you gotta balance those, right? And it's tricky Let's make it more personal, though. Verse 18. Servants, be submissive to your masters with all respect, not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are unreasonable. I don't know if anyone has had to work for a hostile employer employer. It's not fun. And yet this gives us instructions on how to act. Right with respect. Because remember you're setting a testimony, an example, especially under that immense persecution or that trial in your life. You are to endure. That doesn't mean you can't be looking for another job. I'm not saying that. But all of this sets this pattern of how are we behaving? What are we in control of? Right? That's what Peter's getting at. And then chapter three, another uh uh personal one. Chapter 3, talking about wives. In the same way, you wives be submissive to your own husbands, so that even if any of them are disobedient to word. They may be one without a word by the behavior of their wives, as they observe, again, as they observe your chaste and respectful behavior. I think I shared the example of my mother, right, who became a believer when I was in middle school. My dad's still not a believer, still not a Christian. And yet I watched her model this behavior of submission for many, many, many years. I think they're at 60 61 years of marriage, which is a blessing, right? I'm grateful for that. But it has not been easy I guarantee you it has not been easy. But that's that's the example of behavior that that the testimony that my mother has given as a heritage to us as children, right? It's sweet, it's wonderful. So be encouraged. Alright, Christ is our example though. Go back to chapter two. And again, this is kind of the same theme here, or the main theme, starting in 21. For you have been called for this purpose since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. who committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth. And while being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering he uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously And he himself bore our sins in his body on the cross that we might die to sin and live a righteous, and live to righteousness. For by his wounds you were healed. So when you're being pressed at work, when you're being pressed in the marriage relationship, right, let Christ be your example. Let Christ be your example. And we are told that we are going to share in his sufferings. Go over to chapter 4. Chapter 4, versing, starting in verse 12. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal among you which comes upon you for your testing. Here we see the testing again. As though some strange thing were happening to you. We should not be surprised by the persecution, by the testing. But to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing So that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. We should not be surprised, right, by the persecutions, the trials. It is for our benefit. Okay, let's go over to 2 Peter. 2 Peter. And here the theme: genuine and false Christianity. Since the time of the writing and sending of his first letter, Peter had become increasingly concerned about false teachers who were infiltrating the churches in Asia Minor. Though these false teachers had already caused trouble, Peter expected that their heretical doctrines and immoral lifestyles would result in more damage in the future. Thus Peter, in an almost last will and testament, wrote to warn the beloved believers in Christ about the doctrinal dangers they were facing. Peter does not explicitly say where he was when he wrote this letter, as he does in 1 Peter, but the consensus seems to be that Peter wrote this letter from prison in Rome, where he was facing imminent death So he might have been right next to Paul, who knows? Shortly after this letter was written, Peter was martyred, according to reliable tradition, by being crucified upside down, as I mentioned earlier Alright, so what Peter now is addressing, so 1 Peter was about how we are to act through suffering. 2 Peter is how the church can understand genuine Christianity. Especially when it came to some of its leaders. And what's the what's the adage? How can you um identify a counterfeit? By studying the real one. By studying the real one, right? By understanding and knowing the word. Exactly. Alright, so let's go to 2 Peter chapter 1. I'm going to start in 1 through 4 Again, our sanctification through God's Word. Simon Peter, a bondservant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have received a faith of the same kind as ours. by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord seeing that his divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness through the true knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and excellence For by these he has granted to us his precious and magnificent promises, in order that by them you might become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world by lust. So here, when we talk about the canon, God's Word, right here, God is saying, I have given this to you. I have given you my promises. And we have it now in His revealed word, His special revelation. In that light, go over to verse 20. Often when we talk about proof texts for on the sufficiency and the inspiration of script scripture. Right, we go to 2 Timothy 3. 16. We also go to 2 Peter Chapter 1, starting in verse 20. But know this first of all that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. Right? So again, a a justification that it's inspired word of God. Yes, many, many authors that the Lord used as a vehicle, but what's written here is all inspired by the Holy Spirit. We talked often or think about, I think often about our security, our assurance as believers. Let's go to I think back to chapter 1, verse 5. Now, for this very reason also, applying all diligence in your faith, supply moral excellence. And in your moral excellence, knowledge, and in your knowledge, self-control. And in your self-control, perseverance, and in your perseverance, godliness, and in your godliness, brotherly kindness, and in your brotherly kindness, love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. What does that sound like, that path I just talked about? Sanctification, right? That's the sanctification process of you building out your faith, if you will, being conformed into the image of Christ. So another quote in the gray box that you don't have on your sheet, this idea between security and assurance. Security is the Holy Spirit revealed fact that salvation is forever. Assurance is one's confidence that he possesses that eternal salvation. So think of security as objective, right? It's a fact. If you are a believer, if you are a child, you are secure. What does Ephesians 1 talk about? We are sealed until that day of glorification. We are sealed as an inheritance. Assurance, the assurance of our faith can be somewhat subjective But what we've talked about this before, so a little bit of uh we'll go back and test you. Um what are some ways that we can we can build or have confidence in the assurance of our salvation? Give me give me one. Give me one thought there. Well uh uh Topfield was doing something like that. He says you have a love for the church and your brothers and sisters. And um that's a great thing for me because I don't know everybody here. I don't know everybody as many as I can, and I'm glad that we share It's it's such a blessing. That's one way out of it. Okay, good. So so you're talking about do you have that love for the church, for your brothers and sisters? Good. Was there another one over here? God is what I was gonna say. Okay. How can I be assured? Yeah. Through scripture when you read the promises of God, if you stand on your belief that the scripture's inherent and true and It's said that you remove the same. Kind of. How do I know that I'm safe? And and some of us we go through periods of doubt. Right? And that what does that does that mean we we're not secure anymore? Absolutely not. Nothing can separate us, even our own doubt But what are some things that can assure us of that salvation? So that was one of them. That's a point for sure. So I feel the Holy Spirit literally within me. Okay. And I already see the evidence over the years I've been saved to change in who I was and who I am. Alright, great points Karen. So we talk about let's be careful about feeling and I know what you meant. But you can go back to Romans eight sixteen. What does it say? The Holy Spirit testifies with our spirit that we are children of God. And the manifestation of that is what? What do we cry out? Abba Father. Right? That's a very personal relationship. You won't do that if you are not saved. And then to your other point, what should you see? What is the evidence that we should see? Back to James. The fruit. If you don't see, Galatians 5, if you don't see the fruit and an increase in that fruit, it should cause you to question. Right? So those are the evidence, the Spirit testifying with our Spirit, and we cry out, Abba Father, it's the fruit that we have, and an increase in that fruit. So if we are being sanctified, remember it's not perfection, it's direction. Right, we should be seeing an increase. The evidence of that we should see a love for the brethren. We should see a love for the church. Johnny, did you have another one or Yeah, a love for God. You should see a uh a love for God that increases. All right, good, sir. So first Peter, uh second Peter 1, 5 through 7, if you practice these things, you'll make your calling intellectual show. Boom. Right? It's the evidence, it's the justification. So you can be examining yourself. Now again, be careful, that doesn't mean you're perfect. But you're increasing, you're conquering those things. Alright, we are out of time, but I want to do this. The last segment on there talks about beware of false prophets. And again I go back to how can you have wisdom to know the truth? Study the truth. That's how you know a counterfeit. But what I wanted to show you was it really ties back to the parable of the sower of the seeds back in Matthew 13 And the contrast here, right, is the there's the three were actually not believers, right? So that it's not like they were a believer and they fell away. That's not what's happening here. They were never believers to begin with. The first one, seed sown along the path, they hear the word, but Satan quickly comes and snatches it away. The rocky ground, they hear the word, they receive it with joy, they're excited, but there's no root. They fall away. Anytime the trial comes up, they fall away. And then sown among the thorns, they hear the word, but what happens? The cares of the world come in, the deceitfulness of riches choke the word out. And they prove unfruitful. The last one, though, the true believer, that's the seed that goes into the heart that's like soil. They hear the word, they understand it, and it bears fruit. That's true in our own lives and that's true when you're examining, you know, leaders and others in the church. That's how we can know. But they're gonna seep in. We know that. And that's why we as a church, as elders, as everyone, we work so hard to make sure this is our litmus. This is our litmus and you only understand that by being in it. Let's pray.