So we're getting getting near the end. Today we're going to be in the last of those general epistles. I guess we'll have Revelation next week, but four books today. Seems like a lot, but they're actually very short books, but they are just packed with goodness. I don't know how many times you've gone through the Bible and you might just kind of skim over these books real quick But there's a lot, a lot of good truth and application, as we'll see, in Jude and then 1 through 3, John. Alright, so that's where we're at today. As far as timelines, again, um we're we're near the end. So Jews specifically, right, was that time period where we see in a lot of the books here at the end with uh Peter and Hebrews and and obviously we know that Paul dies in 68. So there's a lot of persecution that's happening. And so that's what you see happening is this warning against false teachers. And we're going to see primarily in the book of Jude this idea of apostasy, the apostates. Peter has warned about it. Jude is going to say they're here. And here's how we deal with that. Okay? And then, as we noted in one of our first lessons, John actually wrote, you know, um Wrote John 1, 2, and 3 much later in life. He was probably in his late 80s or early 90s when he wrote John 1, 2, and 3, and obviously Revelation that we'll see next week. Okay? So that's where we're at. Alright, so make sure you got a handout, and if you could turn to the book of Jude in your Bible. The primary theme: beware of the pretenders. Like I said. What we see here is Peter, again written a couple years earlier than that, was warning against the possibilities of false teachers creeping in. And now Jude is dealing with that in the church. The apostates are here. We've talked before, right? James was the half-brother of Jesus. The other half-brother that has an epistle is Jude, right? So Jude was the half-brother of Jesus Christ. And just like James, he was not a believer while Jesus was on this earth. But when Jesus came back, right, we know that James was saved, and apparently Jude as well. And they became leaders in the church. It's kind of an out of an ironic flip. Absolutely. Absolutely. Alright, so as I often do, I like to read the uh background and setting from MacArthur's commentary. It gives us Some good context of what's happening in these particular books. Jude lived at a time when Christianity was under severe political attack from Rome and aggressive spiritual infiltration. from Gnostic-like apostates and libertines who sowed abundant seed for a gigantic harvest of doctrinal error. It could be that this was the forerunner to full-blown Gnosticism, which the Apostle John would confront over 25 years later in his epistles, and we'll get to that when we get to John. Except for John, who lived at the close of the century, all of the other apostles had been martyred, and Christianity was thought to be extremely vulnerable. Think about that for a second. All the apostles, all those leaders except for John were martyred. And John was exiled. Yeah, absolutely. So you can think about what what that might have meant from a Christian you know, from the m the Christian movement, if you will, or Christianity Right? It was vulnerable. It could have been perceived as being in danger, but who was always in control? Right? God is always fulfilling his redemptive plan. Thus, Jude called the church to fight for the truth in the midst of intense spiritual warfare. Jude is going to appeal to contend earnestly, to fight for the faith. Alright, so we'll come back to that. Alright, so that's where we are at. Opening in Jude is a very small book, so we can go through most of that as we read through it. And I'll just highlight the um the gray box there at the top. Judah is the only New Testament book devoted exclusively to confronting apostasy, meaning defection from the true biblical faith. While their teaching is clever, subtle, deceptive, enticing, and delivered in myriads of forms, the common way to recognize them is to look beyond their false spiritual fronts and see their wicked lives. So we're gonna have, I'm gonna have this question later. How how could apostates actually enter in? How could apostates enter in today into our church, Pope Bible Church? We're going to see they say the right things. They tickle the ears. But how you can really tell is through their actions. Right through their lifestyle. That's what we're going to see here. All right. Chapter 1, there is only one chapter, but starting in verse 1. Jude to bondservant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, as we talked about, to those who are the called beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. Have mercy and peace and love. May mercy and peace and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, while I was making every effort to write to you about our common salvation I felt the necessity to write to you appealing that you contend earnestly for the faith, which was once for all delivered to the saints. So Jude wanted to write a much more encouraging word, right, about our common salvation. But the urgency that he felt, right, to address this issue of apostasy He changed the tone of this epistle. So you can see the definition of an apostate there in Webster 1828 version. Now we're a homeschool family, so we actually have a copy of that version in our home. One who has forsaken the church, sect, or profession to which he before adhered, in its original sense applied to one who has abandoned his origin his religion. We have studied and talked about this before. Were they ever truly of us? Never. Right? You can never gain your salvation and then lose it. We don't believe that. That's the assurance of our salvation, the security of our salvation. Jude urges them to contend earnestly for the faith, the call to arms. And again, a nice summary here from MacArthur. While the salvation of those to whom Jude wrote was not in jeopardy, false teachers preaching and living out a counterfeit gospel were misleading those who needed to hear the true gospel. Jude wrote this urgent imperative for Christians to wage war against error in all forms and to fight strenuously for the truth, like a soldier who has been entrusted with a sacred task of guarding a holy treasure. That is everyone's job in this room. To contend for the faith. It's not just the elders or the leaders of the church, it is everyone in the church body. Does that make sense Right, that is our mission, that is our call to arms. Apostates have already crept in unnoticed, turning God's grace into licentiatiousness. What is that? That's gross immorality. And deny the Lord Jesus Christ. So here's the question. How were the apostates able to creep in? When we read this and we see this and we hear this, how were they able to creep in? What are some thoughts? Where it's like script along and and little by little stuff comes in and compromises the whole thing. So subtle at first, right? All right, good. How are apostates able to creep in? If if they have these type of lifestyles, you know, life fantasiousness, how does that filter in? Okay, they say the right things. They might even quote scripture. Right? What else? Yes. Well if they're a new Christian, or if they're coming in with a group of news. Christians then it would take time for the new Christians to change their behavior. Like when they when they hear something they'll be fixed and they'll stop. But you the church might be as tolerant of some level of sin as people are coming in and slowly be transformed. Alright, great point. What does it say? I think what you're getting at is what is it saying about the condition of the church, the maturity of the believers. Right? Not. They they were allowing this to come in, their ears were being tickled. Right? And that's why I again I encourage all of us, we need to always be on our guard. And I I love the legacy that Tom Leake, right, had established at this church. He was a contender of the faith, he was a contender of the word, and that carries on. We will never be ashamed of how diligently we work to make sure we are preaching the truth. I think they had a like a nice personality. People said they you know they seem nice and well meaning and they're well spoken. Everyone likes them, they get along with everybody and parties and that kind of thing. They were charming, maybe charismatic. Exactly, Jim. I think they do the same thing that they do today, which is they change the meaning of the words You know, they they they lighten the meaning of the words, they lessen the effect of the words. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, good. Left isn't really left. Yeah. Right. Back to the comment about the um maybe the the immaturity of the the body at that time. How how does that get rectified? Teaching, just like this. Teaching, right? Being grounded in the Word. Personally being in the Word. Devotional time. Small groups, growing disciple classes, good expositional teaching. Right? That's where you want to be, and that's how you grow in the faith. That's how you build the body. And discipling, absolutely. Counseling, biblical counseling. Uh example of that I became a a Christian in Brazil decades ago. And uh I became a Christian in this very good Bible teaching church And they were very good about that. And I came to America and I was in the church that was not teaching the Bible and old twenty seven years I stay in the but it was always a struggle for me because I knew that what's going on there was not too hard, wasn't wasn't the the right thing but Like I would have problems, I would struggle and at the time my now ex husband, he was staff of that church. So I couldn't just I believe I had to say, but it was always a struggle. I'm like, that's not in the Bible, that's not how he goes to and but just saying that that foundation was there. Yeah. I was bombarded with the wrong stuff, but I knew the truth and that didn't you know. Being there for so long did not change what I believe. It was always a struggle. Yeah, yeah. Excellent, excellent. Yes. There is a book out. I've not read it. I've heard about it. Shepherds shepherds for sale. The shepherd really is a I don't know what he was in the beginning, but he's kind of a leans to more towards the fault Yeah, yeah. And he is shepherding or supposed to be shepherding a flock. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. Um I get the privilege of um being introduced to many of our new member classes, right? And and so I get to hear and I ask questions about how did you hear about Oak Bible Church? You know, what brought you here Inevitably, 95% of the time, the response is, I I hungered for the true Word of God And I was in situations where I was in churches where things weren't didn't sound right. It didn't align with what I read here. And then I came to hope Right? And it's just like, ah, a a drink of of cool thirsty water water, right? To quench that thirst. Now, we are not a perfect church. We are made up of human beings. All I'm trying to say is because of our the the foundation that was laid by the Holy Spirit, by God, through Tom Leek. Right? That foundation has been so critical and we want to protect that. We all need to protect that. So what are some way oh yeah, sorry, Raymond? We're my periphery there, so I know. Um some people are talking about say once up. They're looking, they're consumers. We don't want to be consumers of churches one, church church, church, church And also a friend of mine, I was talking to him not something. He was pastor. He said, Did you read your word and and do the studies? And I go, You're right, I did. So that's all That's a great point. He helped me do that and I love John MacArthur and I and I believe the Holy Spirit will guide me. We're truly saved. Holy Spirit will I believe he always guided me around with bad people and helped me get MacArthur and others Yeah, excellent point. So in that in that vein, what are some things that that the modern church has as its disposal, if you will? to help ensure that that doesn't happen. We talked about the teaching, right? But what are some some biblical um standards I'll call them that we might utilize to help us in that process? Jim? Elders and Uh strong elders. Yeah. Ones that hold each other accountable. Sure. Yeah. Um like to say we're human and every people have different ideas, but um our elders bring us back to the to the word. Yeah. And and Yep, good. So what do we have in First Timothy three and Titus one? Very um high standards, qualifications to be an elder What are most of those um qualifications pointing to? Are character What did we just say? You will know the apostates by their character, by their lifestyle. Isn't it wonderful that the Lord gives us this checklist, if you will, to be able to screen potential elders Right, as they potentially come into the church. Right? So we are very, very diligent uh uh about screening potential candidates to make sure they align now The challenge we have, and you can be praying for us, is you can only see so much about a person as you bring them in. And it's one of the reasons that we go through a pretty diligent process. We have a couple Screening Zoom calls up front just to start to get that vibe, if you will, to understand their biblical knowledge. Does it align? But then we'll have a couple visits where we bring them in. And we'd love to have their spouses with them, because you can tell a lot about their interaction when they're together with their spouse. But again, you can only see so much. Um and that's why I was I was really blessed that um Pastor Gabe eventually became our senior pastor because we got to s witness him for many years right before that happened. And so that only gave us comfort. Yes. I think one thing that I love about this church that I appreciate and and I'm chose to be here is church discipline I think that a lot of church stopped doing that because they want to please the people. They don't want to offend the members. And then they sh walk away from from the truth and all this and then their lives just become a mess. But I think that church discipline is very, very important. Yes So I'm just I'm writing that down as another note for um you have the qualifications, you have the membership process that we do. And it's pretty rigorous, guys. I've been to a lot of churches being in the military and we go, you know, our statement of faith is is pretty in-depth. Um and the intent of that is just to be really clear about what what we believe, what we teach. And we go through an eight-week, now a 13-week membership class, and then you've got to go through an interview process. And it's all an attempt to try and evaluate you know, the the heart status, the qualifications of those to guard against this type of infiltration. However It happens, doesn't it? Right? Someone can come in. You just you don't know everything that's happening. So back to church discipline. That's one of the tools that can be used to guard against that And we don't do it to push people out, right? Ultimately, always its goal is restoration. You want to restore that brother or sister to the faith. But if they are unrepentant, if they're divisive But they're causing disunity in order to protect the church. You need a vehicle, a biblical way of getting them out. That's Matthew 18. So excellent. Good. So I just wanted to lay that foundation of all of the things that we are very diligent about to protect ourselves so this doesn't happen at HBC. All right, and you all play a part of that. Church discipline, right? Often people think of, well, that's the elder's job. What's step one in church discipline Go to your brother. Individual. Right? The individual you go to your brother or sister that has sinned. You guys are the first step in church discipline. Right? So a healthy church means you guys are having that gracious, loving confrontation up front. All right We talked a lot about conduct of an apostate, and that's what we're going to see for next several verses. I want to give you this slide, though, as you can kind of watch as we go through. This is the description of apostate And again, it's kind of unbelievable that someone would have these characteristics and yet be able to be entered into the church. Right? But again, it might go back to the condition of the heart at the time. And all the more reason we have to make sure we are building up our understanding of God's Word. So I'll pick up starting in verse 5. Now, I desire to remind you, though, though you know all these things once for all, that the Lord, after saving a people out of the land of Egypt, subsequently destroyed those who did not believe. Give me a second here. So he's giving um some examples here. And angels who did not keep their own domain but abandoned their proper abode. He has kept an eternal bond under darkness for the judgment of the great day. And we talked a little bit about that when we discussed angelology a couple weeks ago Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, since they in the same way as these indulged in gross immorality. That's licentiatiousness and went after strange flesh are exhibited as an example, in undergoing the punishment of eternal fire. Yet in the same manner these men also by dreaming defile the flesh and reject authority and revile angelic majesties. But Michael, the archangel, when he disputed with the devil and argued about the body of Moses did not dare pronounce against him a railing judgment, but said, The Lord rebuke you. This is an interesting confrontation that we see here between the archangel Michael and Satan, isn't it? And it really is an example of how we as Christians are to deal with Satan and demons It doesn't say direct confrontation, does it? Right? It talks about relying on the Lord. What does it say there? The Lord rebuke you. And that's actually a reference back to Zechariah 3. 2 And the setting there is Joshua the high priest is with the Lord, and Satan is there too accusing him. And the Lord says, the Lord rebuke you. What did Jesus do in Matthew 4 when he was tempted by Satan? He quoted the word of God. Yeah. Right? Right? So we don't take that fight contending earnestly directly against Satan. Right, we always use the power of the Lord, the Holy Spirit, his word. Good. All right, let's keep going. Verse 10 But these men revile the things which they do not understand, and the things which they know by instinct. Like unreasoning animals by these things they are destroyed. Woe to them, for they have gone the way of Cain. And for pay, they have rushed headlong into the error of Balaam and perished in the rebellion of Korah. So what is typically at the heart of these apostates? Greed, selfish gain, right? Whatever that is, money, fame, pride, it's the heart attitude. These men are those who are hidden reefs in your love feast. When they feast with you without fear, caring for themselves, clouds without water, carried along by winds, autumn trees without fruit, doubly dead, uprooted, wild waves of the sea, casting up their own shame. like foam, wandering stars, from whom the black darkness has been reserved for ever. And about these also Enoch on the seventh generation from Adam prophesied, saying, Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of his holy ones. to execute judgment upon all, and to convict the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds, which they have done in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against them. And then I love verse sixteen as kind of a a summary of who are these apostates? These are grumblers finding fault following after their own lust. They speak arrogantly, flattering people for the sake of gaining an advantage. We talked earlier, right? They flatter. They're charismatic. It's for their own gain. If you hear this type of language, confront it. Right? Grumblers, complainers, confront it. It's your duty. Alright, and you see again many of those attributes appear on the list. Again, it's hard to fathom. You look at this list, it's like that person's just going to jump out at you That was not the case. They're deceptive. Isn't our enemy so, so deceptive? So, so deceptive. And that's exactly the front that they these apostates give to the church. So we always have to be on our guard. So how do we defend against such apostasy? Starting in verse 17. But you, beloved, ought to remember the words that were spoken beforehand by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Remember God's word, be grounded in God's word. That they were saying to you in the last time there shall be mockers following after their own godly lust. So this is not a surprise. It was prophesied that this would happen. These are the ones who cause divisions, worldly minded, devoid of the Spirit. But you, beloved, building yourselves up on your most holy faith. Praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting anxiously for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to eternal life. So, how do we fight off this apostasy? How do we identify it? We are grounded in the Word. We know what the truth is, so we can easily identify that counterfeit. Right? What else? We are men and women of prayer, praying in the Holy Spirit. And we are focused on Christ's return. Our focus is eternal. Not on our circumstances, the day-to-day. Our focus is eternal. And have mercy on some who are doubting. Save others, snatching them out of the fire, and on some have mercy with fear, hating even the garment polluted by the flesh Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling, and to make you stand in the presence of his glory, blameless with great joy, to the only God of our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before all time and now and forever. Amen. Short, short book, but powerful. Right? The apostates had crept in. And Jude confronts them head on. But he elicits the help of everyone. Everyone needs to be a participant in contending earnestly for the faith. Okay, good. Alright, any questions about Jude? If not, we're going to flip back to the left and start the series on the three books of John. And 1 John, we have the blessing of Pastor Mike, is actually going through a lot of that, so that will be helpful. 1 John is the longest, five chapters. And then we'll see second and third John are just, again, short, short books that would have most likely fit on one piece of paper and very direct in their message, and it's pretty exciting. Um, love, love, 1 John. And you can see the the theme there, tests of eternal life. We are often, or I often get questions. Um even for my own children sometimes as they were they were growing up and in the faith. How can I know, Dad? How can I know that I'm really saved? Have we all gone through periods of doubt? I'm sure we have. Right? 1 John is just packed with, here are the tests. Here's how you can know you are saved. Alright, so I think very, very helpful and encouraging. As you know, John and his brother James were named the Sons of Thunder. And they were part of that that small inner circle. Who was it? James, John and Peter Peter were part of that inner circle that that often um were very close with Jesus and they would go off and and uh be ministered to. Alright, so background and setting. It is believed that John was actually an episode when he wrote that, so just for for context. Although he was greatly advanced in age, remember we said he was probably the late 80s, early 90s, when he penned this epistle, John was still actively ministering to churches He was the sole remaining apostolic survivor who had intimate eyewitness association with Jesus throughout his earthly ministry, death, resurrection, and ascension. Ephesus lay within the intellectual center of Asia Minor. As predicted years before by the Apostle Paul, false teachers arising from within the Church's own ranks. saturated with the prevailing climate of philosophical trends, began infecting the church with false doctrine and perverting fundamental apostolic teaching These false teachers advocated new ideas which eventually became known as Gnosticism. After the Pauline battle for freedom from the law, Gnosticism was the most dangerous heresy that threatened the early church during the first three centuries. Most likely John was combating the beginnings of this virulent heresy that threatened to destroy the fundamentals of the faith and the churches. Gnosticism, influenced by such philosophers as Plato, advocated a dualism which asserted that matter was inherently evil and spirit was good. You remember they were all about the knowledge and material was evil. The flesh, the material was evil As a result of this presupposition, these false teachers, although attributing some form of deity to Christ, denied his true humanity to preserve him from evil. They also claimed elevated knowledge, a higher truth known only to those in on the deep things. Only the initiated had the mystical knowledge of truth that was higher even than scripture. Red flag, right? Your knowledge is higher than scripture That's a red that what could go wrong, right? That's where it all begins. The Gnostic idea that matter was evil and only spirit was good led to the idea that either the body should be treated harshly, a form of asceticism Or sin committed in the body had no connection or effect on one's spirit. This led some, especially John's opponents, to conclude that sin committed in the physical body did not matter Absolute indulgence and immorality was permissible. One could deny sin even existed in disregard of God's law John emphasized the need for obedience to God's laws, for he defined the true love of God as obedience to his commandments. Alright, so you can see the contrast here. Gnostics believing what I do in the body doesn't matter. Doesn't count. I'm not accountable for it. That's directly against the gospel, isn't it? Right? The need for a savior, because we are held accountable. And what you're going to see though is this common theme is our obedience to God Following his commandments. In light of the circumstances of the epistle, the overall theme of 1 John is a recall to the fundamentals of the faith, or back to the basics of Christianity. The apostle deals with certainties, not opinions or conjecture. When you're hearing these trickling words coming in, these tickling ears, you always bring it back to the fundamentals of the faith in God's Word. Three factors reveal the key cycle of true spirituality in one John. Proper belief in Jesus produces obedience to his commands. Obedient issues in love for God and fellowship. What that's saying is you start with this declaration that Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior. You now have this desire, right, to obey God. As you mature and sanctify, that desire is really founded in the shrouding of love. And you go on to love the brothers, and that cycle just continues, right? That's our sanctification. process and you're going to see that theme as we go through one John. Alright, so what I want you to do, what I did, and we'll start in chapter one of John. What I did is I tried to underline those areas where there was I'll call it a test of your salvation came up. And so this is a a a neat little maybe um Just resource, if you will, to always go back, and if you're having doubts, go back to one John and say, where do you align with some of these tests, if you will? Okay So that's what the when you see the test of your salvation, that's what I'm doing there. Alright, first John chapter one, starting in verse one. What was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we beheld and our hands handled concerning the word of life. And the life was manifested, and we have seen and bear witness and proclaimed to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. What we have seen and heard, we were proclaimed to you also, that you also may have fellowship with us And indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And these things we write, so that our joy may be made complete. What does he do here? What we beheld in our hands, handled, physical, right? Remember the Gnosticism concerning the word of life In the beginning was the Word, right? This is talking about Jesus Christ. And the life was manifested. He took on a human nature. We've seen and bear witness and proclaimed to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. This is just screaming the deity of Jesus Christ and the fact that he is divine and yet also fully human. Right? He just slams it home right up front. Go back to the fundamentals of the faith is what he's doing here. All right, let's continue And this is the message we have heard from him and announced to you that God is light and in him there is no darkness at all. So here's the contrast. Right? Darkness and light. If we say that we have fellowship with him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth But if we walk in the light, as he himself is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. These Gnostics, right? The first test there of your salvation, are you in the light or the darkness? If you say I do not sin. The Gnostics might have said, we cannot sin, right? I'm not accountable for this. They were in the darkness. If you recognize I sin, I sin every day, there's a good chance you're in the light. Now let me say here, you can't take any one of these singular tests. And say, I'm good, right? It's the culmination of all of these that are going to encourage you. But that's step one. Right? If you have a heart that understands, recognizes your sin, and confesses that before the Lord, there's a good chance you're in the light. Okay? Alright, let's go on to chapter two, where we now recognize a biblical view of sin. My little children, I am writing these things to you that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And that word advocate is like a defense lawyer. Someone who is advocating on our behalf, who is interceding on our behalf. And he himself is the propitiation for our sins. What is that word? That's a big uh uh twenty-five cent word. What does that mean Propitiation. Hold on Ann. Anyone? Propitiation. Payment? Payment? Kind of. It it means more than that. Appeasement. Appeases God's wrath. God must have judgment, his wrath must be poured out. The propitiation is Jesus Christ, his uh perfect sacrifice absorbs that wrath, appeases that wrath, so that we can stand before God, Him seeing us as justified, declared righteous. Good. And he himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for those of the whole world. And by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. So another test. Are you keeping his commandments? This is a reference to a sermon we just heard by Pastor Mike, so I want to see if you get it. So let's see here. I want to get to oh let's go down to verse seven. Beloved, I am not writing a new commandment to you But an old commandment which you have had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you have heard. On the other hand, I am writing a new commandment to you, which is true in him and in you Because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining. Do you remember Pastor Mike talking about that? Do you remember what the new commandment piece of that was? It was um As I have told you, because Jesus was not around. Earlier in the scriptures, but he was there, so he says, as I have loved you Right. So so Raymond, what you're getting at, um, the the new commandment is not a new commandment, it's a I'll call it a new qualification to the old commandment Right? Jesus' demonstration of how did he obey God, the love, the love that he showed, that's the new bar or standard that we need to live to. That's the new commandment piece of this. And you're going to see this continues to be a theme of it's not just obeying God's commands, it's obeying God's commands in love. Right, that has to be the undergurn uh undergirding foundation of our behavior. All right, good I'll tell uh Pastor Mike that you guys were paying attention. All right, let's go down to verse 16. This section on Do not love the world. Do not love the world, nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world You know, we've talked about kind of the big three before, haven't we? The flesh, the eyes, the pride. Um you could probably equate that back to the garden, right? Adam and Eve becoming discontent, prideful, right, wanting knowledge. It all stems from our fallen nature, those sinful lusts. What are we to do with those lusts? Flee. Flee our youthful lusts. Run from them. Right? Don't stand in the midst of them thinking you can fight the good fight. We're told to flee our youthful lust. Let's keep going down to verse 20. But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you all know I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it, and because no lies of the truth Who is the liar but the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the Antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son. Whoever denies the Son does not have the Father. The one who confesses the Son has the Father also. As for you, let that abide in you which you heard from the beginning. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father. Very simple test. Do you confess Jesus as Christ? Yes. The answer is no. You need to do some soul searching Is you interact with people, right? If they deny the Christ, that's when you're dealing with people from different religions and faiths, right? Always bring the discussion back to Jesus. Who who do they say that Jesus is? Right? You'll get a really clear picture really quick as as to their faith and and who they believe in, who their God is. Right? Always bring them back to that discussion of Christ. Again, do you confess Jesus Christ? That is the simple foundation. That is the gospel message right there. And he says in verse 20, but you have an anointing from the Holy One. And you all know. What does it say in Romans 8? The Holy Spirit testifies with our spirit that we are children of God. That's how you will know. The manifestation. You cry out, Ah the Father. Again, we're culminating all these tests so that you can have confidence so that you will know. Alright, on to chapter three. Excuse me. Sanctification and the Pursuit of Truth. Let's start in verses four. Chapter 3, verses 4. Everyone who practices sin and practices lawlessness and sin is lawlessness. And you know That he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him sins. No one who sins has seen him or knows him. Little children, let no one deceive you. The one who practices righteousness is righteous, just as he is righteous. The one who practices sin is of the devil. For the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God appeared for this purpose, that he might destroy the works of the devil. No one who is born of God practices sin because his seed abides in him And he cannot sin because he is born of God. By this the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. Anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor the one who does not love his brother Simple test, do you practice sin or righteousness? Now it's worth worth mentioning here this this um this term practice. It's a present participle verb, meaning a continuous action, expressing continuous or repeated action. So this idea of practicing sin is this habitual sin. Right? This uh uh idea of this habitual sin that keeps continuing. As a Christian you shouldn't be doing that. Right. Right Now, we all, I suspect, have dealt with certain sins in our life that just seem extremely difficult to overcome. That happens. But it is our underlying desire to please the Lord, to do righteousness. If you have that type of sin in your life, I encourage you to reach out for help Right? We have biblical counseling services. We have other ways that we can help you deal with the sin in your life. But the idea here is The test, do you practice sin or righteousness, how would you be characterized? If someone were to come in and characterize your lifestyle, is it one of desiring sin or desiring righteousness? And the only way you can desire righteousness is if you have been transformed, if your heart has been regenerated. Back to is Jesus Christ your Lord and Savior. Alright? Alright, let's move down to verse 17. Chapter 3, verse 17. But whoever has the world's goods and beholds his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how does the love of God abide in him? Little children, let us not love the word. Let us not love with word or with tongue, but in deed and truth. So the question, the test, are you a doer or just a hearer of the word? Where did we hear that message? James, right? Jude's brother. We need to be doers of the word. What it's saying here is if you have material wealth in this world, are you using it to be a minister? Are you adhering or administering it in love, right? This common theme of doing it not just to obey, but to doing it with love. Are you a doer or just a hearer of the word? Continue on 19. We shall know by this that we are of the truth and shall assure our heart before him, in whatever our heart condemns us, for God is greater than our heart and knows all things Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God. And whatever we ask, we receive from Him, because we keep His commandments and do the things that are pleasing in His sight. So this demonstration of love gives us confidence that we are as children. This idea of our conscience condemning us, what does Romans 8:1 say? No condemnation. Right? You're not going to feel that condemnation as a child of God. Now we we can fall in temptation, right, and start to condemn ourselves. Right? That happens often. And I encourage you to fight against that because the Lord is not condemning you. If you are a child of God, you are no longer condemned. Right? Great confidence and encouragement in that. Alright, on to chapter four, testing the spirits. Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. Did this church that Jude talked about, were they testing the spirits? Doesn't sound like it. Right? That's how you contend for the faith, is you test the spirits. By this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. And every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God And this is the spirit of the Antichrist, of which you have heard that is coming, and now it is already in the world. You are from God, little children, and have overcome them Because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. That's a passage that should be underlined in your Bible. Greater is he that is in us. You don't have to walk in this world with fear. And yet we talked earlier, you don't take on the confrontation directly, right? It's through the Lord. They are from the world, therefore they speak as from the world, and the world listens to them. We are from God. He who knows God listens to us. He who is not from God. does not listen to us. By this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Again, a very stark contrast for us to know and understand. The next test, do you love your brother? Verse seven Beloved, let us love one another for love is from God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. The one who does not The one who does not love does not know God, for God is love. By this the love of God has manifested in us that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be a propitiation, there's that word again, for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. Hopefully that's a bit convicting. If you are ever struggling with loving your brother or sister, you go back to the fact that God first loved us. And what would have been fair, right, is damnation, is death, is wrath, judgment poured out upon us. But in his mercy, he loved us. We have to love with the same attitude Let's go down to verse 17. By this love is perfected with us that we may have confidence in the day of judgment, because as he is, so also are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love cast out fear, because fear involves punishment, and the one who fears is not perfected in love. When it talks about us coming before the Lord in fear, right, it's not this kind of fear where we're scared. It's a reverence, it's an awe. And that's the confidence that we have coming before. a holy God. So again, the test of your salvation. Do you love your brother? Alright, and then we conclude with chapter five. The certainty and assurance of our salvation. Starting in verse 1: Whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and whoever loved the Father loves the child born of him. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and observe his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. Right? This is just a lovely, lovely passage. Do you want to love God? Do you want to demonstrate love to God? You obey him. And it should be a joy, it should not be a burden. Flip over, keep your finger there, and flip over to Matthew 11 real quick. Familiar passage, but hopefully encouraging, starting in verse 28. Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble at heart, and you shall find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my load is light. That's the load that we carry as a Christian. It's not meant to be burdensome. Obeying God should be a joy. Is it difficult sometimes? Absolutely. Why? Because we war with the flesh that's in us We war with that youth youthful lust. But hopefully over time through sanctification, right, that becomes easier and easier. But your disposition has changed. Right? You desire now to please God. You can see the question I have there. Do you find the commandments burdensome, especially to love your brother? I know of of Christian brothers and sisters that that harbor a lot of bitterness, right? They they must attack that. That is not what is demonstrated here. That is not a test of our salvation It's to hold on to this bitterness. If that's you today, I I really strongly encourage you to seek help. First go before the Lord in confessing your sin. Right. It is clear the mandate to love your brother. Why? Because God first loved us. Alright, in addition, going on to verse 14. These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence which we have before him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us and whatever we ask, we know that we have the request which we have asked from him. So he answers prayer, doesn't he? That's the the confidence we have that when we go before the throne of God, he's going to hear us And he's going to answer prayer according to his will. I won't go through the rest of these, but certainty of victory over sin and safety, certainty of belonging to God, verse 19. and certainty of Christ being the true God. Close with this book and chapter, or I'm sorry, verse 21. Little children, guard yourselves from idols. This might seem like a just, where did this come from? Right? He's talking about all of this, and then he concludes, this is it. Little children, guard yourselves from idols. It's really a contrast to what he just said. This is the true God and eternal life. He's saying, go back to the fundamentals of the faith. What were the Gnostics doing? What was their idol? It was knowledge. It was themselves. They created an idol for themselves. So what John is trying to do here to encourage them, beware of the idols. Protect yourself, guard yourself from the idols. Go back to the fundamentals of the faith. Alright, good. Any questions on 1 John? Again, I I would encourage you if you're ever doubting, if there are people that you that you know that you are coming in contact with or doubting, take them back to 1 John. just full of confidence in understanding our condition before God as believers. Right? In the beautiful promises of that. I was really blessed by by uh preparing this week for that. All right. Um we'll close up with the books of 2 and 3, John. Again, very short. epistles and it's really a neat contrast. The focus is on hospitality. And one book is talking about the dangers of hospitality to false teachers. 2 John. 3 John talks about our responsibility to carry out hospitality. Alright, so you see this contrast. So we'll dig into that. It's interesting too that 2 John is Let me say this. 1 John was really written to a broad audience. Second John written to a specific family. Some commentaries believe it might have been disguised to be written to a particular church. Whatever you believe, it is a small group that he is addressing here. So written specifically to a single house church or a specific family even. And it warns against showing hospitality to false teachers. So again, it's a short book, so we can cover that pretty quick. The elder to the chosen lady and her children, whom I love in truth. And not only I, but all all who know the truth, for the sake of the truth, which abides in us and will be with us forever. Grace, mercy, and peace. Let me keep going down to 6. And this is love that we walk according to his commandments. Again, that theme, right? This is the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, that you should walk in it For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ, coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Watch yourselves that you might not lose what we have accomplished, but that you may receive a full reward. Anyone who goes too far and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God The one who abides in the teaching, he has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, and do not give him greeting For the one who gives him a greeting participates in his evil deeds. Okay, so what's happening here, right, is it this might have been a church that was meeting at a home. And the danger, the warning was don't let these false teachers in. Because what happens once they get in, right, they start spreading that deception. So the warning is don't even let them in. Any thoughts on that? Questions? Well, good point. Good point, Karen. So I have um I was gonna say we've had some come to our door and I don't let them in. Now that is, you know, literally in my home. I think this is talking about a church setting. So we go back to why do we diligently work through a membership class? Right, and why do we have interviews? Right? It's to prevent this type of activity. But yes, right, y you might have the conviction that I'm not even going to let them in my home. Now I I will tell you when we were in Utah We had the center of the Mormon faith, right? But we actually had missionaries there in Utah. And they came to our door and it was a great opportunity to minister to these young men. that I believe were just deceit. And so we took 'em to the back patio and got some lemonade and and had a really good discussion and pointed them back to, you know, they claim to know the Bible, but they don't really know the Bible. And what did we do? We went immediately to tell me about Jesus. Who do you say that Jesus is? So I say that to say don't be legalistic about this. Understand the setting that we're talking about. Are there opportunities to share the gospel? And yet this was bringing them into the processes of the church or your home. Right? That's what you have to be on guard against Okay? Alright, in contrast, let's go over to three, John. Yes. Right, right. Alright, so I want you to hold that thought. All right, this is a great teen up the uh the next book here, John 3. So just hold that thought and we'll come back to that John 3 is actually written to an individual, Gaius, the elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth Beloved, I pray that in all respects you may prosper and be in good health, just as your soul prospers. For I was very glad when brethren came and bore witness to your truth. That is, how you are walking in truth. So remember, what was the test? Right? Someone who is a doer of the word. And now John gets to encourage Gaius, I've heard this testimony about you You are walking in love. I have no greater joy than this to hear of my children walking in the truth. Beloved, you are acting faithfully in whatever you accomplish for the brethren. and especially when they are strangers. And they bear witness to your love before the church, and you will do well to send them on their way in a manner worthy of God. For they went out for the sake of the name, accepting nothing from the Gentiles. Therefore we ought to support such men, that we may be fellow workers with the truth. So what he's saying is there's traveling ministers that are that are going throughout the region, and Gaius is demonstrating his love by showing hospitality, bringing them in, caring for them. um a meal, a place to sleep, maybe some money for their next journey. That's what was happening here. And he's saying you are doing well to show that testimony. The contrast though, verse nine. I wrote something to the church that the Aphetes Who loves to be first among them does not accept what we say. For this reason if I come, I will call attention to his deeds which he does, unjustly accusing us with wicked words. So here you have a contrast of someone who is in the church who is not showing that hospitality. So you see the contrast of what we saw in 2 John. Don't let them in with there are there are times when you need to let them in. Okay? And let me um Let me give you an excerpt and then we'll come back to your point because I think this is it's an important topic that you brought up. Um a short little resource here. Uh Hospitality in the church today. I don't think Christians today understand how essential hospitality is to fanning the flames of love and strengthening the Christian family. Hospitality fleshes out love in a uniquely personal and sacrificial way. Through the Ministry of Hospitality, we share our most prized possessions. We share our family, home, finances, food, privacy, and time. Indeed, we share our very lives, so hospitality is always costly. Through the Ministry of Hospitality, we provide friendship, acceptance, fellowship, refreshment, comfort, and love in one of the richest and deepest ways possible for humans to understand. Unless we open the doors of our homes to one another, the reality of the local church as a close-knit family of loving brothers and sisters is only a theory. Convicting, I hope. Convicting for me. And yet I married a woman who that's her gift. Alright. She loves to to just have people over and show that hospitality Um and so I've been extremely blessed by that. I really enjoy it now too. And we're always uh trying to find that time. But let's go back to the kind of the scene setter you had. If we are to show hospitality In what context? How far does that go? So as a class, what are some things you you would advise? And tell me your name again, I'm sorry. Dawn, how would you counsel Dawn with the scene setter that she just presented? What counsel would you give her from the Word of God? I think it's important to love those people and show God's love. We may disagree with them and what I'll do is like when I go to the house to my family's house that has we are very Catholic. I mean my my family is as well and I see all those statues and things and I always pray when I'm there. I pray that God would open the eyes. So I think it it is important to fellowship with that because That way you show um love for them and not act like you like because in Brazil people say they think you're better than us because they believe in salvation. So Um, so I think it's important that way you you build a bridge and you can not only pray for them but tell them the truth. Okay. So there's a Yeah, there's an evangelistic aspect here, right, for sure. What else? Good. Yeah, smart. Some Christians were able to do it and some Christians weren't. And they they kind of told them it was okay, but the main thing was to not go against your conscience. Right. Right? Good Okay. What else? How about witnessing without words? Especially if you're in a group where they're so you know it's easy to cause ascension and wangle and all that sort of stuff. And if you can just demonstrate love, the love of Christ without having to get your point across or having just showing that hospitality, it draws people in more than like having to discuss it. Yeah, yeah, good. And and I think an important point, right, what undergirds all of this is this heart attitude of love. Yeah. Right? So there's a graciousness. Um Anne and then Jeff. you said by inviting them in and showing them hospitality, you're showing them that you love them. You're showing them that. And that opens their ears to listen to anything you might have to say to them. Because if you don't invite them in, why are they ever going to listen to your testimony or what you say because they think you don't care about them Right. Now that's not advocating, hey, you can come up and set up your Buddhist idols and you know what I mean? You're not you still it's your home. For me and my house we will serve the Lord. They're coming into your context, if you will. But that's an opportunity to evangelize. Yeah. First Corinthians nine, twenty-two, to the weak have become weak that I've made a wind. I become all thanks to all people that by all means I may save Yeah, yeah. Now where it can get difficult, what about a wedding? What about a Buddhist wedding? What about a Catholic wedding? Right? That's your conscience is going to have to take over that discernment. Right? Is this an opportunity to show love? You're not participating, right? Those are things that are just daily you're gonna have to, you know, be thought of. Um Don. children and you know people told them three seven years in church I was like oh people said that's not love. So I did let my children be with my family family and and stuff. And it affected Yeah. Negative thing. Yeah. And everybody the majority is doing the fun thing. You know, so I guess And when you have children involved, you really have to be careful. Yes, absolutely. Right? Those little mines take in so much. So good point. Jeff, did you have another I was just gonna say so uh my daughter, okay, we are in two And part of it is my wife Khan's side is Vietnamese they're Buddhist. Yeah. They're hardcore Buddhists. And so we're going to take aspects of that tradition. Okay. void of any kind of ancestral worship in transferring. But we're going to show honor to her parents in that there is that. needing other two families together um introducing one another so we're we're removing any of that uh Buddhist ancestral worship we are showing honor respect to the bringing that together. Great example. Yeah, good. Good. Was there another comment? Well Yeah, well Pastor Almage's name with Alchemist. Taking a gift to a a wedding. It was a Bible I found out. Um That's good. Some people say like you take a Bible from believers, they may not even do anything with it, but um the thing about for me with the gay marriage was it it dishonors what guy has created male and female. Um and so that was a lot of people were doing some stuff um too much detail because I know sometimes I ran out of trail so I'm trying not to that we'll do that. I won't let you do that, Raymond. Go ahead. But Todd Frale said he was he we I heard some of his stuff that was really good at biblical how we would go to look at that, that I could I would have to say no to it. Yeah, let's leave it at this. That's a very controversial topic, right? Gay weddings, right? And and again you gotta go back to your conviction before the Lord and understanding the context and how can you show love And showing love might be not going to the wedding and standing firm and letting that message be clear. I cannot support this, but here's why. I love you, but I cannot go. I'm not saying that's always the answer, but but it's a tough one, for sure. Just something. Sure. Yep. It gets tough though when it's your child or uh someone that you love and and are very close to. So again you you have to rely on the the Lord's providence there. Um I I want to ask this real quick. There's a kind of a checklist. Why don't we show hospitality? What gets in the way of that? Business. Busyness. I I can't I can't not this weekend, I can't. Right? I'm just too busy. Pride. Pride. Okay. I was just gonna say we have to have fellowship with the years. Well we had people from hope come over last night. It was just nice to get to know people Absolutely. It's precious, for sure. What else? What about our homes? Um it can be tempting to say, well, I I live in a small home. I live in a small apartment and yet I know you have people over, Raymond, right? Don't let that be an excuse. It might be a small group and that's okay. Maybe you can meet in the park. Sometimes it takes finances, right? When you're preparing extra food. The Lord will provide. Fear of failure. Maybe you fear you just don't know what to do. I know we were very diligent with our kids that before someone would come over, we would we would drill them, if you will, with questions. What kind of questions are you going to ask? We had to train them to be hospitable. We had to train them to be social, if you will And now it's just it's second nature. I can't shut 'em up. No, it's precious. It's precious to see even today, 'cause I have many kids still home. When we invite people over, they they just take over. They just take over. It's pretty awesome. Alright. Any last comments? If not, I'll close in prayer. Whoa! Alright, let me start over here with Becky. We have to be intentional and ask God to show us and guide us in that way so that we won't like business or any other things you mentioned Absolutely. Good, good. So is the context of person if anyone comes to Peter says doctors, you can have a key to your council to give them a greeting. I think it is. Not necessarily just you know. Right. I agree. Yeah, that's what I think it is. Yeah. Don? Oh God. Sure. Yeah. Jeff, closing comments. Uh just uh a question with you because yeah. Um how do you deal with the tension between on one side Dwelling on the self-condemnation versus the other side of how do I test myself to see that I'm solid condemnation. I cannot answer that in thirty seconds, Jeff. Here here's what I would tell you. I I think we all to some degree will go through that struggle. And all I can encourage you to is to go back to passages like this that that affirm your salvation. That's why I love Romans 8. It's just packed with uh promises of who we are as children of God. There's no longer any condemnation, right? The Spirit testifies with our Spirit. If you testify that Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior, right? That's the foundation Um the the fact that nothing can separate us from the love of God, even our doubt, our sin. All I can tell you is to just overwhelm yourself with the truth in Scripture is is how you fight that that uh contradiction, if you will, or doubt. And I believe over time that's going to become less and less of an effect in your life. As you are sanctified, you're going to be grounded on those truths. Okay? Alright, let me close. Great discussion today