Alright, let's open up your Bibles. We're actually going to start in Acts. So if you could turn to the very last chapter in Acts, Acts 28. And we'll get there in a second. We'll start with a little bit of review. So here we are, we're almost halfway through. As I talked to you, what we were trying to do is cover books as it related to Paul's missionary journeys. And so the last couple weeks we've gone through his first missionary journey, his second, his third, and here we are now, he's in Rome. And he's in prison. We'll talk about that in a second. So the next two weeks, today and next week, are really all the books that were written during his time imprisonment in Rome. Right, so today Ephesians and Colossians, just great, great, rich books. Um, and then next week Finally and uh uh Philippians. All right, so those were all in his imprisonment in Rome And then we'll flow into his last books, his pastoral, you know, 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus when he's really in prison. And we'll talk about that in a second. Okay? So that's where we're at on the timeline. To give you, oh let me get my pointer. So here we are again, he's at Rome, and these are the four books we're going to cover And you see the timeline here. It was, I've seen different things from 60 to 62, somewhere in that early 60 time frame. is when he was in Rome in house arrest really and uh wrote those books. Now what I want to point out is you see here Nero's persecution And some of you might know more of the history here, but you know the great fire that happened in Rome destroyed most of the city of Rome And initially they were blaming it on Nero. That he he did that on purpose because he wanted to redesign Rome the way he wanted it. Apparently that was not true, so what did he do? He blamed the Christians And that's when you see this incredible persecution start to happen with the Christians. And so you see these last pastoral books are written after that starts to happen. So you're going to see a change in where the context of where Paul was when he writes these letters. Alright? All right. So again, we're about halfway through, so I thought it would be good to maybe do a review of some of the major themes that we talked about. Let me go back here. Again, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John acts historical, right? They're giving the historical precedence of the life of Christ. Acts is really this history, what this transformation, this transition that happens. You have the church now on the scene. God is now using the church to carry out his plan, his purposes. Right? And that history is still being written. We're part of that. And also what came on the scene in Acts? The Holy Spirit, right? You see the Holy Spirit affecting in a different way. We are now indwelt with the Holy Spirit. Good. Right, so we saw Matthew, and you see the different perspectives, which is great in the Gospels, right? Matthew, Christ is king. Mark Christ as servant, Luke, Christ as man, and then John written many years later, Christ as God, his deity. And then we talked about Acts, this transition, again, the birth and growth of the church through the Holy Spirit. The helper, the helper that was given when Jesus left. We talked about all the different aspects of the Holy Spirit. Romans, we see this beautiful, beautiful doctrine of the gospel of God in Romans And then Scott and Carrie walked you through Galatians and the rest. So Galatians, justification by faith alone, 1 and 2 Thessalonians. This was really a model church at the time Right? And Paul encouraged them and said, you're doing things really well. But what did he say? Excel still the more. And that's the message for us. Excel still the more. And then in Corinthians, Paul had to be the loving, hard father, if you will. Right? There's some immorality happening. Their testimony was being degraded because of some of the decisions that they were making, and he had to confront that. And that's biblical, right? He was concerned for their welfare. And then the 2 Corinthians really a defense of his apostleship, his authority, his identity. So today we're going to cover Ephesians and Colossians. Ephesians really focusing on the eternal plan of God, and we'll talk more about that. And then Colossians, the sufficiency of Christ. And really in Colossians Paul is addressing some some critical heresy that was happening, and we'll talk more about that. So he was getting after a problem in the church at Colossae. Okay? And again, this is a survey class, right? So we're trying to get the idea, the context of the full context of the New Testament survey and how all the books fit together. So it's important to look at these themes and understand how they all fit together. Okay. So here we are, Paul's journey to Rome. You remember at um The third missionary journey, right, he he was uh he headed back to Jerusalem. He was given some tidings or offerings to take back to Jerusalem to share there. So that's how he got back to Jerusalem. And he knew he was in danger if he were to go back to Jerusalem. And sure enough, so he he finally gets arrested and he makes the appeal to go back to appeal to Caesar. Which means he's got to make the journey all the way to Rome. And we didn't cover this in Acts, but it's Acts 27 and 28. And you can see the different blocks there. It was an easy journey, wasn't it? This is a very difficult journey, right? Shipwreck. Um he lands on uh they land on the the island of Malta, he gets bit by a snake, nothing happens to him, right? It was just a very tumultuous time, but he finally ends up in Rome. So let's go to Acts. Acts 28 at the very end, verse 30. And he stayed two full years in his own rented quarters and was welcoming all who came to him, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all openness, unhindered. So this is the context of his imprisonment initially. Right? He was under house arrest, but he had a lot of freedom. So these four books, um the two today and the and two next week, were written in this context. Does that make sense? Right? So that's he he had a lot of freedom um as he waited the appeal of um to to go before Caesar. Alright, so that's the context that we have. And again as we go through the New Testament survey, I've said this And I'll say it again, what we're trying to do is cultivate a high view of God, a really high view of God. And you're going to see the two books that we have today, Paul starts with the first couple chapters are really focused on just core doctrine. Right, of who we are in Christ, who God is, right? Trying to get a correct view of man as Christians And that's important because sometimes I feel like we don't. We lower that view of who we are in Christ. And it's important to have a correct view of who we are in Christ. Okay? Now I talked to you about the persecution of Nero, and no kidding, Paul was a ringleader, right? So he went after Paul. And based on what I was able to see, this is the prison he ended up in For those of you that went to Israel, did any of you go and see apparently you can go and see these jail type cells. My daughter saw it, but I don't know if anyone In Israel, it's in Rome. Oh, Rome, sorry. Yeah, so you wouldn't. Anybody go to Rome? I did. Did you see this? Yeah. Can you describe it at all, Ann? I mean was it Dark I don't know. The things on the wall are where they change their head. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. So very different environment. Now what I could gather from the scholars is that when you were put in this type of cell It wasn't like today where we use a jail cell for punishment. You were awaiting execution if you got in one of these. And so as you will see in Timothy when he writes Paul knows that the time is has come. Alright, and you're gonna see that in Timothy, because of where he's at now So I thought that was very interesting. So again, it can be a bit confusing when we talk about imprisonment. Just realize there's two different contexts that he was imprisoned. One was very open, unhindered, and the other was very confining. And at this point He knew this is it. Okay? Alright, so I'm going to keep that map up as we dive into our study. Okay, let's go to the book of Ephesians. Any questions on any of that overview or anything You heard over the last couple weeks? These are really, really awesome books. Um both Ephesians and Colossians are just excellent, excellent books. Because they have, again, so grounded in doctrine, but then follow up with application based on that doctrinal truth. And that's just a great encouragement to us. So I hope we're all encouraged by our lesson this morning You know, we start with a theme, theme of Ephesians, the eternal plan of God. God's great master plan is to bring everything together under Christ as the head. We as the body of Christ on earth have a part in this plan, and the Holy Spirit is the guarantee of God's promise And Paul often uses um analogies or figures of speech, and he he does that with the the church, right? And here's a couple. The church is one body with Christ as the head Jews and Gentiles are now one in Christ. And that's part of the mystery that's revealed here in Ephesians. Is that God's eternal plan includes the Gentiles. Amen? That's good news for us all Another analogy is a building. The church is like a building with Christ as the cornerstone. The cornerstone, as as it says, is that cornerstone that is put there to really set the plumb line, if you will, right? To make sure everything is straight based on that cornerstone. And that's a good depiction of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then we see in Ephesians 5, church is like a wife with Christ as the husband. We'll see that later when we when we talk about Ephesians 5. So again, a lot of discussion about the church and some analogies of what that looks like Let me give you a little bit of a background on Ephesians from MacArthur's commentary. It is likely that the gospel was first brought to Ephesus by Priscilla and Aquila. Remember them from Acts An exceptionally gifted couple who were left there by Paul on his second missionary journey, located at the mouth of the Keyster River on the east side of the Aegean Sea. The city of Ephesus was perhaps best known for its magnificent temple of Artemis or Diana, one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. It was also an important political, educational, and commercial center, ranking with Alexandria in Egypt, and Antioch of Pisidia in southern Asia Minor. The fledgling church, begun by Priscilla and Aquila, was later firmly established by Paul on his third missionary journey. If you remember, Paul would often go back and revisit the sites that he was at to encourage them and to equip them. However, Paul on his third mission was pastored by him for some three years. So he stayed there for three years and helped equip Priscilla and Aquila. After Paul left, Timothy pastored the congregation for perhaps a year and a half, primarily to counter the false teaching of a few influential men, who were probably elders in the congregation there. Because of these men, the church at Ephesus was plagued by fables and endless genealogies, and by such ascetic In unscriptural ideas is the forbidding of marriage and abstaining from certain foods. And we'll see this when we get to Timothy. This is what Paul is warning him about. Although those false teachers did not rightly understand Scripture, they propounded their ungodly interpretations with confidence, which produced in the church harmful disputes rather than godly edification. Which is in faith. Thirty years or so later, Christ gave to the Apostle John a letter for this church, including its, indicating its people had left their first love for him. Alright, so I don't know if you notice here, in this area here in Asia, modern-day Turkey, these are the seven churches that you see mentioned in Revelations, and one of those is Ephesians. And the indictment is you have left your first love, right? And Paul is trying to encourage them here, maintain, go back to that first love. And yet we see the impact of that. A major truth emphasized is that of the church is Christ's present spiritual earthly body, also a distinct and formally unrevealed truth about God's people. This metaphor depicts the church not as an organization, but as a living organism composed of mutually related and interdependent parts. Christ is head of the body and the Holy Spirit in its lifeblood. The body functions through the faithful use of its members' various spiritual gifts sovereignly, uniquely bestowed by the Holy Spirit on each believer. So I want to encourage you with that last statement. We've talked about the church when we talked about Acts, right? The church is meant to carry out God's plan We are the church. And utilizing our gifts and talents for the church for God's purposes, that's the goal. That's the focus. It's not self. Right? It's God's sovereign plan. So I want you to keep that in mind as we go through some of these doctrines and applications. Alright, let's jump into Ephesians. Again, it's a neat kind of study if you look and just go to all the epistles that Paul wrote and see how he starts the epistle. It's a fun kind of exercise to go through. But we see here Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. So Paul is always asserting up front in his letters the authority that he has, but also his identity. He identifies as an apostle, as a bondservant. Right? And it and it got me to thinking when I introduce myself, how do I what's my identity? Right? I'm a husband, I'm a father, I'm a military man, I'm an APL er. Or am I a bondservant? Now I'm not saying you go introduce everyone to say, hey, I'm a bondservant of Jesus Christ. You can. You can. But just a thoughtful piece, right? How do we identify with All right. I've shared this before, but I love Ephesians 1 because it does something very unique. It displays the Trinity in our salvation in Ephesians 1. And so let's walk through that. Starting in verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing. in the heavenly places in Christ, just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him. Alright, so right there you see I'll call it God the Father choosing us. Right? We talked about that. We talked about predestination, election in Romans 9. Right? God choosing us. God the Father choosing us. Continue on in verse 5. He predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to himself according to the kind intention of his will. to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses According to the riches of his grace. Who are we talking about here? This is Jesus Christ. Right? We have salvation, redemption through Jesus Christ, the second person of the Trinity. Verse 9. He made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his kind intention which he purposed in him, with a view to an administration suitable to the fullness of the times. That is the summing up of all things. in Christ, things in the heavens and things upon the earth. In him also we have obtained an inheritance having been predestined according to his purpose, who works all things after the counsel of his will, to the end that we who were the first to hope in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. In him, you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, you were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise. So there's the third person of the Trinity, sealing our inheritance, sealing the fact that we are children of God. Do you remember where in Romans that talked about the Holy Spirit? Testifying with our spirit. Romans 8? Yeah, Romans 8. It's my favorite chapter. Come on. Romans 8:16. Right? The Holy Spirit testifying with our spirit. That what? That we are children of God. And how do we know that? Right? Because we cry out, Abba Father. That's one of the manifestations of that. So even in this very short passage, we see Paul laying the groundwork again. Here's the Trinity in action. You were chosen, you were saved by Christ, and you are now sealed for eternity, for glorification. Right, grounding them in this wonderful, wonderful truth that you are now children of God. That same message is for us. Right? That same message of hope. And it all revolves around Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is ahead. Go down to verse eighteen I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, so that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints, and what is the surpassing greatness of his power towards us who believe. These are in accordance with the working of the strength of his might, which he brought about in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at a right hand in the heavenly places. Far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things in subjection under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. Lot of powerful truths in there, right? We are filled with his surpassing Greatness of his power, right? That's the indwelling of the spirit. That's what we have inside of us. Do we act like that Do we operate like that? Do we obey like that? Right? Let that be an encouragement to you. That's the power that we have inside of us. And all of it brought together our head, Jesus Christ. That's who we worship, that's who we serve. Everything we do is to worship and serve Jesus Christ, the head of the church. Alright, so chapter one, setting some foundational principles, some foundational doctrine of our salvation. Right? The order of things. Christ is the head. Alright, we move into chapter 2, though, and he's got to remind us who we were outside of Christ. Chapter 2, starting in verse 1. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formally walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, of the Spirit, that is now working in the sons of disobedience, among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh Indulging or doing the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. So you remember we talk about this in Romans, right? Romans 1 and 2 and 3. That was the condition of all of us. We were children of wrath. That was the the punishment we were going to get is God's wrath. And now two of maybe the greatest words in the Bible. But God. Right? Verse 4. But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love, which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. So you remember we talked about this. You know, often people talk about, well, that's not fair that he chose some. Here's the truth. We were all children of wrath. The fact that he chose any is an incredible act of mercy and grace. Okay? That's the gospel message. Continuing to verse 7. In order that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. Here it is. For by grace you have been saved through faith, in that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. No work, nothing to boast about. It was purely a gift. So why were we created? For good works. For good works? Yeah. Glorify his name. Glorify his name? Okay. Go out and evangelize. Yeah? Look at verse 10. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. Part of our plan of being created is to fulfill the good works that God has prepared beforehand. Let that sink in. Every good work you do today in the name of Jesus Christ has been prepared beforehand. That's a glorious thought. And so what I would encourage you to do is walk faithfully. Walk through those good works with thankfulness and joy. Not drudgery, but joy, because he has prepared them ahead of time for his plan, for his purposes. Alright, let's flip down to verse 19. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens. Remember, when we were children of wrath, we were separated from God. I mean totally separated. Romans 3 says we were hostile towards God. You may not have thought about that, but that's the condition you were in. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household. Having been built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole building being fitted together is growing into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit. So you can see what Paul has done here, right? He started with that doctrine in in chapter one of salvation Chapter 2, he reminds them of the condition they were in prior to that, and that it was simply by an act of mercy of God, through grace, that they are now saved. And now they are part of this incredible body, the church. Right? So he's really encouraging them through these important doctrines. Alright, we move on to chapter 3. And we talk about this mystery being revealed. Go down to verse six. This is the mystery. To be specific that the Gentiles are fellow heirs and fellow members of the body and fellow partakers of the promising. In Christ Jesus through the gospel. Amen and amen. We will see in Colossians, though, that now the church has a mixture of Jews and Gentiles, and that's going to cause some friction, as you can imagine. The Jews came from this very law-based, tradition-based religion, if you will, and now are in this area of grace. And that's hard, it's hard to give up these traditions. And you're going to see that friction. We'll see that in the book of Colossians. But but making this point, right, that Jew and Gentile, God has a plan for both, for for all of mankind. Jump down to verse 14. Again, this wonderful promise of who we are in Christ. Verse 14, chapter 3, 14. For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven on earth derives its name. that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with power through the Spirit in the inner man So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, and that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length, height, and depth, and to know the love of Christ which surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled up to all the fullness of God. Let that sink in for a second, guys. The breadth, the length, height, and depth of God's love for you. Doesn't always feel that way though, does it? When you're going through trials and tribulations. It's hard. That's why you go back to these passages. That's why you underline them. That's why you meditate and you memorize them. This is the truth. God loves us so very richly. What does it say? And to know the love of Christ which surpasses knowledge, we can't even comprehend the level of love that God has for us. That's how much He loves us. Now to him who is able to do exceeding abundantly beyond all that we ask or think, according to the power that works within us, to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations. forever and ever. Amen. Wonderful, wonderful doctrinal truth that Paul just laid out in three short chapters Right? So these are easy reads for us to go back and remind ourselves who we are in Christ. Now the rubber meets the road, though. What if Paul just left it there? You're encouraged. Chapter four. Therefore, I love these well what do what is that word in grammar? Anyone know? I forget. You have to look what's before. There's a name for it in grammar, but I forget it. But absolutely. Yeah, it might be. Therefore, stop Every time you see that in the Bible, just stop and make sure you understand what is he talking about. The therefore is what he just talked about. The therefore is the doctrines he just laid out in chapters 1 through 3. Right, so it's this transition. Yes, I say in precepts when you see a therefore look what it's there for. Uh-huh. And I I like that. And treat it like a a bit of a mystery or a puzzle, right? When you see that, say, do I understand what the therefore is? And if you don't, go back and make sure you understand it. That's the The beauty of studying the Bible. So it's really this transition from all the doctrine I just told you about to now you got a duty. What are we going to do with that? Now that you're sufficient in who you are as a child of Christ, what are we going to do about? How are we going to live? How are we going to walk? Right. We start in verse 2. Well, let me just pick it up in one again. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, entreat you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. With all humility and gentleness, with patience showing forbearance to one another in love, being diligent to persevere the in To preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as also you were called in one hope of your calling. One Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. So what are the what are a couple things you picked out of those short verses as to how we are to walk? Just shout them out. Humility. Gentleness. Patience. Forbearance to one another in love. Right? That should be our testimony to the outside world. The church family loving one another. Unity, right? It talks about unity in the bond of peace. There's one body, one hope, one Lord, one faith. I don't remember if it was in this class. It might have been the membership class when we talk about being made in the image of God. And and think about what that means, right? We are we have characteristics now, mind, will, affections, but we are unique in that creation. Of all other creation, we are the only ones made in the image of God. That alone Should cause us to treat everyone with incredible respect and love, even more so as Christians. Let that be our goal, especially in the church. To treat one another with love. Yes, sir. Yes. Four, five, and six. It also mentions the Trinity. There's one Spirit, one Lord, and one God. Yes, good. Good pick. Love it. Alright, let's go down to verse 11. And again, the rest of these chapters, 4 through 6, are all about the application, and it's true to us today. Verse 11. And he gave some as apostles and some as prophets, and some as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers, for the equipping of the saints. for the work of service to the building up of the body of Christ until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a mature man to the measure of the statue which belongs to the fullness of Christ. So don't get hung up on um, you know, he calls out some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelists. We know in other parts of Scripture What he's talking about is we've all been given at least one spiritual gift. All of us. And the idea is we're using that together to fulfill God's plan in the context of the church That's what it's meant for, right? So don't anyone think I don't have one. I'm special. I wasn't given one. Right? It's not true. So the key is to be utilizing that gift. Why? The equipping of the saints, right, to carry out God's plan. Now you might say, well, I'm not really sure what my spiritual gift is. I got it, but what I usually tell people, just jump in and start serving. Don't wring your hands over it. Just jump in and start serving. And guess what? You're going to gravitate. Towards that desire, the things that give you just great joy in serving the body. Don't wait to figure that out. Just jump in and start serving. Okay? All for the body. And again, Christ has the head. Now, we're going to jump down to verse 20, and this is the famous, I'll call it the put off, renew your mind, and put on. And this is often used in our counseling sessions as a framework. Let me ask you guys real quick, how many of you are counselors? Everyone should raise their hand. Right? We're all counselors. Yes, you can go through certification, you can get equipped, right? There's a a process we can go through here at our counseling center To be better equipped, but we are all counselors. You can all minister the word to your friends, your families your coworkers, right? The community out there. Don't ever ever remember I just talked to you about who we are, the power that's in us. Don't be timid. Don't be afraid. Right? You have the gospel. You have what a hurting world needs. And we know that the word is sufficient. Right. Right? It's sufficient for our life issues and problems. We are all counselors. Alright, let's go to verse twenty. But you did not learn Christ in this way. If indeed you have heard him and have been taught him. taught in him, just as uh truth is in Jesus, that in reference to your former manner of life you lay aside the old self or to put off, which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of the seed. And that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind. How do we renew our mind? Reading, praying, reading, yeah, reading the word, right? Praying. Uh meditating. Yeah. I'll say one reason I just heard Rick Comfort once said. He said, Read before you feed, and I added to himself, eat uh think before you drink Whatever works for you, we are commanded to be renewing our mind. Right? So put off the old self And that's hard, isn't it? We know that. Paul talked about that in Romans 7. Put it off, renew the mind, and then verse 24, and put on the new self, which is which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness, of holiness, of the truth. Therefore, line so now it goes through all of these, lay aside all these very negative things. That's what uh the rest of chapter four talks about. Although look at the very end, go to verse 32. So he gets gone talking about all the things you know you need to put off And then he says, and be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. Pastor Gage does a class, Biblical Reconciliation, I think he calls it, wonderful, wonderful class that gets at the heart of this idea of forgiveness. Right? And what we have to be reminded of is we were children of wrath. We were ugly, dirty, filthy rags, and yet God forgave us. Can we not show that same grace, especially to our fellow believers? Right? So again, these passages are so important, these truths, and this is application. Right? This is application. This is what we need to walk through. This is what we are supposed to be doing. Good. Okay So he goes on in chapter 5 to be imitators of God. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children and walk in love just as Christ also loved you. And gave himself up for us in offering a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. I will tell you this, just from my own personal experience, if your focus is on self or this world, that's really hard to do. If your focus is on Christ and you remember what He did for us and the love He had for us, that's how you can be imitators of God. Right? That's how you can love the way that God demonstrated to us. Alright, go down to verse eight. For you were formerly darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness. and truth, trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. And then go to 17. So then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. I love this idea in verse 10. Trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. I had a question there. Yeah, let me hit 18, sorry. So I'll start in 17. So then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk. Let me stop there. How can you learn what is pleasing to the Lord? Let me ask that first. Reading scripture, absolutely, right? We understand what the will of God, his moral will is right here. You may not understand the next step in your career or your life or who you're supposed to marry. That's not in here. Right? But you're going to understand God's moral will as revealed clearly right here. Okay? Say again, Io. Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit. Yeah. So let's go to that. That's where I was going next. Let's go to verse 18. And we've talked about this before when we talked about Acts And do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. What does it mean to be filled by the Spirit? Do you remember? Does it mean we quench the spirit and so we read the word and now we've got to get filled back up like a cup of water? No, it means to be controlled by the spirit, to yield to the Spirit. That's what that means. So I owe to your point, we can only do all of this through the power of the Holy Spirit. Right? If you strive to do this of your own power and strength, you will fail. I guarantee you you will fail. Right, so this idea here, this contrast, what happens, well, for those that have abused alcohol, what happens? You're controlled by the alcohol, right? You do things that you wouldn't normally do. The contrast there is be controlled by the Holy Spirit. Now we can grieve the Holy Spirit. We grieve the Holy Spirit by not walking in truth. By not walking in the revealed uh will of God. It doesn't mean we lose the Holy Spirit though. Alright? So when you see that word filled by the Holy Spirit, it simply means it's a command, be controlled by the Holy Spirit And you do that by walking in obedience. And over time you become so sensitive to the Holy Spirit in your life and his promptings, right, that it becomes easier and easier. That's the sanctification process. So that was the question I had. How can we be imitators of God in a fallen world only through the power of the Holy Spirit? That's the only way that that's going to work. All right. Chapter 5, as many of you know, is the great passage that talks about the roles and responsibility of marriage. So here Paul is Talking about how we are to act now that now that we understand these doctrines of who we are in Christ, and specifically in the relationship of husband and wife. And he lays that out in Ephesians 5, starting in 22. I wasn't going to read all that. I just wanted to get to the the end of that. So turn over or uh I'll start in now let me start on the husband's role in 28. 528. So husbands ought also to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes, just as Christ also does the church. And this I love this this um picture, if you will, to nourish and cherish it, it it's a command that's continually, continually nourish and cherish our wives. Wouldn't marriages be just wonderful if that happened all the time? Just as Christ also does the church, because we are members of his body. For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Now, as you know, that's from Genesis, that passage. And the importance of that is how can you nourish and cherish continually wife if you're still attached to your your old family, if you will. Right? That's why you need to be separated and you cling to your wife and you are now one. So that you can love her the way Christ loved the church. However, verse 32, this mystery is great, but I am speaking with reference to Christ and the church So our marriages really need to be, I have it written there, is intended to be a sacred reflection of the union between Jesus Christ and the church. Right? That's what we are to nurture in our marriages. That's the testimony that our marriages should have to the outside world. The sacred reflection of the union between Jesus Christ and the church. Okay? Wonderful, wonderful truths. Chapter six goes into some additional family relationships. I I won't go through all that. Other than I'll say Um for the children. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a promise. I would often tell my kids raising them that you guys got one command Just one. We got a bunch. You got one. Right? And it's with a promise. You get a promise with it. I joke, but I tried to keep it really simple for them, right? Um, but so six goes through some relationships, if you will, and then I like the end of chapter six. It talks about the the armor of God, right? Putting on the armor of God However, let me start in verse 10. I won't read all of that. It's really great, this visual of putting on the armor of God. Verse 10, finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Right? We go back to, yes, put on the armor, but it's in whose strength? It's in the strength of the Lord. You always got to come back to that. You can't strive in your own strength Alright, that is Ephesians. Any questions on Ephesians? Really wonderful sound doctrine up front. Easy for you to go back and reread, to meditate, to underline, to memorize, and then some very um simple application of how we are to live in that truth. It's a wonderful, wonderful, rich book. Alright, again, Paul's writing in Rome. Let's flip over to Colossians And the theme of Colossians, again you're going to have a similar pattern. The first couple chapters is a reminder of doctrine and then um the the second uh chapter three and four is really an application of that so the same kind of format It starts up front with setting the context, the doctrine, and then the application through that. The theme, the all-sufficiency of Christ. Complete sufficiency for every spiritual and practical need for the believer. Now, Paul is stressing the sufficiency of Christ because he has to confront some issues that are happening here in Colosse. So let me give you a quick Synopsis of that from my study Bible. Paul does not confront the heresies that existed in Colossae point by point, but he presents related truth in a positive manner. From the subjects he touches upon we conclude the following inordinate attention was given to the powers of the spirit world to the detriment of the place given to Christ He speaks of worship of the angels and other references to the relation of the spiritual creation, to the relation of the spiritual creation to Christ. Second, undue attention was given to outward observances such as feasts and fasts, new moons and sabbaths. Again, bringing in those traditions, right? And probably also circumcision These were presented as the true way of self-discipline and the subjection of the flesh. And then, three, they were also definitely influenced by Gnosticism. A heresy that plagued the early church in the first two hundred years of his existence. The word is derived from the Greek word gnosis, meaning knowledge. This heresy was repudiated not only by the writers of the New Testament epistles, but also by the church fathers who lived in the period after the early church. It is from them that we acquire the knowledge of Gnosticism's general tenets. Let me describe that, because I think that's important. The Gnostics separated matter from thought. They considered matter as evil and thought or knowledge as the ultimate for salvation. This is why they did not want to attribute humanity to Jesus Christ, since humanity being material to them was evil. Does that make sense? So they separated that the knowledge piece from the material. And they felt material was evil. So I don't know how they constructed or understood Jesus appearing, uh maybe as an appearance but not really in her human flesh because that would have been evil. From this we have the Docetic Heresy, which believed that the body of Christ was only something that appeared material, but in reality it was not. How convenient for them, eh? Don't believe you're lying on reality Such a belief led to an immoral life, for since the spirit was entirely separate, they were not responsible for the acts of the body. Again, very convenient, right? They felt this was evil, I don't have any responsibility over it. So whatever I do with the members of my body, right, I'm not responsible for. Again, pretty convenient thought, but totally false. Paul in this epistle counters the teaching that stresses that the way of holiness is through an asceticism that promotes only spiritual selfishness. He stresses that spirituality is not achieved by self-centered efforts. to control the passions, but by putting on Christ, setting one's affections on him, and so stripping off that is contrary to his will. You see a little bit of the The put off, the renew, and the put on. And we'll see that again in Colossians. Alright, so he has to address these issues now, and the main point is again, Christ is sufficient. All these other things are false. Christ is sufficient. Alright. Starting in chapter 1, let's go jump to verse 9. Paul's going to start with an encouragement regarding what they have heard about the church at Colosse. Not everything's lost here, right? So he's trying to encourage the believers there. For this reason also, since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. so that you may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. strengthened with all power according to his glorious might, for the attaining of all steadfast impatience, joyously giving thanks to the Father. Who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in the light? So Paul is very encouraging here to the believers, the saints at Colossae, which is important, right? Now he's going to introduce some doctrine, if you will, again pointing to Jesus Christ. So starting in verse 16 We're going to see an emphasis on Christ's eternality, his divinity, and his human natures. Again, the point he has to draw on the human nature is what? To counter the Gnosticism that I just talked about. Starting in 16. For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on the earth, visible and invisible. So by him all things were created, right? He was there from the beginning. His eternality. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created by him and for him. It all culminates under Jesus Christ. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. He is also head of the body, the church, and he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, so that he himself might come to have first place in everything. For it was the Father's good pleasure for all the fullness to dwell in him. You see the focus and the emphasis on Jesus Christ throughout the Bible, but specifically here manifesting itself. through Jesus. And through him, verse 20, and through him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross, through him I say, whether things on earth or things in heaven And although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, again a reminder of who they were outside of Christ. Yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body through death, in order to present you before him, holy and blameless and beyond reproach. Again, he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body, again, countering this idea of Gnosticism. If indeed you continue in the faith, firmly established and steadfast, and not moved away from the hope of the gospel. that you have heard, which was proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, was made a minister. Again, focusing on who Jesus Christ, the sufficiency of Jesus Christ. Next verses I want to cover, though, really, really important, staying rooted in Christ. So let's go to chapter 2 now. Jumping down to verse six, being built up in Christ. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him Having been firmly rooted and now being built up in Him and established in your faith, just as you were instructed, and overflowing with gratitude. That's really a description of our sanctification, that progressive sanctification. Verse 8: See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ. So here again he's countering those heresies, those traditions that were being brought in. Verse 9, for in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. And in him you have been made complete, and he is the head over all rule and authority. Verse 11 And in him you were also circumcised, with a circumcision made without hands in the removal of the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. So that's the real circumcision. So you can see in that short passage he's countering all those heresies, those traditions, Gnosticism. Getting them rooted back to the sufficiency of Christ. It's really cool how in one very short verse, verse 9, totally counters Gnosticism. Yes. Yep For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. Boom! Yep, absolutely. Love it. Alright, let's jump over to verse 16, chapter 2, verse 16. Therefore, let no one act as your judge in regard to food or drink or in respect to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath day, things which are a mere shadow of what is to come. But the substance belongs to God, to Christ. Let no one keep defrauding you of your prize by delighting in self-abasement and the worship of the angels, taking his stand on visions he has seen, inflated without cause by his fleshly mind and not holding fast to the head, from whom the entire body being supplied and held together by the joints and ligaments grows with a growth which is from God Right? Totally countering all of that, the tradition piece of that in holding firm to Christ. And let's finish on 23. These are matters which have, to be sure, the appearance of wisdom, all the things he just talked about. in self-made religion and self-abasement and severe treatment of the body, but are of no value against fleshly indulgence. What are we to do against the struggles of fleshly indulgence? What does Scripture tell us to do? Our youthful lusts, what are we to do? To flee. We are to run from them. Okay? All of this uh self-abasement, this self-made religion, these traditions have no value in overcoming those those youthful lusts, right? That's what he's saying here. So I have a question for you And it's easy to think back to these times to say, well yeah, they had these Old Testament traditions, but um boy, it's sneaky how how things kind of seep in to our current century, if you will, how might we be engaged in matters which appear wise but have no value against fleshly indulgence? What do you think? How might we be engaged today in matters which appear wise but have no value against fleshly indulgence? Um some oh yeah for the worship marry which we don't do. Worship Mary what they always they put that in there but they don't need to because I didn't catch the first word, Ray. Oh, worshiping of Mary. Absolutely. Absolutely. So I I came from the Catholic faith and there's a lot of traditions there, right, that that have no value Give us no strength, no power over our our sinful nature. Right? None. Absolutely. Well we have some friends going on with what you said who are Catholics and they go to church every single day and they say Seth of Good Saint Paul. So uh the the tradition of going to church, absolutely. I just wanted to say too, Santu on that vein. I have a friend who's Catholic. She's a little older. She's gone to the church all her life And we were talking about something so uh I mentioned Paul, you know, having a thorn in his eye. Yeah. And uh who? Paul Bible. They had no idea. And when what do you talk about in church? She couldn't speak for what she talked about, what they talked about Yep. But they don't talk about the Bible. Right, right. Yeah. It's very um liturgical. But you know, these are now great opportunities Hey, can I share? Let me share that story of Paul with you, right? So those are great, great opportunities to get people into the Word because the Word will not return void. Good. All right, so we have some of those traditions Yes. Thank you, right? Th this question was really meant to be more in that vein. Those are the sneaky things that that come in. Yeah. Right? So social media. We can get so consumed with social media and I'm not here to be critical guys, but those are the types of things that I'm talking about that can sneak in and steal your time. We can be so consumed with the news. and traditions in that sense. Right? We can flood our minds with the world instead of flooding our minds with Christ. Right? Those are the sneaky things that come in. And so examine yourselves. It's okay. Examine yourselves. And say, am I relying on on worldly activities or or worldly sources to bring me peace and comfort. If you are, repent, ask for forgiveness, and go back to the work. Yeah, but sometimes you have to um gently Let people know that. Yes. Absolutely. Yeah. But it'll be great point, right? And back to we're all counselors. Right? We minister the word how? In grace. We minister truth in grace. Right? So, yes, we we have to be like Paul. He confronts what's happening here, and you see that in other passages of scripture. But we need to do that in grace. All right, let's keep going. Um chapter three, we're back to put on, put off, if you will. Chapter three starting in verse one. If then you have been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above, like we just talked about, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on the things above, not on the things that are on earth. For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. I will share this just my own sanctification or experience. It's hard, right? When you're going through a trial or tribulation. um especially if it's extreme. It's it's so easy to get focused on self. It's easy to get focused on your circumstances. What I would like to think, and I had something happen to me last week, not uh trivial But I could find myself reverting back to kind of a self-focus. And I praise God for just the maturity to say, to recognize that quickly. And say, no, no, no, no, Christopher, don't even go down that path. Right? And go back to some scriptures that were very helpful to me. What I'm grateful for is a quickness. now that I feel like in my life to recognize that and quickly turn. Whereas before I might have dwelt much longer. So that's an evidence of sanctification in your lives, in our lives, right? Is it's going to happen But to turn our mind back to do that quicker, to repent of those thoughts that I had. Right? So let that be an encouragement to you Verse 5. Therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry. This is again Paul addressing this idea of Gnosticism, right? Because what they were saying is the the im uh the material is evil, right? I have no responsibility for it. What Paul is trying to say here is consider them as dead, that they have no control over you. You need to control them. That's what he's saying here. You absolutely are responsible for your human actions, if you will. So again, combating this idea of Gnosticism. Alright, go over to verse 8, and this is the uh the put-off and the put on Verse 8. But now you also put them all aside anger, wrath, and malice, slander, and abusive speech from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you laid aside the old self with its evil practices. And here's the counter, and have put on the new self, who is being being renewed to a true knowledge according to the image of the one who created him. So again, put off and put on. Jump down to verse twelve. And so as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness. and patience, bearing with one another, and forgiving each other. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you And beyond all these things, put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity, and let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts to which indeed you were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you, with all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another, with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with thankful With thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks through Him. to God the Father. So clear indications of how we are to be interacting with one another with kindness and with love. Again, put off and put on And then we end with chapter four, and I just want to mention, I find it neat, just the encouragement that that Paul gives, and especially from the brothers. So he mentions several folks here, verse 7, Tycheus, we've seen in several passages, verse 9, Onesimus, and we're going to read more about Onesimus next week. Alright? You see, uh John Mark, so we know in Timothy there is a reference to John Mark, Mark being uh John Mark being the writer of the Gospel of Mark We see a reference in in Timothy where it sounds like they have reconciled. You see it here too, right? So he he He possibly uh may have ministered with Paul in Rome there, but they are on good terms here in this passage. And then verse fourteen we see Luke the physician. So Um pretty big hitters in the the Christian world at that time, and it's neat to see how he uses them to encourage um the brothers. Because again, this is an early church Right? They're under persecution, they're being spread out, and he has gone around on these missionary journeys trying to encourage them and go back and equip them, and oftentimes is doing that through the epistles. So again, if I can have you walk away with Ephesians and Colossians, remember the context was written in Rome, in his imprisonment, right, his house arrest. But both have a similar format of starting with clear doctrine, get them back to pure doctrine. Again, I go back to us as counselors. That's what you start with. Go back to who they are in Christ because they're dealing with issues, they're overwhelmed with issues. Take them back to here's who you are in Christ, and then you can apply. Then you can do the application Does that make sense? All right. Any questions, comments? Rich, rich books. Sir. Labor is the author. Paul. Paul was an obscure huge hated, hated anyone who was not his uh Jew, there is no hope for you. You have no contact with your dis the only contact you have with God is black. And then all of a sudden he appears on the sleep And now like no, this drum is to use it. So it had to be in this trip to be the sort of coming off and now all of a sudden you're saying exactly the opposite. Yeah. And then He could probably end like in the middle of Ephesians, but in the house it says, because I I would walk away mystified as so okay so now what happens? So instead of just leaving all this legal weapons and this is what it looks like. I'm sure would love to have the other books or the other server CAs. But at least have a small piece of what we share with you know those who deep once condemned and now it's a broaden now they're brought into this mystery Right. Without how hard it is. Yeah, yeah. or were viewed as you have all these rules and regulations and now you're like as as downtrod I think it's kind of like the chapter, but it's not as legal from the school Yeah. Not a help me. Yeah. Yeah, that's a great point, Jeff. Thank you very much. Good. Alright, let me pray and we'll close up.