All right. Like I said, another couple great books from Paul. Now, a little trivia before we jump in. What are the four books that Paul wrote during his first imprisonment? Give me one. Colossians. Colossians. That was the second imprisonment. Yeah, we're talking about the first during the house arrest. Ephesians? Ephesians? The two we covered last week. Or no. Yeah, you guys covered it. So Ephesians, Colossians, Philemon, and Philippians. Alright? It's important to keep that in context, I think, because you understand where he's at when he's writing these books All right, he's been to these churches, he's established them. I'm getting ahead of myself. We'll jump in there. I'll show you on the map. Here we are, we're already lesson eight. So more than halfway through, and it's been uh a fun journey, at least from my perspective. So just a reminder where we're at. Again, he's at Rome. He's in Rome in this house arrest or this house imprisonment. And let me let me say this up front. I made a um oh what's the word I'm looking for Make a mistake? No, that's not it. When you um you don't have you don't have all the data so you surmise or You get the intent. Here's what what I said is you know that he was in his house arrest when he wrote these four. So here's the four. During the s this says sixty-two, so probably sixty to sixty-three. He doesn't die until sixty-eight. He writes these books. Um during the second imprisonment, right? The 1st and 2 Timothy and Titus. There's a couple years there though that there's a bit of a gap. And reality is we don't know, scripture doesn't tell us what happened to Paul during that time. We know that the end of Acts is basically his time in this first imprisonment, right? And part of that is the fact that Luke wrote Acts, and that was around 64. He may not have had all the facts of what happened to Paul afterwards. So we just don't know. You know, did Paul get out and and start to journey around some more? Bible doesn't really we're speculating. That's the word I was looking for Speculating. That's always you gotta be careful with that, right? So I just wanted to be clear that I threw out an idea that said he was in his initial house arrest, and then you started to see the persecution from Nero not not long afterwards. Um and he could have been thrown in prison once again, but he doesn't die until 68. Again, there's a couple years there where we just don't know what's happening So I just wanted to be clear with that. Always want to make sure we're we're handling the word accurately. Does that make sense? Yeah. Do you know how old he was when he died? He was about sixty-eight He was about the same age as as Jesus. Yes. Yeah. Yep. No, that's that's an interesting fact, Ant, because I think even in the books we talked today, he talks about um makes a reference to his age, you know, and he's getting old and I'm thinking, you're not that old. Give me give me some grace here. But in those days, absolutely. In those days, absolutely. So I just wanted to make sure that that was clear that there is a bit of a gap there, we just don't know. But again, in context, what's happening here is these four precious books And what did we know, what did we learn about Ephesians and Colossians? Well, let me do this. Let me show you the map. This is just a reminder of his journey to Rome. So now he is here sitting in Rome. And last week we talked about writing to the Ephesians. Right, in Ephesus. And it's hard to see here, but Colossae was was also amongst those seven churches from to the south. Alright, so today, the Philippians, we're going to see up here, but we're also going to be looking at this church at Colossae. That's the scene center that's going to happen with Philemon. Okay? That's where they're at. And as we mentioned, and Ann, I don't know if you've actually been to the supposed house. I just took this off the internet when I Google searched it This might have been typical of the house that Paul was in for that first imprisonment. Again, he had a lot of flexibility. People were able to come and minister to him. He was able to preach, write, you name it. So that's what that looked like versus, and we'll get to it later when we talk about the 1st and 2nd Timothy and Titus. you know, that cave-like prison that he's going to be in that I showed you last time. So we'll bring that back up. So again, I think that's important to make that distinction of the two types of imprisonment. Okay. So can you remember from last week when we talked about Ephesians and uh Colossians? What was kind of the The pattern that we saw. The first couple chapters did what? And then the last part of it did what? Anybody? Good. Say that really loud for everybody. Doctrine and then application, right? You saw that uh basically in both Ephesians and Colossians. The first couple chapters, really rich in doctrine And then he follows it up with, based on that doctrine, based on who we are in Christ, this is how we're supposed to live. Right? These are very encouraging books because they're written to us today too. Right? So that's the pattern. You're going to see a little bit of a different pattern today, but let's go back to where we were, some of the highlights of that application. So I want you to turn first to Ephesians Ephesians 4. And this is just a reminder of Paul's encouragement or admonition to the churches spread throughout the region. In Ephesians 4, and I'm going to be at verse 32, it says, and be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving each other. Just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. Sometimes we skip over that really quick, but you think of the pattern of what God did for us. You remember when we talked about in Romans, right? We were all children of wrath. There was none that was good. We all deserved death. And yet God forgave us. And we're going to talk about that a little bit more. What does that really mean to forgive? And God, Jesus, is our example of how we are forgiven. That's how we are to forgive others. Right? Let that sink into your brain. Alright, let's flip over to Colossians. Colossians 3, 12 through 14. And so as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on. Remember we talked about the put off, renew your mind in the put-on. So here's Paul is talking about some of the put-ons. Verse 12, and so as those who have been chosen of God holy and bloved, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience Bearing with one another and forgiving each other. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you And beyond all these things, put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity. Again, forgive others as Christ has forgiven you or God has forgiven you, right? That's the model that we need to work towards. So, all right, now we're going to jump into our study for today. So jump over to Philemon, which is just before Hebrews. And it's a short little book, but it's going to pull on this example, this application of forgiveness. I mean, it is the pattern of forgiveness That Paul just talked about. Now, what we know, we know a little bit about Philemon, right? As you can see in the notes there. He was a prominent prominent member of the church. We know that how? The church met in his house Right, so to have a house, to own a house big enough to hold a church. And the churches weren't huge back then, maybe like our small groups today or large small groups, but still to have a house um meant you had some money. So he was he was prominent. And we know that he owned at least one slave, Onesimus, right? And we saw that back in Colossians 4, where Onesimus is being sent. right to um to colase and and he talks about them as being one of their own right so we know that that's where they're at that's how we know that they're in colase and we know that he had a slave So let me ask you something. You can see the question there. How would you feel getting a personal letter from Paul? And let me bring it home today. Pick whatever your favorite preachers today, John MacArthur, Piper, Strolls, Virgin, whoever it is, maybe even Pastor Gay. And and you you're hosting a small group and you get a letter that is delivered from one of our members and it's specifically from Pastor Gate. Well what would be going through your head at that point? Uh-oh, what that do? Yeah, right. One one comment was, uh oh, I'm in trouble. What did I do? Or this is important. What else? Okay. You know, that that's so important. Yeah. Yeah. It's all it's unsorted uh instructions to I think elder, etc. Yeah You might have a lot of mixed emotions, right? It might be, boy, he's going to give us some instructions because you're probably familiar with Paul's writing and how he writes. So yeah, there might be some instructions. Paul is not afraid to confront people though either at Inmodest. So you might be like, uh-oh, I'm in trouble. Probably a lot of mixed emotions, right? But we're going to see that, remember, the letter to the Colossians was sent at the same time. It is possible that that letter was read first. And then Kyle gets this very personal letter. And I want you just to imagine opening that up in front of your small group, and now he's going to read it to the church there. He's going to read that to the group. And Paul, you're going to see, just masterfully works through this conflict that we're going to have. And we'll talk about that in a second Okay? Just masterfully and not crafty in a sneaky way. Just using the the elements of scripture and and rudimentary doctrine to address this this issue of forgiveness, of this very delicate situation. So that's kind of the context that we have. Right, let me do this, give you a bit more background and setting. And in this commentary I have from a carter, it just I I like to Share these because they're really short kind of blurbs and they give some really good context. So that's why I usually share these at the beginning of a book. But let me uh let me read some of this to you Philemon had been saved under Paul's ministry, probably at Ephesus, several years earlier. Wealthy enough to have a large house, Philemon also owned at least one slave, a man named Onisimus. Onesimus was not a believer at the time he stole some money from Philemon and ran away. Like countless thousands of other runaway slaves, Onesimus fled to Rome seeking to lose himself in the imperial capital's teeming and nondescript slave population. So Rome had a lot of slaves at the time. Through circumstances not recorded in Scripture, Onesimus met Paul in Rome and became a Christian. The apostle quickly grew to love this runaway slave and longed to keep Onesimus in Rome where he was providing valuable service to Paul in his imprisonment. But by stealing and running away from Phil uh Philemon, Onisimus had broken Roman law and defrauded his master Paul knew those issues had to be dealt with, and decided to send Onesimus back to Colossae. It was too hazardous for him to make the trip alone, because of the danger of slave catchers, so Paul sent him back with Dicus. who is returning to Colossae with the epistle to the Colossians. So right, they're they're returning um Paul returns these men back to Colossae. He's got the letter to the church in Colossate, but he's also got the letter specifically to Philemon. So that's the context here Along with Onesimus, Paul sent Philemon this beautiful personal letter urging him to forgive Onesimus and welcome him back to service as a brother in Christ. Alright, so that's um the context that we have. So, so I I want you to have that in context as as you think about, remember Ephesians, Colossians, Paul is urging the the Christians, this is how you're supposed to act. With the doctrines that I've shared, the fact that you are now a child in Christ, this is how you are to respond. You are to forgive is the focus here. And now he has this personal letter that's going to show us exactly how this is to be done. So we start in verse 1. I think it's always interesting to see how Paul starts his letters, often very encouraging, identifying himself. And we start here in verse 1. Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus. He was literally a prisoner, right? And Timothy, our brother. So you see Timothy on the scene here often I think we said he picked him up in, I think it was his second uh missionary journey. But as we get to the book of Timothy, you know that that will play a factor as we we see how Paul addresses Timothy. And Timothy our brother to Philemon, our beloved brother and fellow worker, and to Ophia, our sister, and to Acryppus, our fellow soldier, and to the church in your house Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Always very encouraging up front, right? And I think a pattern of our speech as we engage one another Moving on to verse 4. And this is a short book, so we can go through the whole thing. I thank my God always making mention of you in my prayers, because I hear of your love and of the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus. in toward all the saints. Again, picture yourself, your Philemon, and your readiness. How do you feel when you hear that? Very encouraged. Right? Very encouraged. There is a testimony about your faith that I'm hearing about, Philemon. And that's very, very encouraging. Again, maybe a pattern of how we should be addressing our loved ones. And I pray that the fellowship of your faith may become effective through the knowledge of every good thing which is in you for Christ's sake. For I have come to have much joy and comfort in your love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed. Through you, brother. Alright, so again, a very, very encouraging letter, encouraging words. So before we jump into verse 8, let me kind of set the scene again regarding slavery Philemon provides valuable historical insights into the early church's relationship to the institution of slavery. Slavery was widespread in the Roman Empire According to some estimates, slaves constituted one-third, perhaps more, I've heard 50% of the population, and an accepted part of life In Paul's day, slavery had virtually eclipsed free labor. Slaves could be doctors, musicians, teachers, artists, librarians, or accountants. In short, almost all jobs could be and were filled by slaves. Slaves were not legally considered persons, but were the tools of their masters. As such, they could be bought, sold, inherited, exchanged, or seized to pay their master's debt Their masters had virtually unlimited power to punish them, and sometimes did so severely for the slightest infractions. By the time of the New Testament, however, slavery was beginning to change. Realizing that contented slaves were more productive, masters tended to treat them more leniently. It was not uncommon for a master to teach a slave his own trade, and some masters and slaves became close friends While still not recognizing them as persons under the law, the Roman Senate in A. D. 20 granted slaves accused of crimes the right to a trial. It also became more common for slaves to be granted or to purchase their freedom. Some slaves enjoyed very favorable and profitable service under their masters and were better off than many free men because they were assured of care and provision. Many freemen struggled in poverty. The New Testament nowhere directly attacks slavery. Had it done so, the resulting slave insurrections would have been brutally suppressed And the message of the gospel, hopelessly confused with that of social reform, instead, Christianity undermined the evils of slavery by changing the hearts of slaves and masters. So I don't want this to be a discussion about slavery, but I want it to set the context of what it looked like to be a slave back in those days. Different from maybe our own American history of slavery. Maybe started that way, but you see that it was moving in a in a different direction. So Paul here is not condoning slavery He's also not trying to fight it as a social reform, if you will. Right? He's trying to change the hearts and minds. But so now what you're going to see is he's got to work in the context of the law Right, as he now deals with this issue or this conflict. And you can see the conflict there. Onesimus broke Roman law. He ran away and he stole money. Right? Technically that needs to be dealt with. However, let's go over to Deuteronomy. Paul takes in Onesimus according to the Hebrew fugitive law. Let's go over to Deuteronomy 23. Deuteronomy 23, 15 15 and 16. And this is uh the the law, if you will, you shall not hand over to his master a slave who has escaped from his master to you. He shall live with you in your midst, in the place which he shall choose, in one of your towns, where it pleases him, you shall not mistreat him. Right, so you have that element too of of the Old Testament law that that Paul knows and has to deal with. And like we said, we don't know the circumstances, we can only speculate, but Onisimus ran away from Philemon and apparently went to Rome so he could hide in the crowd, right? Lots of slaves there. And for however it happened, he ended up coming across Paul, and Paul took him in Right, according to this law. And we'll read, um, became a brother. And so the last part of that, here's the context. He broke the law, but you have this fugitive law that Paul is following But what has changed drastically is Onismus. He is a new creature now. So how do you bring that into the situation? And that's what we'll cover here in verse, starting in verse 8. So here's Paul's appeal to Philemon. Therefore, though I have enough confidence in Christ to order you to do that which is proper, yet for love's sake I rather appeal to you. Since I am such a person as Paul, the aged, that's what I was referencing before, and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus. So Paul, with his authority, with his testimony, with his longevity of sharing the gospel, setting up churches Says basically I I can order you because of my position I can order you to do this, but I would rather appeal. I want this to be your desire. Okay Verse ten I appeal to you, my child, whom I have begotten in my imprisonment, Onesibus who formerly was useless to you, but now is useful both to you and to me. I have sent him back to you in person, that is, sending my very heart whom I wish to keep with me, that in your behalf he might minister to me in my imprisonment for the gospel. But without your consent I did not want to do anything, that your goodness should not be as it were by compulsion, but of your own free will. So you can see the conflict he has there. He says, I'd love to keep him with me, but we have to deal with this conflict. And I want your blessing, basically, is what he's saying. Right, to take him back. For perhaps he was for this reason parted from you for a while that you should have him back forever, no longer as a slave, but more than a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord? So Paul again is emphasizing this fact that he is a a new creature. Right? And and so I don't know if you can imagine what might be going through Philemon's mind. And the fact is that Onesimus was there. Alright, he was sent with Tychep Tychetis, I think is the name. Right? They went together And now here he is at the front dept handing him this letter and Philemon might be, what are you doing here? Right? And now he's reading this letter saying he is a new preacher And can be extremely valuable to you now as a brother. Verse 17 If then you regard me a partner, accept him as you would me. But if he has wronged you in any way or owes you anything, charge that to my account So Paul's saying, I'll pick up the tap. If he stole money from you, I will pick up the tap. I, Paul, am writing this with my own hand. I will repay it. Lest I should mention to you that you owe to me even your own self as well. Mr. Paul Crafty. He's crafty Yes, brother, let me benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. And so you see Paul just working this very delicate letter of here's the law, here's the things that we have to deal with. And yet I'm appealing to you as a brother and reminding you this is a new creature in Christ. And I think I I think harken back to what we saw in Ephesians and Colossians, that doctrine, who we are in Christ Who we are as new creatures. That's what Paul's saying about Onisimus. And Philemon will get it. He'll understand that. I think Philemon probably was rejoicing at this point. Right? He was probably rejoicing that now this conflict is set aside and he has a new brother, a brother in Christ. And think of the providence here of God. The fact that Onesimus ran away, went into this flood of Roman society, and ends up on Paul's doorstep. Right? That's God's sovereignty. That's God working all of his complexity of everything for his will and his pleasure. And now we have this precious brother being provided in Paul's plea for forgiveness. So Paul appeals to Philemon to resolve the conflict with forgiveness. So let's dig deeper on that. Alright, can I have someone, Johnny, can I ask you to look up Matthew 6. 12? And we'll come back to that in a second. Jenny, can you do 1 Corinthians 13, 5? And Guadalupe, we covered it already, but can you do Ephesians 4, 32? Okay? Alright, so command voice nice and loud. Johnny your first. And I want you to listen to the words. Matthew 6, 12. And forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. Okay. That was from what? The Lord's Prayer, right? That you'd be familiar with our. Help us to forgive others as you have forgiven our debt. Again, the model. Alright, uh, Jenny, 1 Corinthians. It does not exist its own way. It is not irritable or resentful. Yeah, that's right. It's basically talking it's not demanding its own way. Alright, so that's good. Alright, and Guadalupe, Ephesians four thirty-two Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. All right. So um Gabe, Pastor Gabe teaches a class, you know, biblical reconciliation. This is from a counseling pamphlet. Um, but I I think it really hits home the depth of what it means to forgive. Right? So let's spend a little time talking about this. Number one, when you are forgiving somebody, you're saying, I will not dwell on this incident It's not suggesting that you necessarily forget it, right? Sometimes you just cannot forget, but you're not going to dwell. It's not going to be at the forefront. You're not going to dwell on it. Alright? Second, I will not bring this incident up and use it against you. Oh yeah, here you go again. Do you remember the last time? Right? You're saying I'm not gonna do that. You may be tempted to do that. But you're saying I'm not going to do that. I will not talk to others about this incident. Prayer channel. Oh yeah. Could you guys please pray for uh for Josie? Um, you know, she's been you know heavy in sin and she need you know, right? It can be masked by, would you please pray for this situation? And then you go into this diatribe about the incident. Be very, very careful. I will not talk to others about this incident. How about closer to home, spouses How tempting is it to maybe talk to your children about the other spouse? Right? The wrongs they have done. Don't do it. You are you are basically this is a contract that you're signing up to when you forgive somebody I will not allow this incident to stand between us or hinder our personal relationship. If you are truly forgiving someone, again, if someone steals from you seven times or you know steals from your wallet seven times, You're probably not going to give them money. That's okay. Right? That's not what this is saying. But is it hindering your relationship? And it doesn't mean that conflict should not be addressed. Or issues should not be addressed, and we do that lovingly through the pattern we have in Scripture. Okay? But let me ask you this: if the pattern is how God forgave us, How do you see that playing out in, you know, scripturally, if you have it, in each of these four points? So how about the first one? I will not dwell on this incident. I'm thinking of Romans 8. 1 Do you remember Romans 8. 1? No condemnation. Right? There is therefore now no condemnation. Does the Lord ever go back and pull up his list and be like, oh Christopher, do you remember? Never. Never think of that. Yeah. But guess what? That's how we're supposed to be forgiving. That's hard. That's hard. How how can we do that? Only with him. Say again? Only with him. With him. With the Holy Spirit. But also I was thinking about when you have like somebody cut you off and they and they go past you and they y you're never gonna see them again, so you can't really forgive them personally, right? Right. But I try to Forgive them anyway because I know the Lord you know, if they continue to do that the Lord will judge them or hopefully change their hearts later on. But it's really hard for me to do that sometimes with people saying 'cause you say you have to have something which you want to forgive in front of you. But in that case they're gone. They go, Shweet, I had a car in a merch cycle going over 100 miles an hour around traffic out of the things. So Ray, you bring up a good point, right? So you may not personally be able to talk to them, but can you control these aspects? Right? You can forgive them in your heart. You cannot dwell on your heart. It's the rest of your drive to work, you're you're fuming, right? That's not forgiveness. And I'm not saying you do, but you get my point Right? We control these aspects, guys. This is not conditioned on how the other person responds. This is how we need to react. Question in the back first for comment. Um when somebody cuts you off, you know I just go I'm seeing a trend here guys. I have to also whatever I said, God bless you. Instead of getting mad at her. And that's your method of how you deal with that so that you can follow through with these good. Jim. Um I drive a lot. I mean that's my but That's what I do for a living. I drive from place to place and do surveys. And uh every now and then they cut the they do cut you off And um you you you get a little if it gets close you're you're you know you're concerned, you get a little scared. And then I go I've done that. Yeah, for sure. You know, we've all cut people off. Yeah. How about the second one there? I will not bring this incident up and use it against you. How difficult is that? Especially in relationships, right? It's easy to, oh, here you go again. Or you always Again, does the Lord do that to us? Right? That kind of falls in the same vein of no condemnation, our sin being tossed away, if you will, as far as the east is from the west. Yeah, say that again, Mark. No more. No more. No more. That's right. How about the the third one? This is really hard. I will not talk to others about this incident. Now, let me let me caution there. Again, there are issues that need to be dealt with. And it's not wrong to seek wisdom and guidance and counsel, right? I'm not saying that at all. But remember, this is saying once you have forgiven this person Right? Part of that is you dealing with the the the issues. You're not to bring that up again. You're not to be talking to others about it. That's almost like malicious Yeah, that's right. And here's the issue. What's the issue here? What's going on in your heart if you're doing that? Not forgiveness. Not forgiveness. You were right. Yeah. And you want somebody to confirm that. But what's helped me in that is that I find that I don't really get any satisfaction from that anymore Because I know that they're human and they're just so when I go to the Lord and talk to him about it, I I get a release from whatever it is I'm trying to tour and sell out in my mind. No, that's that's great, Karen, and that's why the importance, you know, the strategies, if you will, is is being in the word, right? Meditating on the word. Praying. Pray for that individual. If you're struggling, pray. And guys, I'm not saying this is easy And that you might not fall into temptation and actually sin, not carrying this out. But you recognize it and you go back, you pray, and you're back onto forgiveness. You know, uh Christopher, the hardest thing is for us to um to accept that it's a command. Command from God. Yeah. And and also because we as believers live live by a standard based on biblical instructors and so we are um being disobedient. Yes. We don't forgive but I understand forgiven also uh is peace within itself. Yes. When you can forgive. Yes. Not I forgive but I can't like I I forgive you but I I can't I'm not supposed to get it. Mm-hmm. But it you know, I learned that by forgiven And uh reconcile reconciliation, uh, that helps me. Absolutely peace. Um It happened overnight. But then when I understood it was God's command, I'm like, okay, you gotta let this thing go. Yeah. Because if I tell them I'm being disobedient. I understand it's God's command because it w when I realize it's God's command, uh then it's gonna be guilt. There's there's gonna be, you know, if you want to feel that you disobey God, you get that guilt, you know, that shame that, you know. Yeah. Which is a blessing, right? That the Lord doesn't allow us to to wallow in in self-pity, if you will. You know, Karen's point about pride. I get it. Sometimes it's like it's my right Especially as an American, right? It's my right. What would have happened if if Jesus or God you know, stuck to his his justice, if you will. Right? And and that's why we bring up these verses that talk about the pattern that we see. Forgive others as God has forgiven you. How can you hold on to Something that has happened against you when God has forgiven you of every sin you've ever committed and will commit. Right? Let that be your remembrance. Oh God, that's how you treated me Can I show you something later? Yes, please. So I know this is not correct. Um fake it till you make it. But I just kept saying I forgive him, I forgive him, I forgive him, and I really felt it four years later and I did forgive him But it took a long time. Every time I felt angry, like you said, the memories are always gonna stay there. But I kept saying, Lord, I I wanna forgive so you keep saying it. And eventually the Lord, you know, works with you, the Holy Spirit works with you. Guadalupe, great, great point. Sometimes it takes time. You know, if you have a relationship and that relationship um somebody hurts the other person in a very drastic way Right, there's a trust issue that has been broken and it just takes time to build that back. But back to the point, you know, for your sake, the peace in your own heart You need to strive towards forgiveness. But I just I thought this was important to show the depth of what it means to forgive somebody. So often we just we kind of throw that term around Or something we do that we teach in the parenting class is I encourage you, don't use the word, oh, I apologize. If it has been a sin, Seek forgiveness. Use that term. That's what is biblical. To seek forgiveness. Because it has these implications to it. And apologize. Oh, I apologize is a quick skirt, right? Skirt around the issue. Mark. This is your complicated because they probably already knew that O missing the stole from the On the other one. Yeah. And now he's coming back asking for forgiveness. Yeah. But another thing we don't realize is the faith that a dissident has no faith. knowing that he's doing what God wants him to do and he was willing to suffer the consequences of his actions. Yeah. So it's two powerful stories of the same story. Yeah, Mark that's a great point. You know, what about from Onesimus' point of view, right? He's a new creature, but now he's going back to his master who he wronged, stole money from. How is he going to respond? lost his life. He could have, right? Yeah. Great point. Was there another comment over here? Yes. The uh I think the the the the most difficult thing is is that God is a pattern. And he's a perfect pattern. And the um, you know, for for for me, I don't know about anybody else, but for me, you know, you think about the scripture when when when uh If it was asked that Jesus, how many times do I forgive? Yeah. And for me I think, well, did they really ask for forgiveness if they did it seven times? And so we're we're commanded to forgive every time, but did they really ask for giving are they really coming to to and so But the the problem is it's and we are the to follow that pattern. That's it. No matter how hard that pattern is to follow. And I that's a great point, because I think that's that's what we see in Paul, right? He starts with doctrine. Guys, this is the doctrine. This is the pattern. Now this is how you apply it to your life. So great point. Um let me get Ann and then Jim. Good discussion, guys. You mentioned a couple times the verse where it says God forgives us and forgets as far as the east is from the west. When I was teaching the kids, one of them said, Why didn't it say north to the front? So we got a globe. And I if you just picture this in your mind, I put my finger, I said, here we are in Maryland, I'll start going north, north, north, I was going north all the way up to the North Pole, then I keep going, all of a sudden I'm going south South, south, down past the equator, down, down, south to the south pole, and down going north. So they're not very far apart at all, north and south. But if I put my finger on Maryland and I start going east, we're going east over across the Atlantic to Europe Then we're in Asia, all around the Pacific, we're back to California, and I'm still going east. All the way to Maryland. Never end. And I'm still going east. I'll never go west. That's a great point. East is so far from the west. Infinity, yeah. That's exactly right. Yeah, I love that. That's a great picture Love it, love that's a great, great picture. Good. Uh Jim. I was just gonna say in my younger years when I was in my twenties I worked for uh I worked for myself, I did some I did painting work and so forth and I will I did a sub subcontracting job for this uh for this black fellow and um We did a lot of subcontracting work and I did a big job for him. It was back in the 70s. It was about eight or nine hundred dollars. It's a lot of money. And he didn't pay And and I would see him around, he wouldn't he didn't he wouldn't pay me. He just wouldn't pay me. And I went to my mom and I we were I was kinda commiserating with her and she said, you just need to forgive him Yeah. And I and I it was about a year and finally I was the one suffering. He wasn't suffering. And finally I I did. I came, I said look, I just be I gave and when I saw him the next time Um I just said to him, Joe, I said, I just want you to know, I said, I have forgiven you for the for the for the money that you owe me. So you don't owe me the money And and it was I was gone, it was over. Yeah. And it's forgiveness is for the forgiver. Right. Right. Yep, good, good. Alright, let's keep going guys. We haven't even gotten into Philippians yet. Love it Alright, let's finish up here in this book of Philemon in verse 21, though. He's concluding now. Having confidence in your obedience, I write to you. since I know that you will do even more than what I say. So again, crafty but encouraging. And at the same time also prepare me a lodging, for I hope that through your prayers I shall be given to you. Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you, as do Mark, Aristocas, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. So again, Paul is in this house arrest, if you will, but he has every intent to go visit. And like we said, we don't know. Maybe he was able to do that. There was a little bit of a period before he ends up in his second imprisonment. All right, good. Good discussion. All right, let's flip over now to Philippians Or back I should say. Um was this be was he writing these letters before He was asking to go to Roma or was after? After so he this is when he w when to Roma, like with the the shipwright, do you remember yes, yes. So okay, so he was in the shi Going to Rome in the shipwreck, blah blah blah. So that's what all that path is, the shipwreck. He lands on the island, he gets bit by a viper, but he survives, and then he's in Rome, and now he's in this house arrest Okay. Yeah, yeah, good question. Yeah. And that's why, you know, uh, you know, doing a New Testament survey is so much fun because it helps to try and give you that overall context and put it all in place. So You know, some of this I'm learning too, the fact that all of you know the prison epistles is what these four are usually called, because he wrote that during his house arrest. Right? But to know that he's been You know, uh he's already had his three mission journey uh missionary journeys, so he's been to all these churches. He's writing back now to try and encourage them Right to continue to build up those churches in the midst of persecution. It's a young church, young leadership, people new in the faith. So Paul's going back. You see this pattern of him trying to go back and encourage those believers. Okay. Alright, let's go to Philippians. Again, this is meant to be a very joyous book. It's basically like the theme says, just basic Christian living. So a lot of application. There is some Some great doctrine in here too that we will cover. But let me cover the background and setting again. The church at Philippi, the first one founded by Paul in Europe, dates from the apostles' second missionary journey. So this would have been the first church in Europe and again his second missionary journey. Philippi evidently had a very small Jewish population Because there were not enough men to form a synagogue, the requirement was for ten Jewish men who were heads of the household, some devout women met outside the city at a place of prayer, alongside the Gangites River Paul preached the gospel to them, and Lydia, a wealthy merchant dealing in expensive purple dyed goods, you guys remember that story from Acts, became a believer. It is likely that the Philippian church initially met in her spacious home. Satanic opposition to the new church immediately arose in the person of a demon-possessed fortune-telling slave girl. Not wanting even agreeable testimony from such an evil source, Paul cast the demon out of her. The apostles act enraged the girl's masters, who would no longer sell her services as a fortune teller. They hauled Paul and Silas before the city's magistrates and inflamed the civic pride of the Philippians by claiming the two preachers were a threat to Roman customs. As a result, Paul and Silas were beaten and imprisoned. So we didn't spend a lot of time talking about this, but Paul was was beat several times, shipwrecked, imprisoned throughout his missionary journeys. It wasn't just here in Rome. Very, very difficult suffering life that Paul had The two preachers were miraculously released from prison that night by an earthquake which unnerved the jailer and opened his heart and that of his household to the gospel. The next day the magistrates, panicking, when they learned that they had illegally beaten and imprisoned two Roman citizens, begged Paul and Silas to leave Philippi Paul apparently visited Philibi twice during his third missionary journey, once at the beginning and again near the end. About four or five years after his last visit to Philippi. While a prisoner at Rome, Paul received a delegation from the Philippian Church. The Philippians had generously supported Paul in the past and had also contributed abundantly for the needy at Jerusalem. Now, hearing of Paul's imprisonment, they sent another contribution to him, and along with it, Epaphroditus to minister to Paul's needs. And it goes on there. Since it is primarily a practical letter, Philippians contains little historical material. There are no Old Testament quotes Apart from the momentous treatment of Paul's spiritual autobiography, there is likewise little direct theological instructions Also, with one momentous exception, the magnificent passage describing Christ's humiliation and exaltation contains some of the most profound and crucial teaching. on the Lord Jesus Christ in the Bible. So we're going to cover that doctrine, okay? But it's really, like I said, a book of encouragement of how to live. It's a book of joy. But there is that doctrine that we're going to cover. Alright, in chapter 1, if you are in Philippians, again, reminding them who they are as children of God. Go down to verse 6. For I am confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. So you see the security, right, as a child. He is going to sanctify you. He is going to perfect it until that day of glorification. Right? That should be a great encouragement to them and to us. And we see the sanctification pattern. Go over to verse, starting in verse 9. In this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in real knowledge and all discernment. So that you may approve the things that are excellent in order to be sincere and blameless until the day of Christ having been filled with the fruit of righteousness which comes which comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. Do you see the pattern there? He's saying, I want your love to abound In what though? In knowledge and discernment, right? In God's truth. He doesn't end there though. Why, though? So that you may approve the things that are excellent. Well, is that the end? No. in order to be sincere and blameless. So do you see this pattern? He wants them to grow in the love through the knowledge and discernment of Scripture. So they can approve, so they can obey, right? The the point earlier, so we can obey God's moral command. Why? So we can be blameless until the day of Christ. So we can be presented as the bride of Christ That basically is the sanctification process. We also see God's providence, though, in the trials of life. Go down to verse 12. Now I want you to know, brethren, that my circumstances have turned out for the greater progress of the gospel. Again, he's in prison, house arrest, but still prison, so that my imprisonment in the Cause of Christ has become well known throughout the whole Praetorian Guard and to everyone else. And that most of the brethren trusting in the Lord because of my imprisonment, have far more courage to speak the word of God without fear. So what are the two elements that happen here because of Paul's imprisonment? It served to advance the gospel. Yeah, right. It got out. The testimony or the word that Paul was in prison got out. What else? Last part of that fourteen. It encouraged those who are preaching the gospel to to to encourage them to be even stronger. Right? Again, God's providence, trusting in that, understanding that even the circumstances of your life, the trials, the tribulations that you are going through are part of your sanctification. You must go through that suffering. That's what Romans 8 talks about. You must go through that on the path to glorification. But it's for God's purpose, for his will, and he uses all of that. He orchestrates all that, which is just mind-boggling, right, for his purposes. That the gospel would continue to go out. Pastor. Yes. And yet it wasn't only for Paul, it was for others that he may never know who they w were. Yeah. about this. Absolutely. So if we're suffering, someone else could be watching us that we don't even know. That's exactly right. I think specifically and to that point, I think of those who are going through chronic illnesses I had a good friend, have a good friend in where we lived in Pittsburgh, or I'm sorry, Pittsfield, Massachusetts. Chronic, chronic illness for many, many years. And he knew his word. He would cry out to the Lord. He's a human though, right? So there are times he would doubt, Lord, did I do something? Right? That's very natural to think that way. And he would work through the word. I was able to encourage him. I felt like the Holy Spirit really put this on my heart. I I was able to, because he said his prayer was, Lord, if you can heal me Then I can minister better. And I told him, I said, Larry, the Lord has you right where he wants you. This is now your ministry. You come in contact with medical folks none of us will come in contact with. You are able to share the love of Christ through this trial. And that really encouraged him, right? But but to your point, we have to use our circumstances and realize God is sovereign. Right? And what are we supposed to do? We're going to see it. We need to be rejoicing with thanksgiving. I want to make sure I get to that, so let's keep going. You guys love it today. Love it. Alright, let's go on to chapter two. Chapter 2's got a lot in there, and this is um this is really this doctrine that we're talking about The plea for and practice of humility. Alright, so let me read that. Chapter 2, starting in verse 1. If therefore there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any consolation of love, if there is any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion, make my joy complete. by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. Do nothing from selfish or empty conceit But with humility of mind, let each of you regard one another as more important than himself. That is the true meaning of humility right there. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others. Does this say don't consider your interests at all? It's not saying that. We have to eat. We have to clothe ourselves. We have to work. We have to do all those things. It's not saying disregard, but consider others more important than yourself. Have this attitude in yourselves. Verse 5, which was also in Christ Jesus, who although he existed in the form of God, so this speaks of his deity. He existed in the form of God. He was God, and did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men. Alright, so we have to pause there and make sure we understand this idea of what does it mean that Christ emptied himself? Any thoughts before we jump in? I thought like I think I mentioned it before it's like Jesus said I could call down twelve legions of angels, but I did not. So I think something like that, he's got his power to do it, but he has to go to the cross. He didn't listen to Satan's temptation. Right. Because it would would it would mess up across planning and no nobody messes up. Right. Right. So uh you're picking on a good thread there, Ray. You're on you're going down the right path. Yeah. Any other thoughts on that? To empty himself. What did that mean? He said aside parts of his deity, like he didn't have his like Shekinah glory or uh like the ability to not eat and not sleep. Good. All right, let me read this to you. This is from um Pastor Allen's theology um class. The Greek word for emptied himself gives name to the doctrine of kenosis. If you hear that term conosis, that's what that means, to empty. Christ voluntary and temporary, laying aside the prerogatives of deity during his earthly ministry. He didn't exchange deity for humanity. That is often called the Kenosis theory, where some believe that when he took on human form, he gave up. some of his deity. And that's not true. What happened is he laid it aside. He merely set aside the use and display of most of his divine attributes most of the time so that he could stay fully God but become fully man. Right, as mentioned some of the examples of what he gave up. What are some others? What are some things that he set aside for this season? Omnipresence. Omnipresence, right? All the omnis, if you will. When are you returning? Only the Father knows. Right? Many, many examples. Let's talk about miracles. Jesus did not perform miracles continually and indiscriminately. During his earthly ministry, Jesus generally laid aside that prerogative and some of his divine attributes, omnipresence, transcendence. and was limited by normal human limitations of time and space. Yet it was the Father's will for Jesus to occasionally perform miracles to accomplish God's purposes When it was necessary for him to perform miracles, he did so in the power of and under the direction of the Holy Spirit, calling on the Father And these miracles affirm the divine authority of his teaching. They were very specific, and they were for a purpose, right? To carry out God's plan, but also to attest to Jesus his power, his authority, his deity. So that's what it means when you read that word empty is to to set aside, not to lose or to give up. Alright, so if that's true They condescended, I think it would be as like humbling. It is absolutely humbly, because he did that voluntarily. Ginormous. become flesh. Yeah. That's so Jesus, as you mentioned, Karen, gives us this perfect example of um humility. What about If that's true then, that he set aside some of his deity, was Jesus able to sin? No. Yes. He was. He was edited in all points. This is a debated topic, so I'm glad you guys brought up the different viewpoints, right? Jesus lived a perfect life without any sin. He always did the right thing. Scholars are divided on the theoretical question of whether as a man Jesus could have sinned. but successfully avoided it or whether being God he could never have sinned. It seems possible that both are true. Very nice. Yeah. Because what do we know? Right, here's what you gotta be careful about. He was tempted in every way and he took the full brunt of temptation. Right? Often we are tempted and right. What happens? We succumb to it. Jesus, every time he was tempted, went through the full length of that temptation. Right? So however you fall on that debate, you know, he's God. He's not going to sin. I believe he went through those temptations in his humanness. with the power of the Holy Spirit, just like we are commanded to do, right? So again, our example as mentioned. But also real quickly, he also And he quoted from scripture. Yes. Yes, that's that's how we combat the the devil, right, is to resist him with scripture. When it comes to our youthful lusts, what are we supposed to do? Flee, run. Don't fight 'em, run. That's it. Good. So I I had a question there. Um let's do this. We'll come back to that if we have time. I I want to hit another point here. Make sure we have time for this. I want to let's flip over to um chapter four. I think this is another part of passage that might fall in one of my favorites, if you will, because it is so encouraging, and it gets back to some of the earlier comments about peace. Let me start in verse one. Therefore, my beloved brethren, whom I long to see, my joy and crown, so stand firm in the Lord. my beloved. Again, talking about the goal of life and who they are as Christians, he's asking them to stand firm. There's a conflict there between a couple folks. Let's move down to verse four. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say rejoice. We saw that earlier, I believe, in the beginning of the chapter. Let your forebearing spirit be known to all men, the Lord is near. Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God. So let's pause there for a second. Be anxious for nothing. Let's flip over to Matthew. Matthew 6 Matthew six and um you guys are familiar with the story in twenty-five. Matthew six twenty-five For this reason I say to you, do not be anxious for your life as to what you shall eat or what you shall drink. nor for your body as to what you shall put on, is not life more than food in the body than clothing? Look at the birds of the air that they do not sow, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them Are you not worth much more than they? In which of you, by being anxious, can add a single cubit to his life's span? And why are you anxious about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow, that they do not toil, nor do they spin. Yet I say to you that even Solomon and all his glory did not clothe himself like one of these. But if God so arrays the grass of the field which is alive to day and to morrow is thrown into the furnace, will he not much more do so for you, O men of little faith? Do not be anxious then, saying, What shall we eat? For what shall we drink, or with what shall we clothe ourselves? For all these things the Gentiles eagerly seek. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But what should we do? But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. All these things will be added to you. So back to Philippians. So this idea of anxiousness often is in the context of material things, possessions, right? And so the result here, again in verse 6, be anxious for nothing. What are we to do instead? But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God. So this is really a heart attitude of thanksgiving, even in your trials and tribulations. That's not to say we're not going to have fiscal or monetary issues. But here we're being encouraged, almost commanded, right to, in our prayer time, to let those supplications come forward with thanksgiving. A couple weeks ago I have, you guys know I have four of my kids are home. So we have six in the house, which means I have four cars right now. One of those is owned by Tara, so she's got that But couple weeks ago I had all three cars in the shop within a week's time frame. Just kinda overlap. Yeah Just kind of overlapping, right? So our conversation at the dinner table for that whole week is we're done with dinner. Alright guys, what's your schedule? How okay, I can pick you up and move you over here and Scott's like, yeah, I I live that every day But but it would be easy to become very frustrated. And I find myself almost forcing myself sometimes as as I go to pick up the car. Lord, I'm just thankful that we even have cars. I thank you for pr for the provision. I thank you that my air is now working in my car. Just thank you, Lord. You know, just little things to help do what this says, right? And and that's what I'm trying to implement. It's just be thankful. And it does. It goes back to the peace. It changes your heart attack. So let's keep going. Here's the result. Verse 7. And the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, shall guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. I love that. Do we not all want that type of peace? Then you need to be thankful in your prayers. That's what that's saying. And I love that. The peace that surpasses understanding. We can't even comprehend God's peace in that sense. And what does that peace mean? Does that mean we we won't have any troubles or tribulations? It's a tranquility, it's an inner peace that says I am in a right relationship with God, that He's got everything under control. Right? And I'm gonna trust him. That's the peace that is beautiful and precious. But it comes with trial. Yeah. Yeah. It has to. Count it all through it. Yeah. Amen. Amen. Very strong. So let's keep going in verse 8 because I love this little passage. How are we to think? Finally, brethren, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is of good repute. If there is any excellence and if anything worthy of praise, let your mind dwell on these things. You know, remember we talked about this pattern of the put off and the put on, but what's in the middle of that? Renew your mind, right? Put off the old self. Renew your mind. How do you do that? He just listed it here in 8 and 9. Right? The things you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace shall be with you. Alright, I wanted to If you look at the beginning of verse seven and the end of verse nine, the beginning of verse seven talks about the peace of God. How do you get that the God of peace at the end of verse nine? Amen. Yep. That's beautiful. Great time. All right, we'll finish up with um another great point of scripture. And it really is this idea of contentment. So let's pick up in verse 11. So you remember the Philippians were really great about giving to Paul, right? Meeting his monetary need It often talks about him giving, the Philippians giving, and what a blessing that is. Pick it up in verse eleven. Let's go with verse ten. But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last you have re Revived your concern for me. Indeed, you were concerned before, but you lacked opportunity. Not that I speak from want, for I have learned to be content. In whatever circumstances I have. And often this word content in the New Testament, if you did a word search, the context is typically dealing with possessions, you know, material possessions, having contentment. I know how to get along with humble means, and I also know how to live in prosperity. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of being filled with going hungry. both of having abundance and suffering need. What is that secret? Christ. The next verse. I can do all things through him who strengthens me Right? You see the tie there? I have learned the secret of it's not dependent on my circumstances. And the secret is I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Alright, a couple minutes left. We have a couple, I put some application questions on there. Let me do this. And I know it's going to be hard to read, but this was a great chart that MacArthur had kind of a summary And it covers a lot of the books that we just talked about. And if you can't read that up, Traits of a New Creature in Christ. And we can print this out if you guys want, or you can go on site. I post these on our group uh page there and you can print this out one specifically. I may do that just as a prayer reminder, right, if we are to pray with thanksgiving and joy. But you see the primary books up here that we have covered, but here's a great description of what love is, right? And all those attributes, the fruit of the spirit in Galatians 5. meditate on the things above, right? The things we just talked about in verse 8. And then put on these things. Tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness. My question to you there is, what area specifically needs more attention in your life? Right? And this might be a great list to examine yourselves to say, am I living out the way God has intended me, the way Paul has asked me to do it? And don't overwhelm yourself. You might look at this big list and say, good golly, I can't get there. But if you look at it and say, you know what? I've really been struggling with pride. I mean that really just seems to trip me up every single time. Go back to Philippians 2. Read it and read it and read it and pray with thanksgiving. Right? Let that be your task to go after humility. Maybe when it comes to the gifts of the fruit of the Spirit, you're quick-tempered Right? You really need to focus on self-control. Focus on that. Ask the Lord to help you search your heart to increase in your ability for self-control All right, does that make sense? So I think uh a good maybe aspect of of being able to assess where are you at in the practicality of living out some of these instructions that Paul gave us Okay? Any last minute comments or I'll close this in prayer?