I printed out one handout for you this morning. If you didn't get that, there's uh some extras over by Walter there. And you can get it after class if you want. And I will explain this in a bit more detail, but this is, I would just kind of fold it, keep it in your Bible. It'll be a good reference as we walk through the New Testament survey here and kind of I'm going to explain a little bit my methodology of why I've placed certain books where I have. Alright there's a method to my madness Before I start though, I want to ask how many were participants in the Old Testament survey last summer? Raise your hand. Okay, not too many. Yes, sir. I I think I'm actually Okay, I think you were in it. Yeah. Alright, so just a few of you. Good, because I'm reusing a lot of the same slides. as part of the intro, because it's a continuation of the story that we told during the Old Testament, right? And you're going to hear, here's your foot stomper, guys. It's all about Jesus Christ. Right? And so that was the theme as we went through the Old Testament pointing to Jesus Christ. Here now in the New Testament, right, the excitement of Jesus actually being manifested. and what that means for us. So that theme is going to continue throughout. But you'll see some of the intro slides. A lot of it was what I did for the Old Testament survey, still relevant Maybe next year I'll have to come up with some new pictures or what have you, but we'll figure that out. All right, other question. How many of you have been to Israel? All right, excellent. This is really pertinent. I want you guys to jump in throughout this class because you've been there. You got boots on the ground, and that can add a really unique perspective to what we're doing, especially in the New Testament. Right, so there'll be times periodically where I want you to jump in and share your experience. I never have been. It's on my list of of things to do, if the Lord wills it. But what I have been told is that the the Bible uh it adds color to the Bible, right? And that's probably a a very simple way of saying that. But so I think you guys can add a lot of value by by sharing some of your experiences. Alright, lastly, logistics. I'm a visual person, and so I love to create some slides. Each lesson will have probably varying degrees of how many slides I have And in the Old Testament I also did some note pages and we'll see if that continues. So whatever I have I will share. One thing I'm trying to do, because some people like to get on their computer and and take notes there is to attach the slides before the class starts. So the lesson one slides are in the Hope Book under the group New Testament Survey in the file section. So you can go in there if you if you miss a class you can go in there and get all the material and the recordings will be there too. So what is the flow going to look like? Thirteen weeks, all right, not a lot of time to go through all of the New Testament. Right, just rich, rich in trues. Now, I'm gonna go into this in a little bit more detail, the method of my madness, but today is really just an intro. So we might get out a little bit early, that's okay, and then we're gonna jump right in And you can see we'll start with the Gospels and the Acts. Again, I'll save this for a couple more slides to explain why I'm doing it the way I'm doing it. One method we could choose is to simply say we're going to start with Matthew and just as very chronological the way it's set out in your Bible. Right? That is one method. And let me say this, everybody The intent of this class is not to just expound knowledge. Right? We absolutely at the start of each book, I'm going to kind of give you the context. Here's the author. Here's the audience. Here's some of the main themes. We're going to do that with each book. But we're trying to pull a thread here. We're trying to understand it more clearly in the context. That's why we're doing a survey. Alright, and I'll explain that in a little bit more detail And that's um that's page one of what you have in your hand out there. Alright, a little bit about me. Um I know we've been here three years plus, and so you guys are getting to know the Green family a little bit better, but that's my crew. Six girls and one boy. And Michael was the last one. We weren't trying for a boy. That's just the way it happened. And this is actually a picture from one of my daughters got married, my second oldest, not this last April, but the April before that. So that's Aaron and my new son-in-law. Just a godly, godly young man. But we have a ton of fun together. I still have, when we moved here to Massachusetts or to uh Maryland, I brought two of the kids with me, two of the seven. And now I have four. They never leave, they just come back. It's all good though. We are having so much fun at home. And it's um it's really the three on the end, Tara, Grace, and Carolyn, and then Michael's at our home Grace graduated from the Master's University and now and and they all come back to just kind of get settled, get their feet underneath them, so that's what she's doing. Michael and Carolyn are going to school locally. Tara moved out when we moved down here. She moved down to Tennessee very gifted musically and just wanted to give it a go and see what life was like in Nashville, Tennessee. And she gave it uh she did awesome down there, but it was time to come back and kind of get re-established. So she's back home with us. And these guys just crack me up. It's just uh to to hear them laugh. Um to hear them just sing ad hocley, it's wonderful. The grocery bill went way up, utility went way up, but that's okay. It's it's worth um It's worth having that happen. So I just love, love my family and am very, very blessed. And by no work of myself or Miss Corine, um all of our children profess Jesus Christ as their Savior Which is an incredible, incredible blessing. And that is the work of the Holy Spirit. Amen? Yeah. That's right. That's the Green family. I didn't mention it. We were a military family, so we moved all over the place 24 years and just absolutely loved it. They all cried when I retired because they loved they loved the military culture and the family and and what that meant And I think to be honest with you, because of moving around as much as we did, that forced us to just gel as a family Right? And and so we just love each other. We're very loyal to each other and have a lot of fun. So we can tease each other, but don't don't tease externally don't tease us because we'll all clamor up on you. I'm teasing. We have a lot of fun Why a survey? Those who were in the Old Testament, you can't answer this question. Where is this? It's beautiful, isn't it? Michigan. I you were in my Old Testament class. You wasn't? I was in a different class though. Okay. Michigan, where in Michigan? Northern. That's right. This is in the Keweenaw Peninsula. This is where I went to school. It's called Michigan Technological University. And that's where I met Miss Corine. Alright? Um was in the ROTC program there and that's where I got commissioned. It is absolutely stunning in the fall. Right? This is a picture during the fall. It is absolutely stunning. But if you didn't have Ann Kane in the class, you wouldn't know where this was. Right? This is a very, I'll call it tactical or specific area. You need more context as to where this is. Alright? And as she said, in Michigan. So way up there where the green dot is. You know, a lot of people say this is Michigan. They're wrong. This is Michigan. Right? You can't forget the Upper Peninsula. And where I went to school was way up there in the Keweenaw Peninsula. It was absolutely stunning. Absolutely stunning. If I can put the marker. Now, I was just uh from a suburb of Detroit down here. Oh, my marker doesn't work. Down by Detroit And Miss Kareem was about an hour north of Green Bay on the Wisconsin side. So she was actually closer to the school than I was, about three hours. It took me ten hours. to get up to school. But so she's a cheesehead, married a cheesehead. Of course she's a Green Bay Packer fan. So all of my all my kids who do they root for? Green Bay Packers of course. Because they're wise. They're smart Daddy though is very loyal. I've been a loyal Detroit Lion fan forever and and that was just a dismal time until last year Until last year. They are rocking and rolling. So we have fun with that. It's all good. I actually a little tidbit, my oldest daughter, Isabel, is actually owns Green Bay Packers are the only team that are publicly owned. And she actually owns a shingle, if you will, so she's part owner of the Green Bay Packers. Alright. So why a survey? Again, I don't know about you guys, but during your daily reading time, what often do you do? Right? You jump into a book. I'm gonna start in First Thessalonians today Or wherever, Romans or Acts or Old Testament. Right? And you jump in and there's some wonderful truths. And what do you do? You start with trying to get an overview of your book. So I don't know if your Bible has a nice introduction up front Right, if it doesn't, get a good resource that gives you a good overview of that book. So you jump into that book, but understanding how that fits in the broader scheme of things makes it so much more powerful. Right? It's all about understanding the context. And that's what we're going to do in the New Testament survey. Survey just think of a strategic view or an overview so you can put everything else in context. So when you do pick up that book, hopefully now you see, oh yeah, I remember where that fits chronologically or who the author was and what was going through their lives at that time Right? It's wonderful how God has used so many different authors of the Bible, right? And uses their experiences and their personalities, all inspired, though, by God. So that's why we're going to do a survey. So I'm super excited to be teaching this class. Alright. What I want to do though, like I talked about, is I don't want to just walk through book by book by book by book, right? I I want to go on a journey together. This is all about Jesus Christ being revealed and what that means and what that means for us. So I really want us to feel like we're going on a journey. So let's turn to your Bibles, Luke 24. Very familiar passage, I'm sure, the road to Emmaus. Luke 24, I'm going to start in verse 13. Verse 13. And behold, two of them were going that very day to a village named Emmaus, which was about seven miles from Jerusalem. And they were conversing with each other about all the things which had taken place. And it came about that while they were conversing and discussing, Jesus himself approached. and began traveling with them. But their eyes were prevented from recognizing him. And he said to them, What are these words that you are exchanging with one another as you are walking? And they stood still, looking sad. And one of them, named Cleophas, answered and said to him, Are you the only one visiting Jerusalem and unaware of the things which have happened here in these days? And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, The things about Jesus the Nazarene, who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word in the sight of God and all the people. and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to the sentence of death and crucified him. But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, it is the third day since these things happened. Let's pause there a second. What were they anticipating? What were many of the Jews anticipating Right? That Jesus was going to come and reign at that time. That he was going to take over. That's what was in their mindset. All right, picking up in 22. But also some women among us amazed us when they were at the tomb early in the morning, and did not find his body they came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive. And some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just exactly as the women also had said. But him they did not see. And he said to them, O foolish men and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself and all the scriptures. So that reference to Moses and the prophets, right, is a reference to the Old Testament books. That's what that means. So he's saying, let me recount for you all that was written in the inspired word of God. And they approached the village where they were going, and he acted as though he would go farther. And they urged him, saying, Stay with us, for it is getting toward evening, and the day is now nearly over. And he went in to stay with them. And it came about that when he had reclined at the table with them, he took the bread and blessed it, and breaking it he began giving it to them And this is the verse I want you to climb onto. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight And they said to one another, Were not our hearts burning within us while he was speaking to us on the road, while he was explaining the scriptures to us. And they arose that very hour and returned to Jerusalem and found gathered together the eleven and those who were with him, saying, The Lord has really risen and has appeared to Simon. And they began to relate their experiences on the road and how he was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread. Were our hearts Were not our hearts burning within us while he was speaking to us on the road. That's my plea for all of us, right? As we go through this New Testament and we dive into the truth, that our hearts would burn with that truth. with the revelation that that uh God has given us through his word. Alright, so that's the journey I want us to go on. Does that make sense? Excuse me. Yes. What version were you being I'm gonna get to that. Right now I was reading from NASB, but I will show you I will show you at the end the translations I'm gonna use is uh NASB and ESV Alright, so I'm going to use both of those. Great question. Right, so let me start with just a just kind of a quick overview of where we were at in the the Old Testament. But let me start with this. You know, how many books are in the Bible? Sixty-six. How many in the Old Testament? How many in the New Testament? Quick math. Twenty-seven. Good. 66 books. How did we get to 66 books, right? I'm not going to go into a lot of detail here. I want to talk briefly, though, about the canon. Canon is simply a word that means measuring rod, a standard, used to describe the inspired books of God. Canonicity, then, is the measure of authenticity of inspired works. And I'll just say this. Canonicity is determined by God. Not by man. It's discovered by man. It is determined by God. God is the one who decides which books are now in our closed canon, the Bible, the 66 books. Here are some of the specific tests that they had to discover or determine what went in there. Did the book indicate divine authorship? Was it from God? Did it reflect God speaking through a mediator? Was the human author a spokesman of God? Were they recognized as a spokesman of God? Was he a prophet or did he have the prophetic gift? Was the book historically accurate? Did it reflect a record of actual facts? And how was the book received by the Jews? All that was taken together Right, to to measure, did it meet the standard, God's standard. Alright, so we are going to make the assumption that the 66 books are the 66 books that God intended to be in our in our Bible. Right, if you want to have a discussion about that offline, we can do that. So I just talked about it. All scripture is what? Inspired by God. Yes, he uses human beings, which is just, it's wonderful. Because we all bring some unique experiences and personalities and culture. That's all bound up in what we see in the Word of God. And we're going to tease some of that out as we go through the New Testament. We see that Christ affirms the Old Testament writings. Matthew 4, and we just read it in Luke 24, right? He makes reference to those Old Testament, all that is written in Moses and the prophets. Right? That's a reference back to the Old Testament books. We talk about it. The Word of God is inspired. It's inerrant Meaning without error, the original manuscript is without error. It's authoritative, and it is sufficient. Right? Again, back to 2 Timothy 3. 16. Alright, we broke the the author I'm using, I'll get to that source, but kind of breaks up the Bible into eight sections And in the Old Testament, really broke it up into four sections, and that's how we covered it. The first was what is considered the law, and that's Genesis through Deuteronomy, right? That first section up there. Then you have the prophets. Joshua through Malachi. I'm sorry. The law, then you have history, which is Joshua all the way through Esther. So Esther is actually the last part of that section, but I I moved them just because of a timeline perspective. But kind of the history, Joshua through Estra, then you have the poetry, right? Job and the song all the way through the Song of Solomon. And again, what I did, so that's how it's broken up. You see the poetry down here, and we'll get to the prophecy up there. Job actually written during the time of Genesis, so that's when we talked about it. That's kind of what I want to do with the New Testament, and we'll talk about that in a second. And then the prophets, Isaiah through Malachi. Okay? So what we did though, we covered 39 books, roughly 5,000 years of history in 13 weeks last summer. Right? Lot of stuff. Lot of stuff. But it was super, super exciting. So you can see what we're doing now in the New Testament. Really, it's a section of about 60 years. You know, there there's very little um obviously we talk about Jesus' birth, but it really starts at his ministry And then you go through, we'll talk about it, but John actually written later, around 95. So it's a very brief time that we're talking about historically where we see these New Testament books. And we'll get to that in a second. Okay? So again, there's lots to cover in 13 weeks, but when you look at the history of where we're at, you know what we're at the end, guys. We're at the very last piece of that, so very exciting. Alright. Now in addition to that, we are going to be pulling some threads throughout this class. And let me start with this idea of progressive revelation. So in the very beginning, you know, for a long time all they had was the five books, the law. And that's what they had. And that's what God wanted to reveal at that time. So what about the Trinity? Do we see the Trinity in those first five books? And let us make man in our Exactly. Right? In Genesis 1, you won't see the word Trinity, it's not in the Bible, but you see this concept of the Trinity very early on. Let us make Man in our image. Okay? Later on you'll see, and I'll I'll hit on it in Ephesians 1, where we see the role of each Right, of the three persons of God manifest themselves in Ephesians 1. So you see progressively God revealing more about Himself over time. Alright, that's what we mean by progressive revelation. Does that make sense? Okay. Hermeneutics. This is really, really important. How you study the Bible. Hermeneutics is I I they call it the science. It really is an art and science. It's a set of rules, templates, guidelines that you use to do what? To understand the Word of God. And it's really important to have a good hermeneutic if you're going to study the Bible. We would espouse here at Hope Bible Church to what is called a literal grammatical historical hermeneutic All right? And when I say literal, think of it more in the sense of um like now we have literary analysis and there's rules, there's There's um guidelines that go with that. So you take it literally with the type of verbiage that's being used. So for for example, if symbology is being used, you take that literally as symbology Okay? If poetry is being used, you take that literally. But there are rules set in place to understand. And that's why doing word studies, grammar studies is so very, very important. And then you bring in the grammatical and the historical, again, providing that context. That's what we're trying to do. Now, to use a figurative or allegorical, that is another view of a hermeneutic that is used. And this is where we we typically have a departure from the covenantalists, right, that would hold to a very literal view until they get to prophecy. Then it becomes more allegorical. And that's where you'll see differences, especially when it comes to their view of the church and Israel. and some of their eschatology views. I am not saying this to be critical, right? There's so much that we have in common, especially from a reformed aspect. And I have dear, dear brothers and sisters from that camp, but I want to bring out different views as we go through this so you can understand them. Okay, but here at Hope Bible Church we would espouse to uh a literal grammatical historical hermeneutic. But again, really, really important aspect of what we're doing Dispensations, I'll get to that in the next chart. We'll talk about that really briefly. And then doctrines and attributes. What I want to do in this class Is not only do a survey, but make sure we are trying to cultivate a really high view of God. So often we we bring God down here and we bring ourselves up here. What I want to try and do is really cultivate, right, a high view of who God is. And we do that by studying his doctrines and his attributes. And so we'll bring some of that out as we go through it. I also want to make sure we have a correct view of man, of woman, right? I say correct because understanding who we are in our fallen nature, but also understanding who we are as children of God. Sometimes I think we have too low of a view of who we are as children of God. And we don't rely on God's promises. So we're going to tease that out. Okay? Dispensations, that terrible word. Let me let me say this, guys. Um we're not gonna harp on this It um brings a lot of baggage with it. It is a system and you won't find that in in the the Word of God, that word But the idea is this: the central idea is to manage or administer the affairs of a household. It's a stewardship arrangement between God and man. And it appears to change over time. That's all that this is trying to say. Okay? What I would tell you though is a couple things. First, this has nothing to do with how you get saved. Alright? These different arrangements are not new ways to get saved. There's only one way to get saved, and that's through Jesus Christ. Okay? What I would tell you though is if you hold a literal, grammatical, historical, um hermeneutic you believe that there is a distinction between Israel and the church, and that there is a future end state literally for the nation of Israel, then you are a dispensationalist by definition. All right, versus a covenantalist. And we'll talk more about that. You'll see in our what we teach document, our statement of faith, if you will, it doesn't go into great detail. In fact, it lists three three dispensations just as an example. So we don't hold to seven, to nine, to ten, to two. Doesn't matter. It does not matter. Right? I only bring this up because of back on our schedule chart. You know, we are entering a, I'll call it a dispensation of race. We're in that church age. All right, so I just wanted to show you where we're at. If you have more questions about that Please see me after class. But again, that's probably the last time I'm even going to mention it. I just wanted to show you what it is and where we're at, right? The church or age of grace. Okay? Also really critical is the covenants. Right? We need to understand what were the promises that were made. To the nation of Israel, to those who are going to believe. So we'll touch on a little bit the Abrahamic covenant in Genesis 12. And then there's extension of those covenants, right, with the three other ones. The Palestinian covenant in Deuteronomy 30, the Davidic covenant in 2 Samuel 7, and then the new covenant, right, in Jeremiah 31 that gives us so much hope, the Gentiles. And we'll touch on that a little bit because it's really important to be grounded in those covenants to understand the view towards the church, towards Israel in the future, and the hope that it gives us. Okay, any questions on that? Right. The other aspect I talked about is the doctrines So we absolutely want to make sure we're bringing in the doctrines of God, of Christ. And so we'll do a little quiz here and see how good you guys are at at your doctrines. So theology proper is the study of what? Study of God. Yeah. How about Christology? Very good. Oops. Uh Pneumatology. Holy Spirit. Good. Anthropology. Study of man. So I mentioned again, right, we really want to make sure we understand this and get a correct view. You're going to see some incredible promises as we go through different passages. I'll tell you guys up front. My favorite chapter right now in the Bible is Romans 8. Just chock full of promises as a believer. And we'll walk through some of those. There are many, many others, of course, but I think that is just so encouraging. So it's really important to understand who we are outside of Christ, but as important who we are in Christ. Right, Hamardiology Sin. Sin. Really, really important. So terriology. Salvation. Salvation. Bibliology. Bible. Bible. Good. Angelology. Good. Ecclesiology. Church. Alright, we're gonna hit on this as we go through. Again, I I go back to that That hermeneutic that we're going to use has a very distinct role for the church. And when did the church start? There's some different views on that. We'll talk about that. And then eschatology. Feature again. Yep, study of the end time. So we'll walk through that in a little bit. How many went to uh Pastor Robb's Revelation class? All right, good. You guys will be my expert the very last class we have. You guys are gonna be the you'll teach it. That would be perfect. So again, I I wanted to show you this, the major doctrines, but I I want to try and weave these in as we go throughout the the semester, if you will, because I think they're so important And again, it elevates our understanding of God, have a very high view of God, so that we can keep that all into perspective. Okay? Any questions on that? All right. Alright, so let me go back to kind of the timeline. And that is, if you look at your handout, that's the back side of your handout. And what I did when I set this up, like I told you guys, I wanted to um I didn't want to just walk through the books chronologically as they're in in the Bible. I wanted to tie them to to kind of the themes and more importantly, Paul is such an important figure right in the New Testament. And so if we could align it with his missionary journeys to understand where he was, what was going on in the church at that time, what was he trying to do in the area And so that's how I started to kind of methodically work my way through, hey, here's how I want to set up the New Testament. So it's kind of a hybrid. You'll see there's quite a bit of alignment. But I came across as I was looking up timelines, I came across this chart on the left. I'm like, yes, that's exactly what I'm trying to convey. Exactly what I'm trying to convey So we're going to start up front, you know, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. That'll be the next lesson. And we're going to get through those four books in one lesson. I mean, good golly, right? But it it's adding some historical context And we'll add a little bit more into that. Acts two, Acts is really a historical document and you'll see these other books as we go through them fit within Acts as you go through it. And so it'll really help I I think shape and add some perspective. So those were the historical books. And then we're going to try as best we can to align. You can see the journey there of Paul, the missionary journeys, how the books align to that time frame. And then you have the general epistles at the bottom there. The chart on the right is one rendition of the timing of these books. And let me just say this up front, guys There depending on who you talk to, there are differences. And usually they're slight in years. You kind of have this bunch, if you will, between fifty and sixty-eight. Alright? And then you see you have John at the very end. So even though John is part of the books up front, he actually didn't write that until much later in life. So all I want you to know is is we kind of have these chunk of books up front about you know 15 years if you will. You could move those around a little bit, but I'd rather not be too concerned about that and rather tie it to what was going on in Paul's life at the time. What journey was he on and what books were written and why. Right? So just that's kind of gonna be the flow of it. A couple important dates in there. You see Nero's uh Nero's persecution started in 64. But Paul dies in 68 and then Jerusalem falls in 70. And those are important because often the timing of some of these books is predicated on those events. And usually it's because they're not mentioned at all. Right? And so that's how they um to some degree know how they were written. There are lots of artifacts that go into the timing, but I will tell you, having looked at a couple resources, I mean there's not a hundred percent agreement on when all these books So I don't want you to get too hung up on the timing of them. Okay? Any questions on this one? Does that make sense? Again, I think it would just be uh it's a helpful reference, I think, if you have it uh as we start to walk through um some of these lessons to know where we're where we're at and why. So if I go back to our schedule of the This testament is like hundred years. Initially mentioned like um 60 years. I think I was background, but I can put a timeline of hundred years Yeah, great question. I was she was asking is the New Testament a hundred years and and my reference to sixty years was when you look at the the history that's captured Right, we have a little bit of Jesus' birth, but then you really started his ministry, which is about 33, and then to a hundred, so sixty-seventy years worth of um data, if you will. All right. And you're right, by the end of you know a hundred years, the New Testament books were firmly established as these are the New Testament writings. All right, so again, a very brief time frame that we have all of this documentation, if you will, of God's inspired word. Great question, though Alright, so back to the timing. Again, what I wanted to do is set up front kind of a historical aspect through the Gospels and Acts, and we'll do that Excuse me. And then what I've done here is the numbering system is tied to Paul's missionary journey. So that the back that I just showed you where it says journey one, two, three That's what that is. And we're gonna stay pretty much in order. The exception is right here. For lesson number four, you know, I'm gonna spend um some more time really on Paul and the character of Paul because he's so influential. And then we're going to get into Romans. Why there versus later, you know, when it when it technically is down here I'm actually going to be gone these two weeks and I can't have somebody else teach Romans. I can't. Right? Romans is too good. So that's why I have Romans there. So it's a little bit out of order simply because um I won't be here. Okay? And then you see um if you go but to your to your handout there, you know Paul Towards the end of his his life, right, that's when you see the pastoral epistles, where he's getting ready to pass the baton. Right? And that is a very precious time. And so we'll spend some some time there. And then you have the general epistles, James all through Revelation. Okay, does that does that context help? Does that make sense in kind of where my mind is on trying to flow this out? Okay, so that's what we're going to be looking at. Alright, I mentioned early the resource that I'm using, primarily, Norman Geisler, a popular survey for the New Testament. And I'll have a picture of that in a second here. But he breaks down the Bible into these eight sections, which I think are very helpful. You know, in the old in the Old Testament We talked about you start with the law, that foundation, right? And then you have the history, what he calls the preparation for Jesus Christ. The prophecy, or the poetry rather, is that aspiration, right? And you see that in the poetry. And then the prophecy, the expectation of Jesus Christ, looking ahead, right? And here, we're here now. New Testament. So the Gospels we're going to see the manifestation of God becoming man. Right? We're going to see that in the Gospels. Everything that was talked about in the Old Testament, we see it now. Here he is. Jesus Christ in the flesh. In Acts, the beginning of the church, and you start to see the propagation now, the gospel going out to the world. Right? The good news of Jesus Christ going out. And then the epistles is just filled with the interpretation of what that means. How are we now supposed to live as children of God? How is the church supposed to behave? That's what we'll get into. And then obviously consume it at the end with revelation, the consummation of Jesus Christ. One lesson on revelation and Rob took what? Three quarters? So it took nine months. Yeah. That's great perspective. Great way to frame it. Alright, so that's kind of going to be our focus. Let me read, because uh he had a good summary of those four sections for the New Testament. The Gospels, the downward look. In the New Testament, there is an exact four-directional parallel with the four sections of the Old Testament. In the Gospels, there is a downward move. God does not simply act in history as he did in the law, but he entered history in the life of his son. He does not merely manifest himself in laws for his people, as through Moses, but he manifests himself in the life of his people through Christ. Christ is manifest as king to the Jews in Matthew, as servant to the Romans in Mark, as the perfect man in the Greeks in Luke. And as God to the world in John. And we'll talk about that next week as we go through the Gospels, how you get these different viewpoints of Jesus Christ, right? Understanding the full complement of who Jesus is. And then Acts, the outward look. At the end of the Gospels, Jesus died, rose again, and ascended into heaven. In Acts, he promised the Holy Spirit would come and empower the apostles to be witnesses in Jerusalem and Judea. Samaria and the uttermost posts of the earth. Herein is the outward movement of the church. And then the epistles, the upward look. Once Jesus ascended to heaven and took his place at the right hand of the Father, he became head over all things to his body, the Church. Hence the Church looks upward to its head in the epistles. It is he who through his spirit gave instructions to the churches through the apostles. Thus they were to build up one another and reach out. To disciple believers in all nations, awaiting his blessed return. And then Revelation, the forward look. The last section of the Bible, like the last section of the Old Testament, is prophetic It looks forward to the consummation of all things in Christ. Not only was the world created by him, but it consists by him And it will find its consummation in him. He is the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end of all things So I thought that was a really good framework to show kind of the construct of the New Testament and really how we're going to flow this out. Okay? Any questions on that? I was just saying that um geiser is actually probably one of my favorites. Yes and I heard a lot about him and stuff. Um I'll just say one thing, but I I was thinking about it. Revelation kind of like past, present, and future. It talks now, it goes back to talk about Satan's moral or you know, and stuff like that. Is that the kind of way that you would look at it? I don't want to make sure that'll be Ray, I'm not sure I'm understanding your question. And then the present, you know, when you get to the tribulation seven half years Yeah. So when we get to Revelation, hold on to that thought, right? We're going to go into that in a lot of detail. No, it's a good point. Good point. Alright, so what's the geography we're going to be looking at? This is a really important two to add context. And again, those of you that have been to Israel really want your input. to get an idea of what that looks like. You've heard Pastor Gabe as he goes through John, I think it was last week or the week before, you know, talk about Samaria Who are the Sumerians? And we'll talk about that, the Samaritans, yeah. And we'll talk about that. They often, you know, it was kind of a hybrid race, if you will, and people would travel around that, but we'll talk about that. But I what I want you to see here is the three major sections at the time. Right, um uh Galilee up at the top, Samaria and Judea. And Acts talks about, you know, from Jerusalem to Judea and then throughout the world. And we'll talk about it. I'll throw up some maps because I think it's really important to show where he was and how that fits within the context of what we're doing. Alright? Can I ask something? You McKed class. And I get very confused and I'm still confused about Palestine? Are you gonna cover that portion about the land and why we're they're at war and all that in this class or no? Um we can. We can touch on that. Okay. Just because I'm confused constantly That's a great point. Yep, yep, excellent question, Lupe. Thank you. Let me pause here. Those that have gone to Israel, what um What was the biggest, so how do I phrase this? You had expectations when you went over there. But but what kind of maybe surprised you the most or really clicked with you when you went over there? as you now read the scriptures. Any thoughts or perspectives on that? Miss Ann? I was really surprised by the number of rocks and stones and how rocky it was the land and it was like Just all right and very few trees and uh not necessarily flowing with milk and honey. Yeah. Okay, I've heard that too. Okay. I agree. Others? Okay, yeah. Carrie. You you know it's a small land, but you realize how small it is from there in in proximity of things Um especially today, uh one of the things that impressed me is we weren't far out of Jerusalem. Uh we took a bus ride from uh not too long and we entered a compound area, another checkpoint that really wasn't uh Israeli friendly Um right there in the middle of the country all it's like it's it you you just realize how fragmented, how close all these It's almost you can almost picture like it was back then, there's these different troughs all right there. Yeah. And and they're close. Yeah. Yes. Also your math is very timely if you look at the lower left hand corner. There's the Gaza Strip. Yep, absolutely, front and center. What about um You know, scripturally, those that have been to Israel, anything that that jumped out to you as you now read the Bible that adds perspective because you have been there Oh, I I think for me when they talk about Jesus in the desert for forty days we were there. Yeah. And our guy told us this is where it was. And it was so dry that it was so cracked there was not any trees. And when they said Jesus had to be ministered after, they're like, wow Wow, I see why. I mean it was time for us. Yeah. We could go under their condition bus, you know, after we were finished touring. But it that was that spoke volume In the geography you realize people that took these common routes just because it's so mountainous and so hilly and and you can see where the strategic areas are that Well, it would be battling over 'cause when you control that area you control the roots. Yeah. Yeah. Just jump on what she said about how dry it was The importance of water. Very important there. And all the cisterns and things like that. And then we have Jesus saying That he's the water. Yeah. Yeah, very relevant. Yeah. And I think of you know, that episode where he's tempted for forty days and he comes out and it it was to say he he was hungry um or thirsty, you really get an understanding of forty days in this environment was so harsh. And so to really understand the temptation he was under I think just adds incredible perspective. But you know, so many references and to the water, right? Um the woman at the well and just so many object lessons there. So um good insight, very good insight. Anything else? I'll say this just to those who want on the trip, I was watching a show with David Scott. He traveled. Was is Sodom nearby? There was pillars. Did you see anything of that or was that something that may be farther away from that you were triple set up for I don't know? We went we were down by the Dead Sea uh Just the northern part of the cell. Okay. Um maybe you're thinking about Petra? I don't know. Yeah. Okay. Can I add Jordan I okay. Yes. So my dad and mom just went to Israel um three weeks ago. And my mom had been there before but my dad received her wet. But they were like it was so um it was like fulfilling he's been a Christian almost all his life. Yeah. Being able to be where Jesus was praying. It was no longer theoretical. It was like I'm happy I believe. Yeah. And so they could like as his reading picture everything I've always read in real life. Yeah. It was like the episode of his whole life, excuse me, it is very soon And they went to the Jordan River, I think, and I don't think got baptized in that. It wore the coast for like a week. Whatever it was, it was like I've just really been really baptized in the river. That's I I think that's if it cannot. But what I'm saying is really tied the Bible to what has always been me. It was no longer uh just reading the Bible. It's like yes. Yeah. God was here. Jesus was here. Everything. So I guess um Don't want to add a context where people's faith and the league is strengthened because they've now been there. Yeah. Um that's what the case are And I I I appreciate you sharing that. I I guess that's the image I'm trying to pull here for you guys. For those who have not been there, that's the journey I want to try and take you on as best we can without actually placing our foot in in Israel. One more quick comment. The other thing is there were several Roman you can see the Roman buildings and the Roman structure And they're right in there. There's even one in Jerusalem where it was this great big um marketplace. And so what it dawned on me is that you can see how We have for classes pressing, you know, where you gonna shop? You're gonna shop at the at the Roman store coming Fifth Avenue. We think of uh I you know, I always think you think of Jerusalem and Israel the religious man, and you you you're reminded the world was just like any other time was right there. So those who wanted to be worldly. And and because one of the things they mentioned that the the Jews, the Romans had the baths And the Jews that had money uh of a part of Jerusalem, they all had that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Every culture we we we tend to think of of just total isolation by the time Another thing that impressed me speaking of that is we went to the Garden of Gethsemane. And I thought of always thought of a garden. When you it's not. It's olive trees and they tell you which ones and this and this and this. It's two thousand years old, so you think That tree was there. Yeah. Jesus was in the garden. Quite remarkable, isn't it? Yeah. Quite remarkable. Good. Right. You guys are going to add a lot of richness to the class, so thank you. All right, let's talk about sources a little bit. I showed you the, I use that similar resource for the Old Testament survey. So he has an Old and New Testament The guide to the Bible is a really helpful resource. We'll do a little bit of Paul N's. And then Guadalupe to your question, I'll be using the NASB and the ESV. And I'll try to highlight when I'm doing that, just for reference. Okay? Alright, we're close to finishing. Let me let me do this. Just a quick comment about questions. Alright? I want questions. Right? Questions are going to make this a richer experience. Let me tell you up front though, I'm not going to know all the answers. I guarantee it. What I did in the Old Testament survey is when we got some of those questions and I said, hey, I got to research that one. I went back and researched it and usually I'll start the next class with, hey, here's what I found out So I'm just letting you know up front, let's work through this together. It'll be a richer experience. I would also ask, just because we have a lot of material to get through Be thinking of your questions. Are they helping to make the conversation or the understanding richer? Or is it a trivia fact? Right? If it's trivia, I would encourage you maybe hold off until the end or we can talk about it offline. We're trying to enrich our understanding of the material that we're covering. Does that make sense All right. So um because we have a lot of material, I'm not ever wanting to push people away, but if I say, hey, let's cover that you know next week or I'll research that, I'm not trying to blow you off I just want to make sure we get through the material, but then make sure we come back to that if it's pertinent what we're talking about. So um that makes sense Good? Okay. No questions, right? All right, so I I think that was really it for me. The last part I would tell you is this. This is not about just gaining more knowledge. This is a growing disciples class, right? Which means we really need to also be talking about application. As we go through these threads and we go through these truths, what is the application to our lives? Okay, so let me ask you guys: how would you answer this? Why a survey? Why do a New Testament survey? And think of it from an application perspective. It would help you uh know how to live at situations and stuff like that if you love your neighbor. Well that's what helps a lot for me too. Yeah. I learned about the uh the dignity of of man and made a change to my drove and everything else helped people out. Alright, good. Stuff like that. Yeah, excellent. What else? To know God, Jesus better. Yeah, all right. We talked about that to to cultivate a high uh view of God, of the three persons of the Trinity, right? That's that's a big part of this But to do it in a way that we're understanding, I'll call it the strategic context. Right? So as you dive into separate books, you can now place those into the overall construct and get a better sense of what that is. So good. All right. So we really, I really want to make sure we're harping on the application piece of this because this is not about knowledge transfer. It's about growing. It's becoming more Christ-like in our walk. Right? All right. Any questions or comments? I'll let you out a little bit early. Yes. Great, I didn't even notice that. I stole this from from the internet. That's a great point. So I will I will see what happened there Great catch. Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. First and second Timothy and Titus. So that probably should have been first and second Timothy, right? And Titus. So those are your your pastoral uh epistles where Paul is nearing his end of time and he's passing on the baton, if you will, to these younger men. Yeah, good catch. Good, good catch Alright, let me pray and we'll close up