Let me get to the agenda. Here's where we're at. Um so we're in kind of the last epistles for Paul. These are the last books, at least the recorded books in the Bible that we have written. First and second Timothy. And Titus, often referred to as the pastoral letters, because it is the head pastor, if you will, that's passing on this legacy, this charge. to these two men that have been such faithful companions for a long, long time. Right? So that's the the tone and the context. After this week, that'll be the end of the letters from Paul, and we'll get into what we call the general epistles as we start to bring this to a close. All right, from a timeline perspective, again, I I moved the bubble over, right? So here we are with um let me get my hold on My laser pointer. Alright, so here we are in 1st and 2 Timothy and Titus, and here's the the timeline of that And as we talked about, and we have a little bit more detail as you look at uh first, second Timothy and Titus, especially from some of the commentaries, it does look like After Paul's first imprisonment, he did actually have opportunity to travel a little bit, primarily through Macedonia. And we're going to see that's actually it was during these travels that he wrote These epistles, 1 Timothy and Titus. So you're going to see in the notes that I have here that that's how we're going to cover it. 1 Timothy, then we're going to go to Titus, and then We're going to go to 2 Timothy because he's writing that from a different place, right? And we might see a different tone there. So that's why we want to highlight that. And again, very near the death of Paul All right, so I'm going to highlight this as a map you saw from one of the first lessons about the first missionary journey of Paul. And again. Basically stationed in Antioch and went primarily to Galatia. So that's when those churches were first started. And you know on the second, third missionary journeys he would often travel back through those regions. Again, what is he trying to do? The churches knew It's early. He's trying to establish them with leadership, with direction, with instruction, with clear doctrine. And you're going to see that's the theme of Paul, right, as he's passing on the baton. He says, you guys got to continue to do the work that I did initially. You've got to set up the leaders, and you have to make sure everyone is staying solid in doctrine. But you've got to constantly be on your guard. So that's kind of the major themes. Now, in in green there, what I've highlighted is we're going to talk about Timothy and Titus. Titus, um probably came across Paul in Antioch. Remember Paul, that was kind of his hub at the very beginning, was in Antioch. And so it's likely that he was saved through Paul there in Antioch. This is Titus Um Timothy was from Lystra, up here in Galatia. And again, it's possible that he was saved during the first missionary uh journey of Paul. So think of you know God's provision or sovereignty here where you have these men come across Paul early in their early in their life, if you will, and then later on become pillars in the church. Um it's wonderful to see how the Lord works through all of that. Okay? And then just a highlight of of Paul's last missionary journey. And I only highlight again, he would go back through many of the areas that he had previously established, but one of those is uh Corinth. And I think it was Carrie Kane that that walked you guys through the books of 1st and 2nd Corinthians And there were a lot of issues there, right? And so that's going to come up again as we look at Timothy and Titus. So I just wanted to highlight that. And then of course we have um uh uh you know Paul um taking being taken a prisoner and and going to Rome, and we've talked a lot about that journey. I just wanted to highlight though that um Towards the end, Timothy was basically asked to set up pastoral over the churches in Ephesus and Titus in Crete. So again, I wanted to give you context of those locations. as you hear them hear them talk about it. Um as you guys know we have a picture of of maybe what that first imprisonment looked like for Paul, the house arrest where he had a lot of freedom, people were able to come. um and visit and and it's a lot of the same names to include Timothy and Titus. And so these were dear, dear uh friends. You know, he calls them my my dear child in the faith. These were solid, solid companions that he has been training for 15 or so years at this point We'll see though, and we've shown this picture at the end when we talk about the letter 2 Timothy, it's actually being written here. Right? Paul's in a very different situation now in these Mamuritime prisons Okay? Very drastic, very different. And you'll see the tone change a little bit when we get to 2 Timothy. But that's the context. Alright, who are these bubbas, Timothy and Titus? So I did just a quick summary. I want to highlight this. I think it's in 2 Timothy maybe first, where Paul refers to Timothy as young. Right? And and so when when you hear that, w what is your impression? How old do you think Timothy is at this point? Early twenties. Early twenties, okay. Younger than that? Younger than that, maybe? I've always had the impression of of a young man, twenties, you know. Um when you look at the commentaries though, anyone who is under forty was designated as young, right, based on their culture. Now if you do the math, um he probably became a Christian in his late teens, early twenties, and this is about fifteen years later Timothy is probably mid-30s, higher 30s, just below 40. So he's not a young, young man, and yet you're going to see Paul is going to have to really encourage him for a couple different reasons. Right? So you think of of maybe our pastors today in the in the ministry. Um, you know, someone Mid-30s or higher thirties are, you know, could be somewhat seasoned, right? Could be well trained and yet still has a lot of life maturing to do. So that's basically where Timothy is. But Remember, both of these guys have been under probably the tutelage of Paul for maybe 15 years at this point. I mean, you couldn't ask for a better mentor Right. So just for context, when they talk about the age and he addresses he doesn't say that to Titus. So I don't know exactly how old Titus was, probably similar age, but He specifically talks to Timothy about that, and I think it has to do with some of uh the things that Timothy might be struggling with, right? We'll cover that in a little bit. But as I mentioned, Timothy, so from Lystra, most likely saved during that first missionary journey. I love that it talks about his mother and grandmother. Right? It talks about their faith. I want to encourage you moms and you grandmothers the impact that you have on your children and your grandchildren Right? And it's evident here. There's most likely the you know the Deuteronomy 6, the Shema, we are supposed to pass on from generation to generation. You guys play such a vital part in making sure that that happens I don't know if you remember the the testimony that I gave about a year ago. Part of that testimony is my my mom who Became saved, we came out of the Catholic Church, we're still going to the Catholic Church. She got saved though in the midst of that. I was probably in my mid teens And and absolutely heard the gospel through her. But something that that was also very significant is I saw day to day what it means to be a submissive godly woman to an unbelieving spouse. I mean that is just imprinted on on my mind. That was the example that my mother gave day after day after day. That's the evangelistic tool, the most powerful tool we have is our daily living. All right, and we're going to get into some of that. So, again, be encouraged. mothers, grandmothers, dads, grandfathers, the impact you can have not only on on your children, but your grandchildren. Like I mentioned, he accompanied Paul on the second and third missionary's journey. So you know Timothy is all the way through this, and that means watching Paul get persecuted, get beaten, get thrown into jail. He's seen it all. He's seen all the issues. He was a close companion during his first imprisonment. So during that house arrest, Timothy was there at his side, right, ministering with all the folks that came to see Paul. At Paul's request, ministered at five, at least five churches, so he was sent out from Paul. And you see the list there, and the last one being Ephesus. And it's likely that Timothy received those two letters, those two personal letters from Paul there at Ephesus. Now, how many personal letters do we see in the New Testament? We covered one last week, do you remember? What was it? By Lehman, by Lehman. Right? A very personal letter about a very personal issue. And here you see the other only two instances, first and second Timothy, right? A personal letter to Timothy and to Titus. I suspect that um The reception might have been a little bit different. It it probably wasn't. Well, I wonder what Paul's asking for now. Right? They have spent so much time with him. They were probably so excited To get this letter from their mentor, their protege, Paul. So that's Timothy, and we'll go into that in a bit more detail. Titus, on the other hand, a Greek. Most likely from Antioch, one of uh Paul's most trusted associates. Um again, accompanying Paul on um his You remember after the the first missionary journey, he Paul went back to Jerusalem, right? He he was given a contribution from the other churches to take back to the brothers and sisters in Jerusalem And so Titus went with him, and that was when you had the Jerusalem Council. Do you remember that? And that was the issue of the Judaizers, the tradition that was seeping back in, that they had to confront. And that's going to come into play because Titus is going to have to be a champion for that at Corinth. For two reasons. So a very trusted advisor, Paul sends him back to the Corinthians. Which if you remember from 1 and 2 Corinthians, there were issues there. One of those is they were opposing Paul. And he sent Titus back as his ambassador to defend him. That's a huge responsibility Right? Someone you really got to have trust, someone who is really a leader, someone who was really bold. Also to oppose the Judaizers Right, this Judaism, the traditions that were creeping back in. There's only one circumcision, right? You don't need to be physically circumcised. Just getting back to the core doctrines. But again, I think it's phenomenal. Paul said, Titus, I need you to go back and be my champion there. And he did. And he did it well. So you see a contrast in two different leadership styles between these two men that I find fascinating. And then he was asked by Paul to to settle in Crete. Crete You know, the island that I showed you there, rather large in the Mediterranean, uh full of pagans, right? And yet he was asked to go back and really butttress the church there. And I often find in a society where there's this huge contrast, that can be a benefit. You know who's who when you have that kind of contrast Right? And your faith has to be real in those circumstances. Not unlike our society today and where it's going. So the church needs to be that pillar. And you're going to see both in Timothy and Titus that Paul isn't trying to reinforce a lot of doctrine. He'll remind him of some of that, but that's not really the point. He feels like these guys are solid. Some of the churches that they're at are solid. This is more about what I need you to do. This is how I need you to act. This is how I need the church to act, to be that evangelistic tool Remember that was the plan of God in Acts that we saw, bringing in the church to carry out his plan of redemption. So what's happening now is really, really important. Right? Establishing the leadership. Now, this is speculation on my part. What we have recorded at this point, this last uh part of Paul's life, is to Timothy and Titus, very trusted advisors It would not be improbable that Paul sent letters to other key leaders throughout the region, right? Kind of giving them the same message. This is what we have recorded though, and I suspect the pattern will be the same regardless if he wrote letters to other churches. Right? The importance of sound doctrine. making sure um you're attacking or confronting false doctrine, right? Because that's what terrors, that's that's probably our greatest existential threat to the church It's false teachers that work their way in, right? That cause division. That's why we have to be so diligent about preaching the word, preaching the sound word of God. Okay? Alright, let's go to our Bibles. Let's go to Timothy. And again I'm going to read uh just a little background and setting from the MacArthur commentary. After being released from his first Roman imprisonment, Paul revisited several of the cities in which he had ministered. So this is in between the first and second imprisonment. including Ephesus, leaving Timothy behind to deal with problems that had arisen in the Ephesian church, such as false doctrine, disorder in worship, the need for qualified leaders, and materialism. Paul went on to Macedonia from where he wrote Timothy this letter to help him carry out his task in the church 1 Timothy is a practical letter containing pastoral instruction from Paul to Timothy. Since Timothy was well versed in Paul's theology, the apostle had no need to give him extensive doctrinal instruction. Although there are reminders of of key doctrines in Timothy, again he didn't have to spend a lot of time focused on that. It was more about this is what I need you to do as a pastor and how you need to establish the churches. Alright, so let's dig into Timothy. And there's a lot here, so I'm just some of it we're just going to skim the surface here. But let's start with this idea of You know, concerning false doctrines. That was such a threat to the early church and even to us today. So let's start in chapter 1. I'm going to start in verse 3. As I urge you upon my departure from Macedonia, remain on at Ephesus in order that you may instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines. nor to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies which give rise to mere speculation rather than furthering the administration of God, which is by faith. But the goal of our instruction is love from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. So this is really important, right? The goal here is love. Right? Being sound in doctrine is because you love the flock, you love the sheep, and you want to make sure they are protected. That's the motivation here. And these false teachers are coming in with wrong motivations. Their motivations are self-interest, not love. Right? So that that is always the grounding factor, if you will. Alright, let's skip over to verse 18. And here is Paul again, you know, trying to encourage Timothy. This command I entrust to you, Timothy, my son, in accordance with the prophecies previously made concerning you, that by them you may fight the good fight, keeping faith and a good conscience So he says this command I entrust you it was the command to you need to confront these false doctrines. All right, that's what he's referring to. But what is he trying to do? He's trying to encourage Timothy by saying what? The prophecies the prophecies previously made concerning you. There's been testimony, if you will, about the skill, the calling that has been given to you. I personally have laid my hands on you and have ordained you, if you will, as a pastor But he's trying to encourage Timothy. You've been called to do this. You need to fight the good fight. I love that And again, against strange doctrines, myths, and endless genealogies in fruitless discussion. That's what he's combating, if you will. And the goal, like I said in verse 5, but the goal of our instruction is love. That has to always be our motivation. So let me ask you this. I have a question there. And I've heard this before and would love your thoughts. Is Hope Bible Church just a good teaching church? I've heard Hope Bible Church is a great teaching church, but What are your thoughts? I think it's much older than that. Okay. Shout it out, Walt. I think it's a loving church. Okay. Because I can remember going back when I first started and it was love people who really made the impression on me. Okay, thank you all. You know Pastor Lee's teaching as well was something that really you know had people. But yeah, it was the love of the people who really Getting continuing on. Yeah. Okay, thank you. Praying church gets the prayer requests are pretty powerful. Okay. A praying church, good. And those that prayer thing we get on our emails as phone Yeah, yeah, good point. Alright, all the emails we get, the prayer chain that we have. Any other thoughts? You guys can be transparent here. We're all family. It's very diverse. Very diverse. Absolutely. Yeah. Joel? Okay. Thank you. Anything else? I'm very encouraged by that feedback, so thank you. Yes? I think in the church that keeps the main thing the main thing. The main thing, the main thing. I like that. Yeah, we focus on God in everything we do, either in relationships, either in discipline, yeah. Good, good. Right. Wow guys, I'm really encouraged. Yes, please. Jesus is the focus. Absolutely. Good. I'll say real quickly also the church membership is good because you uh some churches don't have that and they don't know the people their members will leave. That's good. Yeah. Yeah. So I can be encouraged to Yeah, I love it, Ray. Guys, thank you so much. That's wonderful. Um I guess yes, please. I guess also church. We're interested in making sure that we live out our lives in obedience. Yes. Good, good. John A, I love that. We're gonna kinda hit that next in chapter two. Um maybe it was early on I I heard some of that feedback and and you know that transition from Pastor Lee passing away to you know a couple years of those are hard times for our church from a leadership perspective. And to some degree we were just treading water, right? We were trying to keep things going. What was marvelous though is all of the ministries continued Right, because of the leadership of of those people and uh the sheep. I I do feel now and I I feel like we're getting feedback that there seems to be more intentionality in some of the you know the ministries But that is very encouraging to hear because yes, we are always going to be, the main thing is the main thing. We are always going to be so dedicated to being careful about what comes out of our mouth. You know, making sure that that this is the main thing always. I will tell you, and you probably don't even realize it, there are some songs that we sing on Sunday morning The words have been tweaked just slightly because there was a thought that, boy, I don't know if that's theologically sound. Let's make that really theologically sound. Now You can get into the temptation where we become, I'll call it theological purist or dogmatic. What's the issue there? It's our heart attitude, our motivation. We just talk about what is the motivation? Love. Our motivation, I can tell you, working with the elders, is always to protect you, to protect this, right, the word of God, but to do it in a spirit of love. We're going to talk about that at the end when we talk about some of the focus areas that we had. So I'm very encouraged to to get the feedback that you guys are sharing because yes, we need to be diligent in preaching and teaching the word of God. But Johnny, like you said, we need to be seen as a church that is applying the Word of God, that is living it out. So let's go to chapter 2. Yes. what to say about love. Where we have a very high time in transition at the time where we had discipline, I can remember some church members which I said, how do you feel at the time? trying to check individuals. Yeah. What's going on? Yeah. But that move was individual. I can remember even um Jim and Becky. I had all electricals in my house every day. We didn't have one. I was like, you want this like we never had one as a kid So you feel love in giving, love in sharing the word, love in making sure that we're in a good mental space, even with the body of Christ. Yeah. That is wonderful, wonderful feedback. You've encouraged me. I wish all the elders could be in this room right now. Um what I would encourage you is if you feel like you have an opportunity to give that kind of feedback to the rest of them. They would be very encouraged by that because that is our desire for sure. Good. Alright, let's go to chapter 2 in 1 Timothy. So again, now we have instructions we just talked about concerning false doctrine. Now it's instructions concerning the church. First of all, then I urge that entreaties and prayers, petitions, and thanksgiving be made on behalf of all men. We are to be a prayerful church. We pray. There's a small group that gets together before Sunday morning or Sunday school. You guys are always welcome to that. We have quarterly prayer meetings and then I love the, I'll call it kind of ad hoc you know, emails that we get, just here's a prayer request that I have. That is wonderful and beautiful. We need to be a praying church. And like we talk about in Philippians, we should be praying with what? Thanksgiving, right? Thanksgiving, that the peace of God may guard our hearts. Even those difficult prayers with Thanksgiving. But why? Sorry, we also are to be praying for what? The authorities. Right? And in this particular case, talking about kings, right, secular authorities. Um you guys know this, but the three major institutions that God has created, um family The church and the government. Governments, right? Right? These are God ordained. Now that doesn't mean you know we're always aligned with how God wanted those to operate, but we have to always be mindful that that's his creation Right? He created those institutions and we have to interplay with those throughout our lives. So we are to be praying for kings, right? That secular government as well. But why? Verse 2, for kings and all who are in authority, in order that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. Right? Over in verse 12, and we won't go into great detail, but there are instructions for women. And I just want to say this is in the construct of the church. These pastoral letters are in the context of how the church is to operate. So these instructions are women are not about how they operate in the family. There's other verses for or other passages for that. Or the government for that sake. This is in the context of the church And then I won't read through all of them, but this is where you see in chapter three the qualifications for elders. And it's a pretty exhaustive list, it's a pretty daunting list. It's a pretty sobering list, I can tell you firsthand. But let me ask you this, is this just for elders? This should be the model for each and every one of us. Right? And again, I'm not going to go through those in great detail. You guys know those. We will cover a little bit more of that because we see a very similar list. in Titus, Paul giving the same instructions in Titus. But again, this is all about how How the churches are supposed to be set up. These are the type of leaders that are supposed to be in the church. And it talks about um Elders and deacons. So that's why we recognize those offices in our church today. That's what we see in Scripture as the formal offices, and they each had respective roles and responsibilities. So how should one behave in the household of God? Go down to fifteen. Again, this is instruction for the church But in case I am delayed, I write so that you may know how one ought to conduct himself in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar in support of the truth. Right? So he's writing these things to tell them this is how you are supposed to act. Why? Because the church is that pillar, it's that light to the community. I understand we had some youth that went down to DC yesterday handing out tracks, right? We have uh the hope for the sojourner going out to some hotels. I mean the word is spreading out, right? That that's our goal. That's our task is to to be evangelistic. And yet, I would say this, our greatest evangelistic tool that we have is our daily living. our testimony of our day-to-day lives. You can go out and hand out tracts, but if your life is a mess, that's not a testimony. Right? So the instruction here is here's how you are to behave in the household of God. Because as we saw, this is now God's instrument to carry out his redemptive plan. Right? All right, and then back to we'll jump to chapter four, Instructions Concerning False Teachers So we saw we talked about false doctrine, and here the warning of apostasy in verse one. But the spirit spirit explicitly says that in later times some will fall away from the faith. paying attention to deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons, by means of a hypocrisy of liars seared in their own conscience which as with a branding iron. Men who forbid marriage and advocate abstaining from foods which God has created to be gratefully shared in by those who believe and know the truth. For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with gratitude. For it is sanctified by means of the word of God and prayer. So again, you have these false teachers coming in, and that's the danger, right? That they are they are now going to deceive people with a false doctrine. They're going to start to bring back these traditions, if you will. Right? And this is where you'll see, and we're not going to cover it much, but where Paul in Timothy and Titus often reminds them of some of those truths, such as we have one mediator between God and man, right? Jesus Christ. We have one salvation, Jesus Christ. It's a danger. It's a danger to the church to start bringing those traditions back in. And that's what we have to constantly be on guard of. Because we're in those times. We're in the last times, guys, where we're going to see that happen more and more and more. So in contrast, go to verse 6. Chapter 4 of verse 6. In pointing out these things to the brethren, I'm sorry, I'm in uh yeah, verse six, chapter four, verse six, in pointing out these things to the brethren. You will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, constantly nourished on the words of the faith and of the sound doctrine which you have been following, but having nothing to do with worldly fables fit only for old women On the other hand, discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness. It's a battle, isn't it? It's a battle, but we battle with who? Who are we in dwelt with is what I mean. Right, the Holy Spirit. We battle with the power of the Holy Spirit is my point. Discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness, for bodily discipline is only of little profit, but godliness is profitable for all things. since it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come. It is a trustworthy statement deserving full acceptance. Right? So he's bringing their attention back. You need to flee resist these false doctrines and get back to focusing on good, godly discipline. Again, go down to verse 12, same chapter, Paul's admonition to Timothy, let no one look down on your youthfulness, but rather in speech, conduct, conduct, love, faith and purity, show yourself an example of those who believe. Until I come, give attention to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation and teaching Do not neglect the spiritual gift within you, which was bestowed upon you through prophetic utterances, with the laying on of hands by the Presbytery. So do you see Paul here in several instances what he's saying? Don't be timid because of your youthfulness. And we talk about that. He wasn't that young, but he still had maturing to do. Don't be timid, right? You have been gifted. Be strong. How are you to live? Your speech, your conduct. Don't give up the public reading of Scripture, the exhortation, the teaching. Again, you have the prophetic utterances. I've laid my hands on you personally. Trying to encourage Timothy. So you get the sense that Timothy was a bit timid here. Right? That he he needed to be a strong leader. And you can see how Paul is trying to encourage him. He's not being critical, but he's encouraging him. We need to do the same. Okay, let's move over to chapter five, instructions concerning pastoral responsibilities. So again, how we are to operate within the church. Starting in verse one. Do not sharply rebuke an older man, but rather appeal to him as a father, to the younger men as brothers. The older women as mothers and the younger women as sisters in all purity. So there you get really quick just the relationships and how we are to be treating one another. So not only do we look at each other as as created in the image of God and all of the implications of that, but the respect that is to be shown to an older man and an older woman, a younger man and a younger woman. Right, treat her as a sister. Right? That's how you need to look at her first and foremost. Treat the young man as a brother. We are family. It goes on to talk about honoring widows, and I won't go through that that whole diatribe, but kind of a framework to say You know, there are certain uh women uh and season in their life that they are to be cared for, and others you need to be encouraged to get on with life, if you will Alright, let's go over to verse 18. I'll start in 17, sorry Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who work hard at preaching and teaching. For the scripture says, You shall not muzzle the ox while he is threshing, and the laborer is worthy of his wages. So that is something we as a church need to make sure that our staff pastors are are well equipped, if you will, or adequately equipped. And that's tough sometimes Especially in an area like we are here in DC, right? Can be very expensive. Now we pay our pastors pretty well. You know, Ann pointed out that annual salary is like 700K a year So I'm joking, I'm joking. You had to be at the congregational meeting to understand that joke, but We we and this is something as I've traveled around from place to place, that is always something I go in and like, let me see your financials, because I want to make sure the passers are being well cared for and well taken care of Um and this church does a really good job of that. Um I would tell you this, I'll give you a little inside baseball. You know, you got Pastor Allen on the team, right? And he's a pretty by the book. Um You know, um and he has set up a really nice framework. Often a lot of government workers here, right, that work for the government and they have a scale that can be used, so it's very clear Right? If you're at this uh grade level and blah blah blah, this is what you should be getting. We took we've taken that and then tailored it based on some additional things that we would be looking at, years of experience education and some other things. And so we tailor that to make sure our staff are being well cared for. So I I applaud all of you and thank you for helping in that ministry ministry because it's it's really important. However, if you go on, verse 20, let me start in 19. Do not receive accusation against an elder except on the basis of two or three witnesses. Those who continue in sin, referring to elders, rebuke in the presence of all, so that the rest also may be fearful of sinning. We're also to be held accountable And I feel like you guys do a good job of that as well, and I applaud that and I'm grateful for it. Right? We are human beings, we are men um with with sinful baggage, if you will. So you need to hold us accountable. It gives instruction on how to do that because it's serious. But it needs to be done. So again, you compensate well and I feel like you hold us accountable. So thank you. Alright, so I had a question there, but I feel like you guys already answered it. When you look at the instruction of to the church, you know, are we a teaching church and an application church? And I feel like you guys answered in the affirmative, but if you feel otherwise you can you can tell me. Alright, so let's go on the last chapter here. Again, speaking to Timothy, instructions concerning the man of God. So here's how one is to minister. Let's start in verse three. If anyone advocates a different doctrine does not agree with sound words Those of our Lord Jesus Christ and with the doctrine confirming to godliness, he is conceited and understands nothing But he has a morbid interest in controversial questions and disputes about words, out of which arise envy, strife, abuse of language, evil suspicions, and constant friction between men of depraved mind And deprived of the truth, who suppose that godliness is a means of gain. Alright, so you see the heart motivation here. And they're talking about those that have crept into the church Right, that's the context here. And you see that their motivation is not out of love, but it's out of gain. Um monetary gain is what we're talking about here. Let's keep going But godliness actually is a means of great gain when accompanied by contentment. You remember we talked about that word contentment, and what does it usually deal with? material things when we're talking about contentment. Now I can tell you from experience, not me personally, but being with ministers, if you will, The true ones are not doing it for the money. Right? They're not going to get rich being a minister. In fact, they're often probably scraping by for the most part. Right, compared to what to what many of us have. But but well again, I think well compensated here, and we're grateful for that. Verse 7, For we have brought nothing into the world, so we can take nothing out of it, either. And if we have food and covering with these, we shall be content. But those who want to get rich fall in temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires which plunge men into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all sorts of evil. So let me ask you this. What you guys have seen of pastors falling, which is unfortunate, but what have been some of the root problems of that, the root causes Greed and greed. Greed. Absolutely. And sexual immorality. Sexual immorality. It's usually money or women. Right? I go back to holding us accountable Right? We hold each other accountable as elders, but you also, we can't go down that trap, right? It's disastrous. But it's you can see how tempting the the money portion of this is. Right? Was were you someone else gonna have a comment? TV preachers especially. They want to be famous and they have their learjets and all these accompaniments. Right? Fame, like you said. Right? All are disastrous. But what does it say in verse eleven? We've talked about this before. But flee from these things, you man of God, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love. Perseverance and gentleness. I love this. Fight the good fight of faith. Take hold of the eternal life of which you were called, and you made in good conscience in the presence of many witnesses So it looks like there was kind of an ordination ceremony, if you will, when Paul laid hands on him. But again you saw a couple of times, this is the second time Paul tells Timothy, Fight the good fight of faith. Right? This this is tough. This is a tough life. But what do we talk about, those youthful lusts? What are we to do with youthful lusts? Flee them. Don't resist them. Don't stand in the midst of them. It says, flee, run. That's what we are to do with these temptations of money and fame. Final instructions to the rich. So let's be careful here, down in verse 17. Instruct those who are rich in this present world. Not to be conceited or to fix their hope on the uncertainty of riches, but on God who richly supplies us with all things to enjoy. Instruct them to do good. to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, storing up for themselves the treasures of a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is life indeed. What's the instructions to the rich here? Does it say take all of your possessions and go and sell them and become a pastor? No. It doesn't say get rid of them. It says you've got to watch your heart attitude, right? Be rich in good works. Is it helpful to have rich people in the world, in the church? It is, if they are giving, right? Yeah. And and some of the uh opportunities they have to help the church out? Yeah, it's it's all good. So I I just Paul's not condoning being rich, but he's saying to the rich, tell them they gotta check their heart attitude Right? Again, it goes back to contentment. What did Paul say? I've learned to live with much and I've learned to live with nothing. What was the secret to being able to do that? Remember? I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I fight the good fight. Good. You can. Um also I'd like to look at everything I have as a gift from God. That's helping me be you know, make sure I don't love it too much. Yeah. Yeah, you know, you can always be thankful for that, like my job, my car. Right. Right, that's a great back. We go back to um our our prayers with thanksgiving Right? And that's the way you you avoid some of that temptation is to just be thankful for all you have, whether it's a lot or or it's a little. I want to be a good steward of all that you have given me. Good. All right, and then we see this final urging at the end of Timothy, there starting at verse 20. Oh Timothy! Right, that is a form of urgency that Paul has. Oh Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to you, avoiding worldly and empty chatter and the opposing arguments of what is falsely called knowledge. Which some have professed and then gone astray from the faith. Grace be with you. So again, you get this overarching context of Paul saying, right, you've got to stand firm. You've got to stand firm against these false doctrines that are trying to work their way into the church. And I would argue that's a call for all of us. We all play a part of that in this church here at HBC. Right? We all need to be like the Bereans. We all need to be, you know, watchful and on guard fighting the good fight of faith. Okay? Good. All right. Any questions about 1 Timothy? All right, we're going to move over to Titus next. And again, the reason I'm doing that is because both 1 Timothy and Titus were written during that um during that in-between time between the first and second imprisonment. So I thought it'd be helpful to see, compare, if you will, those instructions from Paul who was not in prison at the time. And again, a little background and setting. Although Luke did not mention Titus by name in the book of Acts, it seems probable that Titus, a Gentile. Met and may have been led to faith in Christ by Paul before or during the Apostles' first missionary journey, like we talked about Later, Titus ministered for a period of time with Paul on the island of Crete and was left behind to continue and strengthen the work. After Artemis or Tychicus arrived To direct the ministry there, Paul wanted Titus to join him in the city of Nicopolis in the province of Acacia in Greece. And stay through the winter. Because of his involvement with the church at Corinth during Paul's third missionary journey. Remember, I talked about, I showed that missionary journey. Let me show you the map. His third journey. Corinth is over here in Acacia. And we talked about all the problems that were happening there. Titus was right there with him. Third missionary journey. Titus is mentioned nine times in 2 Corinthians, where Paul refers to him as my brother and my partner and fellow worker. The younger elder was already familiar with Judaizers, false teachers in the church, who, among other things, insisted that all Christians, Gentile as well as Jew, were bound by the Mosaic Law. Titus had accompanied Paul and Barnabas years earlier to the Council of Jerusalem. Remember we talked about that. where that heresy was the subject. So this idea of the Judaizers, right, was a big deal back then. And so we saw that at the Jerusalem Council And Titus was there. He witnessed the debate between the pillars of the church at that time, right? James and Paul and Peter. And now he was asked to go back to Corinth to address that. I think that's pretty phenomenal. In contrast to several of Paul's other letters, such as those to the churches in Rome and Galatia, the epistle to Titus does not focus on explaining or defending doctrine. Paul had full confidence in Titus's theological understanding and convictions, evidenced by the fact that he entrusted him with such a demanding ministry. Except for the warning about false teachers and Judaizers, the letter gives no theological corrections, strongly suggesting that Paul also had confidence in the doctoral grounding of most church members there, this is in Crete, despite the fact that the majority of them were new believers. Doctrines that the epistle affirms include God's sovereign election of believers, his saving grace Christ's deity and second coming, Christ's substitutionary atonement, and the regeneration and renewing of believers by the Holy Spirit So Paul is always in his letters reaffirming doctrine, but again, the issue wasn't necessarily big doctrinal issues. It was just instruction for Timothy as they go forward. A short summary from from my Bible here that I thought was important in the notes there. Paul's short letter to Timothy was to encourage and to Complete the process of organizations to ordain elders, teach sound doctrine, and exercise his authority firmly. Is this decided? Titus, sorry, thank you. Did I say Timothy? Thank you for keeping me sharp. That's why. Thank you. All right, so I want to show you for those who were at the congregational meeting, and I think we put this in the the summary of the email that came out letter you know, to highlight this this is we're trying to fulfill this same instruction here at HBC. And so a couple of our our focus areas, right, to to build out the pastoral staff and ministry leadership, it's to do exactly what Paul just said to Titus. You know, again to that transition after Pastor Lee. Some of you had had been here a long time and we had several elders. But many of them had a vocational mindset and went off, you know, to that calling, and we were left with Pastor Gabe and Pastor Allen. To to marshal the responsibility of a church of five hundred plus. That that's phenomenal. Part of the reason why Pastor Gabe doesn't sabbatical right now Really. Right? Um it's just phenomenal what those two did, along with the help of of all of you and the ministry leaders and of course the whole Holy Spirit. But we've been this concerted effort to build out the pastoral staff. Now I will tell you, we have interviewed many, many men. It is a lengthy process. Why? Because we want to protect We want to make sure they're sound in the doctrine, right? Because we want to protect you guys. So not only building out the staff, but With the spiritual leadership program. This has been an intense program for these guys. Two years going into the third year, they are involved right now where they've been asked to select a man to disciple So they're going through a formal discipling process as they enter into year three. And out of there may be some some potential elders. In the future, right? That's building the pipeline, if you will, kind of like a a Timothy and a Titus. That's exactly what we're doing. What I'm super excited about though is the same thing for the ladies, right? We've established an SLP-like program for the ladies And excited to see that that building as well. So again on the right is just we're still looking for, you know, we have Pastor Mike. Pastor Gabe, of course, and we're we're the one position we're looking for from a pastor perspective is counseling and families, and we continue to we just were on a Zoom call last night interviewing a potential candidate And then the financial manager, again, to make sure we're being good stewards, and Karen has done just a great, great job. She admits though that's not her calling, right? So she would love to get out of that business So please continue to pray, but it's in the light of what we just talked about, right? Trying to build out the church staff, if you will, to make sure we can minister the word well Obviously being good stewards of the facility that we have. But I want to highlight this one up front. And this was important to us, you know, building a culture shaped by the gospel. And the intent of that is that not only are we a teaching church, but we're an applying church, or an application church. And that's what this is getting at, is that Jesus Christ is first and foremost in every ministry that we have. If we go down to D. C. and hand out tracts, it's because we're focused on sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. Right? Any of the ministries we have. And I'm I'm not against any programs. Programs are great in the context of Jesus Christ first and foremost. The main thing is the main thing. That always has to be our emphasis. And so you will continue to see this focus area, I think, for years and years and years, because that's the cornerstone of what we're doing. That has to weave its way through every ministry that we have. Alright? So that's the context of Titus. And it's a short letter, so let's go through some of this. Let me start in chapter one. So here we see in Titus chapter one we also have the qualifications for elders. And I'm I'm not going to go through all of that. I just wanted to hit one of those. Let's go to verse let me get my notes here. Yeah, let's go to verse five. Starting verse five. For this reason I left you in Crete, that you might set in order what remains, and appoint elders in every city as I directed you. So again, that's that's the instruction as Titus, you need to go and make sure you continue to establish what I started and what we continue to do today at local churches around the world. Go down to verse 9. So it goes through many of those qualifications. Verse 9, holding fast the faithful word, which was in accordance with the teaching. That he may be able to both to exhort in sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict. When we are interviewing pastors, this is the cornerstone. We might be looking for someone with with lots of counseling experience. Great. But if they don't have those theological underpinnings, they're not making it to you guys. Guaranteed. And why? Because of all the things we've just been talking about. That is absolutely foundational. Now, when it talks about to exhort in sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict, We're not necessarily, I'm not a a uh Um seasoned theologian, if you will, like some of the other elders that we have, and I'm grateful we do Right? These are being able to talk about just basic doctrines that are so foundational. Right? What have we talked about? The the Judaizers were just trying to bring back some of those basic things of you got to do this, this, and this. They were adding to the message of salvation by Christ alone. All of us need to be able to refute that, and all of you are equipped to be able to do that. Right, you this is a solid church because of the teaching you have received. And I I accredit that first and foremost to Pastor Lee Right. He set that foundation, that standard. And Pastor Allen, to be honest with you. When you look at a lot of the documentation, that came from him. So grateful, grateful for, I'll call it our our forefathers, if you will. say I just been twenty years ago now when I first came here and I sat down with Tom Lee, the founding pastor And his words were, I want to run this church as close to a New Testament church as is possible. And that's what grabs me. Yeah. Yeah. So that's that's our founding father. Yeah, and I think that foundation holds today. I mean that's the same discussion we have in Eldermeters, and so I love that and I thank you. So in that vein, and again, the title kind of here that I have here is The Essentials of Effective Evangelism, right? So it starts with leadership It starts with the elders being sound in doctrine and being qualified, having these qualifications. If they don't have these qualifications, they're not making it through the door. That's our goal. Right? That's always our goal, and that's what we strive for. However, instructions to the church, how we are to operate in the church in chapter 2. Let me start in verse 1. But as for you, speak the things which are fitting for sound doctrine. Older men are to be temperate, dignified, sensible, sound in faith, in love, and perseverance Older women likewise are to be reverent in their behavior, not malicious gossips, nor enslaved to much wine, teaching what is good. Why? That they may encourage the young women to love their husbands, to love their children. to be sensible, pure, workers at home, kind, being subject to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be dishonored. Likewise urge the young men to be sensible. In all things, show yourself to be an example of good deeds with purity and doctrine, dignified, sound in speech. which is beyond reproach, in order that the opponent may not be put to shame or may be put to shame, having nothing bad to say about us. So again you see this um here's how we are supposed to act with relationships the older men, the younger, the older women, towards the younger men, the younger women. And I I want to encourage again, you older women, I think it can be tempting sometimes to say, well, I just I don't know where I fit in anymore. Right? You play such a vital role in mentoring the younger woman. I I can't overemphasize that and I've seen it happen many, many times, and I see it happening in this church and I'm so encouraged by it Right. And again, it's in the contract uh context we talk about how they are to behave in the family, right? How they are to behave in the church And how they are to behave in the secular world. Right? Paul's not condoning, I don't want to condone that this is saying you can't work outside of the home. That's a whole lot of issues we have to unpack. But the context here is this is how you're supposed to behave in these areas, right? That's the encouragement that you older women can give to the younger women. And they need that encouragement Right? Life is very hard. So again, from an evangelistic aspect, think about this, if people were looking inside at us, what do they see? Do they see that happening? Or do they see us sitting on the side saying, well, I'm really not sure how I'm supposed to fit in anymore? All right, we talked about this before. If you're unsure of your spiritual gift, what do you do? Just start serving. Don't worry about it. Just start serving. And I guarantee you you're going to gravitate towards that calling, you know, the equipping that the Lord has given you. Right. Right. And in the meantime, you're gonna meet some really great people and and have some really neat opportunities. Alright. Let's see. Chapter two I did want to hit. Yeah, let's start in uh fourteen again. Who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good deeds. That needs to be your attitude. Right? Zealous for good deeds. So we talked about the leaders of the church and now in the world, like I just talked about, godly living, chapter 3 Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good deed. This is talking about this over here. Right? God instituted governments and we know they don't act godly, and yet we are are told to have a testimony of how we relate to this. Now, how many of those watch the um Essential Church? Do you remember that video that MacArthur and his team? Okay, not many. It was a documentary, if you will, of MacArthur's church going through the whole COVID episode. And depending on where you were at in the country, this looked different. on on how they were um regarding churches and putting you know undue I'll call it the legislation or policies on the churches. And this is a case where MacArthur in the context of that government out there felt he needed he needed to push back. Right? He felt like they were trying to usurp This role, right? Because it's not God through the government to the church. These are all direct lines to God. And so they had a stance to make. I lived at the time up in uh Massachusetts where the government was not. putting undue stress and we worked very closely with them to work within the guidelines at what we knew at the time and I think HBC operated very similar to to how many churches did throughout the country. What was happening in California though was quite different. And and MacArthur and and his team pushed back on it. And if you have not seen it, I think you can get to it now. I forget which streaming um device. It's a great, great documentary, if you haven't seen it. It's called The Essential Church It's there in the notes. All right, for Yeah, we can cover some of these here. All right. Be subject to rulers and authorities. Let's go to verses two. Continue on to verse two. To malign no one, to be uncontentious, gentle, showing every consideration for all men, for we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures of spending our life in malice and envy hateful, hating one another, but when the kindness of God our Savior and His love for mankind appeared He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to his mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit whom he poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, that being justified by His grace we might be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. This is a trustworthy statement, and concerning these things I want you to speak confidently so that those who have believed God may be careful to engage in good deeds. These things are good and profitable for men. So what is Paul doing here with Titus? He's reminding all of us, where did we start from? In our sinful nature, right? We were all there. We were disobedient. We were deceived. We were enslaved to various lusts. And it was only by the grace of God that we are now children of God. So we need to treat each other with respect, treat each other as those made in the image of God, and yet be busy about being doing good deeds. Encourage the flock to engage in good deeds. Verse 14, and let our people also learn to engage in good deeds, to meet pressing needs, that they may not be unfruitful. Right, we go back to boy I'm not sure what I'm supposed to be doing. So you don't do anything. That's unfruitfulness. That's not being fruitful. We are to use our gifts and talents for the church, not to be served by the church per se. There are many ministries that will be helpful to people for sure. But we need to come in with the mindset. This is God's church, his means of carrying out his redemptive plan. How am I using my gifts to do that? You will be served with that focus, right? It will happen. You will be blessed by it. But you need to go in with the mindset of serving, engaging in good deeds. Okay. Now we're we're the context has changed. Paul's in his second imprisonment in this cave-like, cold, dark, damp And this is it. This is Paul's last recorded message in the Word of God. So flip back to 2 Timothy. We'll cover that in the few minutes we have remaining. Alright, 2 Timothy. It seems that Paul may have had reason to fear that Timothy was in danger of weaking spiritually. This would have been a grave concern for Paul since Timothy needed to carry on Paul's work. While there are no historical indications elsewhere in the New Testament as to why Paul was so concerned, there is evidence in the epistle itself from what he wrote. This concern is evident, for example, in Paul's exhortation to stir up his gift, to replace fear with power, love, and a sound mind, to not be ashamed of Paul and the Lord, but willingly suffer for the gospel. And to hold on to the truth, summing up the potential problem of Timothy, who might be weakening under the pressure of the church and the persecution of the world. Paul calls him to generally be strong, right? Fight the good fight, the key exhortation of the first part of the letter, and to continue to preach the word, the main admonition of the last part. These final words to Timothy include few commendations, but many admonitions, including about 25 imperatives. So again, that's the context. And again, Paul knows this this is it for me. We are at the end. And I need to encourage Timothy once again. So let's start in chapter one there. And you'll see where where Paul addresses some of this. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God, according to the promise of life in Christ Jesus. To Timothy, my beloved Son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I serve with a clear conscience the way my forefathers did, as I constantly remember you in my prayers night and day. I'm sure that was a very encouraging open dialogue, if you will. Longing to see you. Even as I recall your tears, so that I may be filled with joy. So, you know, you see here Timothy recall your tears. He was very saddened Right, when when his mentor, if you will, when he knew this was the end and whenever he had to leave him, but I think shows some of um Some of his personality, if you will, and what Paul is addressing here was some of his weak his timidity, if you will. Right? He was probably a very personal guy, if you will For I am mindful of the sincere faith within you, which first dwelt in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am sure that it is in you as well. So I love the call out of uh mom and grandmother there And for this reason I remind you to kindle afresh the gift of God which is in you through the laying out of my hands. For God has not given us a spirit of timidity. And notice there he didn't say has not given you, has not given us a spirit of timidity, but of power and love and discipline. You know, one of the things that I've often um try to encourage all of us is remember all of this we're trying to cultivate a very high view of who God is. We do that by understanding the collection, accumulative effects of his attributes, but also a correct view of man. And we know who we were without Christ, but who are we in Christ? Don't be timid, right? You have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. That's my encouragement to you: live as children of God in that power. Right? That's the power you have. Alright, let's jump down to thirteen. Again, retain the standard of sound words which you have heard from me, and the faith and love which are in Christ Jesus. So again, Timothy had this incredible example throughout the ministry of Paul, right? He was there by his side and knows. So it's not that he's not equipped. It's not that he doesn't know how to do it. He knows exactly how to do it, and that's what Paul's trying to encourage him to do. Alright. Alright, let's go over to chapter 2. Again, you therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Again, this imploring, if you will, to not be timid. Be strong. Fight the good fight. And some of the examples that he uses go down to verse 4. He talks about being a soldier, an athlete, hardworking farmer, a workman. No soldier in act of service entangles himself in the affairs of everyday life so that he may please the one who enlisted him as a soldier. So a soldier here, the context is being very focused on the goal. Also, if anyone completes competes as an athlete, he does not win the prize unless he competes according to the rules, again, based on sound doctrine. The hardworking farmer ought to be the first to receive his share of the crops. Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything. And then it goes on to a workman in verse 15. Be diligent to present yourselves approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, handling accurately the Word of God. Again, trying to encourage Paul to be bold, handle the word accurately. And then this analogy of a vessel over in verse 20. Now in a large house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also vessels of wood and earthenware, and some to honor and some to dishonor. Therefore, if a man cleanses himself from these things, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, useful to the Master, prepared for every good work. That's a correct view of who we are in Christ. Right there. Now flee from youthful lust. That's where you get this. How are we to handle youthful lust? You get it right here in 2 Timothy. Flee, youthful lust, and pursue righteousness. Faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. So it's back to that. Put off, put off your old nature, right? And put on these things I just talked about. Okay, good. Um it talks about the perils of the man. Let's go to chapter three. Difficult times will come. But realize this, that in the last days difficult times will come, for men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, arrogant, revilers, disobedient. to parents, ungrateful, unholy, unloving, irreconcilable, malicious gossips, without self control, brutal, haters of God, treacherous, reckless, conceited, lovers of pleasures rather than lovers of God If that sounds a lot like our society today, we're here. And it's no surprise. Right? It's written in the Word. What is Paul's focus that he gives to Timothy and Titus? Stay in the Word. Stay focused on the doctrine. Persecution will come. Down verse 10. But you followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, patience, love, perseverance. Verse 11, persecutions and sufferings, such as happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra. What persecutions I endured, and out of them all the Lord delivered me. And indeed, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. It's going to happen, guys, if you are a follower. All right, let me close with this because it's a familiar password passage. All of this focus on on staying solid in the doctrine Go to that very familiar passage, chapter 3, starting in verse 16. All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof. for correction, for training and righteousness, that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. Right? We've had this again and again, this focus on desire good works, be about doing good works How do we do that? Through sound doctrine. And what does it say? All scripture, it's inspired, but it's also sufficient, meaning complete. For reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness. Every kind of heart issue, soul care that we need, life issue, Scripture is sufficient Right? And that's why we are so adamant about protecting it as a church and as a church body. Okay? Alright, I'm going to close with that. Let me pray.