Some of us were wanting to be a little extra glad over there. You kind of got us on that one, Doug. Legalism. The accumulating of rules to govern every area of life. In order to establish clear lines of right and wrong, to make a Christian feel safe, even feel spiritual, it is not the way of New Testament Christianity. Legalism could be defined not just by a code of law kept in order to become saved, but also a man-made code of law which attempts to guide sanctification and spiritual growth. But legalism is woefully inadequate to assist the believer in becoming more like Jesus. Legalism, you see, limits the power and vitality And dynamic maturity that God wants each believer to possess. Legalism substitutes man-made rules and traditions for the power of his new birth the energizing power of the indwelling Spirit of God, and the transformation of a believer's very way of thinking to be more like Christ. Legalism's attraction is in its simplicity, its clarity on every issue, and its seeming security. The legalist feels that he knows exactly what is expected of him in each and every circumstance of life But in reality, legalism simply works to stunt or hinder his mature spiritual thinking. It is an expression of external religion without the heart And it usually stems from immature pride. Legalism is never God's will. Liberty, on the other hand, is our God-given blessing and our true standing in Christ. Ultimate freedom has been secured for us by the effective death of the Lord Jesus Christ on our behalf and his triumphant resurrection, freeing us from the worst enemy of man, which is death. In Galatians 5. 1, we are told it was for freedom that Christ set us free. Therefore, keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. In Colossians 2, verses 16 and 17, the Apostle Paul wrote, Therefore no one is to act as your judge. in regard to food or drink, or in respect to a festival or a new moon, or a Sabbath day, things which are a mere shadow of what is to come. But the substance belongs to Christ. Also in Colossians, Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, chapter 2, verses 20 through 23, he says, if you have died with Christ, to the elementary principles of the world? Why? As if you were living in the world do you submit yourself to decrees such as Do not handle, do not taste, do not touch, which all refer to things destined to perish with use. In accordance with the commandments and teachings of men. These are matters which have, to be sure, the appearance of wisdom and self-made religion and self-abasement and severe treatment of the body, but, listen, are of no value against fleshly indulgence. Wish those who still want to keep the law in the Old Testament, even whole denominations that have designed a way of responding to God based upon the law of Moses would read the New Testament. Christians are not restricted by their Christian faith. Oh no, quite the opposite. We have been given a greater and a superior life experience than anyone. Involved in whatever religion that they're in, or those that don't believe in any God at all. We now have the freedom to have great joy and celebration in Jesus Christ with a clear conscience in each and every circumstance of life, no exceptions. Freedom in Christ Truly is one of the great joys of being a Christian. I'm so happy I'm a Christian. I'm free to do whatever the Lord wants me to do. He's even working his power in me to free me from lusts and pride and selfishness that my old man wants to go back to doing. Yet it is also true, beloved, that the open expression of our freedom is not always wise. It's not always the best thing to do. It's not always beneficial to other people around us. Did you know that freedom can be an unloving and unwise action? The Apostle Paul again, Galatians 5. 13. You were called to freedom, brethren. Only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh. But through love serve one another. That's why we're returning to 1 Corinthians chapter 8, because we have more to learn about this topic. We want to finish our study, which we began last week. If you missed that one, you can get the CD on that where we introduced it. How do you deal with touchy issues where Christians disagree? They should be minor issues, but often they're not. They're blown up into large issues, issues where we believe we have our freedoms and others believe we don't have freedom to do that. How do we respond to that in the body of Christ? How do we get along? wrote to the Apostle Paul about, to know how to deal with in the first century there. Their question was something like, Should Christians eat meat if that meat was sacrificed to the worship of a false God, an idol? That was an important question to them. I don't bump into too many people that ask me that question. In fact, some twelve years of being a pastor yet, I don't think anyone has walked up to me and said, Can I eat meat that sacrificed to an island? But these principles, and this is what I'm trying to get across, the the principles that Paul uses to teach the Corinthians how to deal with that issue, the same principles that we can use today for all the issues that we deal with. What do folks ask us? as spiritual leaders. I get asked, do Christians have to homeschool? Is that a divine requirement? That's an important issue to people. Questions about schooling. I get asked, can Christians drink alcohol? We have alcohol everywhere. Christians want to know. Many want to know is it okay to watch TV or certain programs on TV? Is dancing acceptable? What form of gaming becomes sinful at what point and why? How do you rightly celebrate the holidays? Pastor, what do you do in your home with the holidays? Is the King James Version the only one Christians should use? There are many churches who say that. I was talking to a pastor just yesterday and he was having trouble with some folks in his church because They would follow only what Bill Gother taught, and then others would follow only what King James only people would teach, and he was dealing with that constantly in his congregation. It's a tough issue. He was tearing apart his church And these become very important to people. How about this? What are the colorful adjectives we're allowed to use when we get upset? And which ones are we not allowed to use? Are blue jeans acceptable on Sundays to church? Some of you are pausing and wondering what I'm about to say, you're covering up your blue jeans. I'm not answering any of these right now. You have to sweat it out for forty-five more minutes Can believers go to pool or beach parties? Should children play with toy guns? Some of you saying definitely not. Well what about toy barbies? Then what's wrong with that? Some people have a problem with it Should Christians use birth control and on and on and on? You have questions. Not in that list. This is the arena in which Christians often erect their own man-made absolutes. Standards. Well, if you do that, that's always wrong, you see. But they're not found in Scripture. And they go ahead and judge others based upon their rules. They may have some biblical idea. There may be some principle that comes from it, but the scriptures teach other principles as well, and they don't know those principles. Well, this is how conflict over lesser issues often gets stirred up. So we're returning to the text to try to gain some wisdom for ourselves. What do we do in these circumstances? I'll read the text. Again, 1 Corinthians 8, 1 through 13. If you don't have a Bible, just find someone to look on with. Otherwise, just listen. Now, concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge makes arrogant, but love edifice. If anyone supposes that he knows anything, he is not yet known as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, he is known by him. Therefore, concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that there is no such thing as an idol in the world, and that there is no God but one For even if there are so called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords, yet for us there is but one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and we exist for Him And one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we exist through him. However, not all men have this knowledge But some, being accustomed to the idol until now, eat food as if it were sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. But food will not commend us to God. We are neither the worse if we do not eat, nor the better if we do eat. But take care that this liberty of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak For if someone sees you, who have knowledge, dining in an idol's temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be strengthened to eat things sacrificed to idols? For through your knowledge, he who is weak is ruined, the brother for whose sake Christ died. And so by sinning against the brethren and wounding their conscience, when it is weak, you sin against Christ. Therefore, food causes my brother to stumble. I will never eat meat again, so that I will not cause my brother to stumble. You see where he's heading. Right there at the very end. Well there are three steps or three stages Paul is taking us through in his instruction. Last time we began looking at it. Step one, we covered this last time, is learn the value of love above knowledge. Learn the value of love above knowledge. Love builds others up, it does not puff self up. Love looks out at the needs of other people, it considers them first rather than what one wants to do. The apostle teaches that knowledge, doctrinal, true knowledge, that is, without love, is really another form of ignorance, because doctrine has to be applied with love or it's not really understood. A truly knowledgeable person acts on knowledge, but he acts in love. Not only is the person who loves truly knowledgeable, better yet, verse 3, he is known by God. It's not just that I have knowledge. If I love, but I am now known by God, that's better. Love is greater than knowledge, it has more value than mere knowledge, for it truly knows as it ought to know, and it is known and approved by God. Step two, apply your doctrinal knowledge to whatever the topic is. Whatever the controversy is, take the doctrinal instruction of Scripture and apply it to that situation. Apply your doctrinal knowledge to the topic. God's love can only be expressed with correct understanding. Churches that play down doctrine are really setting up their people for immaturity and lack of understanding and lots of issues. Doctrine is not something to be avoided. It's something we ought to covet. We ought to love teaching. We want to get as much as we can because it gives us the mind of Christ and it helps us to know about our freedoms and how to love other people. It's very important. Just as sure as knowledge without love is useless to God, so also any so-called love and acceptance and tolerance without doctrinal truth is utterly useless to God and to the Christian And that is why, in dealing with the question the Corinthians were wondering about here, Paul taught them right here in this passage doctrine. He's telling them absolute, strong, staunch doctrine right in the passage that should be Evident to everyone. It's helpful doctrine. What was the doctrine he was teaching? Well, we got started on this last time. First, in the middle of verse 4, if you look at it, he said, There is no such thing as an idol in the world. It doesn't exist. It's not there. Remember when Paul says there's no idol in the world, he means that the God the idol represents isn't there. There's the idol, there's the wood, there's the stone, but there's no God, no real God behind him. The idol is a powerless Stupid entity. It is deaf, it is dumb. And that's where we left off right there last week. Right in the middle of the second step concerning our doctrinal knowledge That Paul was teaching the Corinthians about. The second piece of doctrinal knowledge, here's where we pick up on the notes again, okay? The second doctrinal knowledge that Paul wanted them to apply to this particular question is In the last part of verse four, look at it, and there is no God but what? One Now, this just states the universal metaphysical fact. There exists only one God in the real universe. Well, people's vain imaginations may create a virtual universe, but a virtual universe is not a real universe. In the real universe, there is one God. How do we know that? How can we say that with such confidence? The same way we knew the last doctrinal truth that Paul taught. Remember? And again we mentioned that elusive epistemological answer that everyone gropes around for? How do we know what we know? How do we gain certainty about spiritual realities? Who is it that knows? Everyone just has their own opinion. How can anyone say that dogmatically? You know, people have basically given up on knowing ultimate truth, so now if you say you know ultimate truth, you must be a proud person. It's not at all the case. I think it's rather proud to tell God he doesn't know what he's talking about when he makes an absolute statement. What really is the pride? We do know We know not through empirical research. No. Nothing wrong with empirical research, but you can't know that way. There's a limit to that approach. There's much that you cannot know about ultimate questions through science and through the senses. We also know not through rational contemplation alone, not the mere application of logic to our situation, logical equations help us out only and are only as good as the information that was put into them in the first place. You and I can only know the answer to ultimate questions through a source capable of delivering an ultimate answer, an ultimate truth. In other words, it has to start with an ultimate being himself Who has an ultimate mind and knows has infinite knowledge and knows everything. And if that ultimate person is so gracious as to reveal what is the reality and is the truth then we are the beneficiaries simply by listening and believing. You understand that? It comes through revelation and we, as simple as we are, there's nothing brilliant about us But we now have the knowledge, the certain knowledge, that people even smarter than us can never have because they didn't listen to the one who knows. That's the amazing thing that God has indeed revealed himself. He's revealed himself through creation, through general revelation, we call it It's splattered all over the universe. There is a God. He's powerful. Look what he's done. See all that he's created. Look how it is all designed. Romans chapter 1, verse 20 talks about that. But also, more importantly, we get truth and doctrinal truth that's certain through special revelation, through God's verbal communication, through his chosen apostles and prophets. We know that there is a God, that he is one, that he is the only one, and we know that through infallible revelation that God in his infinite mind has declared to us. And that's how we know So Deuteronomy 6. 4 was said to Israel, Hear, O Israel, get this into your minds, Israel, listen to this. The Lord is our God, the Lord is one. We are to know that and have a conviction about that and be certain about that because that was true. We can know it's true because God knows it's true, and God's spoken, and God knows what he's talking about. And that ends the matter. That's what it is You know, uh, people don't want to accept the testimony of an Almighty all-knowing being. It doesn't make any sense to me We go to the court, we listen to the testimony of a man, and we try to decide, hmm, is that guy's testimony pretty good? And we receive that testimony. When God talks, We we don't receive his testimony. We say, well, how can I know that's true? Because because God's talking. Well how do I know it's God's word? Well you better know he made you. If you don't recognize the voice of your maker, you're in a lot of trouble. You ought to immediately recognize truth when it is said to you, to your heart. Listen to 1 John 5, 9-10. If we receive the testimony of men, and we do, The testimony of God is greater. That's a no-brainer. For the testimony of God is this that He has testified concerning his Son. Remember, thou art my son, in thee I am well pleased. That was the King James, I think, at the baptism of Christ. First John 5:10. The one who believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself, and the one who does not believe God has made God a liar. Because he has not believed in the testimony that God has given concerning the Son. God said, This is my son that settles it. So Isaiah 45, 5. I am the Lord, and there is no other besides me, there is no God. That name for God is not Allah, it is Yahweh. And that's the only one. Through revelation we know. And we know with certainty. And the point is that certain knowledge through revelation then guides us even on small issues. What do I do in this situation, in that situation? I now have knowledge. Now that should guide me. So now look at verse five. Paul gives a further explanation too. Verse five. For even if there are so-called gods whether in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords. In other words, Paul says, sure, there there are many idols in the world. They're so-called idols by men. There are lots of them. There are lots of those statues and things like that. How many deities were in the ancient world? I have no idea. We mentioned a couple of them last week. The linguist linguistic and exegetical key to the New Testament says this the statues of the gods aligned to the marketplace of Corinth and were made from marble, copper, gold, silver, ivory, or wood with eyes made out of precious stones. Sounds like Fossi the Snowman or something like that. Well what's the difference? What's the difference between Frosty and them? Nothing. One melts a little faster, I guess. There's no difference. If you're interested, here's a brief list of some of the gods that Paul is alluding to there. Both are Roman and and Greek names there. Zeus or Jupiter, the supposed king of the gods. Poseidon or Neptune, the god of the sea. I'd rather trust the one who calmed the sea with his word, wouldn't you? Apollo, the god of light or the sun, Hades or Pluto, the god of the underworld, Hermes or Mercury, the messenger of of the gods. Ares or Mars, the god of war, a cruel god, evidently. He can be cruel because he doesn't exist. Dionysus or Bacchus, the god of wine. Artemis or Diana. Temple was uh in Ephesus there, the goddess of the wilderness or of the hunt. Eros of Cupid, the god of love, Vulcan, the Roman god of fire and volcanoes Aphrodite, Venus, the goddess of love, beauty, Athena, or Minerva, the goddess of wisdom Now interestingly, just to throw this in here, later in chapter ten and verse twenty we're going to get there. The Apostle Paul reveals that the objects of these heathen that they worship there these objects. They don't exist, no, but there still is a deceptive spirit behind that object. Fallen angels or demons. And he alludes to this in chapter 10. In other words, those idols have behind them not a god, that doesn't exist, but a fallen created being, a demon. And the demon is deceiving and fooling human beings and inspiring the worship of a false and woefully inadequate concept of God. And that is why you'll hear statements in Scripture like this from Deuteronomy 10, 17. For the Lord your God is the God of gods. You say, well, if there are no gods, why does he say that? Because he's referring to those powers that are behind it. He is the Lord of Lords. God is over all spiritual beings in this universe, in other words. In the universe, there's no such thing as Cupid or Hermes, not there. But there are demons. They do exist. Sometimes we read the gospels and we forget that yeah there were demons back then. There's still demons in the world today. And they concoct it Their own gods and through it slander the true image of the real God. That's their point. That's what they're trying to do, is slander God by reducing him to something that resembles more sinful human beings. The point here is that what people claim about deities mean nothing. They are so-called gods. They're gods said to be gods by people, but they're nothing. By the way, just throwing this in, science never determined that those gods didn't exist. We act like we're in the age of science, and science now knows that all of that was mythology. Science can't decide those questions. Science deals with things that we can touch and analyze, and no one can know or touch whether that exists or not People act as if the scientific method discovered that form. No, it did not. They have no right as scientists to say science has proven. No, it is revelation from God that has shown us that they're not real God. Revelation is superior to science. The true God has spoken, and he lets us know what's there in the invisible world. And Revelation tells us even more. Look at verse 6. Yet for us there is one God the Father and one Lord Jesus Christ. One God the Father and one Lord Jesus Christ. There's another knowledgeable answer to the question of God. By the way, please understand that when Paul says yet for us, he's he's not falling into the postmodern mindset that says, well, this is our truth. And uh now you can have whatever truth that you want to have. When he says, yet for us, he's talking about the us who have the what? The knowledge and the revelation. So we're the ones who understand. This is what's true, this is what's real And notice that God is described here as one God. There's one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and we exist for Him. So there's one supreme being. That's doctrinal knowledge. One and only one. Christianity teaches and has always taught monotheism, despite others who say we teach tri-theism, that there are three gods. No, there's one God, there's only one God, there's not two, there's not three, there's not many And God, that one God is described here as God the Father. And as the Father, what is emphasized of his being is that he is the originator of all things existing. Exhutapanta, literally out of whom all things. That's what it says. That's a fascinating statement. In other words, the source of everything that exists is out of God the Father. Look no further, look no further back. It all comes from God. His fatherhood speaks of him being the originator of all things. All things exist from him and for him. They have their origin in him. God himself, then, is a self-existing being. He has to be, or he couldn't be the cause of everything else. No one thing originated or started or began or created God. He's the originator of all things. He himself is uncaused. God is not even his own cause because he never had a cause. He always is. And he, as the one who always is, is the creator of all things. He is the cause of all things. That also means that he is absolutely incomparable. That's why Isaiah 40, verse 18 asks, to whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will you compare with him? That's why you can't have a statue of God. It just won't do it. It just won't do it. There's nothing comparable. Now you know what people have done in the modern era. You know this, they've replaced a God with an eternal, self-existing universe, a material universe, a physical universe. You ask people, is there a God? They say no. They say Well then what was there? Well there is the universe and the universe has just always existed. It just goes on and on forever. Maybe it uh collapses and expands and collapses and expands and it just goes on for billions and billions of years, and this is their concept of what reality is Only problem with that is that we've already studied physical matter. We've actually put that under a microscope. We know what that is like. That's something that science can tell us, and it tells us that physical matter can't cause its health. We already know that. Science has already shown us that So we know it can't be the cause of itself. We know everything that we know tells us that. That alone lets us know there has to be a spiritual reality behind the physical universe. You see? There has to be. There's no other way for it to be. So, well then what caused God? Well we can't put spirit in a in a test tube and analyze and go, aha. We can't do that. So that has to come to us, that understanding has to come to us through revelation again, not through science. People act like they have an answer when they talk about an eternal universe. It's just worshiping the creation rather than the creator. It doesn't even make any sense Therefore, God, who is perfect spirit, whatever that means, he depends on nothing. Nothing outside of himself. He exists by himself. You say, Pastor, could you could you just explain that a little bit more? No! I have no idea how that works. I have no idea. He just exists and he just is. And and and and you can't even say he caused himself because he wasn't caused. So I just end, I stop right there, and my jaw drops down and I worship. That's what happens to me. I know this, humans did not originate all things, therefore it's very stupid for us to be humanists Worshiping man. What are we? We're dust. We don't have any knowledge. It's very dumb to worship false gods. They didn't originate anything, they don't exist. If you don't exist, you can't start anything. That's just the rule. I don't know who made it up. It's just the rule. If you don't exist, you can't start anything. Worship of nature is blind. It's the thing made. It's not the maker. None of that is intelligent. None of that is educated. None of that is knowledge. Do you see me going off up here? There's a lot of frustration with the way people think these days, isn't it? They act like they've got something. You've got nothing if you don't start with God. You have nothing. There's nothing for your brain to latch hold of there. You just I don't know what you're doing. The Father is the source of all things. So he is the one knowledgeable person, the Christian who has revelation now says, I will live for him. I came from him. I must live for him. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? John 5. 26, the Father has life in himself. Where does life come from? The Father has life in itself. It's not time, amino acids, and chance that made DNA. Romans 1136, for from him and through him and to him are all things To him be the glory forever. Amen. Some people say now, wait a minute, if all things are from God, what about evil? Did God create evil? Did he create sin? What about that Satan fellow? Did he create him? Well, of course, when we say what about sin and it exists and evil, we we assume it's a thing. It's not a thing, it's an absence of a thing. It's a perversion of a thing. Evil isn't a thing. You don't say, oh, there's evil. Look at evil. There it is. Evil's not a thing. Evil's an absence of a thing. Evil's a perversion of a thing, a twisting of a thing, an eroding of a thing. God made the thing and the thing was good. The thing was called creation. He made it in Genesis 1. He looked at everything that he created and he pronounced it what? Good. And then man comes along and he twists and perverts it. God makes the sun, the moon, and the stars. That's good. Man comes along and bows down before the sun, moon, and the stars. That's bad. That's evil. Where did evil come from? The moral being that decided to pervert his own way. That's where it came from. It's an absence of the thang. The thang is good. And it's the absence of good. It's the perversion of something. It's the twisting of something. And so that's how it goes. So man, not God, or angels that have fallen, are to blame for perverting what he made. So if that is the truth. Then we ask, well, what about Jesus? Now we just enter into our Christology and we ask, okay, what about Christ? Where does he fit into this one self-originating God? Well, look again, Jesus is described as one what Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things. And we exist through it. Say, wait a minute, now I'm counting two ones there. How can there only be one now? There's two there. Now we're starting to say, what's going on here? Well, there is the Father God. And then there is the Lord Jesus Christ. All things are from or out of God the Father, and all things come. Notice, change of preposition, by or through the Lord Jesus. Paul purposely uses a different preposition for Jesus than for the Father. Through is the preposition in Greek dia. It's used twice here to express the thought through or by means of. You get the connection? What the Father originates, it's X, it's out of him Comes into existence, but it comes into existence only through Dia the Son. The Father is the source of everything in the universe. The Son is not a second source, but the means through which all things come into being. Wow. There's a close relationship then between the Father and the Son, between God and Lord. It's an intimate and inseparable relationship and an eternal relationship. John describes it this way in John 1:1 through 3. In the beginning was the what? The Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word Was God? How are you with God and was God? Because God is so bigger than our logic and our minds, and He knows what's going on, and we don't. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being through him. Talking about Christ. And apart from him, the Son of God, nothing came into being that has come into being. Jesus is the very Word of God. How closely related are you to your own words? When you talk and the words come out of your mouth, that's how closely related the Son of God is to God. There's an eternal procession. The word is not something that's created. The word is something that is there, it's part of God, you might say. In Colossians 1, 16. For by Christ all things were created, both in the heavens and on the earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through Christ and for Christ. Wow. God created all things and he created it through his son. In Genesis 1, we have that illustrated for us. God said, Let there be light, and poof, there was light. It came out of God and he spoke, and when the word spoke, it brought into existence light, and it brought into existence everything else in Genesis 1 as well. Beloved, God's word is not created. It's not created. It's eternal. The Son of God eternally proceeds from the Father. He stands in a completely different relationship to God than any of God's creation. He is not created, but intrinsically flows from God the Father and eternally does so. You know, some people get their logic in this and they want to deny the deity of Jesus Christ, and they say something like this, okay, there's only one God. And God is the Father, and Jesus is not the Father, so therefore logic demands that Jesus is not God. And that's how their mind works. But the scriptures tell us Jesus is God. And the scriptures tell us there's one God. If your mind is having trouble with that, it's because your mind is having trouble understanding the eternal God. Some uses it. We can't think our minds are the standard of ultimate truth. Notice Jesus right here is called curios, Lord. Do you know that that is the same exact term used of Almighty God in the Old Testament? In fact, Wayne Grudem in the Systematic Theology writes that the word kurios is used to translate the name of the Lord, the Lord God, six thousand eight hundred and fourteen times in the Greek Old Testament That's God's name. Christmas is coming, right? We always hear this at Christmas time. For today in the city of David there has been born for you a Savior who is Christ the what? The Lord. The baby is the Lord. That's mind bottom. Elizabeth tells Mary, How is it happened to me that the mother of my Lord has come to me? In Hebrews chapter 1, verses 10 through 12, speaking of Jesus, it says, You, Lord, in the beginning laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of your hand. They will perish, but you remain. They will all become old like a garment, and like a mantle you will roll them up. Like a garment they will also be changed, but you are the same, and your years will never come to an end. That is said of the Son of God, not the Father. The Son of God, too, is creator. eternal creator. All things were created and found their existence only through him. And of course that means that he was there at the very beginning of creation and he himself cannot be created. Otherwise not all created things can come through him He eternally proceeds from the Father. He is at one with the Father, and he is the same essence as God the Father. Thank God for all the theological minds who took time to know doctrine and teach us this through church history. Hebrews 1. 6 says he is to be worshipped as God. He's even given the title Thaos God. You know, that would be blasphemy to call Jesus God and to bow before him and worship him if he wasn't deity. In John 5. 21, just as the Father has life in himself, so also the Son does as well. Jesus will be the judge of all the earth. That's a prerogative only for God. Jesus had no beginning and he'll have no end, Revelation 22, 13. He's called God, he's called here Lord. How can you have allegiance to the one called Lord if there is only one God for you? Answer, because God sent the Lord, and the Lord expresses the true image of the God. And is one with God. This is the testimony of Scripture and the mystery of the Trinity. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name, singular, of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, plural. Grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ? I thought God gives grace. And the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. And so we are taught. Now, all of that to say that's pretty good knowledge to have. The triune God, the Lord Jesus Christ, knowing the truth, any perversion from that, from any other so-called Christian religion, another religion, they lost the truth, they walked away from the truth, they abandoned the truth. This is the truth. Now look at verse 7. The problem is in verse 7, not all men have this what? Knowledge. They don't all get it. They don't all get it. They don't understand this. Now Paul's writing here of Christians, you have to understand that he's writing about saved people. They believe in God, they believe in Christ, they have the gospel, they believe the gospel, but they don't quite get all of this Metaphysical reality. They don't quite understand all of this. They think that there's still gods out there. Lesser gods, of course. They've given their allegiance to Jesus as God, but in their minds They think, well, these other gods still exist, see? They're still out there, and we can't have allegiance to them. That's what they're thinking. They don't have that knowledge yet He says, some being accustomed to the idol until now eat food as if it were sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. They're saved, they have faith, but they're weak in their conscience. Their conscience hasn't yet been strengthened to do something because they don't yet have enough doctrinal knowledge. They've transferred their allegiance to Jesus. Jesus is their Lord. But they still think that there are false gods out there. The second thing they don't understand is they don't understand about food. Verse 8 But food will not commend us to God. We are neither the worse if we do not eat, nor the better if we do eat Food's not the issue. By the way, if you ever looked at religions, you look at them, right? And here are religions. You're talking about Buddhism, you're talking about Hinduism or Islam or Roman Catholicism, Mormonism, you go through it. And they all have these dietary laws You can't eat this food on such and such a day. That food is bad. No, that food is good. Why? Why? Food will not commend us to God. There's doctrinal knowledge. Again, we are neither the worse if we do not eat, nor the better if we do eat. God gives us true understanding. Listen to Mark chapter 7, verses uh 18 and 19. Jesus said to them, Are you so lacking in understanding also? Do you not understand that whatever goes into a man from the outside cannot defile him? So you can eat whatever dessert you want, you you cook whatever it is that you want. Because it does not go into his heart but into his stomach and is eliminated. Most important part comes next. Thus, and this is in the Gospel of Ark, thus he declared all foods clean. Clean. First Corinthians 6. 13, food is for the stomach, the stomach is for food, but God will do away with both of them. Romans 14, 17. The kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. No restrictions We're free just just don't overeat. You you know why I'm saying that because it is the season and uh we gotta watch that So we know, listen, we know that eating meat in the pagan temple was fine. Would your conscience have been strengthened to do that, by the way? Even though that's not our issue, would you actually be able to go into a temple that worship Venus and eat meat that was sacrificed to her glory? Would your knowledge allow you to do that? Paul says that he could do that No problem. Why? Because that's God's dead animal in there. It's not Venus's. He made that animal. He made that meat. It's God's. I can allow some non-entity to steal food and From him, it's God's. Go in there and enjoy it. You say, well, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Hmm. No, you're free to do that. No sin. No compromise. No demons that come out of the meat into you either. Just eat it and love God and thank him for it. You know, I know you all are here to hear worshiping Venus, but I'm worshiping the true God. He's the one who gave us this food. Thank you, O Lord God of Israel, God Father of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because you have knowledge. They don't. See, sometimes even our conscience is, oof, we don't understand. We don't apply the doctrinal knowledge to our situation. That dumb God's not going to get the victory on the animal. It's going to be God's So all of this knowledge, the point is, all of this helps us. That's the whole point. I've been belaboring it and belaboring it and belaboring it so you can understand how important doctrine is. Now we come to our last step. But you see, some of the Corinthians stop right there. I got the knowledge now. Out of my way, buddy. I'm gonna go do whatever I want. I have freedom. Yippee! I know how to live the Christian life now. This is so simple. You know, whatever I want to do, I'm going to go do it. And they kind of stopped right there. And Paul's like, you forgot about love. That's why we have a third step. Step three. Put your knowledge with love into action. It's not love or knowledge. It's put your knowledge with love into action. Verses 9 through 13. Now we're going to go quickly here. Because you understand the first two points, and that's the main point. Notice first his overall concern in verse nine, but take care that this liberty of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak The stumbling block is some action that you would take which would cause someone else to look at it and be led into what would be sin for them because their conscience thinks that there's an idol, and since their conscience thinks that there is an idol, then they're going and participating, and that is a compromise of their faith. It is for them sin because their conscience thinks that that meat really is sacrificed and dedicated to the idol. And so for them it becomes sin. They watch your actions and they think they shouldn't do that, but then they say, well this guy must know and they're led into that and then they go do that. And then their conscience is defiled. They go home later and they think, I've sinned against God, I've compromised, oh my God, what have I done? And they were led into sin because their conscience was not free, you see. So you have to use your doctrinal knowledge with others in mind, with love in mind, he's saying. You must be concerned with the faith and the development and the conscience of your brother in Christ. Your freedom, which is true, no one's doubting that, but you have to restrict it yourself, not because of legalism, but because of love. You cannot just take your knowledge and go charging out there in life, live any way that you want to You have to think about others and where they are in terms of their spiritual understanding and strength. You have to look out for them. You have to care for them How does that work? Look down at verses 10 and 11. For if someone sees you who have knowledge dining in an idol's temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, this is not an unbeliever, okay? If he is weak, be strengthened to eat things sacrificed to idols. You go to that idol, you know there's no God but one, you eat the meat, and you draw him into sin. For through your knowledge, he who is weak is ruined. Verse 11. And there's the problem. Can you see why it's so bad? It's going to be so bad for your brother. You haven't taken him into consideration. You haven't loved him. His conscience is going to be ripped up over this. He's going to think he's done a terrible thing that he sinned and you are the cause of that. You. You and your freedom. You and your knowledge. Because you're just thinking about you. He really gives three reasons why it's bad. The first one I just mentioned, reason number one, verse eleven, for through your knowledge he who is weak is ruined. That doesn't mean he's unsaved. That means his mind is messed up, his conscience has been violated Notice that in verse 12 it speaks of wounding their conscience. That's what he's talking about. Reason number two, he is the brother for whose sake Christ died. You can't go rushing out and using your freedoms any way you want if it ends up hurting someone whom Christ died for. Christ died for him. Christ loves that brother. Christ died for him to lead them out of sin, and now you're using your example to lead them into sin because their mind's not ready for that In Romans 14, verse 23, Paul explains this a little more. He says, he who doubts is condemned if he eats. He who doubts is condemned if he eats because his eating is not from faith, and whatever is not from faith is sin. And that's what happens to them. They were led into sin. For this person without knowledge eating is an act of rebellion against God and the worship of another God. Even though his conscience is not knowledgeable, and because his conscience is not knowledgeable, So why would we ever want to tempt our brethren Christ for whom Christ died and lead them into sin? Reason three, verse twelve, and so by sinning against the brethren and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ. Man, that is amazing. When Paul was, Saul was persecuting the Church of Jesus Christ, Jesus appeared to him on the road to Damascus and he said, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting what? Me You lead a brother in Christ into sin, you're sinning against Christ. For he's part of Christ now. He's in the body of Christ. It's just terrible. Your knowledge puffed you up. Oh, you know so much. You read your Bible, studied, went to theology school, go to that Bible-teaching church Where was your love? For your brother. Building up in love is the greater priority. Paul says it right here. Love is greater. Love is the better way. Again, in Romans 14, he describes it. Listen to this. Therefore, let us not judge one another anymore, but rather determine this: not to put an obstacle or a stumbling block in a brother's way. And then Paul writes this: listen, I know and am convinced in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself. But to him who thinks anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean. For if because of food your brother is hurt, you are no longer walking according to love. Do not destroy with your food him for whom Christ died. If you want to hear some anger and some zeal in the apostles' voice that is there, you must give up your freedoms for the sake of your brethren. That must be your priority to look out for and care for your brothers and sisters in Christ, to love them, to invest in their edification and their building up, to be patient with them. to help them come along, not push them where you think they ought to be already. It's so important. It's so important. The last Paul gives his conclusion to the matter, verse 13. And he just sets himself up as the example here. If I, if food causes my Brother to stumble, he says, therefore, this is my conclusion, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will never eat meat again. Boy, how determined he was. That's incredible. So that I will not cause my brother to stumble. I don't want to look in my brother's eye and say, you know, I led you into sin, I'm sorry. And I don't want to look into Christ's eyes and say, you know, I led one of your little ones into sin. I was a stumbling block, and I'm sorry. I don't want to do that. By the way, that's not an endorsement of being a vegetarian, in case you want to take that out of context there It's a loving resolve in the heart of a dear apostle to build up the brethren. Let's be like that. And let's take that and apply that to other issues. We don't have time to do it with all just a sampling here to get you thinking. Does a Christian have God given freedom to drink alcohol as long as he doesn't get drunk? The answer is yes, he does. The wine of the Bible was alcoholic. I don't know why people don't understand that. How could you command do not get drunk with grape juice? The command doesn't even make sense. I don't know why people have trouble with that. Romans 1421, however, says, it is good not to eat meat or to drink wine or to do anything by which your brother stumbles. Leaders in particular, you need to think that through. Can I celebrate Christmas in part by hanging up stockings next to the to the to the chimney? If you have a chimney. Sure you could. You could. It's a little bit silly when people say if you take the name Santa and twist it around you get Satan. You don't really think they're worshiping Satan by putting a little sock up next to the you know you don't really think they're doing that, do you See we have our rules and our laws and we think we're so right in them, but we're not thinking through them, judging motive. Is that really their motive? Is that really what they're doing? Better know before you judge. But I don't really need to celebrate Christmas that way. If it causes someone to have trouble with that, then put down a smelly sock. I don't care. It's no big deal to me Santa's a little too fat for my liking anyway, you know? So I just put that stuff away. Will God accept my worship if I come in here with blue jeans? Of course. Of course he will. It's not about your blue jeans. It's not about how your hair is. Far too much emphasis is put on that when the scripture puts it right at the heart But if I, as your pastor, wear blue jeans to church and you think that I'm not reverencing God because of that, I'm not going to do it. Because I don't want you to stumble over me. Do I have freedom to walk into a movie theater and watch a movie? Some people, different parts of the country, different generations, stop right there. And if you're walking in there, that's sin But uh it's not it's not a sin to watch a movie. It may be a sin for you to watch certain movies. But it's not a sin to watch a movie. It's a sin to lust. It's a sin to get proud. You know what's sin? Watching a movie? This happens a lot to us. Here's what's sin. The whole movie long you're waiting for the bad guy to get it and you have nothing but vengeance and hatred in your heart. The whole movie's designed for that. That's it. Hey, you can watch it without doing that, more power to you. Not me, I get into my movies. Kill 'em! Sorry Lord. Sorry Lord. Can't do that. Can't do that. I I know some of you might be thinking this way, how far does this principle go? I mean if I stopped everything that offended someone somewhere, I don't think that I would ever do anything. You know, kind of car I'm driving they might not like You know, um some people don't think Christians should take out loans. Does that mean I can't have a house for the next 30 years? Some think that uh the King James Version really is the only inspired version for English Do we have to use it if people don't understand it and it's not as accurate as others that have now taken other Greek manuscripts into consideration? I mean where does it stop? That's a good question, and it doesn't have an easy answer I'll just give you three quick questions to ask yourself and these will helpfully guide you as you're dealing with dozens and dozens of different issues. Just jot these down and think about this. First question, how important is this issue to the weak brother? The weak brother is the one you don't want to offend. Is it really an issue that would mess up his faith? Or is he just disagreeing with you and being nitpicky? You kind of have to find out. Some people are bothered by lots of little things, but it's not really going to hurt their faith. Find out about that. You don't need to restrict yourself unnecessarily. Question number two, how important is my example to that person? Who's looking at me? What group of people are analyzing me and watching me and how important is my example? And if I do that, even though I have the freedom to do that, might that hurt my my witness to an unbeliever or my teaching and discipleship of a believer Obviously the more you're a visible leader, the more you need to consider that, and that becomes more and more important for you. And then the third question is, is there a way to educate patiently and teach the weaker brother and bring them along? In other words, would just a little bit of information help them out. If I gave them a little bit of doctrinal knowledge and they go, Oh, I didn't know that. And and you said, Well, do you you feel okay with that? They said, Yeah, I feel okay with that And now you've helped them along, you've given them some doctrine, you've taught them and you've moved them along and it's okay. If uh if you teach them and they go, I don't I don't get that, I'm not sure I believe that, well then you know, hold off. Mm, give patience. Don't try to get it all done in one session. Uh give up your freedom that afternoon. Go do some other recreation. That one's not going to work. You know? Or have your kids do something different. I think those are the kinds of questions that you want to be asking yourself and working with others Always setting a good example, always helping them to think through biblical doctrinal principles on each and every issue. Because God has a lot to say about all of those issues that we mentioned today. He doesn't say they're all restricted or you all have to do this or that, but he has us thinking about our motives. He has us thinking about what we're trying to accomplish, what is our goal, what's really going on in our heart when we chose to do that. And uh sometimes parents have to ask their children that why why did why mom and dad is that restricted? Well because Why were you choosing to do that? What was going on in your heart? Were you really putting the Lord Jesus first and choosing to do whatever it is that you've done? We all have to think through those kinds of issues and questions. Always demonstrating love towards one another and never letting a smaller issue be that which divides us. Okay? There's so much more on this issue. If you want to study this more, go to Romans 14 and study through that passage as well. Let's close in prayer. Our Father and our God, we thank you for a definitive truth that frees us and gives us understanding. The truth indeed does set us free. We're so thankful. And we pray for a greater knowledge and practice of love in our congregation. That when we think that it's only the person over there that has a problem with petty issues, because we can count 20 that we're not bothered by, help us to evaluate our own hearts that maybe there are those one or two issues that we've made a bigger deal than we should out of. And maybe we hold deeper and stronger convictions about areas that are small. We don't need to hold those convictions. Lord, for they actually are a result of a mind untrained by doctrine. And we would pray that you would work in each one of us, help us to communicate kindly, help those who are weaker in our congregations, understand none of this was to make fun of them, but was to help strengthen them and bring them along. Lord help those of us who have a greater amount of knowledge about what you allow and what you disallow to use that in kindness, love, and patience. We pray it and ask it. In the blessed name of our Lord and Savior Jesus. Amen.