Grace truly is greater than all of our sin. One unpleasant reality, however, of life in the local church are our disagreements and squabbles over lesser issues. I wish the larger issues and teachings of the Christian faith were our constant concern and preoccupation, the deity of Jesus Christ and his substitutionary offering. The bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ, who conquered death. He gave us immortality as a gift. The awesome power of Almighty God, his unchangeable attributes, how he communicates salvation to the souls of sinful men simply by his grace through faith alone. The indwelling power of the Spirit of God that energizes the new nature that was given to us in Christ, these are marvelous truths. to be caught up with. That is where the Lord would have our minds to dwell on these excellent and weighty truths of the Christian faith You know, if we focused more on those momentous doctrines, if we made them our concern more often We would find that our great common life in Jesus Christ would swallow up a lot of our lesser differences and disagreements. Godliness and divine wisdom and love would guide the church to solve each little complaint as it came up, or each disharmony which arose. Little things would remain little things, as they ought to be, easily solved, and weighty matters would be our passion, they'd be what we are concerned with. But you know the experience of many local church leaders is that disagreement and disharmony Often have their source, not in the great matters of the faith worth fighting for and defending, but in teensy tiny matters. Will a church use drums in the worship service? Does the pastor's wife wear pants? Is dancing among members really permissible? What movies are acceptable to watch? It's not that Christians can't have opinions about such matters, but that such matters don't matter all that much. Yet for many, yes, many so-called Bible-believing, conservative, evangelical Christians, it seems They are sooner to break fellowship with their brethren over playing cards or celebrating holidays differently or listening to rock and roll. Why not have more concern over the doctrine of repentance for sin, or the right humble approach to the holy scriptures, or learning the correct way to pray? Don't misunderstand, I I am quite aware, as Alan and Charlie are aware, that these lesser issues can sometimes get inflated and become big issues in a local church. If they are approached in a wrong way, they can actually turn into sin. If people have wrong motives, even small and innocent things can lead us into sin. And turn into clear acts of sin that God has forbidden. But generally speaking, God gives a lot of latitude in our lives, freedom in Christ. And he exhorts people not to make a long list of the do's and don'ts, a long list of rules as to how to live the Christian life. But to learn from their hearts, who is God and how does he want us to live in love and holiness and righteousness and truth, growing in our love for God and also increasing in our trust of His Word. How should Christians respond to all of these lesser issues? What should happen when clear disagreement emerges among the brethren, even right here in this local congregation? Should it be a source of division among us? Should we quietly shun one another and move away? How should we feel about other Christians who clearly disagree with the way we practice the Christian faith? We might not want to cause a problem, but do we quietly avoid them or not let our children play with their children? Must people who disagree find a church that agrees with them on every single issue? Is that possible to find? Is it even desirable to go that route I think, brothers and sisters, it is very good for us to be cautious against sin. Don't misunderstand me. Sin surely can be subtle at times, and there are many who are spiritually naive. People all the time do things that they think that's not a big deal. Don't make a big deal out of that. Because they don't really understand that there is spiritual danger in it. Danger to their soul, danger to the souls of other people. And sometimes they don't want to listen to warnings from those who are more mature that are trying to help them to understand. Many do not put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for their flesh in regard to their lusts, as we are commanded in Romans 13 verse 14. Many do not take Paul's exhortation to walk in the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh, as he teaches in Galatians chapter 5. Well, you could begin dancing, for example, and soon find yourself floating into a vain attitude or inappropriate gestures or even being out of control. Sin can suddenly start into your heart and you can be expressing a sensual attitude, like dancing with the stars that we see on TV or many other places. Where dancing is turned more into an opportunity to express the sinful flesh than it is to be an exhibition of joy and happiness, which God has given to us. Unfortunately, Christians often abuse their freedoms in Christ. And they quickly get trapped into a habit of sin they did not expect. They gamble, why? Because they really do love money. Or they just don't want to work and they're hoping that luck will bring them money. They drink alcohol. Not just because it's a freedom, but because they turn to alcohol for their own personal comfort, and they've made an idol out of it in their hearts. They watch the wrong kind of movies, and for them it is wrong, because when it's bedtime, they lay their head on the pillow, they know the lust that they're battling in their hearts because they watched that movie They watch sports. I'll pick on myself here because you all know I love sports. But they get boisterous and complaining when their team doesn't do well. Some will surf the internet, and that's fine, but they will get trapped by some pornographic site. Or they might play all night video games. Is that permissible in the Christian faith? Yes, it is. But they wake up tired and unmotivated to serve their brethren the next day. They're not careful. They're not careful with their Christian lives. They know they have freedom, but they're not careful. They're not following hard fast after Jesus Christ. They're making excuses and their heart is wandering into other concerns. They are libertines. They don't have enough caution to the carnal ways of the world surrounding them. They are not guarded against the weaknesses of their sinful flesh. They love their freedom, yes, but they seem to love their freedom more than they love Christ, who gave them their freedom. And they may even look down upon Christians who don't express freedom the same way as they do. But you know, the Christian populace Is also inhabited by those with a bent in the other direction. We call that legalism. They know they have freedom in Christ, theoretically. But they do not understand that freedom actually. And so they haven't learned to value that freedom that they have. Their approach to the Christian life is defined by structure and rules and regulations. They're comfortable when their boundaries are clearly defined. You don't step outside of that at all. They tend to follow teachers who tell them on every issue this is right and this is wrong or this is right. And that is wrong. And it all gets defined for them, and it makes the Christian life and a religious life simple and understood for them. The Christian life is lived only in black and white categories. They cannot tolerate gray areas. They get confused there. They're lost in there. They don't know what to do. To them everything must be either good or bad. And so they invent their rules for themselves. Yes? For others as well to live by. You must never drink alcohol. You must not go to the movie house. You must never trick-or-treat on Halloween. You must not be a registered Democrat or Republican. You must not wear your hair like that. You must get rid of that tattoo. You must not Frequent the restaurant that serves alcohol. No good Christian hangs stockings out at Christmas time. You can't listen to country music No recreation on Sundays. For some of you those are laughing matters, but for others they are rules by which they live by. And with this list in hand, and believe me, it is much longer than that, they think themselves to be wise and careful and mature and of course biblical. And they ardently equip their family with the same list of rules. And when they find other Christians in their church or their families, their children not practicing Christianity exactly like them They are bold to speak out against the violation of those rules. After all, it is in the Bible, isn't it? They cannot help but judge their brothers because if life really is defined by these rules, then they have to keep track of each and every single one of those rules. And guard against anyone not living by them. You know, a man came in here years ago and he had a list of all of the political views that a pastor had to hold if he was going to begin attending that church He wanted to give me the it was an actual list, it was a questionnaire, and I was supposed to go through and answer each one. I needed to answer each one correctly or he wouldn't come and attend there. I told him I wasn't going to take his questionnaire That I knew of much, much more important issues than what he had on his list. You know, the text that we come to today, brothers and sisters in Christ, it deals with a less important thing in the Christian life. But because of its potential to divide Christians in those days and to stir up judgmental attitudes one against the other, it actually inflated into a massive, massive issue in the early church. Large enough for the Apostle Paul to devote a significant amount of space of this major New Testament epistle and also the epistle to the Romans to deal with this issue. It's an issue which is not all that concerning to us in the modern American church. I don't think we'll read it and go, oh yeah, we're dealing with that issue every single day. But it is an issue that will teach us how we can deal with the issues that are important to us, that are small matters that can be inflated into large things. It raises the question, how do we live the Christian life? Do we live it by making many rules to cover each and every situation of life? Or do we just bask in our freedom in Christ and live and let live? Or is there a third way, another way, a better way that we are supposed to learn to know how to live the Christian life? If you haven't already, turn to chapter 8 of 1 Corinthians and let's read the whole chapter together, verses 1 through 13. Let's begin this Sunday to discover God's wisdom on this, and we'll complete our message next Sunday. First Corinthians eight, one through thirteen. Now concerning things sacrificed to idols We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge makes arrogance, but love edifies. If anyone supposes that he knows anything, he has not yet known as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, he is known by him. Therefore, concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that there is no such thing as an idol in the world, and that there is no God but one. For even if there are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords, yet for us there is but one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and we exist for him And one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we exist through him. However, not all men have this knowledge But some being accustomed to the idol until now eat food as if it were sacrifice to an idol, and their conscience being weak is defile. But food will not commend us to God. We are neither the worse if we do not eat, nor the better if we do eat. But take care that this liberty of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. For if someone sees you who have knowledge dining in an idol's temple Will not his conscience, if he is weak, be strengthened to eat things sacrificed to idols? For through your knowledge, he who is weak is ruined, the brother for whose sake Christ died. And so by sinning against the brethren and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ. Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will never eat meat again So that I will not cause my brother to stumble. Well, another topic that the Corinthians brought up in their letter to Paul concerned the morality of eating food sacrificed to false gods, to idols. And here Paul responds with that very familiar phrase, parit day, now concerning, we saw that first at the beginning of chapter 7. There it was concerning marriage and singleness, and here it's concerning things sacrificed to an idol. Idolothutas, things sacrificed to an idol. Notice that Paul restates the topic down in verse 4 after a brief parenthetical section on love in verses 2 and 3. He says again, therefore, concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols. That's the topic that he's dealing with. So chapter eight was designed to directly answer Their question that they wrote to Paul about, asking about the eating of meat sacrificed to pagan idols and what they should do in that situation. In a less direct way, you'll find as we go through in chapter 9 and 10, it also continues that theme, particularly in chapter 10, where he addresses again the origin of meat that would be bought in the marketplace and brought home. And also the issue of idolatry. And so this will be a topic for three chapters or so. Knowing some of the historical situation, I think, will help our understanding and application. There were indeed many idols and false gods of the Greek and Roman world in the first century. I'm sure you're aware of that. Many of the Gentile converts to Christianity there in the first century came out of pagan traditions. Centuries of pagan traditions. Just like the Thessalonian converts who were told by Paul in 1 Thessalonians 1, verse 9. you turned to God from idols to serve a living and true God. They were like that too. And the temples of those many gods received Worship, they received the animal sacrifices from the worshipers, and the meat that was sacrificed was usually divided into three portions, into thirds. One portion went for the God, for whatever reason he might need that One for the worshipper was returned to him, and the third portion was given to the pagan priest. Now the pagan priest did not always need all of the meat that he got from his service in the temple, and so it was sold into the marketplace where it could then be bought by anybody and taken home and eaten. And I put Christians in that town in a strange position. Should they buy that meat that's sold in the market? It came from the celebration of a false deity. What should they do with that? Now you have to put yourself in their shoes a little bit to understand the depth of the issue, otherwise you won't appreciate it. If you had been a convert in the first century and prying to hearing about Christ, you and your family and your loved ones were deceived by a false God, by a false conception of God, that is, you probably had learned by now to hate that God for all that he had done to keep you in the dark. And you hated the worship of that idol and all of your old friends who still continue to worship that idol for whom you had a burden. Now you had found a new zeal for the truth. You knew the one and living God. He had come into your life. He had opened your eyes. He had transformed you, and you were excited for Christ. And you would speak openly of the superiority of Jesus Christ the Lord over all of the other gods, you see. And therefore you might have great hesitancy or even a revulsion to buy, much less eat meat that was actually sacrificed to this god that you used to worship. In celebration of these false gods and all of the things that they were able to do, supposedly. You might be aghast at the thought of bringing that food home, cooking it, preparing it, and serving it to your little ones, bringing them into the celebration and the worship of this idol, this evil God. The matter would be complicated further if another Christian or a non-Christian invited you over to their home and you knew that meat was sacrificed to an idol. Now what do you do? Being asked to someone's home was a privilege. Turning down A meal could be offensive, what would you do? The local government had many celebrations that were tied to pagan worship as well. They were great times for the town. You were honored if you were invited out to it What if that feast was in the temple as so often it was and you were served meat? Should you eat it or should you turn it down? These are tough issues for the first century Christians. Christians differed on the issue. In fact, they came out with diametrically opposite conclusions and practices in the early church, and that created a problem. a problem of unity and a problem of judging. One side to the other and the other back to the other side. Well there are three steps to Paul's wise counsel and instruction about how to deal with an issue like this. when a small issue becomes potentially a large issue. In such a short amount of space, here the Apostle Paul presents, I think, a brilliant lesson which we can apply to a multitude of modern issues where Christians differ. I'm really very excited about presenting these truths to you because I think they're not fully grasped by a lot of people and and we do have a lot of lesser issues that we're not even going to deal with from the pulpit. You're going to run into it and you're going to be seeing the differences in this congregation and other congregations with Christians that you have contact with, and you need to know how to approach it properly because unity and truth and all those things are very important. I'm very hopeful that this instruction will be able to build our understanding and maturity about what we ought to do in these situations because you will step into situations. like these. Well, step number one, there's three steps. Step number one is to learn the value of love above knowledge. Learn the value of love Above knowledge. And that's in verses 1 through 3. Let me read it again. Now concerning things sacrifice to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge makes arrogant, but love edifies. If anyone supposes that he knows anything, he is not yet known as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, he is known by him. Now Paul says every Christian, and he's writing to Christians, every Christian has knowledge. Knowledge. He says, we all know that we have knowledge. We know that we all have knowledge. All, not some. All of you have knowledge. Knowledge, gnosis, in this passage refers to doctrinal knowledge of God, truths that were taught about God. They knew God existed, they knew what he was about, they knew that Christ was his son. They had doctrinal knowledge and understanding. But that knowledge also referred to their experience of the knowledge. They also They also knew God experientially. They had a personal relationship with God. Evidently, the Christians in Corinth may have used this slogan, we all have knowledge, for themselves. They said that they had knowledge. And Paul agreed, yes, you do have knowledge. But he had more knowledge to teach them, more that they didn't understand, because the Corinthians had let their knowledge make their heads big And it led them to unloving behavior toward their brethren. So Paul is going to compare the quality of knowledge, which is good, with the quality of love, which is better. He says knowledge makes arrogant. Literally, that's knowledge puffs up. Fuciao is the Greek verb. Just means to blow up or puff up. And so to make oneself look big and important, arrogant. If you have knowledge and you don't have love, that's what it does to you. It puffs you up It's interesting that this verb fusiyaho is used six times in the letter of 1 Corinthians. They needed to hear a lot about this because they struggled with a spiritual elitist kind of a pride The same term was used back in chapter 4 and verse 6, you may remember, and Paul wrote, These things, brethren, I have figuratively applied to myself and Apollos. for your sakes, so that in us you may learn not to exceed what is written, so that no one of you will become arrogant, puffed up, in behalf of one against the other. You know, knowledgeable people in any field of study, those who really know what they're talking about, tend to get inflated and conceited. You know what I'm talking about, right? We know this is true. We see this. The arrogant educated people, educated scientists or doctors who are excelling in their field and it's done something to their character and you can tell they're really puffed up. Their view of themselves is very high. educated professors in the classroom who think they know so much. I was in the Borders Books the other day, you know and You go into the library, these bookstores, and you see some people that love to go in there and just read and read and read. And sometimes people who spend a lot of time in books become very proud about what they know You can even sometimes see it on their faces. Do you know what I'm talking about? There's just that look of arrogance that is there. They're so proud of the fact that they're well read. They have knowledge, but they don't usually have enough knowledge to really know They don't even know their own blindness. They don't understand their own spiritual need. They don't understand their own poverty of spirit. They think so highly of themselves. But they don't really know that much as far as God is concerned. You know, we're a doctrinal teaching church, and we have to be careful of this too. We can have people who come and who sit and learn and they like what they're learning and they say, well, what are you learning in your church? Well, we're learning a lot more in our church. And our knowledge can puff us up rather than humble us and help us to learn to love and outreach. Knowledge must always be joined with love, or knowledge becomes empty. In contrast, Paul says love edifies. Love builds up. Love builds the other person up. Agape love, that is, an outward-oriented kind of love, not a lust, not a like. Not a I want this for myself kind of love, but a love that is concerned with the other and sacrifices and cares and gives. This attribute is so important, yet the Corinthian church so misunderstood it. In fact, he had to devote an entire chapter, chapter 13 of 1 Corinthians. Read so often in weddings to explain this most important virtue of love. There at the beginning of 1 Corinthians 13 and verse 2, he said, If I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries, imagine that. And all knowledge. And if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am what? Nothing. He didn't spare any punches, did he? Love does not seek its own honor, it seeks the happiness and benefit of another. Unlike knowledge, which puts self above another, love looks out to care for others to help, to be of assistance, to build up, to strengthen another person. The person who loves therefore has real knowledge. They understand. His knowledge is not a tool to elevate self, his knowledge is a tool to promote others. In 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 4, it also says, Love is patient, love is kind, it is not jealous, love does not brag, and is not what? Arrogant. It's not puffed up. Love builds others up. It doesn't puff self up. Love looks at the needs of others and considers them first. That's what love does. Notice now in verse 2 in our passage that Paul accentuates the problem that the believer is just too confident in his own knowledge. Verse 2, if anyone supposes that he knows anything, he is not yet known as he ought to know. In other words, the knowledge which puffs up is really not true knowledge. He's got a lot of facts in his head, but he doesn't have a lot of understanding. Paul is showing really that love is the highest form of knowing. Isn't that amazing? Isn't that a fabulous thought A person who's really educated, really enlightened, and really knows is a person who's living their life in love for other people and for God. It's an amazing thought. Love is enlightened, love knows. Love understands. See if you truly have knowledge, you know your humble place in this world. You know you're a sinner before Almighty God and that you deserve death and everlasting punishment. Punishment. You know that. If you don't know that, you don't know yourself and you don't know God. You don't know his holiness and you don't know what's going to happen in this planet in the future. You know nothing of the judgment of God. You know nothing of your your wretched position before God because of the way you've broken over and over and over his moral code. His laws, his commandments. But if you really, really know that you're a sinner before God, you know of God's grace in your life, as we sung, grace is the greatest thing You know that you've been forgiven of wronging God. You've tasted of God's love. You've experienced that, and it's humbling. God has forgiven you, and you're humbled by that. You're lowered by that. And it just makes you, it sets you right in your place before Almighty God. You're now more like a human being ought to be. Understanding is placed before God, not puffed up. And so now you really know. Now you understand. And you're able to love other people. You know how important it is to forgive them and be patient with them. Someone who misses that misses knowledge. He is not known as he ought to know. He thinks he knows. He supposes this. But he still has so much more to learn. The apostle teaches that knowledge without love is really just another form of ignorance. The true test of knowing, notice in verse 3, is loving God. Isn't that interesting how he switches to that? But if anyone loves God, he is known by him. What happened to knowing What happened to just knowing and loving others? Why does he switch to if anyone loves God, he has known that God knows him? He switches and comes back backwards on the issue. It's amazing what he's doing here The one who shows devotion to the true God, who loves God, that is, who's loyal to God, and keeps his commandments, that person is known by God. It takes it a step further. Not only do you know, but you are known by God. Now God knows about everybody on the planet, right? And so this is talking about a special relational kind of knowing that God has. You're now known and accepted. He has a personal relationship with you. He will reveal himself to you. And of course if he reveals himself to you, then you have knowledge and understanding as well. The person who loves God there it's the same verb, agapao, to love with a divine love. It's in the present tense, and so it's not just a once-in-a-while love. We love him on Sundays, but not the rest of the week. But no, you're characterized by a love for God In 1 John 5 and verse 2, I think it accentuates this theology that Paul is conveying here. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and observe His commandments. We love God, observe His commandments, and that's the way we also express our love for the children of God, for the brethren. In John 15 Chapter 15, verse 10, he wrote, If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. Not only is the person who loves truly knowledgeable, better yet, he is known by God. The person who loves with a sacrificial caring and giving love is known by God in a very special way. Loving God is knowing God, and knowing God is loving God, and God also knows the person who loves him. In John 15, 21, Jesus said this. He said, He who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will disclose myself to him. He will know me and be known by me. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. The one who does not love does not know God, for God is love. That is why love is essential to knowledge. Yes, even doctrinal knowledge. Love is greater than knowledge. It has more value than mere knowledge. For love truly knows as it ought to know, and is known by God as well. We love others, and we love God, and then we know, and we are known. That's what he's saying. It has greater value. Step number two. Once you understand the greater value of love, step number two in dealing with a problem is apply your doctrinal knowledge to whatever the topic or the issue is. First know how important love is above knowledge, but then take the knowledge that you have and apply it to whatever the situation, whatever the issue is. What saith God? What saith the scriptures about this issue? What is really true that the Bible teaches that will help guide me through knowing how to respond to my brethren when we disagree about such and such an issue. What really is going on in their case with a sacrifice to an idol and the meat that comes from there? What is the reality? Take your God-given knowledge from Scripture and apply it. That's step two. Apply your doctrinal knowledge to the topic. Look at verse 4. Verse 4. Therefore, concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, he's done with his parenthesis and he comes right back to this. We know, and here he's applying his knowledge, we know that there is no such thing as an idol in the world. And that there is no God but one. What a massive and important doctrinal Knowledgeable statement to help in knowing what to do in this situation. See, knowledge is not bad, it's just bad when it's not joined with what? Love. We have to have knowledge. So many churches say they're saying, you know, when we teach doctrine, then we get into disagreements about doctrine. And that causes problems, and our church doesn't grow too much, and we don't get as much money from that either as well. So let's just push doctrine on out the window. We'll all talk about a nebulous Jesus and just sort of hold the Bible but not really teach from it, and then we'll all get along just fine. We don't want knowledge and doctrine. It's bad. That's not what Paul is saying When he says knowledge makes arrogant. He's not throwing it out. My goodness, he's teaching doctrine throughout this whole book. Isn't that obvious? The whole book is doctrine. Everywhere is doctrine. Teaching it's on teaching upon teaching upon teaching. He's trying to get into their minds to have a mind of Christ. And the Spirit of God is teaching from His written word. It's so important to renew the mind to become a strong Christian. So here he says, we know. What a testimony. Not we guess, we hope, but we know. It's a testimony of certainty of knowledge that Christians in the church possess. Remember how he opened this letter way back in chapter one? I want to show you something about knowledge. Chapter 1, verses 4 and 5. Right as he gets into the main body of the letter, he says, I thank my God always concerning you. This is an amazing statement given how messed up the Corinthians were. For the grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus, look at verse 5, that in everything you were enriched in him in all speech and all what Knowledge. Sorry? I know you know. I know that you know. And you should know that I know too. We all have knowledge. We know. Knowledge is beneficial when it's rightly applied. Knowledge is not bad. You know, God's love can't even be rightly expressed until we understand right doctrine from the Bible. People write about God's love and his acceptance and his mercy and everything, and you read the book, and you're like, I don't think they understand God's love. Sounds like he's loving the people he likes from your book. That's not too hard to do. Anybody can do that. I love the people I like. Do you love the people you like? That's easy. I like that person. They're fun to hang out with. I love you, man. So God's love is sort of like that. He likes everybody down here and that's why he just loves everybody. That's not God's love. You read some of these books by evangelicals like that's that's That's what you are saying John 3. 16 means? For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son. He gave His only begotten Son to a lost and rebellious world. Just absorb that and you begin to have some understanding of his love. Doctrine and knowledge inform us of what God's love is so that we can truly love as he loved, because it's not natural at all. Just as sure as knowledge without love is useless to God, so also anything called love without doctrinal understanding is useless to God. You know, we Christians have truth. We have revelations directly from God. God has spoken in human history, and he's recorded what he said perfectly. and passed it on and preserved it to us today. And we have the very words of God that revealed the mind of Almighty God, and we never have to guess. You know, in Philippians 2. 16, this word that has been revealed to us is called the word of life. We're so grateful we have knowledge. It brings us life Well what do we know? Turn back to chapter eight. What is it that we know? The first thing that we're told that we know in verse four is that there is no such thing as an idol in the world. There's no such thing as an idol in the world. idol in the world. So it's like one of those things where you straighten out your head and you're like, oh okay. That's right. Oh yeah, that's right. It doesn't exist. Oh yeah. It's not there. That's some pretty good information to have, don't you think? We have that knowledge. You know, people struggle with metaphysical questions, do they not? Is there a God? Where is he? What is he like? How could he allow evil? And the debates raise on. And here, Paul just says, we know. We know. There is no idol. There is a true God. How do we know that? How is it that we know that? You ever thought about that? Is that an arrogant statement from the Apostle Paul? Can't say that. That's an inspired scripture. That's the truth. We know. Now we go out there, we're going to meet all kinds of people, and they don't know. Are we smarter than they? How do we know? How do we know? We know, and here's the great epistemological question, right? How does anyone know what they know? We know because there's someone else who knows and told us, and that's now how we know. See, he knows everything. He is a brilliant mind. That's an understatement He is omniscient. He knows everything that is and everything that could be. Nothing to him is contingent. There are no ifs in his understanding. And so he doesn't have any margin for error, and he never lies. And if he decides to talk to us and tell us, now guess what? We don't. Not because we're all that smart, but because we opened up our what? Our ears. And believed and trusted him. That is how a human being can have certainty of absolute truth. When those who are much more brilliant than him can never attain that knowledge. Ever. No matter how much they study and learn, they'll all just prove to each other that they don't know And we'll sit back and say, congratulations, now you know what we know, that you don't know and we know. And you need to know as we know. Turn to the scriptures and find out. God has spoken There's no other way to know, by the way. There is no other way to have any certainty. There is no other evidence that you can run to. There's no other person you can go talk to. What do they know? You have to go to the one who knows, and then you can say I know with certainty. Because God reveals it. And God created human language, by the way, and He knows how to speak in it and make it clear. Vincent's Word Studies puts this situation with the idol. He says, you know, an idol is a non-entity. The emphasis in this sentence is on the nothingness of the idol, hence the emphatic position of Uden, nothing. Nothing is the idol. Oh, the world is filled with idols. You might be saying, What do you mean when he says there's no idols? I mean there's lots of idols. The world is filled with idols. We have idols in our heart, there are idols, there are statues, and they're made out of wood and gold and everything else like that. There are idols out there. What does he mean by that? Well, of course, there are the statues and there are those things out there, but there's no God behind them. That's what he means. There is no Zeus. There is no Baal, there is no Hermes, there is no Diana, as they worship. There's the statue, there's the temple, there's the marble, just one thing missing. Ain't no God. He's not there. He doesn't exist. That's good knowledge to have. We say, well, this is an amazing thing that Paul is saying. Oh no, the Hebrews knew all about this. They knew all about this. That's what gave Elijah such confidence when he had that confrontation with the prophets of Baal. Remember that one? You remember him mocking them in worship? That's not too politically correct, is it? You got a dumb idol there, guys. Four hundred some of you running around dancing, slashing yourselves with knives. I mean you're doing it up big, but Nobody answering. Call louder. Maybe he's sleeping or on vacation. Could you imagine someone doing that to someone's worship today in America? He wouldn't fit in. I don't think he would care, by the way. You know, the Bible's politically incorrect, and we thank God for that. Want to hear some political incorrectness? Let me just read a portion of the Bible. No comment, I'll just read. Is there any God besides me? Isaiah 44, verses 8 and 9. Or is there any other rock? I know of none. Those who fashion a grave and image are all of them futile, and their precious things are of no profit. Even their own witnesses fail to see or know, so that they will be put to shame. Psalm 115, we read. But our God is in the heavens. He does whatever he pleases. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of man's hands. They have mouths, but they cannot speak. They have eyes, but they cannot see. They have ears, but they cannot hear. They have noses, but they cann Smell They have hands, but they cannot feel. They have feet but they cannot walk. They cannot make a sound with their throat. Those who make them will become like them Everyone who trusts in them, O Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. Isaiah 41, verse 3 Verses 23 and 24. Declare the things that are going to come afterward, that we may know that you are gods, the true God says. Indeed, do good or evil that we may anxiously look about us and fear together. He's mocking the God. Behold, you are of no account And your work amounts to nothing. He who chooses you is an abomination. So there certainly were statues and graven images of various gods, but there was just not a Zeus or a Jupiter or a Hercules or any of the others Do you ever feel like telling those who you see praying to a deified Mary who is now called the Queen of Heaven? and a co-redemptrix with her son and able to hear prayers throughout the entire globe, which only God could do by the way. Or those who bow before a Buddhist statue and offer their thousands of prayers and candles and dreams and hopes. Or those who pray to the myriad of Hindu gods that are there, do you ever feel like shouting at them and saying, there's nobody listening? Because there isn't. That's not politically incorrect to tell them that. That's called love. Do you want them to die and find that out? Knowledge is good. We have knowledge. We can use knowledge. It's important. The second thing we know is that there is no God but one. And I would like to expound on this, and I'm excited about that statement, but I have to stop and save the rest for next week There is no God but one. We know that. And we want to talk about that also and expound the rest of the passage next week, looking at finishing this second step and even the most important third step about how we deal with these issues And we'll get to that all Lord willing next Sunday