As I like to do, just kind of the bottom line up front if you look at your sheet. So we're we're going to be transitioning into Leviticus today. And it really, Leviticus is all about the holiness of God. If you get anything today It's about the holiness of God. You know the passage in Isaiah, the seraphim, crying out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. And you know when you see in scripture, when you see something repeated, Jesus often would say, Truly. Truly, I say, it's to emphasize. And here you see it three times: holy, holy, holy. One of the chief attributes of our God is His holiness. And because God is holy, His intention is to set apart a holy people. That's what we're witnessing here, right? We brought that up last week. God is separating a people for himself. And because he's holy, he wants them to be holy. He wants us to be holy as well. We're going to see though, we know the law in itself, which was set up under the Mosaic Law, is unable to provide that holiness that is required of a holy God. Alright, so that's kind of the bottom line up front as we go through the passages here. Okay? We are in week five, hard to believe. Uh cruising through, we're now at Leviticus. Again, those first five books written by Moses is all about um the foundation for Christ. So remember that kind of major theme, the foundation of Christ. And our theme, going back to lesson one, is to put ourselves on the road to Emmaus So think about yourself walking with Jesus, and he's going to go through all the law and the prophets, the Old Testament, to explain about himself, it says. And later on we hear these two men, what did they say? Their hearts were burning within them when they heard Jesus talk. I I that's my prayer for all of us as we go through this study that our hearts will be burning as we understand the unfolding of God's redemptive plan. Okay. But maybe halfway through they got a little bit tired and they sat on a rock and and Jesus said, I don't know if you You guys are getting all this, so let's just do a little quiz. So we're gonna do a little quiz. Like I told you, I think it's important to put it in context of a timeline Right. And it's in important to just get those anchors, if you will. Don't don't quibble over exact dates per se. We talked about creation, right? And what does Pastor Dave say? Good and godly Christians disagree on that exact timeline. What's important It's not billions of years, millions of years, hundreds of thousands of years. It was probably single or teen um thousands, if you will. Alright, so that's a young earth, if you will. That's what you want to take from the creation piece. And then you want to start to bound. And then we have Christ on the other end. But what is that first grounding milestone, if you will, around 2000 BC? Let's do this. We're going to break it up over here, and then we'll just kind of alternate back and forth. So this side, what is that grounding milestone? Milestone around the 2000 time frame. Abraham, and you just shout it out. Now why is that so important? Rob, you can't answer any of these. Now I know who that came from. Shush! Abraham. Why is that so important? Yes, over here. Exactly. So you remember God was looking at the the world and its entirety. At Abraham he started to narrow that focus to a particular nation, a particular people. Right? That's a good anchor to have. Okay? All right. What happened in fourteen forty six? Over here. Exodus. The Exodus. Thank you. Okay? And again we saw that last week where he is setting apart a people now. And you're going to see that unfold through the rest of the Old Testament Alright, we didn't cover this last week. What over here, what about uh a thousand BC? We'll come to this. David. So you see we're gonna cover, right, as we go through the judges and the And they're going to transition to a monarchy. And Saul was the first king, but so much around David. And then again we didn't cover it, but David, his son Solomon, has a united kingdom. What do you think happens in 931? Divided. Divided kingdom. Exactly. There's so much material that's going to happen in that area. So as we get into that closer, we'll we'll kind of focus in on the timeline a little bit. But this is some really good high-level anchor process. points, right? Where Abraham he starts to to focus in on a nation. You see him now work through that nation through Exodus. Now you have the kings with so much about David. Um and then the the nation gets divided and goes into captivity. And that's where you see all the activity with the prophets, major and minor, so we're going to cover all that in the future. But really, really good point. So from creation to Abraham, roughly 2000, from Abraham to Christ Roughly two thousand, and then from Christ to now again roughly two thousand. Okay? Alright, let's go back to between creation and Abraham, specifically the first part of Genesis, Genesis one eleven. What were the full I'll call them major major events, if you will, that happened in that time frame. Over here. Creation, the fall, flood, and the nations. Right? Very good. And we saw what did God do with the stewardship of that? How did how did he engage with man? So what happened during the creation? period before the fall. What was that stewardship arrangement, if you will? Miss Ann? Innocence. Innocence. Right? We saw innocence. And then we had the fall and that shifted into what kind of uh over here, what kind of stewardship? if you will. Remember? Conscience. Conscience. Thank you. And we know that, right? And that conscience follows through. We see that in Romans 2, where the Lord put that on their hearts, put the law on their hearts. Okay? What about right after the flood? What was that uh arrangement? There was something significant that happened over here. The covenant. The covenant, for sure, right? As far as how the Lord engaged Human government. Right? You remember they were now able to take matters if somebody killed somebody else because they were made in the image of God. Given that power or that authority to make those kinds of decisions. So you see the the human government piece. Absolutely we had the the Noahic covenant, right? He would never destroy the earth with water again through the sign of the rainbow. And we hold on to the rainbow, it's the Lord's, nobody else's. Alright, and then um that carried through and then we see the the nations and again God was treating all of them as one and what did they do? They became prideful, right? As the nations and they built this tower so they again the pride piece, right? And we we talked about that in the garden. Often the root is the pride. And so God dispersed them, and that's where you get the nations dispersed throughout the world. Alright, good. So that was Genesis one through eleven. How about twelve through fifty? Again we see this focus now on Abraham and the nations. Who Who are the major players? This side. Abraham, Isaac, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph. Joseph? Who else should we cover during that time period? We rolled in a poetic book if you will. Joe. Joe, very good. Okay? And what was um when we entered into this this This period after Abraham and all these individuals, what was that age or stewardship arrangement called? Do you remember? Patriarch, right? Or promise. And that's where we see the Abrahamic covenant come into play. And we talked about That is so foundational to everything moving forward. And what were the three major elements of the Abrahamic covenant over here? Land seed and blessing. Land, seed, and blessing. All right. And we're going to see that kind of come to fruition as we go through the Old Testament and into the New Testament. Testament. Alright, what I like to bring in when we're talking about this is attributes of God, though. I just get so passionate and fired up about the attributes, and again I encourage you to study, study, study the attributes of God because you get a fuller understanding of who. God is. What was one of the primary attributes, not the only, but one of the primary attributes of God during this time frame in Genesis to include Job. What did we see about God? As we look at how he navigated people's lives throughout this entire period, including the sons of Israel. Think of Joseph specifically, right? How young Mad had this dream he was gonna be a leader, had no idea how that was gonna play out, and then you see this crazy um parallel or or series of events that happen in his life, right, to bring him to a point where he is second in command of all of Egypt and that he preserves life through the famine. What is that attribute that talks about God's power to orchestrate all that? Sovereignty. Exactly, the sovereignty of God. And the reason I want to bring that up is so often we pray, thank you, Lord, for your sovereignty. What I want to encourage you is really study and understand the magnitude of his attributes. That's what I'm after. That's why I bring them up. Okay? The sovereignty of God. Good. Alright, so then last week we talked about Exodus. And um Well, give me some highlights of some of the things that stood out from you as we talked about this journey of God now taking his people and redeeming them from bondage. Couple thoughts. Anything? Yes. How begin the grumbling? The grumbling, right? How quickly they began to grumble. Quickly. In in the The the application for us is how quickly do we start to grumble? Right? Very quickly. Good. Right, the grumbling. Um how long did it take them to get to Mount Sinai? Do you remember? Roughly? Two, three months. It was a short time. We often talk about the forty years in the wilderness, and we're going to cover that. But to get to Mount Sinai in those original Ten Commandments, it it didn't take long. It was a couple months Right? What else? Anything? And that's kind of where we left the story. That's where we're at and that's where we're going to pick up. But let's go back to in attributes. So what was um the the key attribute that we we covered last week? And again, you think of all that he did, the ten plagues, the parting of the Red Sea, demonstrations of what? His power, his omnipotence, right? And these should all be encouragements to us as we go through our lives. As life is hard sometime, as we have suffering, right? We we know it's all part of God's plan. We know in Romans 8 that suffering. Suffering is the path to glorification. We will go through suffering. We need to be thankful. We need to rejoice in those times of trouble and not be grumblers. Alright, let's go back to Genesis and in one of the things I'm trying to highlight and I'll continue to accumulate these as we go through time if you will, but if you can remember the major theme of the book, and they're just short short phrases, if you will, to help you as you're you're thinking of the survey of the Old Testament. So for Genesis, what was the major theme? Book of Beginnings. Good. Book of Beginnings. And we talk about those four events up front, and then God narrows down his focus, and you see the We talked about um the stewardship arrangements, if you will, and that foundational Abrahamic covenant. So again, I'm going to give you these quick summaries and accumulate those as we go through time and maybe give Okay, fair enough. Alright, how about combined with that we brought in the first book of poetry, Job. Do you remember the the major theme of Job. Suffering. Suffering and sovereignty, right? You see this displayed out so beautifully where there is the great accuser, somehow has an audience before God. Right, roaming the earth to cause trouble. And there he is before God. And God says, Well, hey, have you considered Job, my righteous servant? He wasn't evil, he was righteous. And you see all the affliction and then the discussions, his three Three buddies, right? Not adding much wisdom to to Job. And the challenge was who are we as friends? Are we sharing the truth even the most difficult times? Are we wise advisors? And then the sweet, sweet repentance. and restoration of God to the man of Job. Okay? And then last week we covered Exodus and what was the major theme of Exodus? Redemption. Redemption. Redemption. And we're gonna see today especially where where Moses is a a type of Christ. Right? We see this redemption happening just like Jesus Christ is our great Redeemer. But but what we're gonna see, I'm giving it away in spades here, but you're gonna see What what God does to orchestrate um what is needed to worship him, and we know it falls short. They didn't know that at the time. W we have the benefit of the complete revelation as far as what God wants in his word, um, to under Understand what redemption really is and who it that is through. But but that was God beginning to set that foundation for the need for Christ Exactly. Redemption. So Moses is called, he leads his people out of Egypt, as we discussed last week, and we have another covenant. And this one is conditional If you do this, then I will do this. And we'll talk a little bit more about that today. Alright, very good. So there's one more piece that I want to cover as an overview, and that's uh remember I said follow the lineage because it's a lot of fun. And often as you're going through the Bible, the Old Testament, sometimes it's it's difficult as you're you're working your way through through all these different people. Again, if you can put some some anchor people in there, it will help you with contacts, with timelines. Very, very beneficial. So we saw Adam and Eve had Cain and Abel. Cain killed Abel, right? The first murder in the Bible. But God replaced Abel basically through Seth. And that's where we see the line go down through to Noah. He has his three sons listed there in the beginning. And we know that after the flood, you know what happened? We had the incident of Noah getting drunk And Ham coming in and seeing his nakedness. And his brothers Shem and Japheth knew that that was not right. Again, they didn't have the law then, but the conscious put on their heart, they knew that that was not correct. So they went in backwards with a blanket, covered up dad. And Shem and Japheth were both um blessed, but Shem specifically. And now you can see that line go through eventually the to the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Then on the right hand side we we've talked about Jacob and his family. So his Jacob or Jacob and his family enter Egypt with roughly how many people 70, right? And when they leave, it's close to estimated at 2 million. But do you see now where we start to get the 12 tribes of Israel? You see the lineage here, and we'll continue to talk about that Specifically, our characters in Exodus and Leviticus, you know, Moses and Aaron are going to be key characters, if you will, in our storyline today. But I find it just fascinating to look and see where people come. You know, Pastor Gabe mentioned it a couple weeks ago, Judah, not necessarily a righteous person, and yet that's where we see the Messianic line flow through. All right? So none of us are perfect and and neither were these these tribes. tribes and yet the Lord bless us through that. Alright, and then Levi, we know, is is a tribe that is set apart for a specific role and we'll cover that today, but that's where we see Moses and Aaron. Okay, any questions on that or an overview to get us to where we are right now? Again, I'll do this periodically to make sure we're just we're keeping the bigger picture. So good, good overview. Now we're going to head into the book of Leviticus. Again, author is the Moses for is Moses, the first five books Moses. Major theme we cover that holiness of God. Let that just resonate throughout this morning. The holiness of God. Two major sections to Leviticus. Now that he is separating a people for himself, he needs to instruct them on how they are to approach him. Remember, God is holy, holy, holy. How does this people now coming out of Egypt and in how much were they integrated with maybe some of Egypt's traditions, their gods, who knows, but he has to purge them. He wants to separate a people that are holy for himself. So the first part is really about how how these people now can approach a holy God. The second section, major section of Leviticus, is basically how to walk rightly. How to have a holy life in front of a holy God. So think of the sanctification of people. Okay? And that's how we'll cover it moving forward. Now again, timeline. We're only talking about roughly about a month. That the book of Levitic Leviticus covers. So again, we still don't have a lot of time at Mount Sinai or in that region. Alright, so keep that in mind. Alright, we have to pause and talk about this attribute of holiness. Couple definitions there. Both the Hebrew and Greek words for to be holy basically mean to be set apart. for something special to be set apart. From uh Pink, because God is holy, He hates all sin. Not one single atom, a molecule of sin can God stand. Right? Get that? Understand that. He needs to be totally separated from sin. But there's more to it. I like this definition from Grudom. The attribute of God whereby he is separated from sin, that's one piece of it, but devoted to seeking his own honor. Okay, and I want to read from Grudham. We'll pull out the big systematic theology. I thought he had a really good description on holiness. So just listen. God's holiness means that he is separated from sin and devoted to seeking his own honor, just like I just read. The definition contains both a relational quality, separation from sin. and a moral quality, the separation is from sin or evil. And the devotion is to the good of God's own honor or glory. So you see the major sections there? Yes it's separation from evil, even in our life today. Separation from evil, but then what? Devotion to God. It has both aspects to it. The idea of holiness as including both separation from evil and devotion to God's glory is found in a number of Old Testament. And I when I read this, I wanted to read it because it's going to cover a lot of what we're covering today. The word holy is used to describe both parts of the tabernacle, for example. The tabernacle itself was a place separate from the evil and sin of the world. And the first room in it was called the holy place. It was set apart and dedicated to God's service. But then God commanded that there be a veil And the veil shall separate for you the holy place from the most holy. Exodus twenty six. The most holy place where the Ark of the Covenant was kept was the place most separated from evil and sin and most fully devoted to God's service. We're going to touch on what that looked like, but keep that in mind as we go and review what the tabernacle looked like. The place where God Himself dwelt was itself holy. Who will ascend the hill of the Lord and who shall stand in his holy place? The element of dedication to God's service is seen in the holiness of the Sabbath day. The Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. The Sabbath day was made holy because it was set apart from the ordinary activities of the world and dedicated to God's service. In the same way, the tabernacle and the altar as well as Aaron and his sons were to be made holy. That is, set apart from ordinary tasks and from the evil and sin of the world and dedicated to God's service. God himself is the most holy one. He is called the Holy One of Israel. The Seraphim around God's throne cry. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts The whole earth is full of his glory. The Lord our God is holy, exclaims the Psalmist. God's holiness provides the pattern for his people to imitate. He commands them, You shall be holy For I, the Lord, your God, am holy. When God called his people out of Egypt and brought them to himself, and commanded them to obey his voice, then he said, You shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. In this case, the idea of separation. from evil and sin, which here included in a very striking way separation from life in Egypt, and the idea of devotion to God in him serving and in obeying his statutes are both seen in the example of a holy nation. New covenant believers are also to strive for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. And to know that God's discipline is given to us that we may share His holiness. Paul encourages Christians to be separate from the dominating influence that comes from close association with unbelievers, and then encourages them. Let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God. The Church itself is intended by God to grow into a holy temple in the Lord, and Christ's present work for the Church is that he may be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able might sanctify her, that he might present the church to himself in splendor, that she might be holy and without blemish. Not only individuals, but also the church itself must grow in holiness. It's a quote from Zachariah. And on that day there shall be inscribed on the bells of the horses, Holy to the Lord, and the pots in the house of the Lord shall be as the bowls before the altar, and every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be holy to the Lord of hosts. At that time, everything on earth will be separated from evil, purified from sin, and devoted to the service of God in true moral purity. What a glorious day that will be. But do you get the the sense, the magnitude of this idea of holiness? Separated from evil and yet devoted to God. That should characterize our lives today. And that's what God is trying to set up here with the sons of Israel. Okay? Richard. I heard someone say interesting how he says um because God is perfect, because he's holy, he's perfect. And when he looks upon sin And uh this is his uh character against them. When he looks in front of sin, he can't see himself. Therefore his judgment comes. It's uh yeah, that's a great point, right? We can now see that God's judgment is just. Why? Because he is holy because he is totally separated from sin. He can have no iota or essence of sin in his in his character. Okay? Alright, excellent. Alright, let's keep going. Alright, so we're gonna pick up from Exodus and we'll let off was right there we're at Mount Sinai. Let me show you again where we were at. Right they had traveled, uh took them a couple months to get to Mount Sinai They had you remember Moses went up, he got the Ten Commandments, he he comes down, Joshua says, Hey, I it sounds pretty crazy coming from camp. I don't know what's going on. He goes and we know the whole golden calf incident and and in his anger he destroys The Ten Commandments, the tablets, if you will. And so we get through the golden calf incident, and Moses is going to be back up on the mountain, and God is going to renew this covenant. with Moses. So I want you to turn to Exodus thirty-four, starting in verse ten. Then God said, Behold, I'm going to make a covenant Before all your people I will Sorry, I am going to make a covenant. Before all your people I will perform miracles which have not been produced in all the earth, nor among any of the nations. And all the people among the people. Among whom you live will see the working of the Lord. Behold, I am going to drive out the Amorite before you, and the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite. Watch yourself that you make no covenant with the inhabitants of the land and to which you are going, lest it become a strange. A snare in your midst. But rather you are to tear down their altars and smash their sacred pillars and cut down their asharem For you shall not worship any other god, for the Lord whose name is jealous, is a jealous God. Lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they play the harlot with their gods, and sacrifice to their gods, and someone invite you to eat. Eat of his sacrifice. And you take some of the daughters for your sons, and his daughters play the harlot with their gods, and cause your sons also to play the heart of it with their gods. Keep that in mind. As we get further along to the kingdom and then the divided kingdom, why was it divided? You're going to see this play out. Alright, with Solomon. We know that repeatedly the Israels fall into this temptation, if you will, but we're going to see that play out specifically in the divided kingdom. Alright, um skim on over to verse 27, 3420. twenty-seven. Then the Lord said to Moses, Write down these words, for in accordance with these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel. So he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights. He did not eat bread or drink water. And he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments. So a couple of things there in verse twenty eight. You see we have the tablets back, right? So we the second second set of Ten Commandments, if you will, on on the the tablet. So we get that reestablished. I find it also interesting, right? Forty days and forty nights he did not eat bread or drink water. Where do you remember that scenario from? Right? Jesus in the temptation. I talked about earlier, Moses a a type of Christ. We see a lot of types in the old And we're going to talk about that a little bit more as we talk about um uh the feast and the offerings. But you know, Moses redeeming the people out of Egypt, Christ our great redeemer, Moses often in interceding on behalf of uh the sins of the nation, Jesus Christ in Romans eight, right, our great intercessor, um in in Moses, the messenger often. So yeah, many similarities of the Christ that is to come. And again, this is all about God laying this foundation for Christ. Always keep that in the back of your head. The major theme, Jesus Christ. So here we are, and they're now getting instructions on how to build The tabernacle. And so, as you can imagine, here they are out in the desert wandering around, they need materials. But we talked last week. Where did they get the materials? They plundered from the Egyptians. And that was by favor of the Lord. Now remember, you're talking about maybe two million people, right? Grabbed a lot of stuff. Jewelry, the gold, the materials, but also um clothing You know, we see in here materials such as purple and linen and we'll talk more about that. But so they have a lot of materials. So you got the materials, what else do you need? You need craftsmen, you need skilled laborers to put all that together, and you're going to see it was pretty ornate what they built. And many of these folks were trained, right, in the labors that they had under Egypt. But you're also going to see some were taught here in the presence of where they're at in the desert. Okay? So now they have all this stuff, and what we're going to see is the Israelites actually give freely. Question. All the men and women whose heart moved them to bring material for all the work which the Lord had commanded through Moses to be done, brought a free will offering to the Lord. It goes on and it says, and they still continued bringing to him free will offerings every morning. So they just kept giving. That's the spirit that they had. They just kept giving. So Moses issued a command and proclamation and a proclamation was circulated throughout the camp saying, Let neither man nor woman any longer perform work for the contributions of the sanctuary. He had enough. They gave an abundance. Abundance. Thus the people were restrained from bringing any more, for the material they had was sufficient and more than enough for all the work to perform it Isn't that wonderful? Right? That's the spirit that was on them to just give freely. Alright, I'm gonna I'm gonna say something here, don't take it the wrong way, but It can be talked about. How many of you, um and it's okay, you can raise your hands, have seen the video that Pastor Gabe put out on Life at Hope regarding some some communication about giving. Okay. Not many. I would encourage you to please go and listen to that. Okay? For those who listen, he just talks about this spirit of giving. Giving, right? And and it's okay, it's in God's word. We should talk about it. We are a church that needs to be um supported by the generous gifts of all of you, all of us. Do you remember what maybe were the three priorities that he taught? For those who watched. the three priorities um as far as financial needs of the church right now. Anybody? Just give me one. Worship center. Okay, so phase two of the worship center Right? That was that was one of 'em. And if you didn't hear, we actually got the permit to move forward with phase two. And there's a lot of work that has to be done up front with the HVAC. Um and I'll come back to that in a second. But Bill Waller is the man and Greg as far as championing a lot of volunteer work like you guys who were here for phase one if you will. It's just phenomenal how the laborers came and and did what they did. Alright, so phase two, what else? Anybody else? Kurt. Staff pastors. So some very exciting stuff happening as far as a vision for the church. And I I don't want to go too far into that hopefully Gabe's going to share on July 16th. But there are some decisions being made about establishing, firmly establishing the leadership of this church. And it's super, super exciting. So staff pastors, to include the senior pastor but it goes beyond that. So I'm super super excited about that. What about the last one? Paying off the existing mortgage. Paying off the mortgage. Right, that's great. That's good stewardship of God's money to pay down that debt. So thank you. Those were s the the three biggies, if you will, as far as where Gabe would had a vision and trying to point people on where we could give and be good stewards of of God's finances. So I encourage you. If you're not giving, just think about how the Lord might This is about His church. And what's that level? That's between you and the Lord. But I just encourage you to examine yourselves there. I do want to highlight real quick Bill is not in the room, Bill Waller, but I had lunch no coffee with him several months ago and we were just talking and something he said just um just really stirred my heart. It was awesome. He has such a passion for this facility, as you guys know. But he said, my goal is to try and garner enough volunteer support that we could um contribute to one year's salary for a pastor. Isn't that awesome? By volunteering and not having to pay for that labor, we could do enough to actually pay for a pastor's salary. That vision is awesome. And I thought that was great. But but you guys know Bill. He's just a big proponent of what we're doing here. And I wasn't here at the time, but what I understand the the amount of people that came forward for phase one, it was just phenomenal. So thank you all who were a part of that. But those are the needs. Those are the needs of our church. Um the Lord is doing some very exciting stuff here and I think it's okay to talk about giving once in a while. It's in the Bible. So alright, off my soapbox. Alright, so we talked about them giving freely and the Lord also provided skilled labor. Then Moses called Bezule and Oh Leab, and every skilled person in whom the Lord had put skill, everyone whose heart stirred him to come to the work to perform it. So again you see these skilled laborers, but They were stirred in their heart to contribute. And I go back to each and every one of you have at least one spiritual gift from the Lord. To be brought forth in contribution to our church body. Why? Ultimately to glorify the Lord. So again I I want to challenge you, I want to encourage you. Um don't wring your hands too much over know what my spiritual gift is, just start serving. Just start serving and guess what? You're gonna figure it out. Because you're gonna gravitate towards that which you really love to do. You're gonna be passionate about you about it and you're gonna be blessed. So each of you have a gift that needs to be used for the body, ultimately to bring glory to the Lord. So I just thought that was encouraging as we see the Israelites here, just uh the the spirit that they had about giving and serving using their talents and their gifts. Okay, so let that be an encouragement. Alright, flipping over the page. We see kind of in the rest of Exodus here, uh thirty-seven and thirty eight gives a very detailed description of the construction of the ark um and the tabernacle and the inventory, what it costs, the materials that were used. 39 highlights the making of the priestly garments. So you actually had the the physical structure, but then you had the garments that the priests needed to wear. This is where we get into some of the materials. The blue, the purple, the scarlet. They would make these large gold sheets and then and separate them into threads, if you will, that were interwoven into the garments. I mean the garments were just special. Spectacular. But remember, all this material came from the plundering. Exodus 40 outlines the efforts to erect the tabernacle and place all the items inside to include the ark, which contained what? The Ten Commandments. Commandments. There are other items that will go in there, but for right now we have the Ten Commandments. And it took about six months to actually prepare and erect the tabernacle. So again, as you as you look here where we're at, uh number nine there, the construction of the tabernacle, that's what's happening. That's where we are right now Alright, and again it took about six months. So you can see we're coming up on about a year at this point. A year of forty years. So keep that in mind. Okay? Now what happened with the cloud? You see the box there. Then the cloud Covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the sons of Israel would set out But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out until the day when it was taken up. So the cloud, they did whatever the cloud did. That's the Shekinah glory, that's where the Lord was He moved, they moved. He stayed still, they stayed still. There's some key aspects here that I think um could be helpful. So when we talk about um the tabernacle, some commentators I have seen include the outer court, so it's kind of this uh this uh curtain wall that went up. Some identify it just as the tent uh but if you hear the tent of meeting it was this um This this holy place, and we'll go into more detail there. But that's what's here in the center. And this tent was actually about half a football field in in length. So you can see that the entire with the outer court, it's a big place. It's a big, big place. Now some of the elements, well uh we'll get into it. Let's start in the outer court. It was always the opening was facing east And you had six major elements that were in um the the tabernacle. You had the altar of sacrifice, so that's where the animals um were sacrificed You had then within the tent of meeting itself, you had the holy place and then the holy of holies. Okay? And a veil that would separate those two areas. Before we get in there though, you had the altar and then you had the labber, the bronze labor, which is where the priests would cleanse themselves, right? Because they had to be cleansed before Going into the holy place. In the holy place, you had the to table of shoe bread, and this is where they had the twelve cakes of bread for the twelve tribes of Israel. And those were replenished weekly. Alright, so those were fresh. They didn't go stay. You had the lampstand or the candlestick holder. And this was a light that stayed lit all the time. And it was to symbolize the light of God. Right. The altar of incense. This is where um they would burn the incense in a symbolic of prayer up to God Okay? And then as you went through the veil, we had obviously the Ark of the Covenant. And this is where the Shekinah glory of God resided. We had the Ten Commandments inside the tabernacle. Alright, so you can see a blow-up of what that might have looked like. like over here. And I wanted to touch on ah let's keep going though and talk about the garments. Uh before you finish. Yes, Miss Anne. It also pointed to Jesus like the candlestick and Jesus said, I'm the light of the world. Absolutely. I'm the bread of life. And he was the ultimate sacrifice. Every one of these elements And to your point, every one of these elements points eventually to Christ as the ultimate fulfillment of these symbols, if you will, inside the tabernacle. Right? That's an important, important point. Every one of them had symbolic meaning. Pointing to Christ. Now let's talk about the garments a little bit. You can see a depiction of what it might have looked like. Just absolutely gorgeous, right? With the materials, the colors, the gold. Specifically, they had these. uh e ethods that would that would secure the best the breastplate. The the kind of a the the cornerstone of this um garment was this breastplate that they wore. And they had twelve stones, uh beautiful stones inlaid which again um represented the twelve tribes, but even on these ephods they had the the names of the twelve tribes. But inserted in the breastplate were what they think are are stones. It's it's not extremely clear, but I wanted to give you a commentary on on these materials, urum and thumium. Thumum. And these were placed within the breastplate. So let me read, this is a commentary from MacArthur. The etymological source of these two terms as well as the material nature of the objects represented by them cannot be established with any degree of finality Clearly two separate objects were inserted into the breastplate and became thereby an essential part of the high priest's official regalia. Aaron and his successors bore over their heart the judgment of the children of Israel. Judgment in the sense of giving a verdict or decision. The passages in which the terms appear, and he lists several of those, and those which record inquiries of the Lord when a high priest with the ephid was present. Um allow for the following conclusions. Two conclusions. That those two objects represented the right of the high priest to request guidance for the acknowledged leader who could not approach God directly, as Moses had done, but had to come by the God ordained priestly structure. And two, that the revelation then received gave specific direction for an immediate problem or crisis, and went beyond recording. could be associated with some sort of sacred lots, providing merely a word a wordless yes or no. So it found it sounds like, you know, the leader at the time could inquire, I I need instruction from the Lord because of a major crisis or issue. And these materials, whatever they were, seemed to play a part in the in God's direction or judgment. But again you can see just a beautiful, beautiful garments. Um but the centerpiece of that is the breastplace that that that they Had to wear. Okay? Let's talk a little bit about the veil. Um you see the veil that separated the holy place from the most holy. It is understood that the thickness of the veil was as big as is a man's hand. You know, the thickness. That's a very thick veil. I want you to real quickly go over to Matthew twenty-seven. You know the story, but it's always wonderful to see. And this is Jesus um in his death on the cross, Matthew twenty-seven. I'll start um I'll start in 48. And immediately one of them ran and taking his sponge, he filled it with sour wine and put it on a reed and gave him a drink. But the rest of them said, Let us see whether Elijah will come to save him. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. And behold the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom and the earth shook and the rocks were split. This is the veil they're talking about. And right we know the veil represented separation between man and God. And they needed a representative to go into the Holy of Holies. That was one of the duties of the priests. And now with Jesus Christ though, that is torn No longer separation if you are a believer in Jesus Christ. I just love that that picture, if you will. The veil is torn. Alright, so we have to ask ourselves, why the tabernacle? Why this church in a box, like like Kirk says? And you see the two major purposes there. To provide Israel a visible center of worship. You remember, God wanted them to know that He was their God. That he was separating them as a people. And this was a very visible, it was large, invisible presence, right, to worship God in the tabernacle. And as we talked about, it's a preview of the work of Christ. precursor of things to come. We talked about all the symbology, right, that happens in the tabernacle, and it all points to Jesus Christ being the fulfillment of all of it. Not part of it, but all of it. Alright, so we finally now get to Leviticus. And I only have about fifteen minutes, but but I just want to cover some of the highlights, so we're right on track. If you want to turn to Leviticus, again it's about a month of time as they're in the wilderness there, so not a whole lot of time. But remember the two sections I talked about up front First major section, chapters one through seventeen, is really about how do you approach a holy God? Through sacrifice is what we're going to see set up. Right? Through the offerings in the tabernacle and the feasts that we're going to cover as a remembrance. How do you worship How do you come forth? How do you present yourself to a holy God? They had this representation through the priests. So let's talk about the five offerings that we see in the tabernacle. And I'm not going to go through these in great detail, but you can see the burnt offering. And this is a good reference chart to just kind of show the significance of it, but more importantly, how Christ perfects that. So the first three were were voluntary. And uh the burnt offering to make a payment for sins in general. And it showed a person's devotion to God. And this was again, these first three are really about maintaining that relationship with God. Christ's death, however, was the perfect offering. The grain offering to show honor and respect for God and worship. It acknowledges all that God has done in their lives. When we give, right, when we give to the church. to our time and our talents. It it should be with thanksgiving. Lord, you have provided so much for us. He doesn't need our money, but we give that back. And this is a great way, a great reminder. We talked about it, was brought up how the Israelites quickly did what? They started grumbling. How do you overcome grumbling? You have a spirit of thanksgiving. You remember all that Christ did for you. The peace offering to express gratitude to God. Peace and fellowship with God. We see though Christ is the only way to truly fellowship with God. That veil that has been broken, that is now fellowship if you are a believer in Christ. The last two are really about restoring that relationship. So you have the sin and the guilt offering. The sin was for sins of unintentional, if you will, in uncleanliness. Christ's death, however, restores our fellowship with God, as just mentioned. And then the guilt offering comes. covers the rest of them. Alright, the thing I want you to take away from this though, you can go back and reference this and sometimes I have found, again, we talked about this, as you're reading through the Bible in a year, you get to Leviticus and you you start to see the rules and the feast and the the offerings and it can get very confusing. But actually Leviticus 1 through 5 talks about these five offerings. But keep in mind they're all symbolic of what Christ is going to bring in the future. Christ fulfills all of this. When he comes. Okay? Alright. So we know about the offerings in the tabernacle. What was the role of the priest? One of the most impressive ceremonies in the Old Testament was the consecration of a young Lev boy to the Israelite priesthood And we'll talk about that a little bit when we look at Aaron and his sons. But it was a it was a monumental or nation, if you will And their role was really twofold. They were the temple service, you know, burning the incense like we showed you, uh, the care of the lamps that were perpetually burning, replacing the bread, the sacrificial offerings. They managed the temple, if you will. And also personal service. They were the ones that went out and inspected the unclean persons. We talk a lot about lepers in Leviticus, instructed in the law of God, general interest interest in the spiritual warfare. or the spiritual uh well-being of the people. Right? So two major per purposes. So let's actually look at the ordination of Aaron and his sons in Leviticus eight. Leviticus eight, starting in chapter one. The consecration of Aaron and his sons. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments and the anointing oil, and the bowl of the sin offering, and the two rams, and the basket of unleavened bread And assemble all the congregation at the doorway of the tent of meeting. So Moses did just as the Lord commanded him, when the congregation was assembled at the doorway of the tent of meeting. Moses said to the congregation, This is the thing which the Lord has commanded. commanded to do. Then Moses and Aaron and his sons come near and wash them with water. And he put the tunic on him, and girded him with the sash, and clothed him with the robe, and put the effid on him, and he girded him with with the artistic band of the effid, with which he tied it to him. Then he placed the breast piece on him, and in the breast place he put the Urim and the Thumm, just like we talked about He also placed the turban on his head, and on the turban at his front he placed the golden plate, the holy crown, just as the Lord had commanded Moses. Moses then took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle. And all that was in it, and consecrated them. And he sprinkled some of it on the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all its utensils, and the basin and a stand to consecrate them. Then he poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron's beard, or head, and anointed him to consecrate him. Next Moses had Aaron's sons come near and clothed them with tunics, and girded them with sashes, and bound caps on them, just as the Lord had commanded Moses Then he brought the bowl of the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering. Next Moses slaughtered it and took the blood with his finger and put some of it around on the horns of the altar, and purified the altar. altar. Then he poured out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar and consecrated it to make atonement for it. He also took all the fat that was on the entrails and the lobe of the liver and the two kidneys and their fat And Moses offered it up in smoke on the altar. But the bowl and its hide and its flesh and its refuse he burned in the fire outside the camp, just as the Lord had commanded Moses. So you see the ordination there, but I want I want you to focus on verse seventeen for a second. The the waste, if you will, was burned outside of the camp Um we got time. Let's jump over to Hebrews. Hebrews 13, and I'm going to pick it up in 8. Verse 8. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, yes and forever. Do not be carried away by varied and strange teachings. For it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods through which those who were thus occupied were not benefited. have no right to eat. For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin are burned outside the camp, like we just talked about. Verse 12. Therefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered outside the gate. So you all know that Jesus was died on the cross purposely outside of the gate. That was a shameful act, right? Did not hold them up as the pure sacrifice they all had been written about in the Old Testament. It was shameful, but you see the tie there, the parallel between what happened in the tabernacle and Jesus' death on the cross. Okay? All right, back to the first time. Leviticus ten, but not all goes well. Now the Dab and Abahu, the sons of Aaron, took their respective firepans, and after putting fire in them, placed incense on it and offered strange fire before the Lord. which he had not commanded them. And fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. Then Moses said to Aaron, It is what the Lord spoke, saying By those who come near me I will be treated as holy, and before all the people I will be honored. You see the seriousness of the holiness of God. Right? And you see that reflected here with the sons doing what they were not supposed to. Okay? You see a very similar um situation in Acts 5, Ananias and Sapphira, right? Where they sell the property property, but they don't give all the precep uh proceeds to the church as they were supposed to. Now again the judgment might seem really harsh, but this was the early church. God was was uh reasserting himself as he demands holiness. Right? So you again see some similarities between what we just read and Acts 5, both stressing the holiness of God. Alright, so this was all about you know the offerings, how to approach God through the sacrificial system. Right, through the church in a box, through the tabernacle, through the representatives of the priests. The second section of Leviticus is really about just holy living, the sanctification of the people. And I'm not going to go through them, but there were there were a number of sundry laws, if you will, various do's and don'ts to cover religious, social, and physical life. of each Israelite. Um however, I I did note here the general invitation to eat all animals given in Noah, right? The bacon passage is now being restricted, right? So they're not able to just eat anything that they want. But it talks all about Relations between um you know men and women, talks about homosexuality, how to handle certain animals, just there are a lot of instruction. And you can see it as maybe a a heavy burden on the people, and it was, but all of that was was for their blessing, for their benefit. Right? So remember that as you see these laws put in place, again it was to create a holy people set apart to worship a holy God. Like I say in the box, right? I am the Lord who brought you up from the land of Egypt to be your God. Thus you shall be holy, for I am holy. That is the overriding principle here. Good question. Maybe way off uh out of school. But in the millennium, is the sacrificial system going to be reinstituted when Christ reigns on earth? You you certainly when you look at the sacrificial system What was it there for? Right? It was to atone for our sins. With Jesus Christ at the realm, you certainly don't need the sacrificial system for that anymore, right? Yes. I don't know if there's instances where something like that happens during the millennium. Um it wouldn't make sense, but at an overarching perspective, absolutely. E even today we don't need it, right? We have Jesus Christ as our our high priest, our representing. Alright, with a couple minutes remaining, let's also talk about um the feast. So we talk about the offerings but there were also several feasts and you can see the outline here. I won't go into great great detail just to say that they um they cover seven of them. And you can see the the tie to Jesus Christ, right? The spring feast, the four of those really were fulfilled at Jesus' first coming. When you see the the the feast of the Passover, the unleavened bread. Remember the why the unleavened bread Why why would why would they have a feast of the unleavened bread? How quickly they came out of Egypt. Remember it was that night, it's like all right, we gotta go They didn't have time for the bread um to to leaven, if you will. And often, as we see in the the New Testament, leaven often refers back to sin, right? We don't want it to to uh infiltrate the rest of the bread. But so you see again these these off or these feasts to be a remembrance of what the Lord did. Right? And then you have the autumn feast which will actually be fulful during Jesus' second coming. So the trumpets um talk more about the rapture The atonement is actually the tribulation, and then the the tabernacles um the the coming of the millennial age. So again, what what I want you to take away from that is the feasts, the offerings, all about remembering what the Lord did, all about separating yourself, being holy in front of a holy God. Is that fair? Okay. Almost done here. So we end Leviticus. That's kind of where we end. And um but you'll see in chapter twenty-six that the Lord reinforces this this covenant, if you will, between blessings of obedience and penalties of disobedience. And I'll just read a couple of the verses there. If You walk in my statutes and keep my commandments so as to carry them out. I will make my dwelling among you and my soul will not reject you. I will also walk among you and be your God and you shall be my people. This common theme. I will be your God and you will be my people. But if you do not obey me and do not carry out all these commandments, if instead you reject my statutes, and if your soul abores my ordinances, so as not to carry out all of my commandments. I in turn will do this to you. And it lists several things that the Lord will do. And we know how that turns out. We know how that story turns out. Again, pointing back to the need, the necessity of Jesus Christ. All right. Any questions, comments about anything we covered today, Kirk? One one observation is that holding this today for us as Christians, we're not always called to separate but sometimes to go into and carry the the holiness of God, uh the resident Holy Spirit into just the playing field of life. Yeah. whether it's living in a Islamic country or working a se quote secular job or living in a just a plain old neighborhood that may not have many Christians in it. So it's it's the holiness of God in us on display. without necessarily physically separating where where we are during this lifetime. Yeah. Kirk, that's an excellent point. You know, during remember what was happening with the Israelites, it was meant to be a theocratic nation, right? He was their God. He was supposed to be their people and separated from those around him. Um to your point today, that's not the s the stewardship we're under. We are now the church of God and and we are admonished to go out and be a part of the world, but not in the world, if you will. So yes, we we have to make that clear that um as we work through our sanctification, um it is imperative that we're in the word. We're sharing the gospel. We're sharing the good news of Jesus Christ, right? We need to be involved and yet separated. Right? There is that tension, if you will. But we are separated as children of God for sure. Miss Anna. This is scripture. Mm-hmm. Since, therefore, brethren, we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which He inaugurated for us through the veil that That is his flesh. Amen. That's one that's a great place to end. And I would encourage you, give me the verse again. Hebrews ten, nineteen and twenty. Hebrews ten, nineteen and twenty. Go underline that in your Bible. That's a promise from God. That's a reality from God. That's close.