Um today is really going to be an introduction. So I will introduce a little bit about myself and my family. I'm also supposed to share my testimony this morning, so I don't want to duplicate that So I'm going to try and share some things that I'm probably not going to share with a lot larger audience. You guys get the sneak preview, the inside take on that. You are the special group, so we'll go through some of that And then how many of you have been, ever been to Israel? Excellent. How many of you recently went on the trip that was just a couple weeks ago? Okay, great. What what I want you to do is as we go through this, we want to hear from you. I've never been. It's on my bucket list, but what I've heard is it brings color to the Bible So especially as we go through the Old Testament survey, those of you that have been to some of these locations, it would really add color if you add to that with your experience in Israel. Okay, is that fair Alright, so don't be shy with that. Okay, good. So you have this reference chart with you, but I wanted to show you kind of how we're going to flow here. And we're going to go into this a little bit more detail. But you can see today, again, it's just an intro. We may not take up the whole time, that's okay. You can get first row seats in the in the auditorium. Um and then we're going to dive into the books. Now what you've noticed is what I've done with what I'll call the profits And the poetry piece of that is going to be interspersed throughout. And we're going to talk a little bit about how your Old Testament is structured. Okay? So you have that as reference All right, the Green family. This is a recent photo from the first wedding we had in the Green family a couple a couple months ago, end of April. And you can see in the middle there, my second oldest Aaron. um married to a a wonderful godly young man, Andres, and we had a wonderful time up there. But if you count, seven children up there. And They are just near and dear to me. I am so, so very blessed by my family. But I thought what I would do today, what I would share, again, I'm not going to share this with a bigger audience, is share a little bit about how we got here. Why are we at Hope Bible Church right now? So I wanted to give you maybe the church history of our family. You hear this morning I I um did not grow up in a Christian home. We were raised Catholic, and along that journey I was saved by the grace of God. And what was kind of neat is Cream was saved at the same time. So we got married and started this journey together, which has been an absolute delight. But Back up a little bit. My mom was was saved first from in our home. And so she left the Catholic Church and started at a charismatic church So when I was home briefly after graduation, that I went with her. And that influenced us, I'm sure. Um So when Crean and I were were going to church up at college, we stayed with the Catholic Church because that's w that's what I knew, that's what we were raised with. I think we transferred to a Baptist church at one point However, upon marriage and our first assignment, we ended up going to a charismatic church. And I'll tell you this. They were lovely people. And they loved on you and and they were prayer warriors. Now, they got words from the Lord. I mean, all of that happens. We sang for three hours. I mean all of that happened. But I say that to say that the Lord was so gracious, not only in our sanctification, I would say, individually, but Just walking us through theology and doctrine to get us to this point. It was just, I don't look back at that and say we missed opportunities. Those were all enriching opportunities And those people that we met are are dear, dear in our lives. Okay? So we left there, and and again, by God's providence, I think Being in the military and being forced to move as often as we did, it forced us to reassess you know where we were going to church. And and God brought certain people into our lives that influenced our thinking Long story short, we started to get introduced into this reform type of of theology. And I can remember the first time I started to hear about election, probably like many of you, I was like, no way. No way. I wasn't raised with that. I didn't understand it. How could that be? And then again, over time, you know God brought us more and more into that realm, if you will. The internet was not a big thing. You know, we were in the white book pages back then. Um eventually we got to the internet and that really helped with our searches, especially being in the military. I'll tell you the turning point for me when it came to election was studying a book by Pink, The Attributes of God, and to truly understand the holiness of God. In my total depravity, it was like, duh, yeah. Of course he chose me. Right, so that was a big defining moment for me. Now, having said that, sometimes you move to a place and you don't necessarily have the ideal church. It happens. So we have been to PCA churches and we'll talk a little bit about Covenantalism and and what a little bit of that means. Again, we shared a lot. These are brothers and sisters to this day, dear brothers and sisters, but we had some differences. The last church we were at in uh Pittsfield, Massachusetts, was an advent Christian. I had never heard of it before. We didn't have a lot of choices. And they had some distinctions that we don't believe in, soul sleep, annihilation. And yet so much we shared doctrinally. All right, and it was a huge, huge blessing to be a part of that fellowship. It was a church in Boston, uh Massachusetts. You guys might know Mike Abendroth, Mike and Kim Abendroth. And that was really for me my first introductions to John MacArthur really and in the Masters University. We had a chorale group that came and and sang and Um, Erin, my daughter, actually ended up going to the Masters University and the wedding was actually out in LA, so she still lives out there. Um But that's where we were kind of introduced to the master's seminary. And so when we would move, we would go online and you can see pastors Wherever you're going. I mean it's a great place to start. Because you know theologically they're probably going to be pretty closely aligned. Alright, so that was a great starting point. 'Cause we didn't have a lot of time. I mean you gotta hit the ground running when you get to a new place. And so that really narrowed our search down and we were able to go visit a church really quickly. So um Yeah, it's been just a really neat experience. That's why we're here at Hope Bible Church. Um I moved because of work, but why HBC versus some other church in the region? Um the expository preaching, the dedicated Preaching of the word is what drew us to Hope Bible Church. And that's so foundational, as you guys know. Crean, did I miss anything? Gee, if you ask her, you'll get a lot more of the details, but that's kind of a brief overview. So all right, let's jump into our our study here. So why why an Old Testament survey? In what is a survey? Anybody know where that is? This is the campus of Michigan Technological University in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. So a lot of people say Michigan. I say, no, no, no, no, no. This is Michigan. And I'm going to show you that in a second. Okay? It is absolutely stunning up there Growing up, uh, my father would often take us on a color tour. And what that meant is you just go drive around and see the beauty of the color. All right This, you know, if Crean and I were to go back there, just a ton, ton of memories. We could go to each building and and know what that meant to us, the walks we took, where we lived It is absolutely stunning up there. Alright? So when you read a book of the Bible, you get into the details. Right? You have to. There are times when you've got to understand. But it's so important at times to step back and get the bigger picture. That's all that a survey is. You're getting the bigger picture. Alright, so if I was to tell the story Like I just said, to add greater context, I need to show you this map of the broader aspect of, again, I just showed you what Michigan is. But what I would tell you Get my little cool pointer here. I grew up just north of Detroit. Miss Crane grew up about an hour north of Green Bay, a small town of about a thousand. So to get to school, it took her about three hours. It took me about ten hours. Okay? Now that school was started because of Henry Ford. When he started to mass produce vehicles, he needed copper. And there are a bunch of copper mines up at Michigan Tech. So he created this school to do mining and the engineering that was needed. Alright, it has broadened, of course. But just a beautiful, beautiful place. But now you start to get context and and how I grew up in Michigan, there's a lot of history and context now. versus where Cream grew up as a cheesehead in Wisconsin. Different culture, right? Different experiences. Now I showed you seven kids They're very wise and they picked the Green Bay Packers over the Detroit Lions. Smart kids. Smart kids. Now they're not very loyal though. I am loyal. Loyal D high uh Detroit Lions fan Now things have changed. Aaron Rodgers has moved on. This is our year for Detroit. We'll see. Just a silly game. But I will tell you, uh let me go back My oldest daughter, um, extremely competitive, loves football. She actually is a shingle owner of the Green Bay Packers. It's a public owned company and she was so fired up about the Green Bay Packers that uh she actually bought a shingle. So she is an owner, unfortunately, of the Green Bay Packers. Um all of my kids are pretty competitive and they get that from Cream, but uh well that's another story So again, uh all the survey is is trying to get the bigger picture. And that's what we're going to go after here, is getting the bigger picture. All right? Now, what I want to do is this is not a history lesson in the Old Testament. I am certainly not an Old Testament history scholar. The intent is not to show you a bunch of facts and timelines. We will talk about some of that stuff. We might even throw in a little bit of trivia for fun. But that's not the intent. The intent is to get that major theme and to get excited about it. I want you to turn your Bibles to Luke. Luke 24. And make sure you bring your Bibles because we're going to be in our Bibles. The other thing I'd mention as you're turning there is I don't know how many of you have um you know go through the Bible in a year I don't know about you, but I often get to Leviticus and Numbers and it's just like you know, you just kind of bog down with the details. What I'm hoping by the end of this class that you will be so excited about where it fits into the broader theme that you you're going to get through it with excitement. Okay, that's my intent and my hope. Alright, if you are in Luke 24, a very familiar story, but This is really going to be the drumbeat of our class. So starting in verse 13, the road to Emmaus. And behold Two of them were going that very day to a village named Emmaus, which was about seven miles from Jerusalem, and they were conversing with each other about all these things which had taken place And it came about that while they were conversing and discussing, Jesus himself approached and began traveling with them. But their eyes were prevented from recognizing him. And he said to them, What are these words that you are exchanging with one another as you are walking? And they stood still, looking sad. And one of them, named Cleopaths, answered and said to him, Are you the only one visiting Jerusalem and unaware of the things which have happened here in these days? And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, The things about Jesus the Nazarene, who was a prophet, mighty indeed, and word in the sight. of God and all the people, and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to the sentence of death and crucified him. But here was the real intent. But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this It is the third day since these things happened. They were looking for that king that was going to come and and usher in the new kingdom right then and there. But also some women among us amazed us when they were at the tomb early in the morning, and did not find his body they came, saying that they also had seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive And some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it, just exactly as the woman also had said, but him they did not see. And he said to them, O foolish men and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself in all the scriptures. Did you get that? His focus was on him. That's going to be our focus. Jesus Christ is going to be our theme And they approached the village where they were going, and he acted as though he would go farther. And they are urged him, saying, Stay with us, for it is getting toward evening, and the day is now nearly over And he went in to stay with them. And it came about that when he had reclined at the table with them, he took the bread and blessed it, and breaking it he began giving it to them. And here's the key. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. Verse 32. And they said to one another, Were not our hearts burning within us while he was speaking to us on the road while he was explaining the scriptures to us. And they arose that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found gathered together the eleven and those who were with them Saying the Lord has really risen and has appeared to Simon. And they began to relate their experiences on the road and how he was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread. My prayer For all of you over the next 13 weeks, and I'm going to be praying for you that our hearts would burn as we unfold the themes, as we unfold the Old Testament survey. Right? Let that be your prayer, be praying for each other. Their hearts burn within them. I want us as we go on this journey to imagine that we're walking there with Jesus as he is explaining what it says in the scriptures about him. Alright, that's the mindset that I want you to have. Does that make sense? Is that fair? Alright, good. Alright, so you can see in the notes there, we have to start with, let's add some context to what we have here. And I know it's familiar with you, but uh this is really about grounding ourselves in some principles. Right, we talk about the canon. We talk about the canon being closed and we think of the sixty-six books in the canon. Canon actually means measuring rod or standard, and it was used to describe the inspired books of God. Canonicity is the test. It's the measure of authenticity of those inspired works. This is key though. The canonicity is determined by God and discovered by man. Right? Determined by God and discovered by humans. So I took a little bit out of the uh, you see the reference there, the specific tests that were used to discover Right? Those books that belonged in the canon. Did the book indicate divine authorship? Did it reflect God speaking through a mediator? Was the human author a spokesman of God? Was he a prophet or did he have the prophetic gift? Was the book historically accurate? And did it reflect a record of actual facts? How was the book received by the Jews? All that was brought together to get what we now call the Old Testament, the New Testament, the canon. And it is closed. And I want you to think about the privilege we have of the entire s um uh inspired word of God at our disposal. Right? As we now go through the Old Testament survey, we have the benefit of the New Testament to help explain it. And we're going to go through why that is in a second. We know that all scripture is inspired by God. You're familiar with 2 Timothy 3. 16, but I don't know if if everyone is familiar with 2 Peter. So let's turn there. 2 Peter. 2 Peter, we can start in 16. I'll give you an overview. This was they were explaining, you know, they were eyewitnesses to Jesus Christ And in verse 17 it talks about God the Father at at Jesus' baptism, how they heard the utterance, right? This is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. So they were eyewitnesses And yet also reinforced by what the prophets had said in the Old Testament. So pick up in verse 19. And so we have the prophetic word made more sure. To which you do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place until the day dawns and the morning star arises in your hearts. But know this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. We at Hope Bible Church believe in the inspired word of God. We believe it's inerrant in its a man um original manuscripts, right? Without error. It's authoritative All the indicatives, which are the truth, truths and the commands, the imperatives, right, that's authoritative from God's inspired word. And we know it's sufficient. All of this is sufficient for us to understand God. It's not everything about God, but what he wants us to understand about himself, the Trinity, salvation, how we should live, it's all here. It's all here. It's sufficient. It's comprehensive. Alright, so let's talk a little bit about the order of the Old Testament books. Obviously 66 books, you know that, 39 in the Old Testament, 27 in the New. I want you to go to your table of contents. If you have one, or electronic, it should probably show you a list And this is going to be a key reference chart that we'll go back to again and again and again. So again, that's what I printed out for you as one of the reference charts that you have. But let me give you a little bit of uh history. And again, I'm not a historian. I just this is a brief overview. You know what? I apologize. I wanted to cover Christ's affirmation of the Old Testament. So I apologize. We've got to go back to that because this is really, really important. Right? That's the definitive when we talk about are these the the books of the Old Testament? Are these regarded as the books of the Old Testament? And and we have the most authoritative person ever, Jesus Christ, to give us that answer. So let's go to Matthew 4. And this is a very um very specific example, but I I think it's a great and you guys are familiar with the story, but I I think it's a great indication of how our Lord used Scripture in and that in and of itself shows the authorit authoritative use of it. It's um the temptation of Jesus. And I do want to uh read some of that. So if we follow along in verse one. Chapter 4 Verse 1. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he then became hungry. Again, he was fully divine in his deity, but he also was fully human in his nature and had just spent forty days in the wilderness And the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone. But on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. Alright, without looking at your study notes, what did he quote? Deuteronomy. Bingo. Verse 5. Then the devil took him into the holy city, and he had him stand on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written He will give his angels charge concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up. Let you strike your foot, lest you strike your foot against the stone. So this is this is Satan quoting scripture. Where did he quote quote from? Psalms. Yeah. Very good. Goes on, verse 7. Jesus said to him, On the other hand, it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Where is that from? Deuteronomy also. Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and a glory. And he said to him, All these things will I give you if you fall down and worship me Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Where is that quoted from? Deuteronomy also. It's all Deuteronomy Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and began to minister to him. Alright, so I I I just love that example of our Lord quoting Scripture to defeat Satan Right in that time of temptation. Certainly an example for us. Um, but very definitive. Let's look broader then. Back to Luke. Go back to Luke twenty-four. That you know that was a very specific book, but what about the rest of them Luke 24, go back to 27, verse 27. And he says, and beginning with Moses and with all the prophets. That was his way of saying all of the recognized Old Testament books scripture. That's what that means. It's all encompassing. Okay? I didn't read it, but go to verse 44 Where it talks about his other appearances. So you remember the the two men, you know, their eyes were open, they were excited, they ran back to Jerusalem, and now they're with the eleven and everyone's together and they're talking and and actually Jesus visited them all in that place. And down in verse forty-four. Now he said to them, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things which are written about me in the law of Moses And the prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled. Again, another indication of the entirety of the Old Testament. That's what that meant. Okay? Does that help with context? So now let's look at a little history of your Old Testament. So go back to your table of contents for me. Originally, like we just saw, there were basically two divisions in the Old Testament. The law, which was Genesis through Deuteronomy, and the prophets, Joshua through Malachi. Over time that morphed into three divisions. The law, the prophets, and the writings or the psalms, and that was a mixture of books. What you have today, kind of the modern-day uh division, are these four parts, if you will. The law, Genesis through Deuteronomy, history, Joshua through Ruth, the poetry Job through Song of Solomon, and then the prophets, Isaiah through Malachi. If you look in your In your table of contents, that's how it's laid out, isn't it? You have the law, the history, poetry, and then the prophets. Very logical. We could use that format to go through the Old Testament. We could do it by the division or the subjects, if you will. What I think will be more fulfilling though is to to tie those together to a timeline. So as we go through the history and the unfolding of God's provision We're going to interse the poetry and the prophecy as it ties to the timeline. I'm I'm hoping then as you go through the Old Testament and your your reading, when you're reading in Daniel You'll know it was during the exile, right? When they were in captivity. That should add color and meaning and excitement And context to how they felt. You can see many of the the prophets were during that time frame when the the kingdoms were now divided and they were about to be taken over. Right? And the prophecy that was needed, the warnings, the judgments, it's all there, and I hope it adds color and excitement. But so that's how we're going to do it. We're going to intersperse it based on the timeline Poetry so beautiful, and again when you get the context of of what they may have been feeling or what they were going through it it again should add context to what's happening. I don't know if you knew, but Job was actually written um around the time of the Patriarch. So we'll introduce that poetry. What does that mean? Right? How do we apply that? Again, hopefully some excitement about what that means. So that's going to be the approach is not to go through the uh the table of contents, if you will, but to intersperse based on timelines. And based on that that development of revelation. Okay, did that make sense? Everybody on track? Okay, good. Right, to do that, we're going to pull a couple threats. And again, this is to build that foundation. First one we're going to talk about is progressive revelation. It's basically later revelation built on earlier revelation. It builds. It's not that God does something and then he does something different or new or separate from what he just revealed In the earlier books, it's all progressive, right? It tells a story as it builds. And that's important for us to remember Let me give you an example. Let's just talk about the Trinity. So go to Genesis, and I know familiar passages, but let's do this together. Genesis 1. Now remember You look at the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible written by Moses, for a long time that's all that the people had. And so what they may know about the Trinity is is somewhat hidden. So if you were to go to Genesis 1. 26, the creation episode, then God said, then God said, so you get a sense maybe singular, let us Make them in our image according to our likeness. So clearly there's a plurality happening here, right? Now we know God, one God, three persons. All equal in their deity, their attributes. But you wouldn't necessarily know that full revelation here just reading Genesis. Now, I want you to flip over to Ephesians One of my favorite passages, Ephesians 1, and we're going to get a broader sense of the roles and responsibilities. Like I said, three different persons They each have a function and a role. Let's start in verse three. Ephesians one, verse three. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. So you see God the Father selecting us. Right? That we should be holy and blameless before Him. In love, He predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself. according to the kind intention of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the beloved. In him we have redemption redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us. So here we see Jesus Christ as Savior. God the Father selected us, Jesus Christ saves us. Keep going. In all wisdom and insight, he may known to us the mystery of his will according to his kind intention. which he purposed in him, with a view to an administration suitable to the fullness of the times. That is the summing up of all things in Christ, things in the heavens and things upon the earth. In him also we have obtained an inheritance. having been predestined according to his purposes, who works his purpose, who works all things after the counsel of his will Bless you. To the end that we who were the first to hope in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. In him you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation Having also believed you were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession to the praise of his glory. So here you see the Holy Spirit sealing us for the day of glorification a pledge of our inheritance. Isn't that beautiful to see all three of those coming together in God's plan for redemption in our life? I I just love that verse. But again you can see If you just had Genesis 1. 26, you wouldn't get the full revelation of the Trinity. So we're going to do a lot of that throughout our course here because we have the benefit of the New Testament. Bottom line, God chose not to reveal his entire plan for humanity in the Old Testament. We see that now though through the New Testament. The ultimate purpose, though, of progressive revelation is to bring glory unto God. Okay, another important foundation, if you will, is hermeneutics. Hermeneutic, simply the art and science of interpreting scripture. It's the rules that need to be applied so that you can understand the single meaning of a passage. As you guys know, there is one meaning. That's our chore, is to wrestle and struggle and do everything we can to understand that one meaning. But we need to do it against certain rules and principles One meaning, many applications. And it's the Holy Spirit who helps us to discover that meaning. You guys know much of Scripture is very easily understood. There are passages, though, that are difficult. And we use scripture to interpret scripture. Use the easy passages to help understand those that might be a bit more difficult. So there are a couple different methods. I won't go into great detail, but this idea of a literal, grammatical, historical hermeneutic. By literal, it means the plain meaning, not literal language. Kareen through our homeschooling has taught a lot of literature and a lot of literature analysis. What it means is Use the principles that that are customary to understand literature. What is the plain meaning? Sometimes the meaning is figurative or it's symbolic, and we recognize that Alright, but to to approach it with a literal application is important. Grammatical, it's so fun to study The actual words is in in its original language. Get the study works that you need to understand that. Don't be overwhelmed. There are a lot of aids that will help you. It is so important to understand the true meaning. And then historical, to understand the historical context. And that's why those of you that have been to Israel, I I want you guys to share, because you probably have some additional information that would add a lot of color to the historical context of the day Okay? You could compare that with more of a figurative or allegorical, which covenantalists use primarily when it comes to prophecy. Now I told you we attended a PCA church and we saw where this came out. Dear brothers and sisters, but we would not agree with that approach. And they claim that the New Testament writers spiritualize those prophecies that refer to the nation Israel. So you'll see that that big difference is how those two camps treat Israel and the church. Right? Is it and the eschatology, the study of end times. That's where you'll see that play out. Okay? We are also going to talk about, and I have some more slides, but this idea of dispensations. The covenants, we'll be covering the covenants, which are critically important for our study. And doctrines. It's important to walk through some of the doctrines. and to reinforce what it is that we teach here. As well as attributes. I mentioned earlier that was just a pivotal point for me to really go through and understand the attributes of God. Depending on how you grew up, you may have different impressions of of God the Father or the Trinity, right? It might be a very stern God or a judgmental God or maybe just God is love It's important to understand the full aspect of his attributes. It was really life-changing for me to go through that. So we're going to bring some of that in as we go through this process, if you will Um I should also say that there are a couple other classes going on right now. So when this comes around next year, you might consider taking some of those other classes. So for example, hermeneutics, Carrie Kane, going to do a deep dive on hermeneutics and understanding those principles. Doctrines and attributes, fundamentals of the faith is being taught right next door by some of our SLP graduates. So again, they're going to go deep. They're going to go to Michigan Tech University and and go through the buildings and do a color tour and understand that a bit more. So all of that to help reinforce, to equip, right? This is all about growing disciples Alright, so let's talk about some of these threads, if you will, in a bit more detail. Dispensations So let me caution. Um dispensations, dispensationalism can bring a lot of baggage to it. Don't want to go there. Okay? I don't want to go there. I'm not an expert in it. But you can see some of the definitions here. And what's important is, you know, the central idea of a dispensation. is to manage or administer the affairs of a household. It's a stewardship arrangement. And you can think about the components of that, right? It needs two people, in this case God and man. And God gives us spic specific responsibilities during that time frame or that administration. And we're accountable to follow through on those responsibilities. And when we don't, when we're unfaithful, He can move into a different dispensation. Okay? You see the formal definition there. A distinguishable economy in the outworking of God's purpose. So let me just run through, and again, you see at the top of the slide there, not prescriptive, there is not agreement on how many dispensations there are. And I ask you, what does Hope Bible Church believe? I'm going to share that in a second, alright, because I think that's important. But you can see just at a high level this idea of innocence, and this is Adam and Eve in the garden, and then after the curse, conscience. So there was no law yet, and you can refer back to Romans, Romans 1 and 2, where you see what that looked like from a conscious perspective. We we had no excuse with creation. We understood there was a God. That moral compass, if you will, that he put in our heart. We had all that. They had all that during that time frame And then you see after the flood where the the establishment of a human government, where humans were given or delegated the authority, if someone killed somebody, they could take their life. So you see the introduction of a human Government. You start to see now God working through a particular person, Abraham, and a particular nation. And so you start to see the promises, the covenants You see the Mosaic Law, and then obviously the element of grace and the thousand-year reign. So we're gonna, and you know up front, um we're gonna cover many of these disposations are in the first couple books And so we'll we'll cover that in detail. Again, don't get hung up on the number of dispensations, but how How God governing during a certain time a certain way will help describe progressive revelation. That's what I want you to get from that Okay. Alright, what does Hope Bible church teach? How many of you have gone through the membership class in the last Two years. Okay, last five years. Okay. So you were given a booklet, and in it was Hope Bible Church, what we teach. It should be online as well. I encourage you, this is the homework I'm going to give you. I want you to go back through What we teach. I want you to become re-familiar with what we teach at Hope Bible Church. Okay? The other part of your homework is I gave you The books we're going to be covering, I want you to become familiar with that a week ahead of time. Before you come to class, spend time going through that book and just become familiar with it. Okay? Alright, let me get to Don't need the bylaws. Alright, so the last page, page twenty-two of what we teach, is a paragraph on dispensationalism. Yes, sorry. I'll get to that, but it's going to be Genesis, chapters one through eleven. I'll get to that at the very end. Dispensationalism, this is what it says. The scriptures interpret it in their natural, literal sense. revealed divinely determined dispensations or administrations that define man's responsibilities for that age. Examples include the age of the law, the church age, and the millennium. Right? Those usually are not in disagreement. And you see that's at the end there. The law, grace and the millennial kingdom. It does not go on to describe seven dispensations, five, eight. So let us not make that important either, the number, right? I think wisely they left that pretty vague Okay? Does that make sense? It goes on. These disposition dispensations do not involve different ways of being saved. This is very critical. There's only one way to be saved. This is simply showing a different administration. And they do not negate some continuity from one dispens dispensation to another. And you'll see that in the notes I have. Alright, so again, I'm going to encourage you to go back to what we teach. um so that you are familiar with it and become good stewards. Now I should also add at the very front Basic doctrines of the Christian faith. To become a member, you need to believe in those basic doctrines. Doesn't say anything in those basic doctrines about being a dispensationalist. Alright? So we're not going to get hung up on it. But I want you to be familiar with what we teach. Okay? Alright, let me read some of these because I think it's important. We basically covered um item number three on the second page, the back page there. Dispensations are not different ways of being saved. And they do not negate the continuity. I read that directly from uh what we teach. Alright, you see the quote there. However, through the time Through the time period, age ends, certain principles of the revelation or dispensation of stewardship are often carried over into succeeding ages because God's truth does not cease to be truth. And these principles become part of the cumulative body of truth for which man is responsible in the progressive unfolding revelation of God's redemptive person. purpose. You know, I told you we talk about this progressive revelation. Let's use dispensation to help understand and help explain. Okay? That's all we're trying to do here. Now as I mentioned, um dispensationalism or dispensationalist often believe in a distinction between Israel and the church and then informs the eschatology. So you will see that difference between a The pre-trib, pre-millennial, and amillennial, right, with the covenantalist. If plain, you see the quote there, if plain or normal interpretation, so back to that literal interpretation, is the only valid Hermeneutical principle, and if it is consistently applied, it will cause one to be a dispensationalist. I I want you to understand that. The reverse is not true. Let's not label ourselves a dispensationalist. Therefore, I'm going to use a literal interpretation and I believe in a separate Israel church. It's the reverse. We start with a literal interpretation. And that leads us to these distinctions or dispensations and clearly a separation between Israel and the church and informs our eschatology. You start with those foundations. Right? Of the hermeneutic. And then that builds upon what leads to further up. Does that make sense? That's very important. Don't let's not put a a label on ourselves Alright. Moving on to covenants. I won't go into great detail here, but these are the four basic covenants. You know, Abe the Abrahamic covenant, the blessing of the land. the seed and the blessing. Alright, that's the covenant. And you'll see that expanded further when we talk about the Palestinian covenant, which further exemplifies the land piece of that, the Davidic covenant His throne will be established forever, the seed or descendant piece of that. And then obviously the new covenant in Jeremiah, where we'll talk about the blessing. We will add in the Noahic covenant and the Mosaic covenant But these really are foundational to our understanding of Scripture. Okay? So we'll get into that more detail. Doctrines. Again. If you look at what we teach, it's basically an overview of these ten doctrines. So again, I think really great for you to be familiar with what we're studying or what we teach here at Hope Bible Church. Again, fundamentals of the faith is going to go through some of that. And I want to make sure we intertwine some of that as we go through the class. And we've already done some of that, you know, talking about the Trinity Trinity, Theology Proper, talking about um the Bible and how it was formed in the canon. Alright, and it's closed and it's inherent and authoritative. So we're going to add some of that just to add some color and context. Alright, we're going to do a little trivia, a little test for you all. Theology proper is the study of study of God. Christology. Study of Christ. Pneumatology. Study of the Holy Spirit. Anthropology. Study a man. You guys are so smart. Hamardiology. Sin study of sin. Soteriology. Salvation. Bibliology, the Bible. Angelology. Ecclesiology? The church. And eschatology, obviously, end times. Alright, you guys pass. I forgot to mention on on the covenants, apologize for that, the definition, right? An unchangeable Divinely imposed legal agreement between God and man that stipulates the condition of their relationship. Yes, it's an agreement, but not a negotiation, right? It's divinely imposed It's unchangeable and the the four that I showed you are unconditional. Not dependent on what man does. And that goes back again to that literal interpretation or that literal hermeneutic that becomes so so important. Alright, we talked about the major doctrines and the attributes. And again, I I do want to bring in some of the attributes of God as we go through this because It is so important to to know and really understand who our God is. But we go back to the major theme is Jesus Christ. We cannot lose sight of that as we go throughout this class. You'll see in the notes there the Christ-centered themes and truths may be found in each of the 66 books of the Bible. And certainly as we start to partition that now, Old Testament and New Testament. But let me say this Be cautious about trying to put Jesus in every verse of the Bible. Alright? You don't want to read that into it, and that's what we have to be careful about. But the theme of Jesus Christ is everywhere throughout Scripture, right? And it's important for us to uncover that. So now let's look at you see the Old Testament and the New Testament, and you can see some of the comparisons there Old Testament, Christ has anticipated. In the New Testament, he has realized. Old Testament, salvation, the preparation for salvation, the New Testament, that salvation is provided. Old Testament things began. They were commenced. New Testament completed. Old Testament Christ is enfolded or integrated. In New Testament, we see Him unfolded in His Majesty. Old Testament, we see moral precepts that are brought forward, and we see that perfection through Christ in the New Testament. Again, much of prophecy foretelling in the Old Testament, and we see it fulfilled in the New Testament. And then lastly, often we see types, and then we see actual truths in the New Testament. If you break that down further into the eight major sections, and the four we talked about in the Old Testament that we'll be covering. Right? You can see the diagram at the bottom. And I wanna I wanna read this because I thought it was a a really good way to frame kind of these major themes of Christ Each of these sections has a direction in its movement of thought, which forms a perfect parallel between the Old and New Testament. So here we are on the left hand side of the Old Testament. In the law, there is a downward movement as the Jewish nation is chosen To provide the foundation for the coming Christ. Alright, so that's God choosing a nation to carry out his plan of redemption In history, and that's the arrow to the left, and that's where the arrows don't really work real well, but work with it. In history there is an outward movement as they make preparation for Christ. And the history is Joshua through Esther. In prophecy, there is a forward movement in the Jewish expectation of Christ, right? This excitement about the coming Christ. Now go on to the right-hand side, the parallel in the New Testament. The exact New Testament parallel to this fourfold movement in the Old Testament is a downward movement in the manifestation of Christ in the Gospel. So this is this is Christ, you know, removing himself from his heavenly realm to come down to earth. An outward movement in the propagation of Christ in Acts. So you see now that the the the church in Christ is being spread throughout the countryside. an upward movement to the ascended Christ and the interpretation of Christ to the believers in the epistles. Right? Christ risen, seating at the high right hand of God as our high priest And a forward movement to the consummation of all things in Christ in Revelation. Alright, so I thought a really good parallel, a really good way to frame those themes of Christ throughout the Bible and through those sections. So that's what we're going to be pulling on, focusing mainly on the Old Testament, but we're going to be trying from the New Testament to help inform and give us greater insight. Okay? Okay, so um a little bit more admin. We're obviously going to be showing some maps because it really adds color and context to what's going on. This is just one example of some of the journeys of the patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and you can see, you know, that that fertile crescent which would have drove a lot of um a lot of travel. um because of you know the farming, the goods and and how cities were established. But we're gonna cover all that. Again, those who have been to Israel, I really encourage you. If you got great pictures you want to share, just send them to me. But during class I really want you to jump in and be a participant because you can add a lot of color to what we're understanding. So we're going to be using some maps to help uh draw context. Again we'll we'll get some maps up there and you'll be good to go. That was Michigan by the way. Okay, um sources. These are probably some of the primary uh sources that that I'll be using and there are a couple others, but if you're interested, you'll have that here and I'll I'll post it up on the uh the site if you will so you can grab those if need be. And again I I just as a reminder um we're back to let's take a journey together. A walk on that road, focusing on 32, verse 32. May our hearts burn as we hear and understand the unfolding of the Old Testament survey. Okay? Application. We absolutely want to draw. This again is not just a history lesson. We want to draw application. We'll sprinkle that throughout the lesson as we go along. Homework. Again, I want you to go back to your membership tab, if you will, and what we teach. I want you to be become familiar again with what that says And then if you can, I want you to preview the books that we're going to be we're going to be following the following week. So again, Genesis 1 through 11 for next week. I thought I had shared the schedule again, but you you guys have that for reference. All right. Uh Ann. Those are those are the covenants. Those are just where the covenants are. Noaic. No Noaick. Abrahamic, Mosaic, Palestinian, and New up by Jeremiah. Thank you. Yep, sorry about that. Good question. I don't want to write it out if you're way too small and you couldn't see it anyway. So yeah, that's all that that is. Alright, let me let me pause. I got I got something else for you, but let me pause there. Any questions about the format we're using, the structure, the homework I gave you? We are going to do a little trivia before we close. Little trivia. Most quoted Old Testament book in the New Testament. Now I made this hard because all of these are in the top five. All of these are in the top five. Alright, how many say Deuteronomy? Okay, got a few. How about Genesis? A couple over here. How about Isaiah? How about Exodus? How about Psalms? Alright, I think that's the majority, and the winner is Psalm. But you can see, you know, of the Pentateuch, you know, the first, you know, Genesis, Deuteronomy, Exodus are all the first part of the Bible heavily, heavily quoted. Alright, one more trivia. Oldest person in the Bible. That last person is in the Bible background. Well true, true. But that's the engineering it, Doug. Oh again, I made this hard because these are all um top five. So who's the oldest? At this point, no thousand times. Who's the second oldest? Jared. These were some old dudes. Alright. This is serious class, but we can have some fun too. So every once in a while you might get a little trivia. But all right. Any questions? Let me do this for those who are interested. I'll leave that up, but let me close in prayer.