Alright, here we are, week seven already. It's hard to believe that uh it's mid-July and we're at the halfway point in our lesson. So we're we're gonna cover Deuteronomy today, and so that will cover the first five books. books of um the Bible, the the Pentateuch often called and if you remember when I kinda laid out the framework at the very beginning, it these first five books really set the foundation for Christ. And we see that evident, right? pointing to a need for a savior is evident throughout these five books. You see the bottom line up front there in the box on the top of your page. This is really about Moses's farewell speech. Alright? If if you think about it The last four books, he's been the primary character. And so it's going to be applicable for us to kind of pause and take a look at the life of Moses. But this is really his opportunity. This is the end for him. To remind them what they've gone through, to remind them about a holy God, to remind them that they must obey. Remember, this was a people that was to be set apart for God. God would be their God and and they would be his people. All right, that's the intent here. And remember who he's talking to here. It's the new generation. The old generation has passed away, with the exception of two people. Right? Joshua and Caleb and even Moses has to die before they go into the promised land. And you'll see when we get to the end, it it he really does point to an eternal perspective as we look at another covenant. Okay? So we have to look at Moses. It's a great time to just stop and pause and say, who is this dude? And you remember it's it Moses' life is really easy because it chunks out in 40 year increments. So from birth to 40 years, and this is I put this together as kind of things that I recognize Um always interested in studying leadership and and obviously Moses is a a great study case if you will, but you're gonna see the evolution of this person. But I'll pause at the end to see if you guys have any other insights you want to share. But while we're doing that, before we start um turn over to Hebrews Hebrews 11 the the faith chapter if you will Hebrews 11 so you remember uh the story of his birth right the edict was from the king to what To kill the firstborn or to kill the sons. And Moses was spared, he was put in the basket, and Pharaoh's daughter actually took him in and raised him, but got a hold of his mom really to be the nurse and the caregiver. And you can s you can imagine, it doesn't say, but you can imagine the influence that his biological mother continued to probably have on Moses, which is just the hand of God, isn't it? So we know he was raised an Egyptian, but again probably had that influence and we'll see that in a second. He was most likely very educated, um, probably had access to a lot of um the the transcripts or manuscripts that were written during the time of the patriarchs. Um and he also Also, again, to this point of being under his mother's tutelage, recognized his brothers. So hold your finger on Hebrews 11 and go over to Exodus. Exodus 2, chapter 2, verse 11. Now it came about in the days when Moses had grown up that he went out to his brethren. So he recognized his brethren after these forty years, and looked on their hard labors, and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his brethren. So he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no one around, he struck down the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. So you see this concept of him being very passionate, a defender. You know, I'm not defending his um killing someone. but you just get the sense that he saw an injustice happening against his brethren, his people. Right? So keep that in mind. Alright, Hebrews 11, 23 through 26. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents because they saw he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king's edict. By faith, Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of the of Pharaoh's daughter. So evidence again, right? Choosing rather to endure ill treatment with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. Considering the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of I think that's beautiful insight into the mind of Moses at that time. Alright, so birth of 40. Any other insights um somebody might want to share from their reading or understanding? Okay, if not we'll go on to the next forty years. And this obviously he kills somebody, um he's afraid, the king's after him, and he runs off into Midian. Of where Midian is. So here he is in this desert environment And you saw initially, right, he was at the well, and what did he do? He he scattered the shepherds that were causing trouble And then the seven daughters of Jethro, he helped fill their jars up. So I called them a defender and a gentleman. Obviously a servant, um very self-sufficient, um a farmer, but again to to be able to live in that harsh and environment a real survivor. And I have no doubt um that he was being sanctified through this process. He was being hardened. You know with the forty years in the desert, he knew how to get around in the desert Right? He was a survivor. Let's look at Hebrews eleven, twenty seven. By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is unseen. Again, his faith Alright, so we get to the last uh part of his life where we have the most information, really the last four books including today that we'll see. We see that he was a doubter, right? was first called, and you remember the basically the four evidences of his doubt. Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh? What if they ask who sent me? What if they don't believe me? I'm afraid of public speaking. A lot of doubt that we saw in Moses, and yet God was faithful, God was patient with Moses and provided. He was obviously a leader as he led the people for 40 years in the wilderness, often in a a fierce intercessor. For the people. Right, when they would disobey the Lord in in his righteous anger wanted to smite all the people, and Moses would often intervene on their behalf. And he was a sinner. We talked about that last week. What did he do? He struck the rock twice. What was he supposed to do? Speak to it. Right? We're gonna cover that in a little bit more detail today. But guess what? He's human, just like all of us, and yet God was faithful. He was absolutely a defender of the faith. Hebrews eleven says twenty eight. By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood, so that he who destroyed the firstborn might not touch them. By faith they passed through the Red Sea as though they were passing through dry land, and the Egyptians when they attempted it were drowned. So again I want to pause. Any any other insights anyone wants to share? Miss Ann. I always sort of can I can I say was upset with God that he gave Moses so great a punishment because Moses had to put up with all that grumbling and grumbling And then one time, you know, he sinned, like you pointed out, and God would said you will not enter the problem's land he could go up and see it, but he couldn't enter into it and that always bothered me until a few years ago. I was reading in the New Testament in Matthew chapter seventeen. He did allow Don't go there, Anne, as part of my it's part of my story. Don't go there. That meant a lot to me. Yeah. And and we're gonna cover that point. So Anne, perfect. The other thing I would tell you about that point, um one second, Diane, is it also points back and we cover this holiness of God. Even though it was Moses, because God is holy, holy, holy. He cannot accept that sin. Moses disobeyed. And we're going to cover that in more detail. But great, great point. Miss Diane. Yes. And that's why I love to go back to Hebrews 11. Because you see that their actions were credited to them as faith. Right? We we s we stay in the Old Testament and it seems very harsh, and yet you get a different view when you go to the New Testament. You see maybe God's view of them. Even though he had to deal with that sin, he was a very righteous man. And let's go to the bumper sticker. Since then no prophet has risen in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face. We're going to see that at the end of Deuteronomy. But it was also we covered it last week, right? When his when Moses' authority was being questioned. And and uh well let me go to it. Uh Numbers thir twelve, starting verse six, he said, Hear now my words. If there is a prophet among you, I the Lord shall make myself known to him in a vision. I shall speak with him in a dream. So this is how the Lord says I'm going to talk to prophets, but how did he How did he engage with Moses? Not so with my servant Moses. He is faithful in all my household. With him I speak mouth to mouth, even openly and not in dark sayings, and he beholds the form of the Lord. Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant, against Moses? So Moses was held in very high esteem by the Lord. But guys, great question that we have to wrestle with Why did it seem that the Lord was so harsh? Because of his attribute of holiness. And yet he shows great mercy. Douglas. it's gotta be taller, it doesn't fit. But um I would add in their prophet, I would add in their friend of God, and I would add in their most humble or something like that. Those are the things that God said about it. Yes. Yeah and there there's also it's kind of interesting to see Moses in these three periods that you laid out here because you could think that there were three big events that happened at the end of each one of these periods Where you see God dealing with Moses very graciously. Mm-hmm. Right? Because that when he's forty years old, he's a murderer. Yeah. And God passes by that sin, right? Yep. And when he's eighty uh eighty eighty years old, he's not circumcising his sons, so there's ha that has to happen too. God's gonna kill him unless his wife takes care of that. And then at the end when he disobeys God and he wa you know whacks a rock instead. God was gracious to to pass over the sin and even well you're gonna talk about it. But there's there's evidence there and it's sweet to remember that even a guy like Moses who was a friend of God and he didn't was like you said, is a sinner and was in need of grace and God's grace is abundant. Loving kindness is so tender. Excellent, excellent point. And let that be let that be a comfort to us today, right? We we all struggle with sin. We go through that period. But but let this be a reminder of how the Lord treats his his children, we as children, right? So great, great discussion. Alright, so let me ask you this. If you got to go to lunch with Moses today, what's the one question you might ask him? Nothing. Wouldn't that be the greatest coffee break? Coffee with Moses? What it looked like. What it looked like. Okay? Yeah. And and there's a long list of what it looked like when you crossed through the River Sea. Okay. Did it look like when you saw God pass by you up on the mountain. What what it looked like when you first had those tablets that God wrote on. Um and just a long list of how do you understand how how did you stand the tablet tabernacle off? Did that make any sense? There's just a lot of nuts and bolts and yeah. Very good. Scott I synthesized the two questions I'd like to answer yours. I I'd like to ask him what it was like to the live the remainder. How did he encourage you? How did he keep you in a position of leadership? How did he keep your apart where it needed to be? Insinuated it exactly. I love it. Steven. So I I think I enjoyed talking with him about when God appeared him in his glory because I think what's so fascinating there is he asked to see his glory and God says, Come and unless my goodness pass before you Yeah. So kinda like what did you understand about the Christian stuff? Yeah. That was kinda my question too. I mean, what was it like when you first were in his glory or what was that first conversation with Jesus like? So yeah. Somebody else had a handraise? Oh no. Yeah, fair enough. Fair enough. Alright, let's keep going. Ponder that though. Ponder that. All right, so let's recap where we're at here. You remember this this graphic we have uh the whole travel, if you will, the path all the way from Egypt through the desert, Mount Sinai, um camped out here, the tabernacle, and then we covered last week. about camping out at Kadesh Barnia and and the great sin that they had there that resulted in them wandering another thirty-eight years in the desert. Excuse me. So now where we're at in Deuteronomy is is they traveled through they've conquered some folks and they're all the way up here on the east side of the Jordan ready to pass the baton and and have the people find this new generation finally go into the promised land. So that's the scene setter if you will. Moses. Again, the first five books is is Moses. There is maybe a thought that the last chapter of Moses might have been written by by Joshua because Moses is dead at that point. Um but but that's a minor piece of that. Major theme. this is this it's the second law or renewed covenant. And by second law it's just a reiteration of the Ten Commandments. It's not a new set of Ten Commandments, it's the same set, but often referred to as the second law or renewed covenant. And the time This cover is just a few weeks. It's about a month that Moses is instructing having this this farewell. And like I said, it's at the east banks of the Jordan River. So the gray box there is the order of events. This is basically how Deuteronomy is is laid out. Moses is going to basically give three final sermons, right? Instruction and reminders for the people And then there's this passing of the baton to Joshua, and we'll talk about that. He's going to bless the individual tribes before they go into the promised land. And he ends up composing a song, a very long song. And we'll talk about what's the purpose. of that song. Why was that created? And then he will eventually uh depart to heaven and and go into glory. Okay? Alright, so we're going to start with these these therm uh sermons. And the first sermon covers Deuteronomy 1 And you're going to see a common theme as we start to go through this, and I'll get to that. But he starts by reminding them of the splendor of God that they experienced while at Mount Sinai. Remember the day you stood before the Lord your God at Horeb. When the Lord said to me, Assemble the people to me, that I may let them hear my word, so they may learn to fear me all the days they live on the earth, and that they may teach their children. Again, a people being set apart, fearing the Lord. You will see a constant, persistent reminder to fear and obey the Lord and to pass that on to the next generation. And when they don't pass that on, there's trouble. Right? And that's true for us today too, to obey the Lord and to pass it on. on to the next generation. As just mentioned, he reviews the tragic sin at Kadeshfarnia. Then they took some of the fruit of the land in their hands and brought it down to us, and they brought us back a report and said, It is a good land which the Lord our God is about to give us. Yet you were not willing to go up, but rebelled against the command of the Lord your God. And you grumbled in your tents and said, Because the Lord hates us, he has brought us out of the land of Egypt to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us. Right? They they did not f fear the Lord, they feared man. And they ended up wandering another thirty, eight years, an entire generation gets wiped out. Now this is what we were talking about earlier. He reminds them of his own sin, that it would keep him from the promised land. So let's go to Deuteronomy chapter 4. Deuteronomy chapter 4, starting in verse 21. Now the Lord The Lord was angry with me on your account, and swore that I should not cross the Jordan, and that I should not enter the good land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. For I shall die in this land, I shall not cross the Jordan. So watch yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of the Lord, your God, which he made with you, and make for yourselves a graven image, in the form of anything against which the Lord your God has commanded you. For the Lord your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God. So understand the theme here. He he's reminding them that hey I sinned as well and the result of that is I'm not going into the promised land either. But what's the warning? The warning is against idolatry. Right? You're going to see that theme again and again Anything that is not of God is really idolatry. Trusting in yourself, trusting in material, anything outside of God is idolatry. So keep that in mind, the theme of idolatry. But again, Moses. Moses is human and and Diane back to your question, let's see what j uh Moses does here. Go back a chapter, Deuteronomy three 23, starting in verse 23, I also pleaded with the Lord at that time, saying, O Lord God, thou hast begun to show thy servant thy greatness and thy strong hand. For what God is there in heaven or on earth who can do such work? works in mighty acts as thine. Let me, I pray, cross over and see the fair land that is beyond the Jordan, that good hill country and Lebanon. He was pleading, he was appealing. Lord, let me go over. He's human. Wouldn't we do the same thing? Here's how the Lord responds. But the Lord was angry with me on your account. And would not listen to me. And the Lord said to me, Enough speak to me no more of the matter. Go up to the top of Sega, and lift up your eyes to the west and north and south and east, and see it with your eyes, for you shall not cross over this Jordan. So Moses appeals, the Lord says, No, you are going to die. But keep that thought, right? Because it ends good. Alright, so you see this theme, a warning of idolatry. And Moses appeals, but remember the sin, because you have not believed me to treat me as holy. It was a heart attitude. Question? Yeah. You know, in that those two passages that you read, it feels to me like it's worded there is that Moses is not known in the fact that he disobeyed God. It it sounds like he's saying, You guys made me do it and so I'm not going in. Which and and correct me if I'm wrong in my thinking about that. But you know, it here's Moses, like I said before, and and you affirmed, is the most humble man in the world, but it sounds to me like he's not being very humble here and owning his sin. Um and am I wrong in the way that I'm kind of understanding? I I would frame it this way, Doug, because we have other passages where Moses said, You know, Lord, these people you gave me, he he's a human being, is all I could tell you. Right. Um I don't know if others have insight to that, but he's a human being that struggles like like we do sometimes. So there might be that element of maybe he wasn't I also have a I have a quick comment. I don't know if it's like but I was thinking of when you were talking about that is that on your account is also what is given when we're not he's basically made an example for the people. He's like, on your account, I'm not allowed to because this is allowed to continue. Like that's not okay. Not going to be okay. And so as the leader he's more accountable because of the people because he God is literally saying, Look, this is sin, I'm not going to tolerate it. Even from me. Uh I always thought about the people of Israel the stage kind of being idol free. And um Moses, you know, as he's preaching against idolatry, but famous uh chapter five comes in forms and says, Did you offer me sacrifices and offerings in the world? wilderness. You also carried sick of your king and she and your idols the star of your gods which you made for yourself. So like the people he's speaking against idolatry, but like there's some level of idolatry happening for Wandering. So by striking that rock. You know, it's in some ways even perhaps lining up with some of their idolatry that's going on in the inside the people as well. Yeah, that's a great point, Matt. Um I I think excellent point and and I would probably agree with that view, but I think you're hitting on something know, guys when we have this, you know, Doug you bring up a great point. You know, how do we get to the bottom of that, right? You you've got to go back to the context, you've got to search the scriptures, go to the commentaries. Um I can't give you a definitive. I I think there's maybe an element of both. But I I like that that viewpoint, if you will. And I think also um duh to Doug's point, when Moses struck that rock there was an element of pride there because what he said was, must we get you Water from this rock meaning himself an Aaron in that context. Not God. Right. He was saying that it was him. Right. That was Christ. Yeah. And remember I have it written up there, remember the sin, because you have not believed me to treat me as holy. Right. Clearly sin there. Yes, Mark. He has just said in the book of Jews deroning, nobody dies gets punished except for little insights. Yeah. He sins there regardless. And that is why we go punishment. Yeah. God does not punish. I Sure. He does it right. But because it's Moses, we want him to be a wee bit more holy. Yeah. Yeah. So so there's no doubt that I think I think we agree he sinned, I think Doug's point was was he was he not being accountable to that sin? And I think that's one view and I think we have uh another view that's important. Stephen I was thinking about this is interesting of but just the reality that like leadership is really hard and like and it become part of the reason it's hard is good with the people underneath you and just sometimes people can be very selfish and quick to I mean I can do it quick to criticize, quick to do that. And yet that can have a huge impact on leaders and actually lead your leaders into making simple choices. I think there's like a responsibility that you have following the play. Yeah, see, but I think go ahead. Not that he was responsible for it, but I mean goodness, they were really difficult to deal with that. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it it's we it talks earlier in the or later in the New Testament, it should be a joy for your leaders to lead. Right and and Stephen, great, great point. Leadership is really hard. Be praying for your leaders. Great, great point. Alright, let me let me keep going. We can come back to this if we have some time. Great, great discussion. Um so it was brought up last week. I I want to continue And it was brought up last week that there is a reference in the New Testament about Christ being the rock, and and some even question when Moses struck the rock, was he striking Christ? So what do we do? with that. Right? We've got to study the scriptures. We've got to understand the context. So let's go through that drill. We have to apply the right hermeneutics, if you will. So let's go to 1 Corinthians 10. And I think this will be interesting in the discussion we just had. First Corinthians 10, starting in verse 1. The title of the chapter in My Bible is avoid Israel's mistakes. For I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. Um that were Word baptized really means to be identified with. So they were identified with Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they were drinking from a spiritual rock. which followed them and the rock was Christ. So let me pause there for a second and and we gotta say, okay, well what does that really mean? So I I show you um one commentary here from MacArthur and I'll read that. The Jews had a legend that the actual rock Moses struck followed them throughout the wilderness wanderings, providing water for them. Paul says they have a rock providing all they need, but it is Christ. The rock is means uh or is um the word for that is petra refers to a massive cliff, not simply a large stone or boulder signifying the preincarnate Messiah Christ who protected and sustained his people. So I would hold to that view that it's not this rock that's following them around. And the sin wasn't that Moses struck Christ, right? So we gotta be really careful. I don't think that's what this passage is saying, is that um Christ was following them around in the form of a rock. He was was their spiritual rock. And again I go back to the sin that Moses did, he did not tree treat God as holy. He did not believe in the instruction. He took matters into his own hand. He became his idol. For pride or anger or whatever you want. Alright, let's keep going in 1 Corinthians though. Start uh picking up in verse 5. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not well pleased, for they were laid low in the wilderness. Now, I like this. Now these things happened as examples for us that we should not crave evil things as they also craved. And do not be idolaters. See, you see this theme again about idolatry. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and stood up to play, nor let us act immorally, as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in one day This was I didn't cover it when we were in numbers, but there was a period, this was after uh Balaam, right? You remember the diviner, if you will. They actually, the Israelites started marrying into the Moabites, you know, taking their daughters, they were worshiping other gods. gods and and they were struck down and that's where you see that's the event that happened. Verse 9, nor let us try the Lord as some of them did and were destroyed by the serpents. You remember that episode with with Moses and the fiery serpent. Nor grump Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our instruction, upon whom the ends of the ages have come. That's us, right now, today. We get the benefit of of The complete canon, if you will. Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. And here's the hope we have. No temptation has overtaken you but such as is common to man, and God is faithful who will be. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. Again this constant theme of idolatry. And yet we have the hope right here. Right? There's no temptation that can overcome us. And and through faith, through Jesus Christ, through the Holy Spirit, we can overcome that temptation. Hopefully that's an encouragement to us all. But Moses will eventually see the promised land. Back to Anne's point. Matthew 17. And six days later Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, his brother, and brought them up to a high mountain by themselves. And he was trained. Transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his garments became as white as light, and who was with him? And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with him. So you think back to what we read, Moses appeals. Lord, please let me go over to the promised land. And the Lord says, No. And yet he knew in the future he was going to see the promised land. That's a gracious, holy, merciful God that we serve. Isn't that precious? Yes. One nuance, go ahead, Scott. It's not can, it's must. It's not can flee temptation. Absolutely. It's must. Verse thirteen, therefore my beloved, flee from idolatry. Yeah. And that's my concern as we talk through as we talk through these, right? Here it is in the Old or New Testament, reflecting on those Old Testament passages, learn the lesson of the judgment of the versus learn the lesson of the judgment of God's people. It is It is to be feared. God's holiness is to be revered. So much so that we see no alternative but to flee from the things that the sin that you know, the temptation that couldn't so close, the sin that couldn't so close. You're passionate about it. I got it, Scott. No, I think that's an excellent point. And and yet tied to that, how were they instructed to do that? in the Old Testament. They had the law. They had all this weighty stuff they were supposed to do and could never do it. It pointed to Jesus Christ, who we now have the power to do it through Jesus Christ. So excellent point. Yeah, we're coming to that I love how you guys are tying my story together. Even the epistle of first John, the last verse of the epistle is that right. Keep yourselves from idols. Amen. Right? This constant thing. We're gonna come back to that too, just in a couple of seconds here. All right, so I I thought that was a good discussion and again to reemphasize when you have questions, you know, how do we handle those? You've got to go back to Scripture. Scripture interprets Scripture, right? Put it in context. See where else it's it talks about that in the Bible so you get a different view. Apply those hermeneutic principles. Alright, great, great discussion. Alright, flipping over. We continue on. Moses urges his um Israel to encourage Joshua, their new leader. So back to Deuteronomy. So that might be another instr interesting coffee is with Joshua, man. How did it feel knowing you were about to to take over this this crazy group of people into the promised land? And yet I think um we see Joshua as a very faithful servant, certainly a defender of the faith, and we're going to read a lot more about him in the next book next week. So Deuteronomy 3, 28. But charge Joshua and encourage him and strengthen him, for he shall go across at the head of this people and he shall give them as an inheritance the land which you will see. Remember, you know, Joshua grew up with that older generation. That whole generation passed away and it's just him and Caleb at the end of the day. That would be a very interesting conversation. But just just mind blowing. All right, and then kind of the last part of this first sermon is you remember last week we talked about the six cities that were set apart for refuge, and it was for the Levites and the uh Uh unintentional manslaughter. That's not the right word. What is that called? It's not unintentional. Involuntary. Involuntary manslaughter, thank you. Um so he sets up the the first three of these cities and they're on the eastern side of the George. They're not yet in um not the three cities in the promised land. Alright, so quick summary of the first sermon. Again, reminding them of the Lord's glory, what happened at Mount Sinai, r recalls their sin and recalls his sin, and then really gives that charge to Joshua, recognizes him as the next leader. So that's that's kind of the summary of sermon number one. The second sermon covers Deuteronomy 5 through 26. And this is where we see the What's referred to as the second law, the re-giving of the Ten Commandments. And what is the first commandment? You shall have no other gods before me. Alright, back to this theme of idolatry. God is a jealous God. He will not give up any of his glory. He cannot accept any sin. He is holy, holy, holy. We also see that Moses reminds them of their priority, which is what? To worship God alone and the responsibility to pass it on. on to future generations. So this is where we get to what's called the Shima as Scott just talked about. So go to Deuteronomy six We'll spend a little time there. Deuteronomy six, verse four. Hear, O Israel. The Lord is our God. The Lord is one. Let me pause there for a second. So that that Hebrew word here is Shema. That's why they call it the Shema. And let me read the commentary I have. In my Bible, and then I want to read a commentary from MacArthur. To the Jews, this is the most important text in Deuteronomy. And this agrees with Jesus' own assessment because he called verse five the great and foremost commandment. The Jews refer to these verses as the Shema, since that is the first word in the text meaning to listen in the sense of obeying. It is the central tenet of monotheism. Moses was here trying to teach Israel where her priorities lay and how to guarantee that she would never forget them. So we'll get to that in a second. Let me uh grab the MacArthur book. And again, I often go to MacArthur, but it's good for you to have a couple sets of commentaries so you can get some different perspectives and um uh understand some different viewpoints. But again encourage you study the scriptures first. Don't jump to the commentary. See see if you can struggle through that and work through that and get uh direction from the Holy Spirit, then come to the commentaries and maybe verify verify those viewpoints or get a different perspective. Alright, 6-4. Let me see here. Hear, O Israel. Deuteronomy 6, 4 through 9, known as the Shema, Hebrew for hear, has become the Jewish confession of faith recited twice daily by the devout. The Lord Lord is one. Let's talk about that for a second. The intent of these words was to give a clear statement of the truth of monotheism. That there is only one God. Thus it has also been translated, the Lord is our God, the Lord alone. The word used for one in this passage does not mean singleness, but unity The same word is used in Genesis 2. 24, where the husband and wife were said to be one flesh. Thus, while this verse was intended as a clear and concise statement of monotheism, it does not exclude the concept of the Trinity. Alright, so certainly one God, but this is often one of the proof texts for the Trinity, right? Proof of the Trinity. One God, three different persons. Okay, so I thought that was a Interesting and worth noting. Yes. I was just gonna say as I had tried to witness to several Christians this is the stumbling block, Christ is the stumbling block because they refer to this and say, No, Karen, he's one meaning we don't have three gods. Yeah. And it's really hard to get them to see the unity. Uh Christ Christ sounding like it won't accept. Yeah. It's and and it will be hard to do it with that single verse, right? We have to bring some of the other verses in in in the one we just talked about in Corinthians where Christ was there at during the beginning, right? The Word was God. Christ was there as they wandered in the wilderness, right? When you bring all that together, it's clear to see what the New Testament. Yep. You gotta keep working on them though. Holy Spirit work. Alright, let's go keep going with um these verses here in the in the Shema, if you will. Verse five, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. Again, the greatest commandment, right? Putting Lord as the focus. And these words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart, and you shall teach them diligently to your sons, and you shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie, And when you rise up, and you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontals on your forehead, and you shall write them on the doorpost of your house, and on your gates. So you see there, when are we to share When you sit, when you walk, when you lie down, when you rise up, basically all the time. And I would encourage you as parents, you are the primary responsibility holder for making this happen. The church can can be a an enabler that comes along beside you that helps equip you. The school can be an enabler, whether that's public, private, home school, but you have the primary responsibility to make sure this gets passed on. From generation to generation. Christopher? Yes. I'm at a stage of life where there's an aspect of this that I enjoy more than I did before. And it says here in verse 2, it's not just your son your grandson also. And I think that it's important to remember the generational things that God gives us in the Word. And this is a command for grandparents to be also Yes. Speaker of truth to their grandchildren. That's a great point, Doug. Now I think this is particularly important to Doug because he's prepping a uh grandparent training class, if you will. But excellent, excellent point. It doesn't stop at the parent, right? When you become a grandparent now working with your kids right to to to facilitate that if you will but absolutely it never stops that responsibility never stops you continue to pass on to generations let me read from um Continue on in my commentary in my Bible. Moses was here trying to teach Israel where her priorities lay and how to guarantee that she would never forget them. Unfortunately, before Israel and Judah went into exile, the people did forget. A national tragedy resulted. Hosea put his finger on part of the problem when he attributed it to their lack of knowledge. Right? We must, must, must continue to pass on. And that's why we have classes like this. why we teach, why we preach, all equipping you as parents and you as individuals, depending on your your state of life. I want to also point this about this this particular area of scripture Um hearken it back to the sword of the spirit. That was kind of the theme of uh VBS this week, the armor, but you had the sword of the spirit, right? The word of God. You remember the very first lesson, who quoted from Deuteronomy three times? times when tempted by Satan. Right? Jesus Christ. It's it's this area right here, 613, 616, and Deuteronomy eight three. You shall not put the Lord the God to test. Man shall not uh live on bread alone. In six thirteen, you shall fear only the Lord your God. Right? All in this this particular area. But again, using back to back to Scott's point, we must. We must flee from from sin. You do that through Scripture, by reciting Scripture, by praying, right? That's why we must know the word. We must pass it down. Okay. Any questions about the Shema? Um I thought that was a very interesting and and poignant part of scripture. Proverbs, Psalms, I mean lots of places about the importance of meditating on scripture. Great, great point. Thank you. We'll move on. So what we continue to see in the second sermon, uh warnings issued against compromise, witchcraft, immorality Again, kind of reviewing the laws that he's given before. Moses gives a description of what Canaan is going to be like and the boundaries Uh he reminds them of their financial obligations. Alright, I gotta pause. Couple weeks. I asked you how many of you watched the video that Pastor Gabe put out. Another show of hands, how many have watched the video? You can be very honest All right, not many more. Sinners I'm teasing. Um I really encourage you guys if you can come back tonight, we have the the congregational meeting, then the bouncy house, some fun stuff, but um the elders will We'll be talking about kind of their vision, um, how it's tied to the budget to support that vision. So I I'm pretty I'm very excited about what's happening. So I encourage you if you have time to come out tonight at six PM um to hear that message, um you will be blessed. So And and go watch the video. So however, um and we see this often, but Moses predicts Israel would eventually beg for a king. So let's go over that. Deuteronomy 17. So here he is, right, the new generation telling them about how they're they're to follow you know the Lord, obey him and you will have blessings and we'll talk about that in a second. But but here he already knows that they're gonna they're gonna deviate. And this is actually, we'll get this in a c in a few lessons, a pretty exciting part of the Old Testament. Where they actually ask for a king. Alright, 17, chapter 17, starting in verse 14. When you enter the land which the Lord your God gives you, and you possess it and live in it And you say, I will set a king over me like all the nations who are around me. Right? God was their king up to this point, and they're gonna ask, just like the nations around them, they want a king. But listen to the graciousness of the Lord. You shall surely s Set a king over you whom the Lord your God chooses, one from among your countrymen, you shall set as king over yourselves. multiply horses for himself, nor shall he cause the people to return to Egypt to multiply horses. Since the Lord has said to you You shall never again return that way. So he's describing here, they're going to ask for a king. I'm gonna I'm gonna choose a king for him, and this is how the king should act. The the the good qualities, if you will. Neither shall he multiply wise for himself, lest his Now it shall come about when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself a copy of this law on a scroll in the presence of the Levitical priests. And it shall Test one, two, three, better? Alright. Okay. Alright, so we talk about the king. Um yeah, great, great point, Rob. I love it. Moses summarizes God's overall purpose and plan for that generation. You see in the block there And he brought us out from there, from Egypt, in order to bring us in, to give us the land which he had sworn to our fathers. So that's kind of the end of Sermon 2. Again, he renews the law of the covenant, repeating the ten commandments. Reminds them of their priority. We just went through the whole Shema. Do not forget the Lord. Pass it on from generation to generation. Alright, and then we come to The third sermon. And this is where we have the the introduction of the Palestinian covenant. We'll we'll cover this chart in a second. But I I do like this chart because it shows um not the complexity but some of the the truths of these these covenants. But we'll get to that in a second. Moses ordered first though, Moses ordered the blessing and the curses or judgments of the law to be read by the Levites upon two mountains. So when they were to get into the promised land, one was to read uh blessings on this Mountain and the judgments or curses on the other mountain. And there were specific blessings, and we'll see in uh Covered in Deuteronomy twenty-eight and then the curse curses follow that. So what you really see here is I'll call it a a conditional aspect of the covenant, right? Where they're going to go into the promised land, but the blessings are predicated. dedicated on them obeying the Lord. And when they don't obey there is judgment and curses. And and we're going to see in several lessons where they are ultimately, you know, brought into captivity, the kingdom is divided. So so they will see those judgments. But this This portion of it, the blessings and the curses, really is a conditional aspect of having blessing in the land. Okay? We're gonna see that the Palestinian covenant, though, is really an eternal, unconditional covenant that will happen later in time. Alright, so I I wanted to to bring that together because I think it's a a good distinction. Alright, let's flip over to Galatians. Galatians three. You've got Romans, first, second Corinthians, then Galatians. And again, highlighting this idea of the blessings and judgments of the law, right? This is what they were under at this point. They were under the law. Therefore, the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ, that we may be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor, for you are all sons of God. through faith in Christ Jesus. For all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. Jesus. And if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise. So I wanted to highlight this first of all the the blessed hope we have Right, that we are not under the law anymore. Um Jesus completed that law, if you will, and if you are uh a child of God, you no longer have that that sin hanging over you, right? Um but you remember this was to point towards Christ. So those first five books is really that foundation pointing to Christ. But the the end part of that, right? We are part of Abraham's offspring if we are a child of God. Those promises are for us today as well. Not just the the Levitical law, if you will, those who were circumcised. And you see that in other parts of the New Testament. So I I wanted to give you that encouragement of who does that promise belong to? You know, as Gentiles We were grafted in. But there will be a literal promise for the nation and people of Israel. But we get to receive that blessing too. And that's that's why I like this chart. So you have the Abrahamic covenant and you have the verses down here and we're gonna cover the the uh the land covenant or Palestinian covenant in a second, but this um unconditional eternal You know, covenant is for the nation of Israel, but it also affects the other nations and other people, us Gentiles. And so when you see the new covenant, which is really that blessing, I feel like the Mosaic Covenant is a is a tutor pointing to The new covenant, right? That's what I wanted to get from a Galatians here. And that will be to Israel, but also us as Gentiles, also us as nations. But that will be fulfilled in its finality though in the millennial kingdom. Right? All of these will be ultimately fulfilled in the kingdom. Okay? So let's talk about the the Palestinian covenant specifically. And there's really seven aspects or seven features of it that That you will find in Deuteronomy 30. And as I just mentioned, it really is an amplification of the Abrahamic covenant. It talks about the land, the seed, and the blessing. This is an amplification of the land piece of that covenant. And you see the um the seven features. The nation will be plucked off the land for its unfaithfulness. There will be a future repentance of Israel Their Messiah will return, Israel will be restored to the land, Israel will be converted as a nation, Israel's enemies will be judged, and the nation will then receive her full blessing. Again, a lot of that not being fulfilled until the millennial kingdom. Okay, let me read from Moody Handbook of Theology, Paul Hens. I thought he did a really good description of the Palestinian covenant. The book of Deuteronomy anticipates the possession of the land by Israel The people journeyed through the wilderness and came up on the east side of the Dead Sea in anticipation of possessing the land This is an important emphasis of the book, since 69 times the writer of Deuteronomy repeated the pledge that Israel would one day possess and inherit the land promised to her. The Lord reiterated the conditional nature of the covenant by citing the necessity of obedience for blessing, while citing the judgments for disobedience. That's what we just covered. The judgments anticipated the dispersion by Assyria, Babylon and And this is where they will go into captivity, and we'll cover that later. However, when all those calamities were over, God revealed that Israel would once again possess the land that would ultimately be f be fulfilled in the millennial. kingdom. The Palestinian Covenant is important inasmuch as it reaffirmed Israel's title deed to the land. The promise of the Palestinian covenant is not abrogated because of the conditional Mosaic Covenant. The Palestinian covenant is termed an eternal covenant because it is part of the unconditional Abrahamic covenant and an amplification A study of Deuteronomy 28 through thirty shows that God foretold Israel's apostasy and dispersion under Assyria. Babylon and Rome prior to her occupation of the land. Before the Palestinian covenant will be fulfilled, Israel must first come to a place of repentance and knowledge of Messiah and be regathered to the land from the nations where the people have sett settled over the millennia. The Palestinian covenant, then, is a future eschatological event finding fulfillment in Israel's appropri appropriation of the land. In the millennial kingdom. Okay? That makes sense? So right now you see kind of a conditional aspect based on the law, based on the blessings and the curses. But there will become that unconditional promise that will get fulfilled, but it's not until the Pelicans. or the millennial kingdom. Okay. Alright, so that's the third sermon was really this introduction of of the the blessings and the curses and again the Palestinian covenant, that future promise that was going to be Fulfilled by a holy God. Alright, so those are the three sermons. The rest of Deuteronomy starts again to pass the baton to Joshua, and you see the challenge to Joshua. Then Moses called to Joshua and said to him, in the sight of all Israel. And I love these words. Be strong and courageous, for you shall go with this people into the land which the Lord has sworn to their fathers to give them. And you shall give it to them as an inheritance. And the Lord is the one who goes ahead of you. He will be with you, he will not fail you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed. Then he commissioned Joshua the son of Nun and said, Be strong and courageous, for you shall bring the sons of Israel into the land. I I'm thinking back to something Stephen said about about leadership. You remember The twelve spies, these were all respected leaders of their tribes, and when they came back, it was only Caleb and Joshua. What did he do? He was strong and courageous, right? And he did not fear the Lord. He says, We can take this. The Lord has promise. And you see this again. Um and I think I think you see that that narrative repeated for Joshua. We'll see more about that when we follow him. But leadership is hard. You need to stand up, be strong and courageous. And that's not just church leadership. That's you moms and dads in the home protecting your home. That's you and your community. That's you and your workplace. Be strong and courageous. Alright, so the passing of the baton. Now, before Moses passes away, we have this uh we have this song that is created. But let's make sure we understand the purpose of the song. Was it just a a worship song and made everyone feel happy and glad? Not quite. So let's go to Deuteronomy chapter thirty-one. Deuteronomy thirty one starting in verse fourteen and and we'll get to know why the song was created. And the song is actually in thirty two and it's quite lengthy. But let's start in 31 verse 14. I'm not going to read the song. Then the Lord said to Moses, Behold, the time for you to die is near. Call Joshua and present yourselves at the tent of meeting, that I may commission him. So Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves at the tent of meeting. And the Lord appeared in the tent in a pillar of cloud in the pillar of the table. The pillar of clouds stood at the doorway of the tent. And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, you are about to lie down with your fathers, and this people will arise and play the harlot. with the strange gods of the land, into the midst of which they are going, and will forsake me and break my covenant which I have made with them. Before they even get into the land The Lord knows they're gonna break the covenant. Then my anger will be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them and hide my face from them, and they shall be consumed, and many evils and troubles shall come upon them. So that they will say in that day, Is it not because our God is not among us that these evils have come upon us? But I will surely hide my face in that day because of all the evil Which they will do, for they will turn to other gods. Again this idea of idolatry. So here's the instruction. Now therefore, write this song for yourselves and teach it to the sons of Israel. Put it on their lips in order to Order that this song may be a witness for me against the sons of Israel. For when I bring them into the land flowing with milk and honey, which I swore to their fathers And they have eaten and are satisfied and become prosperous, then they will turn to other gods and serve them, and spurn me and break my covenant. Then it shall come about when man many evils and troubles have come upon them. That this song will testify before them as a witness, for it shall not be forgotten from the lips of their descendants. For I know their intent, which they are developing today, before I have brought them into the land which I swore. So Moses wrote this song the same day. And taught it to the sons of Israel. Again, passing down from generation to generation. The song was meant to be a reminder. of obeying the Lord. Um to finish up we see blessing upon the individual tribes and then Moses departs for heaven. And let me read that. We saw the bumper sticker earlier. There thirty four ten. Since then no prophet has risen in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face. Wonderful narrative about this leader Moses that we we see in the last four books. Um I I can't imagine what that was like 'cause he knew he was coming to the end. He appealed, Lord, please let me go into the promised land. The answer was no. Yeah, we know later on he he did make it and he's now in the promised land. Um but just a a great narrative. narrative or study of leadership, how to be a godly leader, be strong and courageous. And again I would encourage you all right to pass on the good news from generation to generation. Okay? Let me pray.