Alright, if you want to open your Bibles, please, uh, to Genesis, but we'll be flipping around a little bit. A show of hands real quick, who was not here last week? All right, good. I'm going to go over just kind of basics again from from last week, not in the uh depth that I did, but just to kind of reorient and give people some context. So here's the uh course outline I did provide a I don't have it here today but a one handout kind of a reference sheet that has the schedule And then on the back, the framework that we're going to use going through the Old Testament. I will put that reference, I will post it. I believe it's part of the slide deck, but I will post it for you. The other thing is what we're doing is I'm not printing the slides, just the the Word document, but I try and put the slide numbers on there so if you if you miss a class and you have to listen later on you can kind of follow along because it shows what slide I'm on. Okay. Um so that's all there. So that's where we're at. Uh last week was just an intro. I'll go over that really quick. And today we're focusing on Genesis one and eleven. And as you guys know, there's so much packed into, you know, these initial five books even of the Bible. So That's why we're going to spend a lot of time there and we break out Genesis like I have shown here. But I'm super excited to well, I'll hold off on that. The framework that we have. Alright, why a survey? You know, some of you saw this last week. There are times when we have to dig in deep to a particular passage or book, right, to understand it. But a survey is simply an overview. To get the bigger context of what's happening, you've got to zoom out. And this is a picture of where Karine and I went to school at Michigan Tech. Absolutely beautiful. But the bigger context is it's it it's a school way up here in the upper peninsula of Michigan and again absolutely stunning and beautiful um during the summer. During the winter? I mean literally I think it was average of two hundred and fifty, three hundred inches of snow. It would snow every single day for a month, at least like four inches. It was incredible And what our school would do, we would have a winter carnival and we would have um you know all kinds of sports activities, but we would build these huge statues, two three-story high statues. It was just phenomenal But yeah, pretty extreme um environment up there. Which is where I met my extreme wife, so it's all But Cream grew up uh you know just uh hour north of Green Bay and I was down here in uh just north of Detroit, but that's where we met. Uh what I didn't share last week is when I retired from the Air Force I was in the acquisition career field and which meant I dealt a lot with industry and I vowed I would never go work for industry. They were just a bunch of slime balls, right? That was my interpretation. However, the last job I had, I got to spend a lot of time with industry. It wasn't just the business development person coming in, it was the the entire team, and I got to see a very different side. But I say that to say my initial goal was was to move back to Michigan over here on the west side. Um we had done a tour in Newport, Rhode Island. If you've never been there Absolutely beautiful and one of our our favorite I get asked what was your favorite um you know location as far as assignments Newport, Rhode Island is way up on the list. We had so much fun there. But just that ocean environment, we really, really enjoyed that. Um love the mountains, love everything else, but if if you had to ask us we would be um coastal people And so we wanted to try and get over here to Holland because the Great Lakes act very much like the ocean. I mean the raw power, the beauty, it's all there. and I started to have some informational interviews. There's not a lot of business out here, right? And there was a small tech company that made auto dimming mirrors. I don't know if you have those in your car. They're fantastic I have one in my 2004 car and I just love it. So we got to talking and he's he he's talking about the um you know, the technology and what they do, auto dimming mirrors, blah blah blah. And he says, Well Christopher, what do what do you do? Because I was on my way out at that point. I said, Well, I I acquire nuclear deterrence He's like, all right, stop. How can you go from that to auto-demning mirrors? And and he was right. You know, so I got to stay in that missionary and ended up hiring on with a defense contractor that stayed in that mission area, nuclear deterrence. And so um just had a great, great time. But yeah, just a little history there. We did try and get back to Holland. But I don't know, is Doug Baldrich in the room today? He's not. I think he provided in Kareem that he's actually he and his wife are planning a trip to Michigan and they're gonna You know, they're gonna see the sights here, but I'm gonna recommend on the west coast. If you guys have never been, really it's absolutely beautiful. I mean the colors I just showed you Absolutely beautiful. Alright, so the idea though, again, a survey, why we're doing this class is we want to be stepping back and get the broader picture of how God is unfolding his redemptive plan. The theme we're going to use is we're going to back to Luke 24 in the road to Emmaus. And I encourage you, if you have not recently read that episode or that adventure, if you will, go back and read it. Okay? Because here Jesus is saying to these two men, he starts to tell all about him, it says, through the Old Testament, the law and the prophets in the Psalms. That's a reference to the Old Testament. Right, those books had already been established. And later on it i they they remark and they say, weren't our hearts burning when he was telling us that story I am hoping that our hearts will also be burning as we go through this lesson. That's kind of the mindset I want you to have. And so for a framework, this is what we're going to be using. And what I showed you last time is in your Bible, what you will see is the what is considered the the uh books of the law, the first five books, the historical books is are Joshua through Esther Actually Esther is is out here, but timeline-wise it fits in Ezra, so that's why I have it labeled the way I do. Those are kind of your foundational books about the history, uh right? The the law is the foundation of Christ. And the historical books, the preparation for Christ. Again, the major theme we want to have throughout is keeping our eyes on this theme of Jesus Christ. How is he being revealed progressively through time? In your Bible, though, you will see those historical books, and then you will see a section on poetry, and then you will see a section on the prophets. What we're going to try and do is intersperse those, integrate those in the timelines that they are presented in history. So that you can really get a sense of of where the prophets were, what was happening when the prophets were prophesied. And for example, Job is actually written during the time of the patriarch. So next week we're going to involve Job in our discussion. Again, I think it's going to be just exciting to roll in the poetry and the prophets when the the time they were on the scene Okay? In addition, we're going to be looking at the covenant. So that's what these symbols mean. The Noaiic, today we'll call cover the Noahic covenant, Abraham, Mosaic, Palestinian. The Vedic covenant and then the new covenant in Jeremiah. So that's what that means. Okay? Now foundational to that is again this idea of progressive revelation. God chose in his wisdom to reveal this plan and even attributes about himself over time. That's what progressive is. And it it builds on each other, right? As time progresses, it builds on itself. It's not a replacement or a change, per se. Hermeneutics is important, the art and science of interpreting scripture. Right here at Hope, we Hope Bible Church, we use a literal, grammatical, historical interpretation. And that's what we will use as well. Dispensation is this idea of stewardship arrangement, how God is interacting with man. And we're going to see that that changes considerably even in Chapters 1 through 11 in Genesis. So the kind of the first part of the the Bible you see a lot of dispensations happening. We'll cover that uh in more detail. And then the doctrines. You know, we basically have ten major doctrines that we teach at Hope Bible Church that are really foundational to understanding uh the Bible and understanding who God is, who man is um in sin and in salvation. So we're going to integrate that as we go through time here. Okay, any questions on this? Does this make sense with kind of the structure and framework that we have? So the focus areas in Genesis 1 through 11, as you probably know, but we're going to see creation And that quickly turns into the fall and and the consequences with that. I mean that just changes everything, doesn't it? And you start to see quickly God reveal his plan of redemption even immediately after the fall. You heard Pastor Dave preach on that last week, right? Which is super, super exciting We transition into the flood and then how did we get to the nations? So that's the big four focus areas in um Chapters one through eleven. Alright, so if you go to your notes, um what I did is I put a bottom line up front, uh maybe that's helpful as kind of a summary. And I know the first one is kind of duh, but it it's a great, great reminder. God is not the author of sin. And we're going to cover that in more detail. Where did sun sin come from? And why? Why did why did he allow it? Right? Let's talk about that. And as I just talked about, God's plan of redemption for mankind starts immediately after the fall. That is precious, precious, precious. And then I I I'm pretty excited about, but to follow this path of redemption, let's follow the genealogy, right? Let's see where that takes us. And what you're going to see is God choosing specific people and a specific nation to carry out that plan. It's been super exciting for me to kind of pull that thread of, you know, who's who in the zoo as we see that unfold Oftentimes we can see these long lists of genealogies and you're just like, uh, I uh why? You're gonna see why. It's important. That lineage is very, very important. So instead of following the money, follow the genealogy. All right, um starting with our notes here, creation of man, Genesis chapters one and two. And I'm not going to go through that account. You you knew that account. Rob Thompson and his class went through that in great, great detail. But I want to talk a little bit about what does creation say about our God? And there's a couple attributes that I really want to highlight here. First, that God is transcendent, meaning he is greater than creation. He's not creation. He's not this, some believe he's everywhere. He's this this podium. He's this computer. He's well, well above creation. That's important. Right, to magnify his deity, his unchangeableness, right? God is transcendent. Now, he could have stayed in that condition, right? I'm up here, creation, you're down here He's in and and he is independent, right? He does not need creation for anything. He didn't create mankind because he needed something. He created mankind because it brings him joy and it brings him glory. Period dot. But he none of creation is needed for his existence. So not reliant on anything. So I talked about him being transcendent, and he could have stayed that way, but he is also imminent with an A. What does that mean? It means to exist or remain in. Although not needing creation, God chose to stay intimately involved in his creation in a personal way. That is very, very precious. I want to read from you from uh Grudham. And I thought he did a really good job of summarizing the combination of these two facts. The teaching of Scripture about the relationship between God and creation is unique among the religions of the world The Bible teaches that God is distinct from his creation. He is not part of it, for he has made it and rules over it. The term often used to say that God is much greater than creation is the word transcend. Which we just covered. Very simply, this means that God is far above the creation in the sense that He is greater than the creation and He is independent of it. God is also very much involved in creation, for it is continually dependent on Him for its existence and its functioning. The technical term used to speak of God's involvement in creation is the word imminent, meaning remaining in creation. The God of the Bible is no abstract deity removed from the uninterested in his creation. The Bible is the story of God's involvement with his creation, and particularly with the people in it. Job affirms that even the animals and plants depend on God, and this is the quote, In his hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind. End quote. In the New Testament, Paul affirms that God gives to all men life and breath and everything, and that in him we live and move and have our being. Indeed, in Christ all things hold together, and he is continually upholding the universe by his word of power. God's transcendence and eminence are both affirmed in a single verse when Paul speaks of One God and Father of us all, who is above all and through all and in all. Isn't that precious? You know, I I I get excited. I think I shared with you one of the books that was very powerful for me and my Maturing and my growth was uh The Attributes of God by by Pink. And I think there are other authors when I went back and read that, he's actually a hard read, but Just it was profound for me to finally see the expanse of the attributes of God, who He is. So I bring this up simply to highlight as As we're unraveling this, as you're reading Scripture, take time to think about what does that say about God and who he is and his attributes? Right? He is transcendent, all powerful, and yet imminent, intimately involved in our lives. Has to be. That's precious. That's precious to me. Alright, so that's God So now we look at creation again before the fall. What does that describe about man? What kind of attributes does he have? What does the creation event say about man and his attributes? We know We are made in the image of God. Genesis 1. 26. What does that mean? The likeness of God in mind, will, and affections, and includes our ability to reason, our self-volition You know, our emotions, our moral responsibility. And and here's the key, that description is not given to any other created thing, to include the angels. It's specific to humans made in the image of God. This is a defining characteristic that we're going to see later when we talk about the flood, what happens after the flood. So hold hold that thought about the image of God. I would say it's also a very defining characteristic that should govern our interaction with each other, with humans today. And let me let me share a little vignette. It may seem very silly, but hopefully it gets the point across. I shared this with uh the men's Saturday morning group, so hopefully you haven't heard this before, but It was um Thanksgiving around Thanksgiving time last year, maybe a week before, and our dishwasher broke. Awesome first world problem. Right? No worries. So we go to Lowe's, we pick out a dishwasher. And we have plans to have quite a big group over for Thanksgiving. So of course we want the dishwasher installed before Thanksgiving because, yeah, we need it, right? Um so we go to Lowe's, I get all that set up and they schedule a time and and we're gonna be cutting it close, right? But what they do is Lowe's gets a third party and and there was actually a sale on the instel, so I got it for free. Absolutely. I don't want to mess with that So I schedule that they have a third party. So the third party schedules time with me, and it's usually a window. Hey, I'll be there in the morning between X and X. They then go to Lowe's. They have to pick up the the dishwasher and then they come to my house. My house is in a gated community, so they gotta go up to the fence and hey I'm here Um, all good. We had it scheduled right before Thanksgiving. We were in good shape. That day at work, I had to sit through several meetings that I couldn't have my cell phone there. And I couldn't get out, right? So I don't I don't know what's going on. So I get out and sure enough they had called. They they were trying to say, hey, I'm I'm here, I'm ready, where are you at? So I called a guy back and I said, Hey, hey, I sorry I missed you, what's going on? And he said, Well I I was at the gate, um uh they called your your number, I went and picked up the device, I had to return it, you know, I'm getting ready to go out of town for Thanksgiving. And I I I certainly I got frustrated, right, because the window was still open. And I'm like, hey, you got you got a couple hours left, right? Let's get this thing done. And the frustration obviously showed in my voice and in my communication. I certainly didn't get belligerent, I wasn't swearing, I I just don't do that, but I clearly got frustrated with the guy. Finally said, okay, fine. Um hung up and just brood for a little bit. And then it got heavy. Just started to weigh on me. This and literally I thought this, this man, I don't even know his heart condition. This man was made in the image of God. He is not to be treated that way. And he did everything by the book. So I called him back. And his he's like, I was like, hey, this is Christopher we just talked, and you could tell he's like Uh oh. Well I'm gonna get round two now. And I just I asked for his forgiveness. And and you could tell initially he was very defensive, but then I said, Hey, you know, you did everything by the book. You did not deserve what I just gave you you know, I asked for your forgiveness. And and so we had a good conversation and he went on his way. And I washed dishes by hand on Thanksgiving and that's okay. It's good for you, right? It's like I said, terrible first world problem. But um I bring that up to simply say even in the in the smallest interchanges with each other, let that be in your forethought. Right? This person, yes there's gonna be conflict. Right? You're gonna have healthy tension. It's gonna happen, right? We're humans. But start with this idea, this baseline of this person is made in the image of God. And and I I bring that home to your families, to your spouse. Right? You can get very comfortable. And I'm not here to preach at you. This is you know things that have been impressed on my life that have been this is a help to look at Corrine and say, she's made in the image of God. Right? My children Let that be your governing baseline. That makes sense? All good? Okay. All right, moving on. We obviously are made in two parts, the material parts, our physical bodies, and a immaterial or soul or spirit. That's a dichotomy. There are some views of a trichotomy that would espouse body, soul, and spirit As you work through the rest of Scripture, that view becomes very difficult to connect with some scriptures that talk about our immaterial sense and our physical sense. Right? Hope Bible Church, we believe in a dichotomy, a body and a soul spirit. When you die, it's your immaterial, your spirit that will go to heaven. At the time of glorification, your body, your resurrected body will be reunited. In glorification. A beautiful thing. But that's the that's kind of the foundation. Two parts. And then obviously you know we are made man and woman. Very distinct by God's design before the fall Before the fall, man and woman. We also see the uh introduction of marriage and the family. Right? Genesis 2. 24. For this cause a man shall leave his father and his mother. and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. I know all of this is very rudimentary, you guys know this, but again, trying to set that baseline of the attributes of God and the attributes of man right before the fall. Because we want to talk about this idea of this dispensation or this stewardship arrangement. And again, let's not get hung up on dispensationalism. That's not the point. The point is to understand how God is interacting with man during a certain time frame. Okay? And we call those dispensations. It's the stewardship arrangement. And it has components, right? It has two parties, in this case God and man. And God is giving man responsibilities, and man is accountable to uh carry out those responsibilities. And if he is unfaithful in those responsibilities, that's when you often see a change in the dispensation. So if we look at the responsibilities, what were the responsibilities of Adam and Eve in the garden? They were put in the garden to cultivate it and keep it. Adam, specifically Adam, was commanded, he could eat from any tree except the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Anything in the garden except one tree. Okay? We're going to come back to that. Also to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it to rule over it. So that was the responsibility that Adam had What was the accountability? If he disobeyed, he would surely die. Physically and spiritually, he would die. And what was the state of the relationship at that time? Man had a very intimate relationship with God. Right? We talked earlier about God being imminent. They had that kind of relationship. It talks about God walking in the gar uh in the garden. Obviously God is spirit. Wasn't a physical walking, but the impression of that intimacy, walking closely with Adam and Eve. He talked with Adam and Eve. They had a conversation. And they were not afraid. Right? They were not afraid. So the big question you see in the block there. Why did God create man in the first place? If God did not need man for his existence, glory, or joy And knowing man would sin against the holy God. It's a great, great question. I highlighted it earlier, right? He created man simply because it brought him pleasure. It brings him glory. No other reason. But he knew. He knew that sin was going to enter. And all I can say is that trust We have to trust in God's sovereignty, his providence, his wisdom, that he knew sin would enter the world through the creation of moral beings. Right? He gave us in his image moral beings with voluntary choices. You know, Adam and Eve, I think they call it um original righteousness. Um Certainly an innocence, but they were they were going to be put to the test and they had the willful choice to choose right or wrong. Right? That's that's how it is. That's how God uh put it in place. And and again we have to trust his sovereignty. He knew that's what was going to happen. So there's one more person on the scene here as we talk about creation and in the garden, and uh obviously that's Satan, right? So we we highlight a little bit about angelology. Angels, again, intelligent spiritual beings created by God to serve and worship Him. They proclaim God's holiness. You see that in Isaiah, the seraphim, holy, holy, holy. Execute his judgments, carry out his messages. And you see Michael in Revelation warring against evil, uh the cherubim that were brought to guard uh the garden after they were expelled So again, angels are created beings by God. They're emotional, they're intelligent, and they are spiritual. And then Satan specifically. was given the seal of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. He is probably considered the most splendid angel created. He was probably the the tops of the tops when it came s came to angels, the chief leader. However, Satan is also the author of sin. When in his pride he rebelled against the Creator and caused a host of angels to fall with him. I want you to turn to Isaiah. Because you don't see that here in Genesis. You have to go elsewhere to to get more detail. Isaiah 14 Isaiah 14, starting in verse 12, and this is in a reference to Satan as I start to read this. How you have fallen from heaven, O star of the morning O star of the morning, sun of the dawn, you have been cut down to the earth. You who have weakened the nations. But you said in your heart, and this is what I want you to catch, I will ascend to heaven. I will raise my throne above the stars of God, and I will sit on the mount of the assembly in the recesses of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will make myself like the most high. Nevertheless, you will be thrust down the shield to the recesses of the pit. Do you see the pride just dripping out of Satan at this point? Aye, aye, aye. It was pride. Pride was the sin that entered. Okay? So make no mistake, God is not the author of sin, it is Satan. That's in the angelic realm. What about with man? So again, we talk about this dispensation. We're about to see it changed. Remember, I told you a change can happen when there is unfaithfulness. And we're going to see this. So man sinned. He ate from the one tree he was forbidden to eat and would suffer the consequences. Man would now experience physical and spiritual death. Right? That's what God said. He is being held accountable for his sin. So why did Adam and Eve sin? They had everything. Life was perfect. They could eat from anything. They could do anything. Just one tree they couldn't have. So let's introduce some definitions about sin, some some theology about sin. And this is an excerpt from again Hope Bible Church Statement of Faith. And I'm going to keep bringing that in So um part of your homework is again go back and I will put the link. Um I'll post the link so you guys can have it, but it's on the Hope Bible Church website. You can go there and pull that up. But It's a great opportunity to go back and reinforce what it is that we teach here at Hope Bible Church. So you see the excerpt, but I I thought it was really good, so I just cut and pasted. That's why it's a little bit blurry, but we'll work through it. All right, number one there, sin is an attitude or action that expresses independence from God and his standards. You saw that in the account in Satan, right? He he wanted independence. He wanted to be above God and his standard. It is any thought, word, or deed with which God is not pleased. Sin involves both sins of commission, when man does what God forbids, and sins of omission, when man fails to act the way God commands. Okay, down to number two. Sin is believing a lie and doubting the truth of God. And that's the deception that Satan used with Adam and Eve. It is living pridefully rather than for the glory of God. It is living selfishly rather than as a reflection of God's love. It is the loving of the things of the world rather than the things of God. Bottom line, sin is disobedience to the revealed will of God. What we have right here is revealed moral will, both in thought and deed. It is lawlessness breaking the commands of God. Alright, so that's kind of the foundation that you'll see in our statement of faith for sin. And I again I thought it was a great, great summary of what sin is. What we saw though in in the garden in that account is Adam failed to act as the servant leader God intended Adam to be. And you can see that his role was absolutely distinguished. Adam first, then came the woman. That authoritative role was was absolutely established before the fall. Adam had he was uh responsible for servant leadership at that point And he failed. That was an omission. He was supposed to lead and he didn't lead. Eve was tempted by the serpent. And I want to go. Let's go to Genesis 3. 6. I want you to parse this out. Genesis 3. 6. When the woman saw that the tree was good for food. So let's let's stop there for a second. She saw that the tree was good for food. What's going on in the heart? Discontentment. She had everything in the garden. Everything. She couldn't have one thing and she became discontent So easily that can sneak into our lives. Discontentment. Let's go on. And that it was a delight to the eyes. Covetousness. She started to covet that which she couldn't have. Again, so easily can creep into our own lives Right, that new car, that new degree, the clothes, you name it. So we talk about discontentment and covetousness. We'll keep going. Delights of the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise. Pride. Right? She wanted to be like I. And did you have a question or comment? Yep. In 1 John, I believe it is, it says, Sin is the lust of the flesh The lust of the eyes and the pride of life. And right in the beginning. That's the three it was. That's it, Anne. Great tie. Love it. Yeah, you are spot on. And and what that should be is uh A guard for us, a warning. If we see that in the garden and and Ann, you just tied it to the New Testament, that should be the the armor we put on to protect against those things, right? To not become discontent. And how do we do that? Have a spirit of joy and thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, thanksgiving, thanksgiving for all that the Lord has provided, right? Let that continually be on your lips in your prayers is Thanksgiving. Covetousness, right? Again, being content with what you had, not coveting what your neighbor has, being thankful again for all that the Lord has provided. Sir in the back. That's a great point. Very thank you very much. It all starts internal, right? And and again I love if you kinda stick with those three elements and protect against those Be on the guard. That's where it all starts. We see it right here. It all started with with that type of sin, that type of thought pattern. That's what we have to protect against. So you see Adam, I you know, you go back to the definition of up above, Adam was really an omission. He was supposed to lead and he didn't. What Eve did was a a co-mission, right? She acted wrongfully in her thoughts and in her deeds. So I I I was reflecting on that as I as I was doing this study and again tying it back, Steve, like you were saying, uh the relationship in in our marriage, and specifically for dads and fathers. And I don't say this It it's good to reflect, it's good to examine. So I don't want you to feel like this is, oh woe is me, I I can never do this right, but for for dads, for uh husbands specifically, this idea of omission If we think about the command we have to love our wives as Christ loved the church, dying for the church. In in our ability to die for our wives, our families, but specifically our wives every day, do we do that? We often don't do that and it's an omission. It could be simple things like folding the laundry or um You know, I got my phone on me. When I'm talking to my wife, am I am I doing one of these things or is it laser focused on my wife being intent, trying to understand her, live as um with her in understanding Which means an intimate detail. I just I want to encourage you guys to think about, especially the husbands, this omission piece. What are we not doing? Not as a weighty checklist, but to encourage yourself Right, to be looking at the small little things to make sure you're not omitting your role as a leader. Does that make sense? Okay Put my phone away. And it's a it's a sanctifying process. Um ev even in our own marriage. I look back on maybe some of the early years and all the things I I wasn't doing and I'd like to think that God has matured me through that process. And um Um yeah, it's all fun. Comment in the back? Great point. I don't know if you guys heard that. Um the the point is what that fruit was good. God created it So it's not to say that there's not good things out there, but it wasn't for them, right? Sean, great, great point. And that's been Satan's plan since day one, right? To deceive to get you to think that this is not sufficient, that it's that it is uh false, that it has falsehood in it, anything he can do to strip the authority away from what God has revealed in his inspired word. That is his plan. And he's crafty and he's persistent. Be on the guard. Okay, great, great discussion, guys. Love it. Alright, so what is the consequence of that sin? We see the second block down there. Total depravity. It means that every aspect of man has been affected by the fall into sin. Man's desires, his thinking, his will, his emotions, his conscience, his relationships have all been tainted with sin. This image of God has been distorted through the sin that we saw in the garden. Now, total depravity does not mean that every single human is as corrupt as he possibly can be. And that's the grace of God. Just think if God just turned us over to our total corruption Probably wouldn't be here anymore. We would have killed each other, right? But this idea again of total depravity is every every part of our being is distorted, is is corrupted because of sin and the fall. With no recuperative powers to enable him to recover himself, man is hopelessly lost. Sin has brought man into bondage. Right? It's not just now that we're corrupted, we are in bondage now because of that sin. Man in an unregenerate state cannot break the power of sin over his attitudes and actions. Sin results, we said this earlier, in both physical and spiritual death. Spiritual death involves being separated and alienated from God. That's the state of affairs right now, right? We are separated spiritually. because of what Adam and Eve did in the garden. Man's works of righteousness are as a filthy rag in God's sight, because they are done for man's honor and glory rather than for God out of faith. Works of faith are evidence of faith, but works of self-righteousness cannot be acceptable to a holy, holy, holy God. And that's who we serve. Ah, but God's grace. We see that immediately on the scene, right? We are we are spiritually dead to Christ. We are separated now from God our Father, and yet here he comes on the scene with grace. Grace, God's goodness towards those who deserve only punishment. So immediately after the fall, God demonstrates his grace, starting to reveal his plan of redemption. I know Pastor Gabe covered this last week, but let's go to it. Genesis 3. 15 because it's just it's wonderful. God is handing out the the consequences, the curses because of the sin, and then in 315 he says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. So as we heard last week from Pastor Gabe, you all know that's a reference to Jesus Christ. And he's going to crush Satan. He's going to defeat Satan, even though temporarily Satan seems to get the victory. Right? That's the bruising of the heel. But isn't that precious immediately after the fall, while he's handing out these consequences, he starts to reveal His plan of redemption. And that's now the path we're going to follow as we move forward. Right now, the rest of the Bible is unfolding this plan of redemption, and the theme is Jesus Christ. All right, so that's what we want to keep our minds set on. Okay? Yeah, I wanted to talk earlier about dispensations, and what I told you is we're going to cover, you know, three right up in the first couple chapters here So you can see that first one, that um dispensation of innocence, what we saw in the garden up through the fall. And then we're going to go into uh this dispensation of conscience and then human government after the flood. But it all leads up to to chapter eleven. So you cover three pretty quickly. Again this changing stewardship that No, no it didn't. No it didn't, man. Short time and then we have this long history up to today, right? Yeah. Great point. Alright, so like I said, we've got to follow the genealogy and we'll we'll talk about that. So we know that Adam and Eve, right, so now they're out of the garden and they're they're on their own Adam and Eve had Cain and Abel. And in sin, you know, Cain killed Abel his brother. But God replaced Abel with Seth. And Adam had, and this is the quote, Adam had relations with his wife again, and she gave birth to a son. and named him Seth, for she said, God has appointed me another offspring in place of Abel, for Cain killed him Now I I want to pause there on the on the genealogy. We're going to come back to that, but I want to start to talk about this this new disposition that we're in, right? Covered it back here, why don't I just hang there for a second and we'll go back to it. So this disposition of conscience after the fall So this again is the principal way that God was going to govern mankind. We don't have the Mosaic Law yet. Law wasn't on the scene. So so how does he govern if we're not in innocence How does he now govern mankind? Or what is that stewardship arrangement? Obedience to the dictates of conscience was man's chief responsibility. So that's the responsibility that they had. We can go to Romans 2. For those who were in the Romans class, you remember this, but clearly written in Romans 2, we get an understanding of what that conscience looked like. For when Gentiles who do not have the law do instinctively the things of the law, these, not having the law, are a law to themselves, and that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness. And their thoughts alternately either accusing them or defending them. Right? We are without excuse, it says in Romans. Because of the general revelation of creation, but also conscience that is placed on our each and every one of us. We are without excuse. But that's that's the responsibility. That's the age that we're in when we talk about the age of conscience what is being placed on their hearts. Alright, so back to the example of Cain and Abel. God rejected Cain's sacrifice because he did not bring an acceptable blood sacrifice like his brother Abel. Let's Let's go to that. And I had a typo, it should be corrected on your copy, but that's Genesis 4, not 3 as I had it. Genesis 4, 3 through 8. And I I want to read that account because I think it's important. Starting in verse 3, Genesis 4, verse 3. So it came about in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to the Lord of the fruit of the ground. And Abel on his part also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel and for his offering. But for Cain And for his offering he had no regard. So Cain became very angry, and his countenance fell. Then the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door, and its desire is for you, but you must master it. And Cain told Abel his brother, and it came about when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel, and his brother had killed him. You guys know this account, Pastor Gabe touched on it last week, but you you have two offerings that were brought before the Lord. How did they know what to offer? Clearly, they could have been taught that at some point, but it was in their conscience as well how to bring an acceptable sacrifice to God. Abel brought the blood sacrifice, right? The animal. Cain brought, you know, hey, I'm gonna grab a Piece of corn or whatever from the field. He brought the first fruits from the field. That was not acceptable. Did he know it? He absolutely knew it. He absolutely knew it. But he did not hold God in high regard, and you see that play out. And God kind of gives him a warning. He says, Why are you angry? Right? What you did was wrong. Sin is crouching at the door. You gotta master it. If you don't, you're gonna suffer the consequences. Again, his heart was hardened. And he suffered the consequences of it, right? He killed his brother. Alright, so now we're we're leading up to um the time of the flood, but there's some some genealogy on Cain's side Um I think you see that in chapter the rest of chapter four, chapter five. There's some that I'm not going to cover that in great detail. We're going to cover you know, the critical pieces of that. But I wanted to touch on, you know, what was happening prior to the flood. And you see that pick up in Genesis six. If you want to turn there Bottom line, you can see the notes there is the Earth's population. It was multiplying. And you remember the lifespan You know, some of these people were nine hundred and fifty, nine hundred and sixty-nine years old. That's a long time to ha to have children and populate the earth. So the earth was rapidly populating. And yet we see that there was widespread wickedness. Even in this age of conscience, we see people turning to their wicked ways, being deceived by sin, as we talked earlier. I want to highlight um let's go to six. Let me start in six two, because it it can be a confusing passage. Let me start from sixth one. Now it came about when men began to multiply on the face of the land, and daughters were born to them that the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful, and they took wives for themselves, whoever they chose, then the Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever, because he also is flesh Nevertheless, his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. The Nephilium were on the earth in those days. And what I understand about the Nephilium, they were They were a vicious group, um uh a violent group, I should say. Not a whole lot is written about them. And also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of men and they bore children to them. Those were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart were only evil continuum This reference to the sons of God, it's a little bit uh it's a hard passage to understand what who are these people, what's really happening. The box on the right there Um, is from uh MacArthur Commentary and there's a couple different views on who are the sons of God. Often in the Bible, when we see the sons of God, it's referring to angels. And so you can see one of the views is that the angels took wives um for themselves, um uh as part of the human race. Now did they w we know they would have to take a a human form in order for that interaction to take place, right? It's um it's hard, I I'll be honest with you. The other options are um the sons of Seth, that lineage and the daughters of Cain were co-mingling, or human being human kings were were building harems. Again, a hard passage, I would just simply say that the focus is really on what was happening to the state of the heart. Okay I asked Rob earlier his opinion, and Rob I'll ask you to share. He confirmed it's a tough passage. But you know you taught this in great detail. So I would love for you to just share your thoughts on that Yeah, there's uh there's a various opinions among among scholars about what who these sons of God are and daughters of men and um I think good and got that people disagree. Um I I tend to think because of other passages of scripture that it is referring to some kind of a demonic activity. Um and and But there's a couple of reasons for that. The the passage Sons of God there is the other ancient book that we have, Job, Job that that is about the same time as Genesis, it it has that same phrase Hebrew twice and both times it's uh it's clearly talking about angels in Job. The same phrase here, uh the ancient Hebrews translated their Hebrew scriptures into Greek before the time of Christ. And when they did that, they translated this phrase, sons of God. The Greek word angola. And that means angels. So the ancient Hebrews understood it to be angels. They did the same thing with the sons of God in Old places in Job. And in Job it's it's very clearly angels. There's no controversy there. And so it looks like it's angels. And that's how the ancient Hebrews understood it to be angels. Uh and then there's reference in Second Peter chapter two and the book of Jude to angels, a certain group of fallen angels. So there's fallen angels that are still watching Around during the time of Christ and now, but there's a certain subset of fallen angels that have been in Tartarus hell uh a certain It's a Greek word for hell, tartarus. They have been in chains since the time of Noah. That's what Second Peter and Eastway. And so it seems like there are some some fallen angels did something at the time of Noah that's so bad that God locked them away, threw away the key. And and so it it I think it fits together for angels to have done something with it. However, there are there are others who have different interpretations of that like uh one of them is that it's the sons of seph the sons of god is the line of sev and the daughters of cain are or the uh the sons of uh sons of daughters of man here My big problem with that interpretation is it it it doesn't look at what the scripture actually says in Genesis five. Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters many Many others. I mean, they lived for eight hundred more years having other sons and daughters, so the vast majority of the population at the time of the flood was neither descendants of Seth nor descendants of Ken. And so only focusing on saying that when you when you have the sense of God it's only these two very minuscule parts of the population that doesn't seem to make sense to them. Uh but for others that's that's what they see. Um and and I think that there's room for disagreement here. I mean if if people see it as one thing or the other, that the key uh understanding from this passage is what Christopher has has focused on and and that's the wickedness. There was there was wickedness. And the exact character of the wickedness people disagree with it. But the fact that there was this uniform wickedness that made it so that God was going to show his justice by destroying the vast majority of people. everybody said two eight people uh is really the focus of the passage and if we if we get too if we go if we spend too much of our time focusing on intention going down a rabbit hole, I think that's a that's a mistake. Rob went into teaching mode there, man. Isn't it isn't it great having a scholar in the room though? So I'm gonna have to deconflict any future teaching arrangements. Thank you, Rob. There um but to Rob's point, we see this wickedness and uh we see going on in the passage God going to blot out the living creatures from the face of the earth, with the exception of Noah's family and two pair, right, of the living creatures. With the exception of Noah and his family who found favor in the eyes of the Lord. And often when you see that favor, it's because they they simply obeyed, they believed. You know, that's what we see in the Old Testament, credited as righteousness. They believed. They obeyed. All right, so we we see the progression of this lineage. We know that um Abel was killed and Seth was that replacement. So we see Seth come on the scene and I'll just show the the rest of that. Now, the dotted lines mean that there's it's not a straight shot. It didn't go Seth Enoch. There's people in between there. But I wanted to show some of the critical pieces in there. Who's Methuselah? The oldest, yeah. But he's the granddad, right, of uh of uh or uh yeah, the granddad of Noah. But um yeah, he's the oldest guy in the Bible. If you didn't catch the trivia from last week. But this lineage is what we're going to continue to follow and it's really, really important. So you can see the lineage I have in the notes there actually, but again I want you to know that the dotted lines show that there's actually um an interruption, if you will Um let's go to, if I I think we got time to go, let's go over to Hebrews. I want to show you something. And you guys are familiar with this passage, the Hall of Faith passage, if you will. But who's in there? Who's in the Hall of Fame? Hebrews eleven. I'm going to read up through seven, so let me start uh eleven one. Hebrews eleven one. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped. for the conviction of things not seen. For by it the men of old gained approval. By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the Word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things which are visible. That's the creation account we just talked about. By faith, Abel. Abel's in the book. Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain. You know that I I think that's important, that one act of providing the correct sacrifice through faith, he's now mentioned here in the hall of faith. By faith, Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained the testimony that he was righteous. Right? God testifying about his gifts and through faith, though he is dead, he still speaks. Chap or verse five. By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death. You see in my notes there, um When I when about halfway in the page across from the the box there it says Enoch and then it says he walked with God, right? Verse 24. So again he was someone that was obeying God and here he is in the book of faith. By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found because God took him up. For he obtained the witness that before his being taken up he was pleasing to God Verse 6, and without faith it is impossible to please him. For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him. Verse 7, by faith Noah, being warned by God about things not seen, in reverence, prepared an ark for the salvation of his household. by which he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. We'll stop there. We'll come back because you start to see some uh individuals that will come up in our next lesson, but You know, I just thought it was neat to see that some of these early uh these early giants, if you will, Abel, Enoch, Noah, are mentioned, very few names are mentioned in Hebrews 11, and all three of them are on there Because they believed they obeyed. And you guys know the the context with Noah, right? Here the whole world was against him and he's crazy man building this ark. Um but he's in the Hall of Faith. I think that's pretty cool. So Noah, given the command to build an ark with very specific dimensions, I won't go through all that detail, you know the account. But God promised to establish a covenant with Noah, actually in Genesis 16 Excuse me. And the covenant is there in the block. And this is this is after um the the the flood and they get out of the boat, but let me read that, Genesis nine. And I establish my covenant with you. And all flesh shall never again be cut off by the water of the flood, neither shall there again be a flood to destroy the earth. And this is the sign, a bow in the cloud Right. We preserve the rainbow for God and his sign. Amen. What some people you you might not you might gloss over, we're very familiar with that uh promise or covenant, but In Genesis eight, we also see that while the earth remains, seed time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter and day and night shall not cease. The seasons are also promised Right? Uh which I think is pretty neat. Once again, so now the Lord destroys um basically all the creatures of the earth with the exception of the pears and then the Noah's family of eight people, so what do we need to do? We need to multiply the earth again. We saw that with Adam and Eve, and now we're seeing the same command. Once again, command it to be fruitful and multiply the earth. At this point though, we start to see, or we do see, another change in the dispensation. Now, what I want to caution you here is this idea of conscience hasn't gone away. Remember I told you when you change from one dispensation or one age to another, it doesn't mean that everything is abolished. The truths, the principles still hold Alright? And so you see conscious is still on the play here, but there are some other things that are happening. This is often called the the human or civil age of human or civil government And like I said, it did not do away with conscience. And why? Why does human government? The introduction of capital punishment. Remember I told you earlier about we would come back to the image of God. Genesis 9, 6 Whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed. So man now has a responsibility. He is given a responsibility. to shed blood if somebody kills somebody else. But why? For in the image of God he made man. Right? In the image of God. What else is happening? The animals now fear man. And this is the most exciting part, they get to eat meat now. Bacon! Bacon That's why the animals are afraid. And so that's why the animals are afraid. Yeah. So you see those changing dynamics, but the big one is this responsibility of of human government, of making decisions where before it was all God. Oh, but it doesn't end there. Let's go to Genesis nine. Because Noah is a man. Boy, I gotta get moving here. Sorry guys. Having too much fun. All right, Genesis 9. Um let me just read that uh start in 20 and move down to 28, and we'll wrap this up pretty quick here We're at the end. Genesis nine twenty. So they're they're off the boat now. Um and then then Noah began farming and planting a vineyard. And he drank of the wine and became drunk and uncovered himself inside the tent Remember Adam and Eve, when they uh noticed they were naked, they were afraid, right? So that this was an issue. That wasn't supposed to happen. And now you have um, yeah, so you can see the sons of Noah at the bottom there. So Ham goes in first, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father. And went out and told his two brothers outside. And then how do Shem and Jepheth respond? But Shem and Jepheth took a garment and laid it upon both their shoulders. and walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father. You see the leadership, right, in Shem and Jeff, and I think primarily in Shem That this is not right. I'm not supposed to see my dad uncovered. Again, the conscience piece of that, but how does he respond in leadership? He does what he is supposed to do. Alright? And their faces were turned away, so they did not see their father's nakedness. When Noah awoke from the wine, he knew what his youngest son had done to him Right? He recognized what had happened and hears how how Noah um responds to his children. So he said, Cursed be Canaan. That's that the Ham lineage now. A servant. He will be a servant of servants. He shall be to his brothers. He also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. And may God enlarge Jepheth and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. So you see in the block that I have here on your on your notes there, I just ha I have the sons, but then kind of the um proclamation by Noah. So Shem was given this special favor again for his leadership. Jepheth too, but his descendants he would enlarge Jepheth, and then Ham was going to be a servant to his brothers. I mean that was kind of the I won't call it a curse, but the um consequences of his sin. Um real quickly, at that time, you know, now now we go beyond that and we're moving towards um uh this episode at at Babel, right? But right now we see that the world is being populated and they spoke with one language and they were united in in their presence. Right, and they ended up in the plains of Shannar, I think it's called, and we're at Babel, and you know, they get the idea to say, Hey, let's build a tower. And the top will reach above the heavens. Again, we see the same sin of pride, right? Of wanting to be above the Lord And so I thought that was a neat rendition of the the Tower of Babylon. I have no idea if that's what it looked like, but so that's what's happening right now is is They have come together and once again there is wickedness throughout the land. You see that play out over and over again. You see, God saw their evil intent. and confuse their language and scattered them across the face of the earth. So this is where I thought that was a neat neat map at the bottom here. This is where you start to see the nations disperse with all of their different languages. We see that today, right? But this is where it started to happen, right here at uh Babel. We're getting close to time. We're gonna wrap up and we are done. We're gonna shift next week. You're going to see this shift from God dealing with with um this population. He always deals with the population, but specifically when we talk about the the plan of redemption This this population, the nations now zeroing down to a particular person and a particular nation. So we're going to see that change next week. Alright, let me pray real quick