Um you see at the top of your sheet there I always like to start with kind of the bluff up front and here we are in numbers already. And what I've written there is we are in in pretty self-explanatory, but you will see we are to walk in obedience to the word. will of the Lord. However, that obedience requires faith. And disobedience will have its consequences as we're going to see. Um I don't know how often you spend time in numbers. The title makes it sound pretty bland. Right, numbers, and you're going to see the Israelites are numbered. There is so much that happens in numbers. It's just a phenomenal book. Amen. And specifically, some great applications. So we're going to take a look at that. Just a great, great study in leadership. So let's take a look at where we left off last time No, this is not the Sinai Peninsula. This is the DMV. Right? Where we left off is the fireworks. So we have to talk about Operation Independence. Now you met my old I told the starter last week, right? She's just super adventurous and is like we gotta do them all one time. We've gotta have that experience. And because I love my family I acquiesced. Said, absolutely, let's go, let's go make this happen. However, because they love me, they were willing to do this operation in waves. So wave one went down early. They left the house at 8 a. m. in the morning. in the morning because they wanted to see the parade. They do the reading of the declaration. Just very, very patriotic, very, very good, very cool. So they did. They went down and they set up a uh Ford operating base down there on the South Capitol the lawn. And um however we needed some more members to our team. So we needed to pick up a a special ops member at the airport. Actually that's my daughter, Adelaide. Raise your hand, Adelaide. Who lives in uh Colorado. She's in elementary school, but she flew in for the fourth and we're super excited to have her here. Crean is actually at the airport right now dropping Isabel back off to go back to Michigan. But um What number is Adelaide? She is Number four. I have seven. I can't keep track of that, Ann. That's not fair in front of everybody. We did. We had number one. Right. Yeah. Okay, so we picked her up and wave two went in about six six PM in the evening, which was great. We arrived, we took the metro, so many of you um got to our our family afterwards and said, Hey you gotta take the metro and absolutely that is the right way to do it. Um we were down there with two millions of our best friends down there and um yeah it was pretty neat. But so they found this location uh We they had a concert on the South Lawn of the Capitol and that's this picture over here. So over here to the right is the stage and then you just turn a little bit left and there's the monument. So they just found a primo spot. It was perfect. And then you can see the fireworks. right next to that. It was just uh it was a great time, the fireworks were great. But now you gotta get home. The Exodus, right? Now I've been on the metro many, many, many, many times. So I I knew what this was gonna look like. Not a big deal. Okay? So we get on the green line. It's really right there by the Capitol. Yes, they heard us in there, right? We're we're holding on and there's people touching you and it's got it, no problem. But about halfway through, um The line stopped because they were waiting for some other signal train to get through the system. And we we stayed there for probably fifteen minutes and the air was shut off. For some reason Yeah, yeah. Guys, I was just drenching with sweat. The windows were fogging up. It was just miserable. I was trying to memorize every verse I could remember. Just stay calm. Just stay calm. So that's why you see the red on the arrow there. We got off the metro and easy ride home and and really we had a great time. But um that's I've probably checked off the bucket list for Mr. Green. We're probably good. That doesn't mean the rest of the family won't venture down there, but uh yeah, we had a good time. So thank you for the input. Alright, in all seriousness, we are on lesson number six in the Book of Numbers and like I said it's a a very, very exciting book. There is lots going on, so let's jump into that. You see the summary to this point. So again, just a a little uh background um where we've gone and and where we're gonna go. It has been well said that it took God only one night to get Israel out of Egypt. But it took forty years to get Egypt out of them. The former is an act of salvation, the later is a lifelong process of sanctification. The initial act of salvation called justification is that by which God declares a man righteous. This is illustrated in Exodus, again the theme of redemption. Leviticus, on the other hand, is concerned with the process of making men righteous, called sanctification. And again the theme was holiness. You shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. This is the theme of the book of Leviticus. So we talked about um the tabernacle was a a big part of our discussion last week and and we walked through uh the pieces that were in there, um a big thing, right? Uh half half the size of a football field. I like the way Kirk framed it, you know, church in a box, if you will. The cloud resided over it, the Shekinah glory, and when it moved, the people were supposed supposed to move and when it stayed, they were supposed to stay. And as I mentioned, it was always the entrance was to the uh Towards the east, right? That's where the the sun rises. And we'll get into a little bit more of that today, but um that was a picture of the inside but the tent of meeting, and it was divided, right, by the holy place and the holy of holies, divided by this veil. Right? Because you had to be holy holy to get into uh you know the Aaron and and the priests were able to go in there after their cleansing. But we talked about how Jesus uh at his death, right, that veil was torn. Thick as a man's hand. torn in half from top to bottom. No longer that separation between God and man. And then we talked about the the special garments that the priests, especially Aaron, were to wear, very uh ornate um with colorful materials. the gold weaved in there. The t uh the centerpiece though was that breastplate that they wore, uh the inscription of the twelve tribes, lots of symbolism there, right? The twelve jewels. And inside of that those those two stones or whatever material that was. The Urim and the Thuman. And we're going to talk about that more today, so keep that in mind. Okay? And again, what was the purpose of the tabernacle? It was to be that visible um visible place of worship where God was going to reside with the people. And it was very visible not only to them, but to surrounding people. And it was also a lot of symbolism in here, a precursor to Jesus Christ. We talked about the offerings, right, and the sacrifice. All of those had meaning and symbolism. All of that was fulfilled by Jesus Christ. All of it. Okay, so we see we are now in Numbers. Author again, Moses. Major theme, wilderness wanderings. This is all about God now leading his people, the direction. giving direction to his people. Who's involved? It's going to cover a similar cast of characters as we covered in Exodus. Moses, Aaron, you'll see Joshua again, and of course the Israelites. And where are we at from a timeline perspective? So I told you it didn't take them long to get to Mount Sinai. And then they were there on the mountain, they had to construct the tabernacle. So where we're starting at is about thirteen months since the Exodus. In numbers is going to take us through the forty years where they're now on the east side of the bank of the the Jordan River waiting to go into the promised land. That's how much time that this will cover. Okay? But like I mentioned, uh there's going to be a very interesting decision or milestone here where it didn't need to take forty years. And we'll talk about that. So again, Genesis is about electing a nation. We saw God kinda zero in on a particular nation. Exodus about redeeming that nation. Leviticus about sanctifying the nation. In Numbers is about directing a nation through the cloud and the laws. And it's a a an overall call to faithfulness. Now, two big senses are taking Take place in numbers. The first at the very beginning of numbers, and then there's one later on in Numbers 26. So the first sentence, this is where you get the numbering, right? They start to number the tribes. And what was the criteria? In the second year, after they had come out of the land of Egypt, and here's the criteria, 20 plus years old. And these were men that could go to war. That was the criteria they used. So 20, at least 20 or plus years old. And it numbered 600. These were the men. Right? Then you had the women and the children, and that's where they estimate about two million people. The Levites, right, they were that special tribe set apart, were not included in the census, so they're not in the six hundred and three thousand. The disobedient older generation would die in the wilderness because of their unbelief. their punishment, except for two men. So of those six hundred and three, five hundred and fifty, only two of them will go on to the promised land. That's just mind boggling. Two of them. And we're gonna go into more detail as to why. You know the story, but But this is where just a beautiful uh demonstration of where leadership plays a critical role um in the nation of Israel Alright, so the second census that we'll see at the end numbered about the same, 601,000. These would have been men less than 20 years old or not yet born after the original census. So you have a in an entire generation is what wiped out in forty years because of their unfaithfulness. And this is really about preparation to finally enter the promised land. That's what that second census is all about. So again, I think that's just fascinating. In forty years An entire generation wiped out for their unbelief, except for two faithful leaders. And we'll talk about that. Alright, the order of events. So how Numbers is broken up. You're going to see Israel's direction for the Lord. Israel's disbelief in the Lord, and then Israel's discipline from the Lord. So we'll start with Israel's direction from the Lord. Chapters 1 through 10. You see that the Lord is going to be very um orderly. Right. Our God is a a God of order. He's going to be very explicit with how they are supposed to move out. And so in chapters one through four you see how he is positioning the people around the tabernacle highly organized, symmetrical arrangement for encampment around his presence in the tabernacle. So this is a little glimpse of what that would have looked like And what you can see is a tabernacle in the middle here. And then the Levites, right, these were the priests that were set aside to minister or to support what happened in the tabernacle, right? They made sure the Candles uh stayed lit, they replaced the bread, they were the administrators of the tabernacle. And so you see uh Moses and Aaron are from that line and they would camp again on the east side. And then surrounded around that are the the other twelve. tribes with their numbers. So again, they are numbered through the census and that's how they were to camp around the tabernacle. Right again, think about this is half half the size of a football field and then you have the tribes camped around them. It's just a massive, massive undertaking. Massive footprint, if you will. Um Yes. Well you said before on the other slide that the the uh gates to the tabernacle pointed east because that's where the sun rose. Then in my mind I thought also the S O N rose. Amen. Amen. And I love that tie-and. That's beautiful. Good. But again, very orderly as to who was to be where and why. Alright, so let's talk a little bit about the tribe of Levi Levi. Go to Numbers chapter 3. Numbers chapter 3 we're going to start in verse 1. And this is going to be critical. You know that the Levites were set apart, but let's understand this foundation. Because it's going to come into our story later on. Now, these are the records of the generations of Aaron and Moses at the time when the Lord spoke with Moses on Mount Sinai. These then are the names of the sons of Aaron, Nadab, the firstborn, and Abihu, Elieazar, and Ithamar. These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the anointed priest whom he ordained to serve as priest. But Nadab and Abihu died before the Lord when they offered strange fire. We talked about that last week. Before the Lord in the wilderness of Sinai And they had no children. So Aliazar and Ithamar served as priest in the lifetime of their father Aaron Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Bring the tribe of Levi near and set them before Aaron the priest, that they may serve him. And they shall perform the duties for him and for the whole congregation before the tent of meeting to do the service of the tent of the meeting. Tabernacle, like we just talked about. They shall also keep all the furnishings of the tent of meeting, along with the duties of the sons of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle. You shall thus give the Levites to Aaron and to his sons. They are wholly given to him from among the sons of Israel. So you shall appoint Aaron and his sons that they may keep their priesthood. But the layman who comes near shall be put to death. So the very specific people were to do the service of the tabernacle. And if you were not part of that group, you would die if you approached the tent of meeting. Eleven. Verse eleven. Again the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Now behold, I have taken the Levites from among the sons of Israel, instead of instead of every firstborn, the first issue of the womb among the sons of Israel. So the Levites shall be mine. For all the firstborn are mine on the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I sanctified to myself all the firstborn in Israel, from man to beast. They shall be mine, I am the Lord. So there was kind of this transition from the Lord working with the the firstborn the the firstborn male to now this this tribe that was going to be set apart to do the service uh in the tabernacle So again, Levites set apart for service. Within that, each family in the tribe of the Levites was given specific duties to support of the tabernacle. We won't go through it, but the rest of chapter 3 you'll see that And then as I mentioned, Moses and Aaron camped out at the east entrance, chapter thirty eight or uh verse thirty-eight. Now those who were to camp before the tabernacle eastward, before the tent of meetings, toward the sunrise, are Moses and Aaron and his sons before the table. Performing the duties of the sanctuary, for the obligations of the sons of Israel, but the laymen coming near was to be put to death. So again, you can see uh the picture here, right, that that those tribes were set apart, they were told where to camp and s and specifically with the tribe of Levi within there there were specific families that were given specific duties. So again we have a God who is very orderly about how um the people are to carry out their business This is an indication here too that God's plan includes a Davidic king in the future by Judah, camp of Judah. Yeah, so Doug, great point. Doug brings up a good point. Again, notice that who's up front? Judah. Right? That's the messianic line. Right. Stanley. Uh I was reading Revelation twenty one in the last couple of months. And you know, in Revelation twenty one, twelve It talks about the twelve states and the um and the gates, the names of the twelve tribes of Israel and I got all excited. I thought, wow, I wonder if it's the same thing as it is in the Old Testament. I don't I was just gonna ask is there anything that would, you know, lean into that, not trying to put something there that's not there, but the fact that God is so orderly and Yeah, Diane, I think that's a great picture. And and it's very feasible, right? God seems to work that way, right? In the symbolism and and the order we see up front Um it it would make sense that we would see that at the end. I have not studied that in detail. I think that's a great, great point, but it would not surprise me that the Lord would use that symbolism even in the future, right, as he starts in the Old Testament. Great connection. Love it. All right, we see then in chapter five through six, I'm not gonna go in great detail, but God's precepts are taught on again how to handle uncleanliness and sin in the camp. Um, there's in uh additional instruction on how to live and operate. And again it's for our good. Um so I mentioned Isabel, our oldest, was here and she came up after class last week and we talked about all the the different laws, right, and what foods you can and cannot eat. She's a vet tech, all right. So they do a lot of study on parasites. And she said that, you know, pigs carry a lot of parasites, shellfish. So God put all of these in place for their protection, for our protection. It's not to put a heavy weight on that. on us. And and I'm not saying you gotta be careful about how you bring that forward today, right? A lot has changed. I love bacon. We must keep bacon. But the point is when you see all these laws in the Old Testament They're good. They're good. They're for our protection. They were for their protection. Okay? So I just wanted to make that point. And then we see towards the end of that section uh the the provision for cleansing. So additional instructions for for cleansing. Cleansing before they were to move forward. And specifically for the Levites, right, that we just talked about. So if you turn over to page two, the Levites too purify themselves from sin and wash their clothes. And Aaron presented sent to them as a wave offering before the Lord. Aaron also made atonement for them to cleanse them. Then after that the Levites went to perform their service in the tent of meeting before Aaron and before his sons, just as the Lord had commanded Moses concerning the Levites. They did to them. However, they got a pretty good gig here. Retirement age was fifty. From twenty-five years old and upward they shall enter to perform the service in the work of the tent of meeting But at the age of fifty years they shall retire from service and the work and not work anymore. Alright, they had a special duty, they were set apart, but I'm sure it was a high responsibility, right? It was probably a taxing position, but uh for whatever reason they were to retire at 50. Um I will mention this though, they were set apart They were special from from this entire camp, they were a special people. There's danger in that though, isn't there? Pride can seep in. Anytime you are set apart as special, pride can seep in, and we're gonna Talking about that, so keep that in mind. Alright, so we keep moving on, and now you see the pilgrimage toward the promised land. God prepares them. So here they are at Mount Sinai. They um constructed the temple, they're hanging out, it's now time to move forward. How excited they must be, right? They knew about the promise. They were now moving towards the promised land How do you communicate with two million plus people? The cloud and some trumpets. And whenever the cloud was lifted from over the tent, afterwards the sons of Israel would then set out. And in the place where the clouds settled down, there the sons of Israel would camp. I sometimes think, wouldn't it be kinda cool if we just had a cloud in life today? Lord, where do you want me to go next? Right? Oh, there's the cloud. They didn't have this though, guys. They didn't have this. We have the privilege of this today, in prayer, and wisdom from the Lord. So we must trust as they did. But they clearly had the cloud, God directing them. But you also need to communicate with a lot of people. You have the trumpets. And it was instructed to Moses, Make yourself two trumpets of silver, of hammered work, you shall make them, and you shall use them for summoning the congregation and for having the camp set out. And there was an order that if you just blew one horn it meant something If you blow both of them, it it meant something else. So now when it was time to move, what was the marching order? They just all gaggle together and get in line as fast as they can Of course not. There was an order, right? And here's an indication of the order. And to Doug's point, you know, where's Judah up front? But what you would have is Moses and Aaron would be out front with the Ark of the Covenant, and then you would have these tribes And then you would have the rest of the the um supplies, if you will, for the tent of the meeting. And these are the Levites that would take care of that Right, that was one of their duties. And then more of the tribes and then I think some additional materials. Right? But that was the order. Now, what did that kind of look like? So here's an artist's rendition of what that might have looked like. And again, you have uh the Ark of the Covenant covered here, um the the cloud, the presence of the Lord, but you would have Moses and Aaron up here, and then you can see um the tribes and then the Levites would have carried some more of the materials. But this gives you a just a glimpse of how massive of this would have been massive undertaking when it was time to move. You know, take up camp and now move on. And this would have been observed by others. Throughout the land. Alright, the testimony of the Lord would have been evident here. Yes. I just wonder is it difficult at the time for the symbols of the God of the nation to go out front in front of the army or to stay behind the and be protected? Out in front for sure. Yes, absolutely. You know it was all about the Lord was leading, and we're gonna get into that, so come back to that I mean I mean the pagan nations around it. Uh thinking the warden out in front, this guy doesn't need protection because he needs protection. He's protecting his people versus assembly pagan guys. Yeah. Do they have to hide behind their arms because they're not Interesting. You know, I don't really know. Does anyone have any insight into to that question, Moric? So they didn't have a lot of people other than being there. Yeah, that's that's probably part of it. They will they will encounter Menti though. Yeah, for sure. I I don't know for sure. Um you know that the pagan gods were there were many, right? And we saw that in Egypt in how, um, you know, so many were were ministered. But when Egypt went out, do we have any sense, did they take a god with them? You know, where were their gods when they pursued the Israelites during the Exodus? You know, you don't see evidence of that. So it's a good question, I don't know for sure, just being honest. I'm glad to see the covered wagons for the elderly among them. For sure. For sure. Alright. Where was I? Alright, so we see now that the Israelites are finally on the move and they're gonna move more north. towards the wilderness of Paran. So let's let's add a little context here. This is the chart I've showed you before. They've been they were hanging out in Mount Sinai They had some time in the wilderness camps here. This is where the tabernacle was constructed. And now they're on the move into the wilderness of Paran. So that's this area here. And they're going to end up camping at Kadesh Varnia. And that's going to be a a pivotal point in the history of the Israelites. Alright, so just a little context, that's where they're at. Okay? So I'm going to zero in now on this area of Kadesh Barnia. But I wanted to give you that context. So here we are down here in Kadesh, Barnia. So that's um again for context where we're at. Okay? Now we enter this section of Israel's disbelief in the Lord. And again, like I said, this is a pivotal milestone in the history of the the the nation of Israel. So sure enough, the grumbling starts again. They're on the move. They got the cloud. Right? That's directing them the presence of the Lord, and yet the grumbling starts again. Let's flip over to Numbers 11, and we'll spend some time uh pause or stake out here, if you will. The grumbling starts again, the people start to Chapter 11, I'll start in verse 6. Now the people became like those who complain of adversity in the hearing of the Lord. And when the Lord heard it, his anger was kindled, and the fire of the Lord burned among them, and consumed some of the outskirts of the camp. The people therefore cried out to Moses, and Moses prayed to the Lord, and the fire died out. Continually We see Moses interceding on behalf of the people. So the name of that place was called Tabera, because the fire of the Lord burned among them. And the rabble who were among them had greedy desires. These were people that were stirring up rebellion. And also the sons of Israel wept again and said, Who will give us meat to eat? So here they are, grumbling still. We remember the fish which we used to eat free in Egypt. The cucumbers and the melons and the leeks and the onions and the garlic. But how our appetite is gone, there is nothing at all to look at except this manna. Right, that the Lord provided day after day after day. Now, Moses joins with his own complaint. Skip down to verse 10. Now Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, each man at the doorway of his tent. And the anger of the Lord was Kindled greatly, and Moses was displeased. So Moses said to the Lord, Why hast thou been so hard on thy servant? And why have I not found favor in thy sight? That thou hast laid the burden of all this people upon the thing. On me Was it I who conceived all this people? Was it I who brought them forth that thou should say to me, Carry them in your bosom as a nurse carries a nursing infant, to the land which thou didst swear to their fathers. Where am I to get meat to give to all this people? For they weep before me, saying, Give us meat that we may eat. I alone am not able to carry all this people, because it is too burdensome for me. So if thou art going to deal thus with me, please kill me at once. If I have found favor in thy sight, and do not let me see my wretchedness. So Moses is feeling a little bit of self-pity, right? A little woe is me because of the burden he bear. It's understandable, right? That happens in leadership In in Moses is a human being like all of us. But you see Moses kind of break down there a little bit. Let's see how the Lord responds. Go over to start verse 18 And say to the people, Consecrate yourselves, for tomorrow and you shall eat meat. Hooray! For you have wept in the ears of the Lord, saying, Oh, that someone would give us meat to eat For we were well off in Egypt. Therefore the Lord will give you meat, and you shall eat. You shall eat not one day, nor two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days, but a whole month until it comes out of your your nostrils and becomes loathsome to you because you have rejected the Lord who is among you and have wept before him, saying, Why did we ever leave Egypt? Alright, I'll give you meat. You're gonna have so much meat it's gonna be coming out of your nostrils. Right? The grumbling, the grumbling, the grumbling. Move over to verse thirty one. Now there went forth a wind from the Lord and it brought quail from the sea and let them fall beside the camp. about a day's journey on this side and a day's journey on the other side all around the camp and about two cubits deep on the surface of the ground. You remember a cubit? It was about a foot and a half Three feet a quail. Wow. And the people spent all day and all night and all the next day and gathered the quail. He who gathered least gathered ten homers, and they spread them out for themselves all around the camp. While the meat was still between their teeth, before it was chewed, the anger of the Lord was kindled against the people, and the Lord struck the people with a very severe wrong. Plague. So the name of that place was called Kabrath Hataba, because there they buried the people who had been greedy. We see our wonderful majesty of our Lord at play there. Alright, and now we're gonna see basically the first instance of Moses' authority being questioned by someone very close to him. Again, the danger of pride. These were people that were set apart. Let's go to twelve, starting in verse one. And I'll just spoil it for you. Miriam and Aaron. Close relatives. Set apart. And here they are. They're going to question Moses' authority. Chapter 12, verse 1. Then Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Cushite woman who he had married, for he had married a Cushite woman. And they said, Has the Lord indeed spoken only through Moses? Has he not spoken through us as well? And the Lord heard it. Now the man Moses was very humble More than any man who was on the face of the earth. I want to pause there a second. I said we just saw the humanness of Moses, but you see the the status of Moses before the Lord a humble man. And suddenly the Lord said to Moses and Aaron and to Miriam, You three come out to the tent of meeting. So the three of them came out. Then the Lord came down in a pillar of cloud and stood at the doorway of the tent. And he called Aaron and Miriam when they both when they had both come forward, I'm sure with fear and trepidation. He said, Hear now my words Is there a prophet among you? I the Lord shall make myself known to him in a vision. I shall speak with him in a dream. Not so with my servant Moses He is faithful in all my household. With him I speak mouth to mouth, even openly and not in dark sayings. And he beholds the form of the Lord. Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant, against Moses? He's saying, I will speak to some through visions, right? I speak with Moses mouth to mouth. He sees my form. He is special. He is my anointing. Anointed one. How how were you not fearful to approach him the way you just did? So the anger of the Lord burned against them, and he departed. But when the cloud had withdrawn from over the tent, behold, Miriam was leprous, as white as snow. So here we see the consequences. As Aaron turned toward Miriam, behold, she was leprous. Then Aaron said to Moses, O my Lord, I beg you, do not account this sin to us, in which we have acted foolishly, in which we have sinned. Oh do not let her be like one dead whose flesh is half eaten away when he comes from his mother's womb. And Moses cried out to the Lord, saying, O God, heal her, I pray. Again Moses interceding humble, humble man. But the Lord said to Moses, If her father had but spit in her face, would she not bear her shame for seven days? Let her be shut up for seven days outside the camp. Again that reference outside the camp. And afterwards So Miriam was shut up outside the camp for seven days, and the people did not move on until Miriam was received again. Afterward, however, the people moved out from Hazerah and camped in the wilderness of Peran. So again we see people very close to Moses questioning His authority. It's not the last time we're going to see this in Numbers. And we also see how Moses responds with great, great humbleness. But what was the danger there? Pride We saw that in Genesis, right? That was the start of it. It was Satan, with Adam and Eve. It was pride. They wanted to be like God. They wanted to have that knowledge. Now we're going to see they finally arrive at Kadesh Barnia, just miles from the promised land. They were right on the edge of the Promised Land at this point They're right there, very close, ready to enter. However, the land is occupied, right? There's people there. So what do you got to do? It's time to send out a recon mission Send out for yourself men so that they may spy out the land of Canaan, which I am going to give to the sons of Israel. You shall send a man from each of their father's tribes, every one a leader among them So twelve people are picked from the twelve tribes of Israel. What's important about this? They are leaders. of those tribes. These are respected men, leaders. I want to annotate two of those. Verse six. From the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephuna. Again from the tribe of Judah, that Messianic line. And from the tribe of Ephraim, do you remember whose son Ephraim was? Joseph, who was the other son? Ephraim. Yeah. Excellent. Good. All right. Hoshia is actually Joshua. And we know that in verse six. It tells us that Moses actually calls him Joshua. But so you have Caleb and Joshua are two of the twelve that are selected. Again, these are men of respect, these are leaders in their tribes. Now the goal of the recon mission was to establish what we call in the military an order of battle. So what that means is if you're assessing an adversary, you want to understand their strength. How many tanks do they have? Uh airplanes, how many soldiers do they have? What are their lines of communication? Right? All of that intel is gathered so that you can put your plan together. How strong are they Are they and how do we defeat them? Order of battle. That's basically what was happening here. Moses wanted to send out the spies to understand the order of battle. And what were some of the questions he asked? See what the land is like Are the people strong or weak? Are they many or few? Is the land good or bad? What are the cities like? Are they open camps like we have or are they fortified with walls that we have to Break down. Is the land fat or lean? Trees or not? And oh, by the way, while you're there, get some proof. Grab some fruit while you're there so we can see. So, what they did is he sent them out into the next. Megev, this area here, but also into the hill country. So they were to spy out that entire area, and they're going to end up in the valley of Eskol. Alright, that's what this is up here. You can see the quote here. Then they came to the valley of Eskole and from there cut down a branch with a single cluster of grapes. And they carried it on a pole between two men with some of the pomegranates and the figs. So two guys on a pole are carrying this cluster of grapes. I would say the land is fruitful. Alright, so after 40 days, um the spies return with their report. Now I would say this: here's how I've kind of broken it up. I would say all twelve spies Spies agreed that the land was fruitful, right? We just talked about the cluster of grapes. And here's just an illustration of what that might have looked like, right? But can you imagine the people camped out when they saw these these folks coming in with this cluster on their shoulders? Right? They were probably extremely encouraged. We went into the land where you sent us, and it certainly does flow with milk and honey. And this is its fruit. Look, guys, look what we brought back. Exciting. But here's where we see a disconnect. So we have ten of the spies. Now again, these were respected men leaders in their tribes. And here's what they said. The people are strong and the cities are fortified. We saw the descendants of Anak there. And Anak was part of the Nephilim. Now we talked about them briefly in Genesis. There's different views on who these people were, but bottom line, they were men of violence. Alright, that was their reputation, men of violence. They were surrounded everywhere, Amalek, the Hittites, the Jebusites, the Amorites, and the Canaanites. The people are too strong for us. with men of great size. This is what was coming from the ten spies. Fear. That's what they were portraying. That's the report that they gave back. Then you had two men that stood alone Caleb and Joshua, men of faith. And I love this. Go to 13 verse 30. And just get this picture in your mind of Caleb's leadership. You know, all of this is happening. They're probably stirring up the people with this fear. Then Caleb quieted the people before Moses. You see this calm leadership that says, stop guys, slow down. Listen to me. We should by all means go up and take possession of it. for we shall surely overcome it. That's what was coming from Caleb and Joshua. Two men standing alone against their peers. And we'll see the repercussions of that. So who did the sons of Israel listen to? The majority or the minority. And listen, sometimes in leadership, you have to be the minority. You have to stand firm on obeying the Lord. And that's what these two men did. You guys know the story, but let's go through it. Chapter 14. And this again, realize the decision that was being made here. If they followed with the ten, that was going to put them on a course, versus if they listened to the two Alright? Is it going to be another 38 years, or are they ready to enter the promised land? That's what was at stake here. Alright. Chapter 14, starting in verse 1. The people rebel. Then all the conversations. The congregation lifted up their voices and cried, and the people wept that night, and all the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron. And the whole congregation said to them, Would that we had died in the land of Egypt? Or would that we had died in this wilderness? Why is the Lord bringing us into this land to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will become plunder. Would it not be better for us to return to Egypt? So they said to one another, Let us appoint a leader and returned to Egypt. Just rebellion, disobedience, unbelief. How does Moses and Aaron respond? Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces in the presence of all the assembly of the congregation of the sons of Israel. interesting you see this repeatedly how does Moses immediately respond immediately cries out to the Lord he falls on our face uh his face that's how we are to respond to in a time of crisis immediately turn to the Lord verse six And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunah, of these who had spied out the land, tore their clothes, and they spoke to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, saying, The land which we pass through to spy out is an exceeding Exceedingly good land. If the Lord is pleased with us, then he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land which flows with milk and honey. Only do not rebel against the Lord, and do not fear the people of the land, for they shall be our prey. Their protection has been removed from them, and the Lord is with us. Do not fear them. But all the congregation said to stone them with stones. Then the glory of the Lord appeared in the tent of meeting to all the sons of Israel Israel. One last appeal, please we can trust the Lord. We can take this land. And what do they want to do? They want to stone. They want to stone him. So what does Moses do? Like Moses, he intercedes. Pick up in verse 11. And the Lord said to Moses, How long will this people spurn me? And how long will they not believe in me? But Moses said to the Lord, Then the Egyptians will hear of it, for by thy strength thou dost bring up this people from their midst, and they will tell it to the inhabitants of the land. They have heard that thou, O Lord, art art in the midst of the people, for thou O Lord, art seen eye to eye, why thy cloud stands over them, and thou dost go before them in a pillar of cloud by day, and in a pillar of fire by night Now if thou dost say this people is one man, then the nations who have heard of thy fame will say, Because the Lord could not bring this people into the land, which he promised them by oath, therefore he slaughtered them in the wilderness. So you see he Moses is kind of appealing to the reputation. The the inhabitants of the of the area understand what's happening here. The Lord is protecting them. And if he was to slaughter them, what kind of testimony would that be? That's the But now I pray, let the power of the Lord be great, just as thou hast declared. The Lord is slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, forgiving iniquity and transgression. But he will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers and the children to the third and fourth generations. Pardon, I pray, the iniquity of this people, according to the greatness of thy loving kindness, just as thou also hast forgiven this people. So making this plea again. I I love though in verse 18 we've talked about some of the attributes of God, but you see laid out here, the Lord is slow to anger. Abundant in loving kindness, forgiving iniquity and transgression. That's the Lord that we serve today. And those attributes are part of his attributes, just like the sovereignty, the holiness, the omnipotence, like we've talked about. Alright, so we see how the people respond. They rebel, they want to stone Moses and Aaron and Joshua and Caleb. We see how Moses responds. He intercedes on their behalf. How then does the Lord respond? Again, chapter 14, picking up in verse 20. So the Lord said, I have pardoned them according to your word. But indeed as I live, all the earth will be filled with the glory of the Lord. Surely all the men who have seen my glory and my signs which I performed in Egypt and in the wilderness yet have put me to the test these ten times and have not Listen to my voice. So it's interesting we have the ten plagues, and then we see the Israelites test the Lord ten times up until this point. Shall by no means see the land which I swore. So here's here's the repercussions. Shall by no means means see the land which I swore to their fathers, nor shall any of those who spurn me see it. But my servant Caleb, because he has had a different spirit and has followed me fully, I will bring into the land which he entered, and his descendants shall be. shall take possession of it. Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites live in the valleys. Turn tomorrow and set out to the wilderness by way of the Red Sea. And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, How long shall I bear with this evil congregation who are grumbling against me? I have heard the complaints of the sons of Israel, which they are making against me. Say to them, as I live, says the Lord, just as you have spoken in my hearing. So I will surely do to you. Your corpses shall fall in this wilderness, even all your numbered men, according to your complete number, from twenty years old and upward who have grumbled against me. Surely you shall not come into the land which I swore to settle you, except Caleb the son of Jephunah, and Joshua the son of Nun. Your children, however, whom you said would become a prey, Say, I will bring them in, and they shall know the land which you have rejected. But as for you your corpses shall fall in the wilderness And your sh sons shall be shepherds for forty years in the wilderness. They shall suffer for your unfaithfulness until your corpses lie in the wilderness. According to the number of the days which you spied out the land, which was forty, Forty days, for every day you shall bear your guilt, a year, even forty years, and you shall know my opposition. I the Lord have spoken, surely this I will do to all this evil congregation who are gathered together against me. In this wilderness they shall be destroyed, and there they shall die. Huge, huge consequences for making this decision, for rebelling against the Lord, for unbelieving. So now like I said Within two years they were at this camp, Kadesh Barnia, and they had this choice to make. They could have now entered, but now they spent another thirty-eight years wandering in the desert in an entire generation is wiped out. Now I want to pull this thread a little bit because there are other scriptures that talk about this decision, particularly Psalm 95, and you see the quote there For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you would hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as at Meribah, as in the day of Masa in the wilderness, when your father Fathers tested me, they tried me, though they had seen my work. For forty years I loathed that generation, and said they are a people who err. in their heart, and they do not know my ways. Therefore I swore in my anger. Truly they shall not enter my rest. This rest is a key factor, right? They could have entered the promised land and had some type of rest, not the full rest we see in Jesus Christ, but they missed that opportunity. And you see that in Psalm 95. Now let's go application for today, the believers rest. Let's flip over to Put your finger there, but flip over to Hebrews. And I just want to show this tie because it's important to show, you know, that tie between the New Testament and Old Testament, especially on a an issue like this. Hebrews three, and again the the context here you know Hebrews um is addressing Jewish believers as Romans often is to the Gentiles, Hebrews was to the uh the Jews, and the author was trying to encourage them um to stay faithful, right, to not go back to And let me pick up in two sixteen. For assuredly he does not give help to angels, but he gives help to the descendant of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brethren in all things, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sons for the sins of the people. This is obviously talking about Jesus Christ. For since he himself was tempted in that which he was suffered, he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted. And I'll pick up in chapter three. Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, Consider Jesus the apostle and high priest of our confession. He was faithful to him who appointed him, as Moses also was in all his house For he has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses by just so much as the builder of the house has more honor than the house. For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God. Now Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken later. But Christ was faithful as a son over his house. whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence, and the boast of our hope firm until the end. And here's the quote. Therefore, just as the Holy Spirit says, and this refers back to Psalm ninety five, today if you hear his voice, Do not harden your hearts as when they provoked me, as in the day of trial in the wilderness, where your fathers tried me by testing me, and saw my works for forty years Therefore I was angry with this generation and said, They always go astray in their heart, and they did not know my ways, as I swore in my wrath. They shall not enter my rest. Take care, brethren, lest there should be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart But encourage one another, day after day, as long as it is still called today, lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. For we have become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our assurance firm until the end. While it is said, Today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts, as when they provoked me. For who Who provoked him when they had heard? Indeed, and not all those who came out of Egypt, led by Moses. And with whom was he angry for forty years? Was it not those who sinned whose bodies fell in the wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they should not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient. And so we see that they were not able to enter because of unbelief Let's keep going in chapter four as we talk about the believers' rest. How does this conclude? Therefore, let us fear lest while a promise remains of entering his rest Any of you should seem to have come short of it. For indeed we have had good news preached to us, just as they also But the word they heard did not profit them, because it was not united by faith in those who heard. For we who have believed enter that rest. Just as he has said, as I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Although his works were finished from the foundation of the world. For thee he has thus said somewhere concerning the seventh day And God rested on the seventh day from all his works. And again in this passage they shall not enter my rest, since therefore it remains for some to enter it And those who formerly had good news preached to them failed to enter because of disobedience. He again fixes a certain day today saying through David, after so long a time, just if just as has been said before, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. For if Joshua had given them rest He would not have spoken of another day after that. There remains therefore a Sabbath rest for the people of God. For the one who has entered his rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from his. Let us therefore be diligent to enter that. Rest, let anyone fall to following the same example of disobedience. So you see this pivotal point in Israel's history brought forward to the New Testament. And if you pick up, it said even Joshua, them going into the prophets. That would not be the ultimate day of rest. Jesus Christ is. I I implore you, anyone here who does not have Jesus Christ as Lord, you are not, you have not entered into that rest. You can have that rest. in Jesus Christ. We see that play out right here in Hebrews. Okay, does that make sense? All good? Alright. Alright, let's keep going. Let's go back to chapter 14. So we see how the Lord responds, right? He basically He says you're all gonna you're all gonna die in the wilderness. And so what do the Israelites do now? Because they're a smart people, right? Chapter 14, verse 39. And when Moses spoke these words to all the sons of Israel, the people mourned greatly. They were repentant. In the morning, however, they rose up early and went to the ridge of the hill country, saying, Here we are. We have indeed sinned, but we will go up to the place which the Lord has promised. But Moses said, Why then are you transgressing the commandment of the Lord when it will not succeed? Do not go up, lest you be struck down before your enemies. For the Lord is not among you. For the Amalekites and the Canaanites will be there in front of you, and you will fall by the sword, inasmuch as you have turned back from following the Lord, and the Lord will not be with you But they went up heedlessly to the ridge of the hill country. Neither the ark of the covenant of the Lord nor Moses left the camp. They did not have the protection of the Lord Then the Amalekites and the Canaanites who lived in that hill country came down and struck them and beat them down as far as Horma. So that's what you see here on the map is they just they said, Hey, we sinned We're we're we're rejuvenating now, let's go take the land. But they didn't have the blessing at that point. So they went forward and they got pushed back uh to Horma here. So that's what that is indicating. Right? Again, fickle fickle silly people. But that affects Forty you see another instance of God's appointed authority being questioned. They went out on their own. Even after Moses warned them, this will not go well And you see the repercussions of that. Alright, so now we're kind of in the last section here where we're going to see Israel's discipline from the Lord. So for forty years, as we just talked about, they wandered in the wilderness because they were fearful and disobedient. And this section of scripture, 15 through 36, is really broken up into two sections. The first We're going to see you know the witness of the passing of that old generation as the Lord had foretold. And that's what we see play out. Now again, we're going to visit, we're going to see another instance where the authority is questioned. We're not going to go into the the details of scripture, but just let me just say so the individual Korah He was a Levite. He was set apart. He was part of the tribe that was set apart to write to minister in the tabernacle. He leads an unsuccessful revolt against Moses. Basically the same argument. You know, who are you, Moses? Why can't The Lord speak to us. We've been set apart. We're holy. And what happens? Where there's a series of events and the ground ends up opening up right and swallows him and all the people that are with him. Now he took with him 250 leaders. Again, these were leaders amongst the people, right? These were peers, these were respected men, and they went along with this rebellion. And what happens? The ground is split open and takes them in. It's followed by more grumblings and a plague. And you see that Aaron actually intercedes, right? He he stands in the gap of this plague so that the Lord doesn't continue that plague His anger. But really, what's being questioned is who is God's appointed? So what he does is he says, Alright, I want you twelve tribes to grab a rod, a single rod that would represent your tribe, writes the name on it, and there was a rod. for Aaron and it went into the the tent of meeting of the tabernacle and basically the rod that buds is the one that I choose. So sure enough it comes out and it's Aaron's rod that is butted. But again, you just you see leadership being questioned again and again. God's appointed people and he demonstrates who he has chosen, right, his priests through the Now, where did that rod end up? Anyone know? In the ark. So we talked about what's in the ark. We talked about the Ten Commandments. We talked about Aaron's budding rod. There was one other item. Anyone know? Pot of mana. Right? So those are the three um symbols, if you will, inside the Ark of the Covenant. Okay, we'll move on. We also see this is the instance that we talked about this last week where uh the people were grumbling about they didn't have drink They didn't have water, so what did Moses do? He struck the rock and the water flowed and and the Lord provided, right? What do we see in this instance though? Moses disobeyed, what was the command? Speak to the rock before their eyes that it may yield its water Then a little bit later on, then Moses lifted up his hand and struck the rock twice with his rod, probably out of anger at the people, frustration. But here's the implication. But the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, because you have not believed me to treat me as holy in the sight of the sons of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land which I have given them. So a couple couple items I want to point out here. Him striking the rock, what did that symbol? He did not trust in the holiness of God. That's what the Lord's saying. That's serious stuff. That's serious stuff. And here you also see we talked about this generation that was going to be wiped out, that included Aaron and Moses, because of the world. of their sin. They would not go into the promised land. But it was also s the sin of pride again on Moses' part because when he was doing it he said something to the effect, Must we get you water out of this study? Absolutely. Right? Yeah. And I suspect right in our frustration and our woe is me, you know, that pride seeps in. We're gonna take care of this ourselves. Moses absolutely human, but you see the repercussions of of that particular sin. You know that was uh you know that's the accountability that comes with leadership too, and it's heavy. It's heavy, heavy at times. So we see that those two are going to be wiped out. We see in chapter twenty Aaron dies and his responsibilities are passed on to his son, Elieazar. You also see this this event of the serpent uh brass, right? And we'll go over that passage, but another little symbol. And this is where you do see sym symbology. And Moses made a bronze serpent and set it on the standard or the the staff, if you will, and it came about that if a serpent bit any man, when he looked at the bronze serpent, he lived. And this certainly is a symbolism towards Jesus Christ, as we see in John three. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, Even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes may in him have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. So you have um this incident of striking the rock, you have the the brass serpent on a stick, you also have this weird thing going on with Balaam and the donkey. Alright, just a lot of events that happen in numbers. Now Balaam, he was not a prophet. He was uh maybe considered a diviner, if you will. And a indications of he certainly believed in the Lord, but he may have believed in other gods. But bottom line is, and I didn't cover it, but as they're they're going through the wilderness, they are confronting people and having wars and are being successful. And so there is fear now in the rest of the land. So the Moabites are fearful they saw what the Israelites have just done to the Amalekites. And they wanted the king wanted Balaam to Basically put a curse on the people. That was the intent. So they tried to conjol Balam to come, to come, to come. He refused, he refused, refused, and then he finally says, Alright, I'll do it And that's the episode you get where he's on the donkey and the the angel of the Lord intercedes and the donkey talks, right? Um bottom line, they wanted him to curse the people of God. But God intervenes once again and what happens is Balaam ends up giving a blessing over the people. And this is actually they're all the way to um up near the north on the opposite side of Jericho. So they're basically through their travels at this point. But that's Balaam and the donkey. Here you see the second census taken. They're about to enter the promised land, so they're going to retake the census, the renumbering. And again, it's just phenomenal. Of that original census, only two men remain. Not even Moses and Aaron, right? Two men will remain from that original census. So that was kind of the first section of of this area. Now we'll go into The preparation. They are at that point now where they are preparing this new generation to enter the land. And they need a leader, right? Because Moses, the Lord told Moses, You are not going into the promised land. So flip over to twenty seven, Numbers twenty seven. Thanks, Chris? Yeah. Um the two men you made was uh a symbol of God promised. Yeah. He promised that, right? He can't be made. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. That's a great point, right? It's not like, oh, I'll slip in a couple more. Right and and we see even Aaron and Moses um were inflicted because of their sin and he stuck to his promise. God is unchanging in his purposes. Alright, chapter twenty seven, uh starting in verse twelve. Then the Lord said to Moses Go up to this mountain of Abaram, and see the land which I have given to the sons of Israel. So he shows them. He shows them the promised land. And when you have seen it, you too shall be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother was. For in the wilderness. of Zen during the strife of the congregation, you rebelled against my command to treat me as holy before their eyes at the water. These are the waters of Meribah of Kadesh in the wilderness of Zen. Remember Psalm 95 talked about Meribah, the sin at Meribah. Joshua is now going to succeed Moses. Then Moses spoke to the Lord, saying, May the Lord, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation. who will go out and come in before them, and who will lead them out and bring them in, that the congregation of the Lord may not be like sheep which have no shepherd. So the Lord said to Moses, Take Joshua the son of Nun A man in whom is the spirit, and lay your hand on him, and have him stand before Eliasar the priest and before all the congregation, and commission him in their sight, and you shall put some of your authority on him, in order that all the congregation of the sons of Israel Israel may obey him. Moreover, he shall stand before Eliezer the priest who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Eram before the Lord. Remember the Urim? I talked about the stone and it was it was almost like a decision stone where they cast lots. Um that was the function. We see that play out right here. At this command they shall go out, and his command they shall come in, both he and the sons of Israel with them, even all the congregation And Moses did just as the Lord commanded him, and he took Joshua and set him before Eliezer the priest and before all the congregation. Then he laid his hands on him and commissioned him, just as the Lord had spoken through Moses. you're starting to see the the transition of leadership, right? Moses final days. He's given the the baton over to Joshua. Joshua's being appointed as the leader. Um and I'm excited to actually get into the book of Joshua. to really dig in deep into his leadership style. We see a very faithful leader, you know, he is the minority against all of his peers. So Good stuff. Now we'll close up here real quick uh the rest of the chapter. Moses gives instructors instructions on the rights to the land that they will soon possess, the rituals that they need to perform. Um you know that the and we'll get into this more detail, but There are a couple tribes that request they actually want to live on the east side of the Jordan, so the Reubenites. Um and that's granted. As long as they're willing to come with everybody to fight the wars Right to conquer the land and then they can be given this area east of the Jordan. And that does happen. We'll go into great detail on on what that looks like. For the purist in the crowd, chapter 33 actually walks through each of the stops as they're in the wilderness. So if you really want to go through a detailed depiction of how they got to Kadesh. And now to the the area just east of the Jordan, chapter 33 walks through that chronologically. Now, Moses ends up with establishing the boundary of the land, which is which when they go into the promised land, he gives the the boundaries of what that looks like. This is the land that you're going to inherit, and then they're going to divide that up amongst the tribes. In addition to that, we see that there are six set cities that were set aside as a refuge for the Levites. But also for this people that involuntarily commit manslaughter. Alright? But those are established for the Levites. They don't have a certain area. All that's left is Moses' farewell instructions in Deuteronomy, and that's what we're going to cover next week. So, real quick, a couple minutes in summary, you know, bottom line of Leviticus was about how to approach and live rightly before a holy God and then we see them God bringing them to the the edge of the promised land and they have this big decision to make and we know what happens, right? The Lord tests their hearts and finds out that they're a rebellious people. And I just I just had a question, though, how do we respond during those pivotal decision points in our life? Do we respond with fear or do we respond with faith? Right? Hopefully you respond with faith. Great, great study and leadership. The benefit of being faithful. Caleb and Joshua were the minority. That must have been very difficult. That's who we need to be today in this fallen world. Right? We need to be the minority that stands up in the fear of the Lord. We see the consequences of challenging leadership. And by those who are close to us, we had Miriam and Aaron, relatives, questioning the authority of Moses. We had a Levite set apart, holy, questioning Moses again and again and again. That's part of the burden of leadership sometimes. And then we see the importance of choosing faithful leaders. We're going to ordinate a couple silly folks today. But I want to say this, you know, Hope Bible Church, we go through a very deliberate process to evaluate leaders, elders, deacons, even ministry leaders. Have faith in that process. Be thankful for that process and pray for our leaders. Right? We are human beings. We can fall. Pride can seep in as this little seed that grows. Really appreciate your prayers. And I would say this too in closing. Don't don't become fatigued by how long it's taking to get a senior pastor. The Lord knows. The Lord knows. Be patient. Keep praying. Be thankful for this time. He's doing many, many good things. I'm so excited about what's happening on additional staff, some of our ministries. It's just a very exciting time. But be patient. Don't get fatigued. Don't start grumbling. Okay? Alright, let me close