I'm gonna have Sassan wanted to make a comment last time, but he had the boogie before we ended, so let me go back to the list of kings, just for reference. He was gonna make um a statement uh about Hezekiah, and I've heard several that have gone to Israel um make some of these remarks. Um so I'm gonna have Sasan um share what he was gonna share, but again Uh Hezekiah had had seen the captivity of the Assyrians, right, to the north. Let me build that slide. Oops. Yeah. Um, to the north. So he was witness to that, and the Assyrians were were trying to encroach on the southern Kingdoms as well, right? You remember his heartfelt prayer there. But Hezekiah was one of the good ones, right? Circled in green. And uh he was a reformer, right? He got rid of the idols and and brought back the temple worship. But so that's the context. Alright, Sasan, I'm gonna hand it over. over to you. Nice and loud. Okay, good. All I always mentioned was that uh Israel take us tunnels that we'd be serious but I can be the uh we can build this tunnel to cut off the water supply and then the rubber Second primary was thirty two. Um there's also a section is twenty. So uh during the trip to get to show you black people that's built like you guys are so you can see in the black. Absolutely. Yeah. Really cool. Any other comments from those that have gone to to Israel about Hezekiah or any of the kings? I know you got to see a lot of the different sites there. Margaret. I walked through the science. Yeah. Which was no problem for me. I was big tall men in uh it was um quite sweet. Yeah. And it was water nine times. Oh you are true too. Very cool. And they take two candles 'cause it's dark. Yeah. Yes. So there there was a group ahead of us and a group behind us. Behind us was um a group of young town. student and they were singing as they went through the tunnel. And and when we got to the end I was chatting a little bit with their teacher and I asked him, What are we thinking? And he said, Fine. Oh Beautiful. That's beautiful. Alright guys, thank you for sharing. That's really, really neat. So it is on my bucket list to go. Um we haven't yet. As soon as I can get all the kids out of the house, we'll be good. I got one here, that's why I said that. I don't care. if it takes another fifty years, if they want to stay with me, that's all good. That's all good. I do, I know it. I try to tell 'em if they just do it all at one time, you know, it'd be better for everybody. All right, here we are, second to last. um lesson and we're going to be in First and Second Chronicles. We've talked about the poetry books, a lot of profit activity. And again, this is a survey, so we're just skimming the top to kind of again we're focused on the themes. That's what we want to pull from all this. as the themes. So again, just to give you a little bit more direction or context, you can see here 1 and 2 Chronicles, and I'm going to show you that really does cover a lot of the same period of 1 and 2 Kings, or um 1 and 2 Samuel and 1 and 2 Kings. And we'll get into that on the next next page, but we're also going to go into, you know, the period of the exile, where they are in captivity for seven years. Uh we covered the major prophet, Isaiah, Jeremiah included Lamentations last week. We'll cover the major prophets in a bit more detail. Ezekiel and Daniel because they are during that exilic period, right, when they are in captivity. We want to see what messages um we see there. Okay? A little bit more detail. You remember this chart and it I like this because it shows the overlap of these books. But you can see in the bottom left hand corner there, what those books do is give you a different perspective of the same time period. So first and second Samuel, right, we saw this oh I should note um the slides are posted um if anyone wants to take notes from there, Daniel. First and second Samuel, right, was this transition from the judges to the monarchy. And you started to see stability because of that. With David, you saw the expansion, right, of the the kingdom area. We got in the first and second kings. the first part of First Kings, chapters one through eleven, all about Solomon, the heyday of the nation of Israel. Right? That was their glory day until his heart was divided, right? And eventually the the kingdoms were divided, and we spent a lot of time last week talking about all the different kings and what happened with that division. In First and Second Chronicles it's really covers the same period, covers a lot of the same kings, but the focus is on the temple. What's happening with that central focus area of worship. Alright, that's going to be our theme throughout today. So I I want you to keep that in the back of your head. Okay? So with that in mind, you know, let's start back with the tabernacle. That was the the first temple, if you will. And this is just a reminder of some of the items that were in there. You had the holy place and then the most holy of holy where the Ark of the Covenant was. You remember uh the table of showbread, it had the twelve cakes on there, the candlesticks that were had this perpetual flame. The priests were to wash themselves in the basin here before they went in, the altar of sacrifice. That was a very discreet, orderly way that the Lord said, I want you to build my tabernacle. And again, this was at the end of Exodus. Into Leviticus, talked about a lot of their feast and the offerings. Again, how a separated people were to worship a holy God. Alright. So the tabernacle, that was the first. We are now in the That period of history where now the temple is being built. We introduced that last week and we just kind of want to run through the temple history. You remember, right, that David had this desire to build the temple. But the Lord would not allow him to. Why? Because he was a man of bloodshed. Right? That's what the Lord said. So he was actually going to allow Solomon to build the temple. But David did an awful lot to prepare for that. So I just want to summarize from uh the guy resource. And I'm gonna be referring to this book quite a bit because it does a really good job of summarizing what happened. I don't think we often understand the preparation that happened under David, even though Solomon was the one who eventually built the temple. Says David's preparations for the temple were complete and comprehensive. He not only prepared for the physical construction of the temple, but also for the ongoing operation of the temple. The Levites were commissioned for the menial task of the temple in order to keep it in continual service. The priests were given the ministerial functions, such as offering the sacrifices, singers were appointed for the musical function in God's house, and porters or gatekeepers were assigned the material task. Soldiers were commissioned with a military function course by course throughout the year. David also set up stewards to serve the municipal needs and counselors to handle the mental problems. See they had a biblical counseling center as well. Finally David gathered princes of the people, charging them with the managerial responsibilities, and the people with the monetary uh or financial obligations of providing the wherewithal for building God's house. First Chronicles ends with the death of David. And the extension and glorification of the kingdom under Solomon by the hand of God. Second Chronicles will describe how God, through Solomon, fulfilled David's desire and completed his preparations to build the temple in Jerusalem. The preparation for the temple. Was the work of David, but it did not come to fruition until his son Solomon constructed this magnificent building. And you have uh a depiction of what that looks like down in the right-hand corner. At that time, though, when when God said, Hey David, you're not gonna be the one um who's gonna build the temple, but I will establish a house for you. You remember? That was the the covenant that he made. Your throne will be established forever. And he reiterates that to David in Chronicles. Alright, the mastery of or the majesty of the temple under Solomon, we see like I just read in Second Chronicles. As I mentioned, the golden the period of Solomon was the golden age of Israel. The kingdom was not only united, but it was extended to its furthest boundaries. You remember this from last week, the Queen of Sheba had come from the end of the earth to see its glory And then exclaimed that the half had not been told. The majesty of it. She just she had no idea. Right? The first nine chapters treat the construction of Solomon's magnificent temple in Jerusalem as David his father had made elaborate preparations. For it. They begin with the confirmation of the covenant of David by the appearance of God to Solomon, like I just told you. Then Solomon commissioned the workmen to begin working on the timber, precious metals, and jewels to be used in the temple. The temple was constructed on mountains. Mount Moriah, built after the pattern of the tabernacle of Moses. The work was completed in the eleventh year of Solomon's reign and was immediately consecrated to God in one of the great prayers of Scripture. But will God dwell indeed with man on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain me. How much less this house which I have built? When Solomon was finished with this dedicate dedicatory prayer, God revealed his acceptance of the temple and proclaimed that he had chosen the temple. This temple is the place of sacrifice, the center of religion for his people. So we go back to why the tabernacle? Why the temple? Right? It was to be that centerpiece where where God sh showed himself, his existence on earth. It was to be the center of religious worship, right? That they would not forget the Lord God Yahweh. Right? So keep that in mind. That was the purpose. Solomon's kingdom, like his father's, was consolidated and strengthened over foreign countries as a result of his building the house of God. So it unified, right, all of the Israelites around that central aspect of the world. of worship. Alright, so I want to talk a little bit about what was happening here in building uh the tabernacle. And it's uh if you want to go there, it's in 2 Chronicles chapter 4. And remember what it said, it was after the pattern of it was after the pattern of the tabernacle. But it wasn't exactly like the tabernacle. You can think of it as being supersized. So we talked about um the table and the lampstands. Um let me get to my reference. So here's what I here's what I would say to you. Um we'll get to this in a second, but what happened to those original items? What happened to the lampstand and the table? Alright? What I want to point out here is in chapter four, you can go down to verse six. He also made ten basins. So you remember the basin that I talked about? Here he made ten more. He made ten golden lampstands. He made ten tables. Like I said, everything's being supersized and it's being made. I'll be I'll be honest with you, we we don't exactly know what happened to those original items and it's not really important. Right? That tabernacle is now being replaced by this extravagant temple. Alright? It does say though, get my verse here. In verse or chapter 5, it says, The Ark of the Covenant It was brought up along with the tents of meeting. Um couple weeks ago I talked about you remember when um uh it was during the time of King David and the Israelites went out to fight the Philistines and they they did not go out in the blessing of the Lord. And they were were losing. So what did they do? They took the Ark of the Covenant with them, and the Ark was taken by the Philistines, if you remember that. It didn't go well for the Philistines. They ended up returning it. But I made a statement that the the tent of meeting was destroyed at that time. Um someone pointed out that maybe wasn't the case. So did some research and and I'll be honest, it's hard to know exactly if the original survived. There is a reference to another tent of meeting that David had constructed. It might have been the original one, it might have been a replacement. Clearly though that was brought up here because that's what the word says. So we know that a tent of meeting was brought up. But again, it's not really important. What's happening here is it's being replaced by the temple. Okay? And in seven, chapter seven, I want to read this because the temple is now done and and Solomon gives his prayer and and this is an admonition by the Lord at this point, starting in fifteen, seven fifteen. Now my eyes shall be Be open and my ears attentive to the prayer offered in this place. For now I have chosen and consecrated this house that my name may be there forever, and my eyes and my heart will be there perpetually. And as for you, if you walk before me You shall not Lack a man to be ruler in Israel. But if you turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods and worship them, then I will uproot you from my land, which I have given you, and this house. which I have consecrated for my name, I will cast out of my sight, and I will make it a proverb and a byword among the people. We know that's exactly what happened, right, when we talked about the divided kingdom. But what did God do? He left a remnant, right, in Jesus. Judah. His David's throne will be established forever, and we know that. But the admonition that the Lord gives right here, um, it's fulfilled, right, as as Solomon's heart was divided. However, through this whole history, especially when we talked about Um, this long history of the kings last time, God was a compassionate, compassionate God. Right? He tried to get them to turn from their wicked ways by sending many, many messengers, the prophets. So the so the list of prophets. the majority of them happened during this time of just before um or or during the divided kingdom and into captivity. So we're gonna spend a little bit of time talking about that. Okay, for s so for context, again let me just all right for Context: We talked about all these kings, and again, I want you to just see the timeline here. On the right-hand side, the 20 kings of the northern kingdom, all bad, all bad kings, and then Assyria takes over during the time or just before Hezekiah. seven twenty two B C and then you see the rest of the southern kingdom or kings and again those circled in green are the the good guys. But you're gonna see as we cover the prophets that the the minor prophets are scattered throughout this timeline. And you can see some of the major prophets here, all with a pretty common uh theme, if you will, that we'll get into. Okay, so I just wanted to make sure I gave you that context. Again, when we talk about the timelines of captivity, the southern kingdom, or I mean the northern kingdom, the Assyrians, seven hundred twenty two. With with the Babylonians it's really happens in three phases. It starts in six hundred five, so you're going to see a portion that will go into exile. I say that because many of the prophets, the messages to those who are in exile. Okay? There are some that will flee to Egypt. Um there's another um wave that goes in about five ninety seven and then the the full destruction of Jerusalem and the temple happens in five eighty six. And that's uh that's another one of those anchor dates, those anchor points because of what happens after that. Okay, so again I just wanted to give you context as we roll into we're gonna get into the profits now and the messaging that happens with them. You can see this is a pretty good depiction Of the timeline. We covered Isaiah and Jeremiah last time. Jeremiah kind of overlapping from the divided kingdom into that captivity period. We'll see in these major prophets, Daniel and Ezekiel, primarily primarily during this time of captivity. Alright, those are the the major prophets. And then you see the minor prophets um throughout this period of the divided kingdom. Right? And so they're gonna be they're gonna be uh prophesying in in several different areas uh areas of um the kings. Okay? Does that make sense? Alright, so a quick depiction, uh we're not gonna go through all of these in great, great detail. I do want to highlight a few, but I thought this was a great chart that just summarized um the the twelve minor prophets their their basic meaning and who who were they delivering that message to and who was the king at the time. So you could take this and reference it back to the chart I just showed you. Alright, again the ten or the nine we're going to show up here were pre pre-exile, pre-captivity. Next week we'll finish up with the last three that happened after the captivity. Okay? So let's uh summarize just a couple of these folks. And these These aren't necessary in in in they're close but they're not necessarily in chronological order on this chart. Um the chart I just previously showed you does show um more of the timeline, but it's it's pretty close. So we see with Hosea, Joel, Amos, the central theme of national restoration and expectation of Christ. Joel specifically talks about the day of the Lord as judgment and the spirit of the Lord as blessing. The common theme that you will see again and again is this idea of pending judgment. but also hope. Hope and restoration of remember the why we covered the covenants. Those promises are still going to happen, is the message of hope. And I wanted to point out why they called minor prophets. It's not because They're insignificant, it's just the books are shorter. That's it. There's no secret. The books are shorter, so they're called minor prophets. Still extremely important in the messaging, God's message, if you will. Alright, Amos focused on the sin and I idolatry of the northern kingdom. Hosea, the demonstration of faithfulness to an unfaithful people. And let me read this one. You guys know the story, but it's a beautiful, beautiful picture of the attributes of our Lord and Savior. Relate an amazing story of faithful love. Hosea was commanded to marry a wife, Gomer, who proved to be unfaithful to him. Time and time again. The children born to them were signs of God's dealings with Israel. Israel, the name of the first son meant God will scatter. Jim, this is not a good list to take from either. So bad list. Bad list. Lo Rahama, the daughter, meant not pity by God because of their sin in Lo Ami. The second son meant not my people, indicating God's desire to disown them because of their sin. The wife proved sinful. She was a harlot, and yet Hosea was to be faithful to her in his love. The husband Hosea was representative of salvation. He had to buy his wife back. That's what redemption means, to buy back from the slavery in which adultery had involved her, yet loved her in spite of her sin. Isn't that a beautiful picture? Hard Hard to fathom. I I talked about it last week, but the life of a prophet was hard. I don't think that's a job any of us would want. It was extremely difficult to be a messenger of the Lord. Obadiah, Jonah, and Nahum all predicted God's retribution of judgment on the nations to include to include external to Israel and Judah. Jonah focused on Nineveh. Now again, Nineveh was the capital of Assyria, and you remember Assyria. Syria was a very powerful nation at that time. So that's the first reference to Nineveh. We'll just cover that real quick. Jonah's ministry is dated around 780 to 760 B. C. You remember Assyrians took over in 722 during the reign of Jeroboam. Boam the second of Israel. Thus Jonah is an early pre exilic prophet to the northern kingdom. So again, you see these prophets ministering to both the northern and southern kingdoms. Jonah wrote to this his proud and patriotic fellow countrymen who were already under taxation by the notoriously evil Assyrian Empire. Nineveh was the capital of the great Assyrian Empire's falling to the north and east of Israel. Jonah wrote about Nineveh, but the book is directed to the northern tribes of Israel. Jonah provides a strong rebuke to the proud patriotism of the Jews that blinded them, keeping them from seeing God's love for the Gentiles. Jonah teaches the universality of God's salvation. the need for obedience to God, the secret of true revival by repentance from sin, and the truth that salvation is of the Lord. You remember, right, Jonah resisted. He didn't want to go and preach to the Ninevehs because he knew that that God would relent Right, not change his mind, but he would relent when they when they repented. Yes. I believe Nineveh did resent, but then what happened to them after that? Did Nineveh go back to the You write into my notes, and but they repented and God spared them for a hundred and fifty years until their pending destruction described in Nahum. So you have a prophet that comes along and says, You will be destroyed this time. And guess who it was who destroyed them? It's the Babylonians. Right? So Babylonians end up taking over that power in that time frame. So that's exactly right. They repented, but eventually they were destroyed. Micah was a contemporary of Isaiah and had a similar message of judgment and hope in Habakkuk and Zephaniah, again warning of impending doom to Judah and the surrounding Gentile nations. Alright, so we're going to go a a bit of a deeper dive into um two of the major prophets, Daniel and Ezekiel. And we actually with these two These two prophets start to get into some eschatology type of language and and visions, and so we'll talk about that a little bit. Again, it was a message of judgment and hope. Hope for restoration. Daniel prophesizes about the restoration. of Israel's nationhood. And again, his audience is not only the land of Israel, if you will, but the Gentile, the surrounding Gentile kings and the exiled Jews, those who were now in captivity. Daniel's prophecies served to comfort the exiled people of Israel with news that their nation would be restored. But in addition, they were meant as an encouragement to the Jews to withstand the command to worship the emperor and to remain true to the Lord God. You see the picture at the top there, right, of Moses and the Lion's Den. You guys know that story. Daniel. Daniel, sorry. Daniel and the Lion's Den. And what did he prove by example, right? He was not gonna worship the king. He was going to stay obedient to worshiping God. Um same with the the fiery furnace, right? I didn't show the picture there, but we all know those stories, so I'm not going to really highlight those, but Daniel um presented what he just So again, trying to encourage those who are going through a very serious time of trial A little bit on Daniel. Despite the fact that Nebuchadnezzar changed the country, language, education, diets, and names of Daniel and his friends, he could not change their hearts. Daniel determined not to defile himself with the king's wandering. wine or meats, perhaps associated with idols, and therefore God both prospered and promoted Daniel in the kingdom. He was selected to be an administrator over the wise men of the kingdom, for God had blessed him. So again this is King Nebuchadnezzar, um the king Of Babylon at the time, great, great power, and he ends up becoming a very high administrator in his administration. So not only a prophet, but a statesman, if you will. Not only had Nebuchadnezzar misunderstood his strange dream but he forgot what it was all was about as well. No one but Daniel was able to recall it and interpret it for the king. The dream portrayed a great metallic man with a golden head, shoulders and arms of silver. thighs of brass and legs of iron built on feet of mixed iron and clay. According to Daniel's interpretation, this metallic man represented successfully four great world kingdoms Babylon, Medo Persia, Greece, and Rome. The feet represented the first presented a ten member confederacy of kings in the end time which would eventually be smitten by the great rock, Christ, who would his there thereupon set up his endless kingdom. So you can kind of see that in the picture. Um So obviously or Uh depicted here is Daniel who was able to interpret dreams and he interpreted a lot of dreams. Um it's also important to notice that at this point of a captivity, right, this is the beginning of the Gentile rule over the nation of Israel. That is in existence until now. Right? And will ha and will stay that way until the Lord returns. Alright. This is the beginning. Again, so that's a a key anchor point um for what's happening in the nation of Israel. And what's interesting You see, God is addressing the surrounding nations and how they are treating, even though they're in c in captivity, he's still addressing how they are treating the nation of Israel. I think a point for us as well. Right. Yes, Diane. So this is the beginning. of the nation of Israel being ruled by Gentile uh powers, if you will. Right? Not by the Jewish kings or Jewish people. Does that make sense? Yeah. It's happening right now. Other comments? autonomous now, the nation of Israel? Autonomous? Yeah. I mean they don't have another country ruling them. That's true, but it's not it's not they're not a theocracy. Oh no I didn't that that's what I mean by that. Um Um they're autonomous. It's not God rule. Let's put it that way. Fair enough. You could question what what is, you know, so there is a Jewish person, right, the prime minister over Israel. W what is his faith though, right? So Exactly. Let's keep going here. All right, the kingdoms of this world are man centered and idolatrous. In Nebuchadnezzar's dream, he w he was only the head. So in this dream of the statue, he was just the head, right? The the gold head. So in real life his pride prompted him to make a whole image of God. God, which he commanded all to worship. But the three friends of Daniel refused and were cast into the fiery furnace as punishment. There they were saved by the angel of the Lord Christ, one like the Son of God. They would not bend or bow to idolatry. And they did not burn. God delivered them. Again, Daniel's faithfulness throughout. So he has other dreams, right? The huge tree, your kingdom is numbered, it's weighed, it's divided. Daniel was not only a man of firm convictions, but also a man of regular pra prayer. It was in this that his envious colleagues trapped him through the king's proclamation that forbade prayer to any God other than Darius himself. These jealous Men were able to arrest Daniel and have him thrown to the lions, but God delivered Daniel from the den of lions, and Daniel was further exalted in the kingdom of Darius and Cyrus, like we just talked about. Okay. So we talked about that. that dream the other you know prophetic revelation is this idea of the 77s right that um we often hear about and you can see the depiction of that at the bottom we'll cover that in a little bit of detail here Let me add uh before we get there again this symbol of the the the the statue if you will it is overlaid with some symbology of beasts. Like the book of Rev Revelation, which is pattern after the book of Daniel involves a series of symbols. Nebuchadnezzar had seen the kingdoms of this world symbolized by a shiny metallic man. This is man's self-glorifying image of his self. God's perspective is quite different. He sees the kingdoms of this world as raging beasts. The head of gold is a mighty lion, Babylon. The arms of silver are really a ravenous bear, the Medo-Persians. The thighs of brass are from God's. God's view a vicious leopard, Greece, and the legs of iron are pictured as a monster partaking of some of the qualities of all three of its predecessors, Rome. And the horn power that arose out of Rome, that is the Antichrist, prevailed under the saints until the ancient days Christ came and subdued him and his ten horned confederacy. So again you see the the vision of the statue that gets overlaid with the beast Um but ultimately the key here is that Christ is going to crush all of those when he returns during his reign. Lot and you can see the map down there, right? So it talks about the seventy times seven And um the understanding is that those sixty nine weeks happened up until the time of Christ, right? And his death. And we are now in this gap, the church age. That last week is the depicted in the end times, right? The tribulation. So that's um the commentaries, that's where we are at. I would say this, you know, if if there's a lot here with eschatology And what I would tell you is we have some exciting classes coming up next fall. So Rob Thompson, Pastor Thompson's going to be teaching a series on Revelation. Ann is doing a precept study on Revelation. Pastor Allen's going to be teaching theology. class, so lots of opportunities to dig deeper on what's happening from an eschatological standpoint. Alright, so I don't want to go into a lot of detail here other than this is what Daniel is depicting. Okay? Doug, did you have a comment? And uh one of the things that just led in the book of Daniel that uh is remarkable is the details and accuracy and these prophecies that have happened in our past. And people read the book of Daniel if they don't believe in the sovereignty of God and the writing of scripture, they read into Daniel and assume that it must have been written centuries back or it actually was written. Because of the amazing accuracy of the things that we see prophesy and how they came true. Yeah. Especially in the details in chapter ten, eleven, and twelve, where it talks about the things that happened after Alexander the Great. Yes. Yeah, yeah, that's a great, great point. We don't have time to go into all that detail. But I encourage you again to take one of these classes or go back and read it in detail. You remember the test of a prophet was does the prophecy do they come true? Right? And and so we'll see that and we see this incredible detail not only in Daniel but we'll see it in Ezekiel. as well. So we have to take that literally and and try and understand that, wrestle with it, go back to other scripture to to verify and understand it. So great point. Alright, any more on Daniel comments or Alright, we're gonna jump to Ezekiel. Ezekiel was a um a contemporary of Daniel again during this this time of captivity. He also addresses the restoration of the temple and the religious system. So where Daniel was was more focused on So we have the tabernacle, we have Solomon's temple, um which was destroyed in five eighty-six. Right? We covered that last week, and it's in Chronicles here too. was Jeremiah lamenting, right, at the final destruction of Jerusalem and the temple. But he's going to talk about uh a future temple. And again the message was to whom? Those who were in exile. So a little bit of an intro. Ezekiel addressed this his book to the exiles in Babylon who were discouraged and deluded with false hopes of an early return to their homeland. There were false prophets at the time in Babylon that were Telling folks, hey, your return's gonna be imminent. It's close. And Ezekiel had to tell them, No, you have seventy years of of exile. Right? So he was trying to again encourage him with this future hope, this future restoration. As noted, he began his ministry in in 593 BC seven years before the fall of Jerusalem. So remember, Babylon, the the captivity started in six oh five. So he was there during that time period and got to to witness and see all this. He too is taken into captivity um into Babylon. And it's Ezekiel is basically broken up into three sections, so we're going to cover that in a little bit more detail. A little bit more, though, about Ezekiel and this calling of being a prophet. Ezekiel's call to the prophetic ministry came through a staggering vision to the glory of God. Summarizing the vision, he said, Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And when I saw it, I fell upon my face, and I heard the voice of one speaking. The voice commissioned Ezekiel, Son of Man, I Send you to the people of Israel, to a nation of rebels who have rebelled against me. The venture of Ezekiel was difficult. God warned that the people would not listen to him. But if Ezekiel did not warn them of their sins, then said God God, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. Then Ezekiel saw the glory of God arise from its place, and he said, I went in bitterness in the heat of my spirit, the hand of the Lord being buried in the Very strong upon me. So very strong conviction to do what the Lord is asking him to do. When Ezekiel began his ministry, I just covered this, it was 593. Jerusalem had not yet fallen His first commission was to declare the imminence of her doom. So here is Ezekiel telling everyone the judgment that is imminent. It is coming within just a couple years. Ezekiel was commanded, and this is the picture you'll see at the top. Israel was commanded to make a brick replica of Jerusalem and dramatize how it would be besieged. Then God told him to lie on his side for over a year Symbolizing the times of judgment on Israel and Judah. If you read that um depiction in in chapter four, you will see the picture here is is pretty good on what was described. You it's hard to see but there's a it talks about a siege ramp and there's an iron tablet that was placed to to show the the disconnect, if you will. Um a really good depiction. But over a year on his left side and then he's forty about forty days on his right side. And and it should be taken literally. It's hard to fathom. That was the calling of a prophet. You'll see not only Ezekiel but Daniel too, many of the prophet Prophets use visions, prophecies, parables, signs, and symbols to proclaim and dramatize the message of God to his exiled people. The the chore for us is to work through that in a literal hermeneutic. To make sure we can understand it. And again, by literal, it's not necessarily the word literal, it's using literary techniques to understand. Some of it is symbology, some of it is parables, right? Some of it is visions, dreams. We have to Wrestle and understand. Alright, so this first period, right, is or this first section is God, his denunciation of Judah and the departure of God's glory. Ezekiel recounts for Israel the long history of Rebellion against God, their blasphemy, their idolatry, and profanity, which brings down the judgment of God. Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem and preach against the sanctuaries, and all flesh shall know that I the Lord have drawn my sword. out of its sheath. Again, the prophet lists their many sins: murder, contempt for parents, extortion, exploitation of widows, profanity, slander, moral lewdness, sodomy, sexual impurity, adultery, bribery, rape. Robbery and oppression. Therefore I have poured out my ign indignation upon them. I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath. Again, Israel's sin is described as the lewdest form of harlotry to which God responds. Bonds, your lewdness shall be requited upon you, and you shall bear the penalty for your sinful idolatry, and you shall know that I am the Lord The last prophecy of judgment on Jerusalem came the very day of the Babylonian destruction of Jerusalem in 586, the day that the Lord took Ezekiel's wife. Again, a hard life of a prophet. By this the prophet, the prophet was a very good thing. people knew that he was the Lord. His glory would not be tarnished nor his judgment delayed. So this is judgment on on the people um of of Israel. Next he goes to the surrounding nations. So again, we talked about both Daniel and Ezekiel, many of the prophets addressing those surrounding nation and how they actually treat the nation of Israel. Like Obadiah, Nahum, Zephaniah, and Habuk before him, Ezekiel called down the judgment of God on Israel's enemies. They too had transgressed God's law and they deserved his wrath. Beginning in the east with Amman and proceeding clockwise to the north of Tyree and Sidan, the prophet strikes a fatal blow at the heart of each nation's sin. He reserves the last and largest description of judgment for Egypt. The Ammonites stood condemned for rejoicing and listen to what they're doing to the nation of Israel. Stood condemned for rejoicing in the desolation of the temple. Moab would be judged for declaring that Judah was The Philistines too acted with revenge and even malice to destroy God's people. Tyree would be cast into the sea because she wished to be replenished at Israel's. Expense. Saddam too would be punished because she did not acknowledge that God is Lord. Egypt would receive condemnation because they selfishly refused support to Israel's beleaguered by her enemies. Egypt would be destroyed by the Babylonians. Pharaoh would be cut down like a proud cedar and captured like a dragon in the sea. Alright, so a lot of judgment on the surrounding nations. And a warning even today how we are supposed to treat the nation of Israel. Don't go too far down that, right? We could have a discussion about that, but I think there's there's warnings and and wisdom in understanding um how we treat the nation of Israel. Amen. Yep. Yeah. All right, so judgment, but he ends this last section, but really with a message of hope. This idea of restoration. And again, you get a a prophetic message here. About end time. So let me just cover that briefly. This final section of Ezekiel looks beyond Israel's last foes to their future kingdom. It is a description of their temple-centered messianic age, a portrayal of the full. And final religious restoration. And you have three aspects here: the messianic temple. The first four chapters in this final section give a detailed description of the messianic temple. This temple is built after the same pattern and with the same pattern. So you see this thread pulled throughout from the tabernacle, Solomon's temple, and then this temple that is being described for that thousand-year reign, the millennial Kingdom. The Messian so that was the temple, the Messianic worship. An elaborate system of Levitical worship is described following the pattern laid down by Moses. It will include laws of defilement of the priesthood and offerings and a feast. It represents A full and complete religious restoration for Israel. We'll come back to that. And then the third, the Messianic land and river. Out of the restored temple will flow a river from Jerusalem, the city of Jerusalem within the land, will measure over five miles of the year. circumference. And the name of the city thenceforth shall be the Lord is there, and the land will be apportioned again for the twelve tribes, um as depicted in the in the chapters there. So let's go back, you know, I think it was Karen who brought up this question or comment lesson one, two or three, right, when we were talking about the tab tabernacle and and the question was, Hey, there's some there's some commentaries of preachers today that that are saying there will be sacrifices in the millennial kingdom. It's described right here in Israel. Okay? But let's make sure we understand that. There's a couple different interpretations. First one is spiritual. Like I said, the following reasons are given for interpreting this passage simply. symbolically as fulfilled in the New Testament church, but not involving a literal future temple nor the reinstitution of blood sacrifices. So spiritually they would say in the New Testament it's the church that has fulfilled all of this. That would be the spiritual aspect or spiritual interpretation, and I won't go into more detail there. I want to spend some time, the second would be the literal interpretation. According to this interpretation, there will be a literal restoration of the temple and sacrificial system for Israel during the thousand-year messianic reign of Christ, which is depicted in Revelation 20. And here are just a couple points to highlight in favor of this interpretation. As Doug said, Ezekiel presents highly detailed descriptions, numerous measurements, and historical scenes that do not fit with a symbolic interpretation. We said this last time. The general rule of hermeneutics is this: when the literal sense makes good sense, seek no other sense lest it result in nonsense. The literal sense makes good sense here. If this passage is spiritualized, then on similar grounds one could spiritualize away most of the Old Testament prophecies, including the obviously literal ones about Christ's first and second comings. The Bible makes a clear distinction between the Christian church And the nation of Israel. Promises unique to Abraham and his descendants, such as the promise of the Holy Land, are not fulfilled in the Christian church. The picture in Revelation 21: no temple or sacrifices is not that of the thousands. in your messianic reign, but of the eternal state to follow. That's the new heaven and the new earth. There will be no temple or sacrifices. The sacrifices of the messianic kingdom have no, here's what's important, have no atoning significance. They are made merely memorial in nature, looking back to the accomplished work of Christ on the cross. This is similar to what the elements of the Lord's Supper do for Christians. Alright, so let me pause there and get a another commentary, another viewpoint. This is from uh John MacArthur. And it's very similar. Alright, so he says um exact offerings in language just as definitive as the literal description in Moses day are also just as literal here. They are of a memorial nature. They are not efficacious any more than Old Testament sacrifices were. As Old Testament sacrifices pointed forward to Christ's death, so these are tangible expressions. Not competing with, but pointing back to the value of Christ's completely effective sacrifice, one for all. Once for all, sorry. God at that time endorsed Old Testament offerings as tokens of forgiving and cleansing worshippers on the basis and credit of the great Lamb they pointed forward to. He alone could take away sins. The tangible expressions of worship which the Israelites for so long failed to offer validly will at last be offered acceptably, then with full understanding about the The bread and the cup, which contemporary believers find meaningful, do not compete with Christ's cross, but they are tangible memorials. of its glory. So will these sacrifices be. Okay? So you obviously we know there is going to be no need for sacrifices at this time, but there does appear to be a description of sacrifices happening in the Millennial Kingdom as a memorial. And what you always have to do is try and understand why. Why during that thousand-year reign is that necessary? Again, you're going to have to take one of these eschatology classes to pull that a little bit deeper. But just but just keep that in mind, okay? Pastor Yes. Um speaking from uh being in Israel, it's interesting to notice to note that uh there is a place, I guess like a farm where they are raising red peppers because it needs the ashes of the red pepper to plant the temple. Very interesting. I I love that point, Anne, because I I want you to turn to Hebrews. We're going to wrap up with Hebrews. Go to Hebrews nine. And I've referenced, you know, I've referenced Hebrews quite a bit during this class, especially chapter eleven, the Hall of Faith. But Hebrews Hebrews right? The author, the audience is Jewish believers. And and of course he's gonna relate back to the Old Testament because he's trying to c trying to convey to them they they want to resort back to, you know, the traditions and and the laws, if you will, and he's saying no. There's a better way. Christ is the better way. Okay, but we're going to specifically look in chapter nine. And it talks about this old and new. And my point to what you said, Anne, was you have people that are trying to prepare for these sacrifices when they need to be focused on Jesus Christ. That's the the threat I want you to take away. We know that Christ is the temple. Right? He is the temple that we are going to worship to. These sacrifices might be reminders and and apparently they're important. During this millennial kingdom, but what's really, really important is Jesus Christ and the new covenant. So that's what we're going to cover here in chapter 9, the old and the new. Now even the first covenant had regulations of divine worship in the earthly sanctuary, for there was a tabernacle prepared, the outer one in which were the lampstand and the table and the sacred bread. This is called the holy place. And behind the second veil there was a tabernacle which is called the Holy of Holies, having a golden altar of incense and the Ark of the Covenant covered on all sides with gold, in which was a golden jar holding the manna, and Aaron's rod, which budded, and the tables of the covenant. I didn't highlight it when we talked about um the temple, but it talks about, you know, the Ark of the Covenant being brought in and all it had in it at the time was the tablets. So what happened to the bud in the jar of manna? We don't know. You remember the Ark of the Covenant was out of their hands for a while um with the Philistines when it was brought back, do you remember there were some that actually opened up the covenant? And i those items Not important, but I just thought a neat interesting uh point that you hear you see that in nine in chapter nine, but it's referring to the time of um Moses in the tabernacle, but when it came to the temple, those items were not there. And above it were the cherubim, I'm in verse five. Above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat. But of these things we cannot now speak in detail. Now when these things have been thus prepared, the priests are continually entering entering the outer tabernacle, performing so I was going to move ahead a slide. Performing the divine worship. But into the second only the high priest answer. Once a year, not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins of the people committed in ignorance. The Holy Spirit is signifying that. This that the way into the holy place has not been disclosed, while the outer tabernacle is still standing, which is a symbol for the present time. Accordingly, both gifts and sacrifices are offered which cannot make the worshiper. perfect in conscience. Alright, you catch that? It cannot make the worshipper perfect in conscience. Since they relate only to food and drink and various washings, regulations for the body imposed until a time of reformation. That would be true uh during the millennial age too, right? Those sacrifices will have no power. But when Christ appeared as a high priest Of the good things to come. He entered through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation, and not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood he entered the holy place where once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling, those who have been defiled, sanctify of the cleansing of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through So again we see this verbiage of of end times and what that's going to look like. There might be questions there. I don't understand why. Again you gotta wrestle. You gotta wrestle with the word. But the main point I want you to take away as we we follow this thread of of the temple, right, this center of worship, that's Christ for us now. That is Jesus Christ is the temple. Okay? Um I finished a little bit earlier because I was so worried I've been just jamming things in the last couple weeks, so I finished a little bit earlier. I would love to hear if anyone has any more comments or questions um that have traveled to Israel making some of these connections. You guys have brought some great, great points. And I'm gonna do this for my own homework. I feel like I I didn't state this idea of, you know, the the Israelites now in captivity and what that meant to their their rulership, if you will, until now. I want to have a more definitive statement on what that means because I feel like I confused some. So that's my homework for next week. But any comments, questions from those who have traveled or or just in your reading of God's Word? Yes, Sarah. So the comment was in Pennsylvania there's a one third replica of the temple. Um the tabernacle. It's in Lancaster. In Lancaster. Okay. Very, very good. you in there if you go in there you're going to a gospel. Yeah. But they will tell you that the main theme of the tabernacle was redemption. Yeah. And it's it's a fantastic place to visit. All right, we'll trip next week. No, if you get a chance, I would encourage you to go take a look at that. I didn't realize that, so that's now on my bucket list. Can we go back to this Red Heifer thing for just a minute? To the what? The Red Heifer thing. Yes, please. There is an active society in Israel today called the Third Temple Society. And I don't know who the bookman's last trip took them there, but we have been there with him. And there's a group of people, very, very ardent Jews, who claim that they're going that they are rebuilt, they're preparing for the third temple. There's already a huge menorah down in the temple. square that's to go into the new third temple and it's really it's a fantastic the theology is all wrong but but it's a it's a fantastic idea of this third temple. Yeah. And the problem with a red heifer is, according to the Bible, a red heifer cannot have more than two black hairs. And they have not been able to breed one yet that has less than two black hairs. Isn't that the Lord? That's awesome. Isn't that just a depiction of I'm sorry, no I'm sorry, black hair. Not not red hair. Yeah. You said black. Oh good. Yeah. I mean what a what a contrast to those focus on Christ versus trying to continue, right, to to fulfill the law. if you will. So this works. Workspace, yeah. Good. Alright, let me close in prayer and we'll get you out here a little bit early.