Yeah, so a little bit of background, again, just to kind of reorient everybody. We are actually on lesson three, so we're going to be studying Genesis 12 through 50, and and here we're going to incorporate one of the first books of poetry. So again, your Old Testament is kind of the historical. historical books, then you have the poetry books and then uh the prophecies. And we're gonna integrate those as we go through time. So really a chronological aspect and it it was really interesting to study Job this week and to see how it fits into the events that are happening in 12 through 50. So I'll keep showing this chart. It's a good reference again to show some of the concepts we'll be looking at. Obviously this progressive revelation as we go through time and we're going to get a lot of that today, undergirded by that you know, literal, grammatical, historical, hermeneutic. And again, like I talked about, um studying the Old Testament chronologically. Uh we'll obviously be looking at the covenants. We'll have the Abrahamic covenants today, which are just foundational to everything going forward. We've talked about dispensations or how um God the stewardship arrangement with man during certain times and we'll talk a little bit more about that. And then doctrines as we've talked about. And again I encourage you to go back to um our document at Hope Bible Church, what we teach. It basically goes through the ten basic doctrines and it's a great refresher on what we teach and why with supporting um verses, if you will, or passages of scripture. Okay? So um just a reminder, what we talked about. about last week really focusing on Genesis one through eleven and and we walked through creation and this idea of this dispensation of innocence, right? Adam and Eve were innocent. They could eat of anything in the garden except one tree. One piece of fruit. And they failed. And we understand the consequences of that. So we talked about the fall. But right away you saw God's redemptive plan on scene, right? Genesis three fifteen, the introduction of Jesus Christ. It just shows a What a wonderful, gracious, and loving God that we have. Um But they were now under this dispensation or this stewardship of conscience, right? And we saw we see that in Romans 1, in Romans 2, where God puts that law on our heart, that idea. So they are without excuse. And they went to the way of wickedness, right? They suppressed the truth And we see the events that um led up to the flood. So God wipes out creation with the exception of Noah and his family. Why Noah? Right? God's sovereignty. That's what we're gonna focus on today. He chose Noah. And at the end of the day we don't know why. It's because God is sovereign. We're gonna see that again and again and again. And I hope it's just a huge, huge encouragement. to all of us. Now I would argue this this idea of conscience continues to flow through, right? We don't have the law, the Mosaic Law yet. So this is still in place even though we went into a new dispensation of this human government. So after the flood They call it that because the the the individuals now were given stewardship for capital punishment, right? They now had some ownership of making the decision if someone was killing somebody who was made in the image of God The other thing happened there is they got to eat meat, right? Now I gotta pause here for a second. You guys had the women's ministry yesterday. My wife cooked up, I want to say like fifty pounds of bacon. And I'm thinking, excellent, because some of that's gonna come back home. You women are carnivores. You're carnivores. So it's equal opportunity there, right? But we see that change. And and then the nations. We talked about how God dealt But with you know, the world in its entirety. And and he saw the nations conspiring, right, again to put themselves above God. We saw that again and again with the introduction of sin, Satan and Adam and Eve, pride, right, discontentment, covetousness. They wanted to be above God. They saw that at the Tower of Babel, right? And and he um confused them with languages and ended up dispersing them. So I showed you the map of and that's how you get the nations spread out all over the world So that's where we left in Genesis 111. Again, God's sovereignty as you see him deal with different people, but now think of that as kind of a a floodlight And now he's going to zero in on a spotlight. And he's going to talk specifically about a certain nation and and certain people and certain persons. So it's going to be absolutely interesting to see him now zero down. Again, his plan of redemption. And a very particular people. And why did he choose them? He's sovereign. He's God. That's what we'll talk about. Okay? So again, you see in number one the transition from lesson two. We talked about Genesis 1 through 11. dealt with, you know, how we became into being in the beginning, the universe, man, the nations. Um lots here, right? We see the unfolding of creation of man, the fall and destruction of man, like I just talked about, uh, with the exception of the remnant. Noah and his family. And over time the dispersions of the nations. And I mention, however, there is hope as God begins to reveal his plan of redemption through his son Jesus Christ immediately on the scene in Genesis three fifteen. So I want to talk about this thing, this attribute of God, so important, the sovereignty of God. I don't know how many of you I pray, Lord, I thank you for your sovereignty. But do I understand the magnitude? That's really what I want you to key on. That is going to be the general theme, and I I didn't cover the bottom line up front Top of your page, God's sovereignty in full display as we go through this lesson. You're going to see that his sovereignty plays out in the intricacies and the complexity of life. And think about your own life, how that plays out. Right? How he fashions and and moves and works with us, even in our sin and consequences, his plan still becomes reality, which is just uh incredible to me, but we're gonna see that again and again. Simply our responsibility through all of that is to trust and obey. So let's talk about this thing called sovereignty. You see some of the definitions there. I do like the first one. God is the supreme ruler and authority. That he ordains whatever comes to pass, and that his divine purpose is always accomplished. I like that definition because of the last part of that. Yes, he is supreme, he is the ultimate authority, but because of that, his divine purpose is always accomplished Grudum, God's exercise of power over his creation. And then I want to read from uh Pink, again, the Attributes of God, where he talks about the exercise of his supremacy. The sovereignty of God may be defined as the exercise of his supremacy, being infinitely elevated above the highest creature. He is the most high, Lord of heaven and earth. We talked about that word, remember? Transcendence. And I think in the sermon last week, um The preacher used that term. High, high above creation. Subject to none, influenced by none, absolutely independent. God does as he pleases. Only as he pleases, always as he pleases. None can thwart him, none can hinder him. So his own word expressly declares, My counsel shall stand and I will do all my pleasure. That's from Hosea He doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand. That's from Daniel. Divine sovereignty means that God is God in fact, as well as in name, that he is on the throne of the universe. directing all things, working all things, after the counsel of his own will from Ephesians. Does that give you a great sense of the sovereignty of God? I want you to keep that as kind of the baseline of your framework as we go through um the rest of today's lesson. So as I mentioned, up to this point, God dealt with the whole world of man as a whole. Moving forward, however, God is going to focus his attention on a particular nation, Israel, a particular tribe from that nation, Jews. uh initiated through a particular person, Abraham, as we'll see. And this is where we get into the uh area of the patriarchs. Now I took these um from their LinkedIn account, so I I guess they're pretty accurate. That's a joke. Now you see uh Isaac used a very similar uh profile, but he did include uh the the ram, right? That's important. Um and then Joseph still loves his uh his role there. But you're gonna see again this this incredible sovereignty is God as he as he goes through this lineage and picks these particular people and the circumstances that happen around these people, good and And bad to continue to carry out God's plan. And then as I mentioned, we get to insert Job here, who's going to give us some incredible insight as to how the Israelites may have been feeling during their captivity in Egypt, right? So very, very exciting. Okay. So we talked about this changing dispensation, and what was it? Again, when we talk about a stewardship arrangement, it's God is giving man a certain responsibility, and then he is held accountable to that. And in this case, the patriarchs were not a very good thing. were to believe and obey God. Stay in the promised land and you will be blessed. And you can see the the passage from Genesis 15. Then he believed in the Lord, and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. And this was after God had promised to Abraham the many descendants he would have, and he believed. And it was reckoned to him. Now we're gonna see in the next section here where our our brother Abraham wasn't wasn't all holy, right? There were some things he didn't do that were not wise. So let's compare and contrast some of that. You see the chart at the bottom of the page there. This is from his obedience from again the the hall of faith if you will from Hebrews eleven. And what I'm gonna do is kinda go there and then go over to his sin as you get a a timeline of what's happening. It says by faith, Abraham when he was called, obeyed by going out to a place. And so you can see on the chart here, Abraham is from Um Ur and he was asked to take his family and travel to the promised land. And that was going to take him up to uh Haran. Um he went with his father and Lot And um his father died there and you can see the red path. Um I like this chart because it shows all the patriarchs, but he moves down into the promised land and then at some point there's a famine Which requires him to go into Egypt. And then he moves back, right? So that's kind of the flow that you get here. So by faith, when he was called from Ur, he obeyed Right? And then move over to the sin piece. As he went down into Egypt, here's Abraham And his wife, please say that you are my sister, so that it may go well with me because of you, and that I may live on account of you. It's hard to fathom Right, that you would put your wife in that kind of danger. And yet he was a human being. He was a human being. Move back over to the obedience by faith he lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a foreign land. That's him moving back to the Promised Land. Um there's an episode where um you know he goes and gets lot from Sodom and Gomorrah, it's destroyed, and he moves back to Garar region. Down in here. And once again, right, he's met with the king and he has the fear of man. So Sarai said to Abram, Now behold, the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Oh sorry. Um different right. So he has So Sarah said to Abraham, Now behold, the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. made. And Abraham in his wisdom says, yeah, that's a great idea. Craziness. Right? Not trusting the Lord. Hard to fathom. But before we can Let's think about that for a second. And then lastly, on the sin side, again I just described him moving back to the Gerar region. And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, she is my sister. So Abimelech, king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. He did it again. He did it again. And yet God protected him. He protected Sarah. So God even even in the sin, in that circumstance, has protected everyone involved so that his protection plan would remain. However, you also see a maturing of Abraham over time. And go back to the obedience piece. The huge, huge test. Put yourself in his shoes. By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered a So yeah, it's easy to look back and say, Abraham, I how could you how could you put your wife in danger? How could you go into her maid? You were the leader You were supposed to lead and he failed and yet you see this incredible test of sacrificing his son, who the promise was supposed to come through. He knew that. It was supposed to come through Isaac. Um, you guys know I have seven children? Six girls and then a boy. And we weren't trying for that. We weren't trying for boy, we just gotta get a son. It just worked out that way. Um what I haven't told you though is I l almost lost both Karina and Michael at that birth. Um there were some complications. Um cord around his head and and she had some complications afterwards. So it was a pretty scary moment. But what if the Lord had taken them Go back to the sermon we heard last week, you know, glory to God. Are are you able to stand at the gravesite and say glory to God. I would have been required to do that. I I can't imagine that. It would have been incredibly, incredibly hard. And and that's kind of what's happening here with Abraham and Isaac. This is this is his son in which the promise is is supposed to go through. through and Abraham, I I trust God, I trust He can raise them from the dead. Right? And he was willing to sacrifice his son. Hard, hard to fathom. And yet We are supposed to stand always, glory to God, because of his sovereignty. Again, I want to hit that theme again and again and again. So in summary, you know, we saw Abraham and Sarah still human. Right? They sinned, and yet they trusted in in God. They feared man. You know, Abraham feared man instead of God in turning over his wife, and yet the Lord protected them. You see Sarah take matter. matters into her own hands with hey go in with my maid and yet you also see the the conforming or the sanctification of both of them over time with this ultimate test of Isaac. Miss Ann Abraham offering Isaac, that's in Genesis chapter 22. And I think it's very interesting that that same chapter 22, if you look in your concordances, um, it's the first time in the whole Bible that the word love is used, that the word obey or obedience is used, and that the word worship is used. All in the twenty-second chapter of Genesis. That's awesome. Awesome. Yeah, and I think that again goes back to, you know, really studying the attributes of God. You know, yes, we're going to focus on his sovereignty, but you see love and grace, um, the need to obey, it's just it's chalk full of goodies All right, turning over to page two. Again, like I said, the path of redemption flows through the preservation of a godly line. So I just popped up on the screen there, that was from last week, the the lineage that we saw. From Adam go through Seth, and you saw it flow down through Noah and from Noah to Shem. You remember um the sin of Ham going in and and seeing the nakedness of his father, and and I think it was really Shem that took the leadership to back. back in and and cover up. And so he he was blessed. He was given a special blessing. And you will see that lineage flows from Shem to Abraham and then Abraham to Isaac and Jacob. Alright, so again we will continue to f to follow that lineage and um talk a little bit more about about Jacob when we get there. So specific to Abraham, not gonna go through the whole history, you know, uh Rob last quarter, Rob Thompson, Spent a whole quarter on just 12 through 50. Right? So lots and lots of detail. If you're interested, you can go back to to those postings and I'm sure it will be offered again. But what I really want to focus on is this covenant that God made with us. Abraham. Again, why Abraham? Because God is God. He chose Abraham to make this covenant. And it's comprised of three components, right? We talked about the land, the blessing, and the seed or the descendants. So the land. And the Lord said to Abraham, Now lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, they were currently in Canaan, northward and southward and eastward and westward, for all the land which you see I will give it to you and your descendants forever. So we believe these to be this covenant to be unconditional. You don't see any condition there. If you do this, then I promise to do this. You do not see that. It is unconditional. We also believe it to be literal. So when it talks about, remember he's standing in Canaan and he says to look in all directions. This is the land I'm going to give you. It's literal. We believe it to be literal. The blessing, promise of redemption, both nationally and universally. You can see in Genesis 12 through 3. And I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you. So obviously as we go through the Old Testament, you will see the Lord doesn't doesn't stop dealing with the other nations, but it's often how they are interacting with the nation of Israel. Okay? So we'll keep that in mind. The second passage there, and in your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you You have obeyed my voice. That reference to C there points to Jesus Christ. Yep, uh the seed or the promise of numerous descendants to form a great nation. And I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, and so you shall be a blessing. And I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth, so that if anyone can remember the dust of the earth, then your descendants can also be numbered. So again you see the land, the blessing, and the sea. And kind of in summary there, the Abrahamic covenant was announced in Genesis twelve, was confirmed again in Genesis thirteen and fifteen, and it was legally ratified in Genesis fifteen to include a a prophecy or a promise. So let's go to Genesis fifteen. Always good to get in the Word And let me start in verse five. So Genesis fifteen, let me start in verse five. And he took him outside and said, Now look toward the heavens and count the stars, if you are able to count them. And he said to him, So shall your descendants be. And then we talked about this verse. Verse six, then he believed in the Lord, and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. And he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans, to give you this land to possess it. Now a very natural question at this point. We see from Abraham in verse 8. And he said, O Lord God, how may I know that I shall possess it? So the Lord is making a covenant, but how does he ratify that covenant? right with with his people. Verse nine. So he said to him, Bring me a three year old heifer, and a three year old female goat, and a three year old ram and a turtle dove and a young pigeon. Then he brought all these to him and cut them in two. and laid each half opposite the other, but he did not cut the birds. And the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, and Abraham drove them away. And when the sun was going down a deep sleep fell upon Abram And behold, terror and great darkness fell upon him. And God said to Abram, Know for certain that your descendants will be strangers in a land that is not theirs. They will be enslaved and oppressed four hundred years. So again you see God's prayer. Sovereignty at work here, right? Nothing has been done necessarily to warrant that, but right here in this dream to Abraham, he says, Your people are going to be in captivity for four hundred years. How does that happen? How does that play out? We're going to see that in a moment. But I will also judge the nation whom they will serve, and afterward they will come out with many possessions. And as for you you shall go to your fathers in peace. You shall be buried at a good old age. Okay, so I wanted to point out that, you know, Abraham naturally has this question, well, how will I know? And then they have this ceremony, if you will, of of the two halves, and Rob can probably go into a lot of detail with you if you have questions about that, but they were to walk through the middle of that. that and that's how they ratified the covenant, if you will. Alright, so that's how we knew. But also this idea of this prophecy or this uh I I don't know if you it's a warning, but y your people will be in captivity for four hundred years. So again I wanna highlight to show the sovereignty of God making that happen in the circumstances of what will see Joseph's life for sure. Alright, so Abraham has this covenant and he has his son Isaac like we talked about. And you'll see that God confirms that covenant as he goes down the line. It didn't just stay with Abraham, he confirmed it through his sons or his heritage, if you will. So God confirms his covenant with Isaac in Genesis 26. What does Isaac do? Right? He he is traveling um again with his wife and he repeats the same sin that his dad did. Right? He tells the king, hey that's my my sister. Guess who the king was? Same dude, Abimelech. Abimelech's like, I I've seen this story before. I've been there, right? But again, we can't be too quick con to uh condemn how would we react in the same situation, but obviously a a fear of man. Um and and maybe a little bit of that father son relationship and and did he know that his dad do that did that and and how do we carry down that heritage with our our children and our sons. Something to think about. As we know, Isaac marries Rebecca and and she conceives twins. And once again, God's sovereignty is on display. And I know you guys know this story, but it's so important to reiterate. There's the passage. But the children struggled together. And she said, If it is so, why then why then am I this way? So she went to inquire of the Lord. And the Lord said to her, Two nations are in your womb And two people shall be separated from your body, and one people shall be stronger than the other, and the older shall serve the younger. Why? Why that why that order? Because God is God. God is sovereign. He chose while they were in the womb that order. And that was going to play out right through eternity. So later on, we see in his old age, I Isaac is deceived, right? So Rebecca is a little bit of a deceiver, she's a schemer, and she works with Jave Jacob to deceive Isaac. But like we just mentioned, that order was preordained. But see how God used it. Used that circumstance of Rebecca, even if it was sinful in her deception, to carry out his plan. Okay. Um it's written in Malachi, Jacob I loved, Esau I hated. Again it's uh reiterate reiterated in Romans nine. So once again we see this incredible sovereignty as he works through Abraham He reaffirms the covenant with Isaac, and then Isaac has Jacob and Esau, and we see the priority put on Jacob as far as the lineage. Okay? Alright, we get to Jacob now. While Jacob travels in search of a wife, the Lord comes to him in a dream and confirms, again, once again, confirms the covenant of land, descendants, and blessings. So let's go to Genesis twenty-eight. Genesis twenty eight, and we'll pick it up in verse ten. Then Jacob departed from Bathsheba and went toward Haran And that's uh you can see that's up on the top of the map there. And he came to a certain place and spent the night there because the sun had set. And he took one of the stones of the place and put it under his head and lay down in that place. And he had a dream, and behold, a ladder was set on the earth with its top reaching to heaven. And behold the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. And behold the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord, the God of your father Abraham, and the God of Isaac, the land on which you lie, I will give it to you, and to your descendants. Your descendants shall also be like the dust of the earth, and you shall spread out to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south And in you and in your descendants shall all the families of the earth be blessed. And behold, I am with you, and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land. For I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you. Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it And he was afraid and said, How awesome is this place. This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. So you see the the insert there from MacArthur's commentary, this idea, this is where we get Jacob's ladder from. Right? And I'll just read what he has here. This is a graphic portrayal of the heavenly Lord's personal involvement in the affairs of earth, especially as they related to divine covenant promises in Jacob's life. This dream was to encourage the lonely tribes. God's own appointed angelic messengers ensured the carrying out of his will and plans. Isn't that a beautiful sight? Right? Um he is reaffirming this covenant with Jacob and you get this idea of the angels ministering. Right? And you get that visual of that. And that's one of the primary roles of the angels is to to minister God's plan, to be an encouragement, to be a protector. Um, cute little story. It may not be t funny to you, but it it was funny at the time. Um and I should say, you know, anyone who was in the Romans class, you you've heard some uh, you know, Doyle's bad dad Christian jokes, right? And this actually came out during the ordination uh time that we had last Saturday, they must have been getting loopy or whatever, but Dave says um Oh, what was the you've heard it? What was the first tennis match in the Bible, right? Joseph served in Pharaoh's court. Terrible. Terrible. And guess what? Gabe and Allen start chiming in with their bad bad Christian jokes. Yeah, it it was It was uh pretty pitiful. But so we were at an event um Saturday, I'll say it was Johnny and Jenny's wedding And so we were at a table with some of your brothers and sisters having a great time. It was it was a neat time to get to know some folks that that I don't know so well. But one of the ladies at the table, we were talking about uh where we lived in Massachusetts and they They have a lot of arts out actually um in western Massachusetts, Tanglewood, where the Boston Symphony um orchestra will go out there during the summer. Yo Yo Ma, I mean some big names. James Taylor is out there doing his Fourth of July um uh event. But they also have um dance and in um plays, if you will. And it's hosted by a place called Jacob's Pillar or Jacob's Pillow. And one of the ladies, um, at our table knew exactly what that was 'cause she is actually has been trained in dance and was part of leading that ministry at a uh previous church that she had. So we got to talking about that and um just describing what that was like. And one of the guys at the table, I mean it was hard to really if you didn't understand what it was, it was really hard to get a sense of So he he rightly asked, uh okay guys, what is Jacob's pillow? And one of the other guys at the table who um pretty stoic guy, you know, you wouldn't say hey he's a He's a jokester. Without missing a bee he chimes in. It's a rock. Jacob's pillow. Rock. It was much funnier at the moment. And I laughed because I had just studied the passage, right? So it it and again you had to be there, but because of this person he just boom it was pretty funny. Jacob, what is Jacob's pillow? It's a rock. Alright, that went over dead. Alright. So we go on and we know the story of Jacob, but Jacob finds Rachel the daughter of Laban, and falls madly in love with her. However, Laban says, hey, if you will serve me for seven years, then I'll give you my daughter, Rachel. And I I put in quotes here, because Pastor Gabe talks about it all the time, and it's lovely. Um so Jacob served seven years for Rachel and they seemed to him but a few days because of his love for her. So husbands, that can be your, you know, next Valentine card is to quote 2920. But it doesn't stop there, right? So he's tricked and he ends up marrying Leah, right? He agrees to serve another seven years if he can marry Rachel, and it actually goes beyond that another six years. So he ends up serving LeBron for twenty years. Again, all part of God's sovereignty, right, in the circumstances of life. Twenty years is a long, long time. Now, from these two wives and and their concubines, we end up seeing the twelve sovereignty. sons born to Jacob. So actually got this can get really confusing. So I do like this chart. Um and we're gonna we're gonna follow this one for a while as we go through the the rest of the Old Testament. But you can see so Under Jacob, under Leah, right, his first wife, the elder sister, there's actually six sons are through Leah. And there's twelve total, right? But then you see with Rachel, Joseph and Benjamin, and she actually they're in route um I think back to Canaan and uh Rachel gives birth to Benjamin and dies, right? You know the story. But that's um the two that are through Rachel who you know Jacob wanted from the beginning um are Joseph and Benjamin. And it's interesting to note though that Joseph, and we'll cover this in a second, had two sons, uh Manessah and Ephraim. And when you talk about the twelve tribes of Israel, You don't have a tribe of Joseph, you see the combination of these two. So the I'll call it the grandsons are actually named as the tribe. Also interesting to note that the lineage doesn't travel through Joseph, but is actually the tribe of Judah. we see King David and ultimately Jesus. And then you have obviously the Levites where you had the priests and Moses and Aaron. And so I just thought this was a great chart, which can get very busy as you're reading through trying to follow all this to concisely kind of show the framework and the lineage that we'll continue to follow. But this is where you see that turning point where Jacob, his name will change. Change, and that's the next passage here. Um he gets in a wrestling match and his name changes. I think it's always interesting to see where the name changes, but it changes to Israel. This is where we start to see, you know, the land, the country of Israel, the nation of Israel. Israel and the twelve tribes. This is where they come through, um, through his sons. All right, let's go to Genesis thirty three. Now the setting here is um he Jacob gets word that Esau, remember, Jacob and Esau, um he gets word that that Esau wants to come see him, and so he's fearing. He's greatly anxious about what that um exchange is going. And then we pick that up in Genesis 33 verse 24. Then Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until daybreak. And when he saw that he had not prevailed against him, he touched the socket of his thigh. So the socket of Jacob's thigh was dislocated while he wrestled with him. Then he said, Let me go, for the dawn is breaking. But he said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. So he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob. And he said, Your name shall no longer be Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God, and with men, and have prevailed. Then Jacob asked him and said, Please tell me. Tell me your name. But he said, Why is it that you ask my name? And he blessed him there. So Jacob named the place Panael, for he said, I have seen God face to face, yet my life has been preserved. Did I mess that up? I apologize. Thank you. I'll make a note there. Alright, sorry about that. Now the sun rose Um therefore to this day the sons of Israel do not eat the sinew of the hip, which is in the socket of the thigh, because he touched the socket of Jacob's thigh and the sinew of his hip. Bottom line he's wrestling with with God, right? And and he wants that blessing um before he meets with with Esau. Turns out that that exchange with Esau is actually very friendly. But interesting to see this wrestling match, if you will, with the Lord, the name change that he now gets, which will now carry out throughout time. Okay? So we have Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. Again, the covenant is renewed with Jacob. And now Joseph comes on the scene. We know he is the favored son. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his sons, we see in Genesis 37. And he was not the favored brother. Why? First he was a tattletale Right? You get the story of him coming in from the field and, hey dad, guess what my bros are doing? Right? I'm sure that went over extremely well. He's the favorite kid. So what does he get? He gets a a night brightly colored tunic. That puts the spotlight on him. And then lastly, Joseph has dreams that his brothers and father and mother would serve him. So let's go over to thirty seven. Hopefully I have the right verse here or passage. And I'll pick it up in four. Thirty-seven four. And his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers And so they hated him and could not speak to him on friendly terms. Then Joseph had a dream, and when he told it to his brothers, they hated him even more. He was probably very excited to say, guys, guys. And he said to them, please listen to this dream which I have had. For behold We were binding sheaves in the field, and lo my sheaf rose up, and also stood erect. And behold your sheaves gathered around and bowed down to my sheep. Then his brother said to him, Are you actually going to reign over us? Or are you really going to rule over us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words It didn't stop there. Now he had still another dream and related it to his brothers and said, Lo, I have had still another dream. And behold the sun and the moon and eleven stars were bowing down to me. And he related it to his father. Notice the eleven stars And he related it to his father and to his brothers, and his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that you have had? Shall I and your mother and your brothers actually come to bow ourselves down before you? to the ground. So, you know, you can you can imagine mom and dad, hey it's okay he's got this dream about his brothers, but it when it includes mom and dad, wait a minute You're going too far, brother. And his brothers, here's the impact, his brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept saying in mind Kept the saying in mind. Then his brothers went to pasture their father's flock in Shechem. And Israel said to Joseph, Are you not your brothers pasturing the flock in the Shechem? Are you not your brother's pasture? So it goes on how he meets him. So you can see the stage here. These dreams were from whom? They were from God. Right? Th these were valid dreams about what was going to happen in the future. And yet, who knows how Joseph, you know, brought these, maybe he was prideful. Who who knows what the that look like. He was probably a snotty, bratty little kid, brother. And you see the impact. Right? His brothers hated him. They were jealous of him. But that's how God is going to orchestrate all of this, right? the his um eternal plan through this episode. I I'll pause here and say, um, for dads in the audience, do not show your children favoritism. Just do not do it. Now how can that play itself out? In many ways, right? Our are what we say for sure, but even our behavior, how we treat certain kids, uh events that we go to. I will tell you having seven children, um, it was never a challenge. I I love my kids equally, but I did have to be sensitive to how maybe they were interpreting certain things. And so you had to be very diligent about kind of sharing the wealth, if you will Um I'll be honest with you, with that many kids, it's not like hey you each get a day and we're gonna figure out we just we didn't go down that path. But if I was doing a uh chore at home and I had to run to the hardware store, hey Isabel, why don't you come with me and just try and mix that up? But we try to be very, very, very careful um not to show favoritism and encourage e each one, you know, the same. And and you see the impact here of what can happen when a dad shows favoritism to a particular child. The rest of his brothers hated him and were jealous. Um, I suspect with With I um Isaac, you know, showing favoritism towards Esau. He he did favor Esau, and yet Jacob was the one who was blessed. Very, very dangerous. So um just a word of caution for you dads out there to be disappointed. Diligent not to do that. However, all of this happens and transpires to lay the foundation for how Joseph ends up in Egypt. We see that through Joseph's trials and tribulation, the Lord was with Joseph. So you know the story. His brothers um put him in the well and then a caravan comes by, he picks him up, or they bring him back up and sell him, right? And that's how he ends up down in Egypt. But um he can interpret Dreams though, right? He ends up in Potiphar's house. He does so well, he obeys the Lord, he's a great servant, he becomes kind of the manager of the whole household. Then he gets uh trapped by Potiphar's wife, you know, alleged adultery, if you will, or immoral. behavior and ends up in prison. And then as you know, Pharaoh has the dream and Joseph is the only one who can interpret that. And he interprets it wisely. And because of that, again, through Joseph's obedience to God, he becomes safe second in command over all of Egypt. Think about that. He's in he's in Jacob's household. He's just helping his brothers out, Shepherd. He has these dreams and his life changes forever. But it's all aligned with God's sovereign plan. It's just it's it's mind boggling to me how that all plays out. And I hope I hope we can go back to an outline l like this and it can just be a great sense of encouragement as we see the Lord work intricately in our own lives. So Again, hopefully a word of encouragement. But here he is. So he is second in command over all of Egypt. And you know about the famine. Now, before the famine, this is where I talked about his two sons, Manessa and Ephraim, um were born. So let's go to Genesis forty one. 4150 through 52. So again, this is before the famine, but he is in this leadership position. Now before the year of famine came, two sons were born to Joseph. whom Aseneth, the daughter of Potiphrah, priest of An, bore to him. And Joseph named the firstborn Manasseh For he said, God has made me forget all my trouble and all my father's household. So this gives you insight to maybe things that Joseph was struggling through. Right? He was protected. He was put in a very high position and yet he's a human being. Right? He still grieved over the trouble that he was put through. And he has a child and is blessed by that And he named the second, Ephraim, for he said, God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. So he sees the blessing that God has given him. Right? He's turning even in in the midst of being separated as from his family, The trials he went through, he keeps his mind on on God and the blessing that God has given him. Same for us, right? God's covenantal promise remains. And God spoke to Israel in vision. And he said, Here I am. And he said, I am God, the God of your father. Do not be afraid to go down to Egypt. For I will make you a great nation there. I will go down with you to Egypt, and I will also surely bring you up again. So again the famine we see again famine driving people to a certain location. And you remember the the war Not the warning of the prophecy that was given to Abraham. Four hundred years you will be in captivity. How did they get there? You're seeing that unfold Right, you're seeing that unfold specifically through Joseph, and now he's in a leadership position, and famine is going to drive the family of Jacob down into Egypt. God's sovereign plans plays out in our everyday circumstances. So you know the whole story as I just laid it out, but we see Joseph speaking with his brothers. He says, and now do not be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here. For God sent me before you to preserve life. Again, now therefore it was not you who sent me here. but God. So he sees the realization it was God who ordained all of us. And then a very familiar passage, but a lovely one, the end of uh Genesis fifty. But Joseph said to them, Do not be afraid, for am I in God's place? And as for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring about this present result to preserve many people alive. Isn't that precious? Precious, precious, precious. So again we see the unfolding of, I'll call it the four big patriarchs, right? Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and Joseph and just the unf unfolding of all of those events to get to this place in time in Egypt and I and I love Joseph's response to that. Right? What you meant for harm, God meant for good. We absolutely can be applying that to to our life circumstances. What if the Lord had taken Crean and Michael at that time? Right? Lord, you meant it for good. There's a reason for all of this. Would it be painful? Absolutely. Excruciatingly painful? Absolutely. Absolutely, and yet we are to trust and obey our Lord. Alright, there's another person on the scene here um Job. And I think it's just great that we can roll this in. But we're going to see ultimately the theme of Job is, you know, suffering of the righteous. Right? Suffering of the righteous. These weren't evil people that deserved Alright, let me uh go to a reference here, specifically why why it's believed that Job the events of Job happened during the time of the Patriarch. So everything we just described, um, why we think that is. You know, I'm I'm referencing the the Geisler book, the Old Testament survey. Um It says there is no reference to the Exodus or the Law of Moses. The events of Job seem to have occurred in an earlier period. So you don't see anything about the Mosaic Law, the Exodus So it's a belief that it happened before that. The characteristic patriarchal name for God, the Almighty, occurs more than thirty times. So again, you can use grammar and specific words to help, you know, determine But The f family clan type of so social unit is pre-Mosaic. The word for money suggests a date at least as old as Joshua, if not Patriarchal. Let's see. The longevity of life seems to be patriarchal. Job lived 140 years after his family was already grown compared to Abraham who lived 175 years. So all of that was taken into um consideration to, you know, make the assumption that that was written during the time of the patriarch or during the captivity of the nation of Israel. And so you're going to see how there's a parallel uh what's happening in Job's life to what might have been happening to uh the nation of Israel during their captivity in Egypt. Christian, any idea who wrote the book of Job? They believe it's Moses. You know, the the first five books, um, obviously they believe that to be Moses, but I I think it comes down to who else could have written it during that time frame. But Rob any Any thoughts? No, it's it's not known for sure. There's uh speculation about who might have written it. Moses is one of the possibilities, but we don't know for sure. And where the Bible's not exploring That's where we'll leave it, right? Alright, so um so we see when the events unfolded. Job comp uh Job composed to remind God's people of this providential process. purposes even in times of suffering and pain. So to fully understand uh the book of Job, and if you want to turn there real quick, again you have all the historicals. Job is the first part of your poetic books So to fully understand, it's really broken up into three main sections, if you will. First talks about the affliction of Job. Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them. And the Lord said to Satan. From where do you come? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From roaming about on the earth and walking around on it. Let's go to Job one six through seven. I think it's kind of fascinating that You know, he's still able to hold court, if you will, um, with the Lord. And we see that a couple times in Job. We also see that in Zechariah and also in uh Revelation. Alright, so there's there's some evidence of Satan somehow having access to the Lord. Pick up in uh chapter one, let's say verse eight. Again he's he has court in front of uh the Lord and the Lord said to Satan, uh oh, I'm roaming around on the earth walking around he's up to no good, basically, right? And then in verse eight, and the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? For there is no one like him on the earth, a blameless and un upright man, fearing God and turning away from evil. This righteous, righteous man, and God says to Satan, Have you considered him? Right? God's sovereignty once again. Then Satan answered the Lord, Does Job fear God for nothing? Hast thou not made a hedge about him and his house and all that he has on every side? Bottom line, he's saying, yeah, he's righteous, because you protect him. Right, he's in your court if you will. But if you start to loosen up those bands, then we'll see what happens. So that's what you see play out. Um I think it's three times you see this play out, right? As as Job loses family, uh livestock and then he's just covered in boils. You just can't imagine the pain that and suffering that he goes through. Okay? Again a reminder of of God's providential purpose even in the times of suffering and pain. So you see the affliction. That's what happens in the first part And then you see the discussion. So Job has three buddies that are there consoling and counseling Job. And let's see how that plays out. The basic theme from his buddies Elifa's Bildad and Zophar is that Job's affliction is due to his sin. According, and I believe this is Life was speaking, according to what I have seen, those who plough iniquity and those who sow trouble harvest. it. So it was this idea and we see this in the New Testament too, right? When when um people are healed, it's like they were that way from birth because of their sin. Right? Or they did something to earn the suffering that they're going through. Um I had a I have a good friend in Massachusetts. His name is Larry. You can be praying for him. For whatever reason, the last twenty years He has just suffered just chronic, chronic illness. Things that start in his legs and his arms and they move to his back and he gets different infections and just he's been to so many doctors and just a faithful faithful man. And often when I would meet with him, you know, he was quoting scripture and just using that as an encouragement. But he admitted there were times when when he thought, Lord, what did I do? What did I do to deserve this? It's natural, right? We're human beings. And so um, you know, he said, if I could be healed, just think of how I could minister. I could be your servant. It's a natural thought. And one day the Lord put on my heart to to encourage him and say, Larry, you know, we're going to continue to pray for healing because God is a healing God and He could heal you instantly if He wanted to. But I said, you know what Right now, this is your ministry. This is your ministry. This condition you will interact with so many people that you would have never interacted with through hospitals, you name it, this is your ministry. And that really encouraged him. Still? Absolutely. Absolutely. So continue to pray for Larry that he would be encouraged. But I'm I'm gonna give you a challenge. We'll come back to it Let me get through this first. So there's another person on the scene, Elihu, who is believed to either be um, you know, just a bystander that's part of this group, uh some have shown him to be a stenographer, someone who might have been capturing this debate. Whatever, he's there, and and he's kind of a voice of reason. He says, Behold, let me tell you, you are not right in this, for God is greater than man. Why do you complain against him? that he does not give an a he that he does not give an account of all his doings. Right? So he he comes back to, hey guys, you are not giving truth. You are not encouraging with truth. And then we see God on the scene. Now gird up your loins like a man, man up, and I will ask you and you and I will ask you and you instruct me. Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me if you have understanding. So I want to go back to this, you know, even the scenario with Larry, but you are gonna have uh friends in your life that are going through this type of crisis. Whether the loss of a loved one, chronic illness, you name it, what type of friend are you going to be? I guarantee you guys all want to be those who are encouraging with the word. But let's make sure we're doing that. Let's make sure we're encouraging with truth in God's promises. Romans 8, you know, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. We need to continue to encourage with with truth, like we saw Elihu do. So just something to think about As you go through that, you want to be that friend that is encouraging with Scripture through prayer. You don't want to be like his three buddies. So we talked about the affliction, we talked about the discussion that he had with his three buddies, with Elihu, and even with God. And then let's talk about how that ends with his repentance and restoration. So let's go to Joe Job 42. Job 42, starting in verse 1. So he has this very lengthy discussion. Actually, he's receiving um you know instruction from the Lord, but he ends with this. Then Job answered the Lord. And said, I know that thou canst canst do all things, and that no purpose of thine can be thwarted. Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have declared that which I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I did not know. Hear, now, and I will speak. I will ask thee And do thou instruct me. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees thee. Therefore I retract And I repent in dust and ashes. So you see the repentance. But go on. Let's go to verse 7 and see what happens with his his buds. And it came about after the Lord had spoken these words to Job that the Lord said, said to Elifaz and to the Temite, my wrath is kindled against you and against your two friends, because you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has. Now therefore take yourselves seven bowls and seven seven rams and go to my servant Job and offer up a burnt offering for yourselves. And my servant Job will pray for you. For I will accept him so that I may not do with you according to your folly, because you have not spoken to me what is right. As my servant Job has. So that's what they did. Isn't that precious? They they they were due condemnation and judgment And he says, Through Job, I'm g I'm gonna forgive your sins. Right back to Job and his righteousness. Just incredible. And I won't read it, but you can see the last uh part of the passage here from ten to seventeen. Job is restored. More body Bountiful than what he he started with. Alright? So the the the Lord is precious. Again, do you see the sovereignty of what is happening there through Job and his suffering? And again, this is something that was meant to be an encouragement. To those who were in captivity and going through similar sufferings. Right? Maybe not to the degree that Job, but these people knew about the promises, and here they are in captivity. So this beautiful book of poetry presented at the same time as the Israelites in captivity. I think that's just precious. Okay. All right. In summary, I go back to this theme of, you know, the road to Emmaus and and Jesus talking to these two individuals. And how did Jesus convey, you know, this attribute of sovereignty? I'm hoping it was an encouragement, a comfort, and a source of hope to these individuals and it should be to us too. You remember, they were they were expecting Jesus to come as the king, to be put on his throne right there. It was the third day, they didn't see the promises happening, and here Jesus comes on the scene, and I'd like to think he he might have laid out. Everything that I just did and said, let me talk to you about the sovereignty of God and His promises. Let me show you how all these different circumstances t come together to magnify the Lord and and move towards that. progressive revelation, if you will, of God's plan of redemption. And later you heard their their didn't their ears burn when he was telling them the story. So I'd like to think that um the attribute of God's sovereignty was very much uh the story that Jesus was telling me. telling to these two individuals. And and again I I hope that's an encouragement to you as as you think about your life circumstances um in God's unfolding of his plan of redemption. Alright, let me summarize with um a quote again from Pink. And then we'll wrap things up. Again, this idea of sovereignty, and this is actually a quote by uh Charles Spurgeon. There is no attribute more comforting to his children than that of God's sovereignty Under the most adverse circumstances, in the most severe trials, they believe that sovereignty has ordained their afflictions, that sovereignty overrules them, and that sovereignty will sanctify them all. There is nothing for for which the children ought more earnestly to contend than the doctrine of their master over all creation, the kingship of God over all the works of his own hands, the throne of God and his right to sit Upon that throne. Let me close the prayer