Okay, we are in week or on lesson 11, 13th of August. We are getting near the end. Again, these last couple weeks just going to be a lot of material, so we'll do our best to get through it and continue. to tell that story. Moving from 1st and 2nd Samuel to now 1st and 2nd Kings and we'll explain that in a bit more detail. But you can see now we're we have this big influx of the prophets and and poetry. Alright, so there's a lot of material to cover. as as those pieces intertwine if you will. So very, very exciting. Okay. Before we kind of jump in today's lesson, I wanted to go back. This is one of the charts I showed from last week regarding the Psalms, and you could do a 13-week lesson. on the Psalms. I mean that they're so in depth and they're so rich. But I did want to share something with you. If you could turn to Hebrews, in my morning time I have recently been in Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 2. Hebrews chapter two and I'm gonna start reading in verse five. Says for he did not sub and and let me back up, you guys know Hebrews, the uh the author of that is trying to reassure The Jewish believers that their faith in Jesus the Messiah is secure and reasonable, that Jesus is the better way. You do not want to revert back to Judaism and all those traditions. And he starts out here in chapter one. There seems to be a discussion or misunderstanding. understanding about um what to do with angels right so you see a lot of verbiage about hey the the angels had a specific role but but jesus is the focus and that's what you'll see throughout Hebrews so as I read uh verse five for he did not subject to angels the word But one has testified somewhere, saying, What is man that thou remembranced him? Or the Son of Man that thou art concerned about him? Thou hast made him for a little while lower than the angels. Thou hast crowned him with glory and honor, and hast appointed him over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in subjecting all things to him he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we do not Yet see th all things subjected to him. Those verses six through eight, do those look familiar at all? That's Psalm eight. We read Psalm eight, remember last week, and and it's uh assumed or confirmed. Consensus is that David wrote that psalm after defeating David and Goliath. And so you have this really neat connection tying back to David, a young man, having just defeated Goliath and just pouring out his majesty unto God. And you see this reference to to Jesus Christ. I think that's just wonderful. So again, when you see that kind of stuff, especially in the New Testament, make a note, underline it. Um again from a Bible study perspective, when you see those capital letters, at least in my book. that means it's tying back to something that was said in the Old Testament. So take the time to study. So I just want to encourage you with that. I thought that was pretty neat as I was reading Hebrews that it tied right back to something we covered last week. So just a little study note if you will. Alright, here we are, again in this timeline. I can't believe we're we're here already. But last week we covered 1 and 2 Samuel and that was that transition if you will from judges to the monarchy. King Saul was the first king that that Samuel anointed and and again appointed by God. And then the second one was David. So second Samuel was all about David and his life. Alright, his conquest. Now remember what happened. He was able to go In and really add stability to the land. He was able to defeat many of the inhabitants that were still there that had not been defeated through the judges. And he is expanding the territory. So again, adding a lot of stability. And he was a man after God's own heart. We know that. And yet he also was a sinner. And we know all too well what happened with Bathsheba and the consequences of that, not only on the land, but he's a own family, right? It was not good. And yet the Lord sustained him and gave us the Davidic covenant, a promise that his Davidic covenant, right? The promise that his throne would be established forever. But what did David want to do right before his death? He wanted to build this permanent place, this temple for God. But God wouldn't let him, right, because he was a man of bloodshed. So that was going to be transferred, if you will, to Solomon. Solomon was going to be given that duty So that's where we that's where we ended up, right, with David dying and that transition is going to now happen to his son. So we get into a very exciting period. in the life of the nation. And so you can see the what's going to happen here is you're going to now cross this boundary of a united kingdom to now what happens with a divided kingdom. And all that happens with that. So a lot going on in this period. And you can also see, right, this this influx of poetry, specifically from Solomon, the majority of it. And then look above, I mean, this huge influx of the prophets. And we're just going to skim the surface of what that looks like, but a lot, a lot of activity that is happening in this time frame Alright, so we're going to now transition to Solomon. And I want you while I'm going through the notes here, flip over to 1 Kings. And I I'm not going to cover it, but it wasn't like, you know, he was certainly appointed, Solomon was appointed, but it wasn't like this clean transition where all of a sudden he just sat in the throne. There was some Rebellion, there were some things going on, we're not going to cover that. So we're going to get to the point where we're no kidding he is sitting on the throne You know that again, back to David's sin, that his first son with Bathsheba died. Right? So Solomon is the second son. And he was the wisest man that ever lived, outside of Jesus. Solomon the wisest man. So let's kind of set that context in 1 Kings chapter 3. And I'm going to start in verse 6. Then Solomon said, Thou hast shown great loving kindness to thy servant David, my father. According as he walked before thee in truth and righteousness and uprightness of heart toward thee, and thou hast reserved for him this great loving kindness that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day. And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king in place of my father David Yet I am but a little child. I do not know how to go out or come in. So it's assumed that he was roughly twenty years old at this point. A young, young man. Think back to you men, what you were like at twenty years old Alright, so keep that in mind. And thy servant is in the midst of thy people which thou hast chosen, a great people who cannot be numbered or counted for multitude. So give thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, to discern between good and evil, for who is able to judge this great people of thine? That's his cry. At twenty years old. Taken the helm of this incredible kingdom with many, many millions of people, and he cries out for wisdom And it was pleasing in the sight of the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. And God said to him, Because you have asked this thing and have not asked for yourself long life, nor have asked riches for yourself. Nor have you asked for the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself discernment to understand justice. Behold, I have done according to your your words. Behold, I have given you a wise and discerning heart, so that there has been no one like you before you, nor shall one like you arise after you. And I have also given you what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there will not be any among the kings like you in all your days And if you walk in my ways, keeping my statutes and commandments, as your father David walked, then I will prolong your days. Then Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And he came to Jerusalem and stood before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, and offered burnt offerings, and made peace offerings, and made a feast for all his servants. So pretty remarkable, this young man just crying out for wisdom, and the Lord blesses him with everything else. And you're going to see that this is really the heyday, the height of Israel's peace and glory, right? This is just the pinnacle of this nation. We'll get to that. Well that too, right? Back to the parenting piece. Exactly right, Ann Um so right away though we see in scripture that he is tested and you know the story of the the two prostitutes that bring the baby, one is dead and the other one's living, and and he it has to decide You know, who do I give this baby to? So if you go over to three, I'm going to start in 25. Chapter 3, verse 25. And the king said, Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one and half to the other. Then the woman whose child was the living one spoke to the king, for she was deeply stirred over her son, and said, O my lord, give her the living child, and by no means kill him But the other said, He shall be neither mine nor yours. Divide him. Then the king answered and said, Give the first woman the living child, and by no means kill him. She is his mother. When all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had handed down, they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to administer justice. Anyone who is a parent obviously could relate to this story, of course. Let him live. But I think so soon in his ministry, if you will, this this example that just spread throughout the land Right of the wisdom of their new king. Wisdom again, like no other person. You've got to keep that in context. Okay? Alright, let me go to uh our resource here This was, I thought, a really good summary of Solomon. And again, I I like to use these character sketches as we go through some of the main characters as we go through this time Because it helps you understand the history and like I said adds a little bit of color. So um a neat summary here. It was wisdom, not wealth, for which Solomon prayed, and God granted him his request. as is evidenced by the king's decision regarding the two women and the baby. It was Solomon himself who wrote, The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, wisdom, and instruction. Proverb one seven we'll hit that in a little bit. Thus, God-fearing wisdom became the foundation of Solomon's kingdom. But he also had wealth. We just talked about that. Solomon's wealth was as great as his wisdom. This wealth was reflected in three aspects of his kingdom. There was domestic prosperity, religious achievements, and political stability. And that's going to play in here too. So from a domestic standpoint, Solomon reigned over a region stretching from Babylon to Egypt. All brought tribute to him Judah and Israel were as many as the sand by the sea. They ate and drank and were happy. Not only were there prosperity and plenty, but there was also domestic tranquility. for he had peace on all signs, all sides round about him. Again they went through four hundred plus years of just combating those around them, and now they have great, great peace, great stability in the land. There was also a great increase in knowledge and music, for Solomon uttered three thousand proverbs, and his songs were a thousand and five. I was just um side note reading this morning um in Afghanistan the Taliban are are putting additional pressure, you know, they're burning musical instruments. Right? You can't even imagine and you put that in the context of of of what we saw with David and in this time period and any of you that play an instrument or we worship, can you imagine that being restricted or banished? Hard to fathom. Side note, sorry. Religious achievements. Solomon's crowning religious achievement was the magnificent temple he built in Jerusalem. David desired to build the temple, but God would not allow him to build it, because he was a man of bloodshed. It was more fitting that Solomon, the man of peace be commissioned to erect the temple of God. The preparation for the temple was made, the building was erected, the vessels were dedicated, and then Solomon dedicated the whole building. He prayed, but will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain thee. How much less this house which I have built? So he certainly kept it in perspective, didn't he? Solomon bound his people with an oath to remain faithful to God, and the ceremony was completed with the offering of thousands of sacrifices. So now the political stability, which was important. By a series of treaties, marriages, and international diplomacy, Solomon built an unsurpassed network of relationships with surrounding countries His marriage to the daughter of Pharaoh and the visit of the Queen of Sheba illustrate the political glory of Solomon's kingdom. When the queen saw all that Solomon had, she declared, The half was not told me Alright? The the fame and and what Solomon has completed I didn't I didn't even begin to understand When she saw Solomon's servants and silver, his nation and his navy, his gold and his glory, there was scarcely breath left in her. However, you know all these wives that he married, I I have 700 on the slide. There's another reference to a thousand. Um that's gonna be his downfall. There you go. Alright, so combined. Bottom line, he had a lot of uh a lot of women. The fame of Solomon reached great heights, but was in the end outweighed by his shame The ominous words, Now King Solomon loved many foreign women, tell the story. Solomon proved the validity of God's warning that foreign women would turn the hearts of his people after foreign gods Solomon had 1,000 wives and concubines. So right, the 700 plus the 300. As might be expected, this moral wickedness is what spelled the final doom. For Solomon's kingdom. It was immorality and idolatry that corrupted his kingdom from within. Have we not been talking about that through the old all the Old Testament, right? Immorality and idolatry. The subsequent political disunity was really a result of spiritual shortcomings. All right? True in our world today. Alright, so quick overview of Solomon. And again, you can see at the end there, he had this great peace, but his downfall was a divided heart. And now we're going to transition into a divided kingdom. All right, so let's go over. So we got to set the stage here. First Kings, let's go over to chapter eleven So it's really 1 Kings 1 through 11 is all about Solomon, and then at the end it's about this transition to a divided kingdom. So we want to set the context for that 1 Kings chapter 11, I'm going to start in verse 1. Now King Solomon loved many foreign women, along with the daughter of Pharaoh. Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, and Hittite women, from the nations concerning which the Lord had said to the sons of Israel, you shall not associate with them Neither shall they associate with you, for they will surely turn your heart away after their gods. Solomon held fast to these in love And he had 700 wives, princesses, and 300 concubines, there it is. And his wives turned his heart away For it came about when Solomon was old his wives turned his heart away after other gods, and his heart was not wholly devoted to the Lord his God, as the heart of David his father had been For Solomon went after Astaroth, the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom, the detestable idol of the Ammonites And Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and did not follow the Lord fully, as David his father had done Then Solomon built a high place for Chemosh, the detestable idol of Moab, on the mountain which is east of Jerusalem. And for Molech, the detestable idol of the sons of Amon. Did you catch that? He's building temples, if you will, for these false gods. Right? His heart has absolutely been turned Thus also he did for all his foreign wives, who burned incense and sacrifice to their gods. Now the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned away from the Lord. the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice, and had commanded him concerning these this thing, that he should not go after other gods, but he did not observe what the Lord had commanded So the Lord said to Solomon, Because you have done this, and you have not kept my covenant and my statutes which I have commanded you, I will surely tear the kingdom from you, and will give it to your servant Nevertheless, I will not do it in your days for the sake of your father David, but I will tear it out of the hand of your son However, I will not tear away all the kingdom, but I will give one tribe to your son for the sake of my servant, David, for the sake of Jerusalem, which I have chosen. Alright, so he's now hearing that the land is going to be divided, it's going to be torn out of his hand because of his sinfulness However, the Lord says, I'm going to maintain that remnant that remnant. Remember the messianic line comes from Judah, and that's going to be the focus as we go forward. What's happening in Judah. But he does he does provide that remnant, if you will. So what's going to happen ultimately is ten tribes are going to go to the north and you're going to have two tribes to the south And that's going to happen at the death of Solomon, 931 BC. That's one, again, one of those anchor dates you want to have, the divided kingdom in 931 BC. Okay? That makes sense contextually? All right. However, before we get there, we have to introduce poetry because Solomon was a big part of these books of poetry. And as I put this together, as you kind of follow the line from Proverbs, Ecclesiastics, Song of Solomon, it it really seemed to be like a life story of Solomon. You see in Proverbs, um, obviously the theme of wisdom, but a a lot about maybe a young man who was either given this wisdom or is expounding it to a young man, what what what you need to have to live life. As you get to Ecclesiastes, you it's almost Solomon in a midlife crisis. What is the meaning of life? Here's this guy with all this wisdom and yet he still seems unsatisfied. Alright, so he's gonna go on this journey. And it's a journey for us. Have we not all been there at one time or another Absolutely. So these should be books of encouragement. And then we'll get to the Song of Solomon, really a beautiful love story between a man and a woman in marriage. And we'll talk about those different views. Okay? So I thought that was kind of neat to think of it as maybe Solomon as he goes through his life producing some of these books of poetry. So let me go to the the big dog here, Wilmington. And we'll do a quick summary of some of these books, which I know you're all familiar with, but again, just trying to get some of the themes as we understand this time period. Alright, the book of Proverbs. A proverb means a short sentence drawn from long experience. So again Here's Solomon, the wisest man on earth, lots of experiences. And what do we talk about? 3,000 Proverbs. We get just a little glimpse of what that looks like here, contained in this book. But pretty neat. Several authors of the book of Proverbs, Solomon being the one who authored most of those. So basically Proverbs 1 through 24, it talks about the men of Hezekiah in Proverbs 25 and 29. Eger and then Lemuel, Proverb 31, which we're all very familiar with. The book tells a story. It is a picture of a young man starting out in life. His first lesson is given in Proverbs 1 through 7. Let's go there real quick. It says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and destruction. So you right away get this picture of this contrast, right, between wisdom and foolishness. And you see this throughout Proverbs. It's actually quite neat. But it says the two schools bid for him and both send out their literature. Right? You hear in Proverbs about wisdom on the street corner crying out You also hear about the adulteress on the street corner crying out. In the beginning they looked very similar, but without discernment, you know, you can't tell the difference. But there is a stark difference One is the school of wisdom, and the other the school for fools. The key word of Proverbs is, of course, wisdom. Wisdom will protect her students, will direct her students And will perfect her students. That's what wisdom brings. Okay, and you can see the themes there, talking about a good name. Wisdom for youth and discipline, business matters, marriage, immorality, evil companions, obviously the major theme wisdom. gaining self-control, warnings against strong drink, and then what comes out of our mouth. And it's a corollary to what book in the New Testament James. James, very similar in some of the verbiage and in the wisdom, if you will. So a nice corollary there Alright, so moving over now to Ecclesiastes. Again, this may have been, this is me surmising, this may have been Solomon, you know, having a midlife crisis. um trying to understand what is the meaning of life. And he goes on this incredible journey to find that out So it says, even before he starts his search for the meaning of life, Solomon has doubts. Everything seems futile. Generations come and go, but it seems to make no difference. The sun rises and sets, the winds twist back and forth, but neither seem to get any place or accomplish any purpose. The river runs into the sea, but the sea is never full The water returns again to the rivers and flows again to the sea. Everything appears so unutterably weary and tiresome No man seems satisfied regardless of what he has seen or heard. History merely repeats itself. Absolutely nothing new ever occurs under the sun. 100 years from now, everything will have been forgotten, regardless what occurs today. Sounds pretty hopeless, doesn't it? And again, many of you have been there, many of you will be there, right, as we go through life. Sometimes we come back to those themes. What's the purpose? Was life truly this way everywhere? Could a wise and healthy man, by searching the length and breadth of the land, find peace and purpose Solomon would try by drinking deeply, drinking deeply at what he's calling man-made well. So think of searching through human wisdom. Solomon had more natural capacity to accumulate and apply raw facts than any other man who ever lived, apart from Christ, of course. But he sadly concluded, For in much wisdom is much grief, and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow. So you can imagine this man with great wisdom, it was a burden as well, because he knew so much. He looked for it in pleasure. He looked for it in alcohol. He had great building projects, beautiful gardens and parks. Personal indulgences. Now the king had an individual servant for every wish, but none could serve up his wish for inner peace and purpose. We talked about he had massive wealth, um cattle, horses, music. But the missing chord of contentment was not to be found through music, however beautiful the song or talented the singers And you guys know none of this in and of itself is wrong, right? But it was his heart, his heart attitude in the discontentment. Goes through that entire journey and the problem is solved. Solomon concluded that even with God life is a mystery, but apart from him, it becomes a horrible nightmare. Therefore, it is best if man finds God early in his life. And fears God throughout his life. You can see the verse there in 1113. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. Alright, so hopefully again that is an encouragement in times of trouble to be seeking the good book. Alright, for Song of Solomon. And I want to focus on the different views, right? Because there are some different viewpoints of what the Song of Solomon actually means. And there are three major views. One is a literal interpretation, and within that there's a couple camps. Those who take the ode literally fall into two groups First, there are those who take it as purely a secular story with no spiritual significance. They reject the song's canonicity Others, however, see it as a literal story with deep spiritual significance concerning the holiness and wholesomeness of a monogamous marriage One man, one woman in marriage, enjoying all that God had designed for that. Alright? That would be the literal view. There are those that might look at it more allegorically. It has been common among believing Jews and Christians to take this song symbolically. as an allegory of God's love for his people or of Jehovah's Love for Israel. Spiritualize it And the last is a typical interpretation. Christians have often viewed the bride and groom as a prefiguration or type of Christ and his love for the church. I don't know if you caught it when Pastor Gabe preached last Sunday. He he mentioned types. And there are definitely types in the Old Testament. We talked about some of those. Moses could be considered a type of Christ You have to be very careful though to not pull that that type too far. You can start to spiritualize that type And so you have to be very careful. Even in some of these resources I have, I feel like they take it a little too far. So I try and filter some of that for you. But here at Hope, what kind of hermeneutic do we espouse to? Literal, grammatical, historical. Right? So we would take a literal view that this is God's design for marriage, and he's telling this beautiful love story of what it should be like in marriage. Right? Take it for what it's worth. Alright, so that is Solomon. Again, these beautiful, beautiful books of poetry of the most wisest man on earth. And yet he's still searching, and we get the benefit of that search. That's what I love. It's for us today Alright, but let's transition now to what's happening in the kingdom. I put a lot on this slide, but I I tried to make it as concise as I possibly could So let me orient you on the slide here. So on the left hand side, what I'm showing is that division between the north and the south. Again, ten tribes to the north, and we have two to the south in Judah. On the right hand side is the list of kings for both the south and then over here is the north. They each had 20 kings. If you see a green circle around, that means they were considered a good king. For the most part, they followed after the Lord. Alright, and we're going to cover a couple of those. And I put in here of all the prophets, we don't have time to go through you know all of them in detail, but we're going to highlight Isaiah and Jeremiah, and you can see basically the time frames that uh who who was around as a king when they were when they were a prophet. Okay? So you notice here of all 20 kings there were none that were considered good on the northern side. And what I did down here is to show the comparison and timelines. That's what this is. So you can see, and you're going to see that When the exile happens, right, they go into captivity, the north happens first. And then there's several years later that that will happen to the south. So the south will continue Additionally, I show you where they're covered. So 1 Kings, we're now in 1 Kings 12. We just did 1 through 11. That was Solomon. Now we're into no kidding the divided kingdom And 1 Kings 12 through 22 covers these first four or five kings and then a bunch over here on the north As we go into 2 Kings, again, you can see the coverage there, but it really does start to focus on these southern kings. Okay? And then I just want to add I'm showing on this chart where the captivity. So from the north they're going to go to the Assyrians. To the south, it's the Babylonians. And there is a remnant that will go to Egypt. a remnant that stays in Jerusalem, but the the big muscle movements are to Assyria and Babylonia. Okay, does that make sense? Jim, I did want to highlight when you're looking for baby names, all the names on the right, no good. No good. Ones on the left, a couple Got it. Green circles. Okay, so that's the time and the syllabus. Yeah. Alright, let's go back to Kings, because we have to set the stage for these first two, Rahaboam and Jeroboam. Who are they and and how did that all transpire? So let's go to uh first Kings. First Kings chapter eleven. Yeah, verse twenty-eight. Now the man Jeroboam was a valiant warrior, so he was a servant of Solomon. And when Solomon saw that the young man was industrious, He appointed him over all the forced labor of the house of Joseph. Alright, so he was a trusted servant of Solomon. And it came about at that time when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem that the prophet Uhijah, the Shilanite, found him on the road. Now Uhijah had clothed himself with a new cloak, and both of them were alone in the field. Then Ohijah took hold of the new cloak which was on him and tore it into twelve pieces. And he said to Jeroboam, Take for yourself ten pieces. For thus says the Lord the God of Israel, Behold, I will tear the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and give you ten tribes. But he will have one tribe for the sake of my servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel because they have forsaken me, and have worshipped Astaroth, the goddess of the Shedonians, Shemosh, the god of Moab, and Milcom, the god of the sons of Amman, and they have not walked in my ways, doing what is right in my sight. and observing my statutes and my ordinances, and his father as his father David did. Nevertheless I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him ruler all the days of his life for the sake of my servant David whom I chose, who observed my commandments and my statutes. But I will take the kingdom from his son's hand and give it to you, even ten tribes. But to a son I will give one tribe that my servant David may have a lamp always before me in Jerusalem, the city where I have chosen for myself to put my name So that sets the stage for Jeroboam. He is a servant, but he has this prophecy, if you will, that the kingdom is going to be divided and he's going to be king over that portion. Alright, let's flip over to 1 Kings 12, starting in verse 1. And now this is Rehoboam, who is Solomon's son. Then Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. So it was it was Solomon had already appointed his son to be king. Alright, so that's the stage we have. Now it came about When Jeroboam the son of Nabat heard of it, that he was living in Egypt. So there were some things I didn't share where uh Jeroboam fled and he was actually in Egypt. For he was yet in Egypt where he had fled from the presence of King Solomon. Then they sent and called him, and Jeroboam and all the assembly of Israel came and spoke to Rehobam, saying, Your father made our yoke hard Now therefore lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke which he has put on us and we will serve you. I didn't mention it, but maybe you caught it on one of the previous slides King Solomon all this fame fortune but what did he do? He heavily taxed the people, right? It was a heavy, heavy burden. And what you see here is Jeroboam um coming and appealing To Rahabon. Alright, so let's see how he responds. Verse 5. Then he said to them, Depart for three days, then return to me. So the people departed. And King Rhoboam consulted with the elders who had served his father Solomon while he was still alive, saying, How do you counsel me to answer this people? Again, these are the older elders Then they spoke to him, saying, If you will be a servant to this people today, will serve them, grant them their petition, and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever. But he forsook the counsel of the elders which they had given him. And who did he consult? The young men who grew up with him and served him. So he said to them, What counsel do you give that we may answer this people who have spoken to me, saying, Lighten the yoke which your father put on us? And the young men who grew up with him spoke to him, saying, Thus you shall say to this people who spoke to you, saying, Your father made our yoke heavy, now you make it lighter for us. But you shall speak to them. My little finger is thicker than my father's loins. Whereas my father loaded you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions. Then Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day as the king had directed, saying, Return to me on the third day. And the king answered the people harshly, for he forsook the advice of the elders which they had given him. And he spoke to them according to the advice of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions. So the king did not listen to the people, for it was a turn of events from the Lord, that he might establish his word, which the Lord spoke through Uhijah, I'm trying to get the names right. And Shilanite to Jeroboam the son of Nabat. When all Israel saw the king, did not listen to them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. To your tents, O Israel. Now look after your own house, David. Israel departed to their tents But as for the sons of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them. Down to verse 19 So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day. And it came about when all Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned. that they sent and called him to the assembly and made him king over all Israel. None but the tribe of Judah followed the house of David So you see Rehabam was to be appointed king. However, there was a also this prophecy that Jeroboam would get ten of the tribes. However, Jeroboam returns, he appeals To Rehabam and what happens, right? Rayo Boam decides to follow unwise counsel and there's a rebellion, if you will, and the division happens So that's how we set the stage for those first two. In the south, it's Rehoboam. In the north, it's Jeroboam the servant. All right, so that sets the stage for the rest of the kings that we see here. What about the tribe of Benjamin? So the great question, Ann. I had that same question too. It goes on further and it talks about how Benjamin would join them as well. So it's not listed here, but eventually they would join Judah. Okay. Alright, I do want to talk about um we're not gonna go through all of these kings of course um no time for that, but I did want to cover a couple um Hezekiah and Josiah both um excellent kings in their time and so I just want to cover their history a little bit because I think it's um profitable First we'll start with Hezekiah. And you see on this chart that Isaiah, right, this was near towards the end of his time as a prophet, but what does that line up with? So what has happened is the um captivity by the Assyrians, right? That's kind of the time frame that's happening here. So Hezekiah was witness to that. Alright, so keep that in mind. So Hezekiah, he was the 13th ruler of Judah. He ruled for 29 years. He was 25 when he began ruling. He was the finest king of Judah up to this time. He was also the richest king since the time of Solomon. He repaired the palace. The very first month of his reign, Hezekiah opened the doors of the temple and repaired it And next week, when we talk about Chronicles, we're going to spend a lot more time talking about the religious aspect so the temple will really play. So we'll get to that next week on what was happening with the temple. So he repairs the temple, he revived the people of God, alright, the cleansing, he removed pagan high places, smashed the sacred stones, and cut down the Asherah poles. He broke into pieces the bronze snake Moses had made. You remember that? We talked about the fiery serpent. Again, a type of Christ. When the people looked on that, they would be healed. But what happened? The people started to worship the bronze serpent. Right? And not God. So he got he smashes that. He gets rid of that. He commanded the people to give their substance, the first fruit, to the temple And they respond in a tremendous way. They respond to that call. He reinstated the Passover. He released the power of God. Relying upon the strength of God, he defeated the Philistines. He also rebelled against the king of Assyria and refused to serve serve him. So again, um Assyria is a powerful nation at this time. They take into captivity the northern tribes and they start moving on the south Hezekiah, through God's strength and power, is able to hold them off. And it talks about in the fourth reign, in the fourth year of his reign, the Assyrians marched against Samaria. They took the city three years later, thus ending the northern kingdom. Seven years after the captivity of the ten northern tribes, the Syrian king attacked Judah, capturing many of its cities So obviously Hezekiah cries out to the Lord for help. And Hezekiah received from Isaiah a most reassuring message. God had heard the prayer of the king. God was angry over the pride of the Assyrians and over the insults they had heaped upon both him and Judah Um the king the the evil king would intersea, therefore not be permitted to enter Jerusalem. No arrow from his soldiers would land inside. The enemy would not build a siege wrap against the city And that evil king would quickly leave the same way he came. And that very night the angel of the Lord went out and put to death 185,000 Assyrian soldiers. Alright, so they were able to hold off the Assyrians. So that's Hezekiah, again considered a very good king for his time, and he got to witness the captivity or the defeat of the northern nations, those ten tribes. Alright, so let's talk now about Josiah. And I quickly want to reference back, you probably won't remember this, it was a month ago Lesson number seven, we were in Deuteronomy, and we came across this passage about they will ask for a king, I will grant them a king, and here's what that king should look like Right? Do you remember all the the positive attributes about that king? And it was Rob that said, well, there's a future king that You know, the law is going to be lost, if you will, and he's going to find it as they're as they're working through cleaning out the temple, they come across the scrolls. And he comes across that passage and he tears his clothes in repentance, right? It's Josiah. Josiah is the king that found that passage, if you will. Alright? So keep that in mind. I thought that was pretty cool. Alright, Josiah. He was the 16th ruler of Judah. He ruled for 31 years. He was eight years old when he became king. Too young. He really began seeking God when he was only 16. He was the greatest king since David. Alright, so he was a great great king. So Jim Josiah is a good name. You can go with that one. So he also he was really a reformer like Hezekiah And you can see there's a there's a gap between Hezekiah and Josiah as far as good kings. So um Josiah came on the scene and he really did purge. He purged Judah and Jerusalem of the pagan high places um again destroyed the ashera poles, the carbidols, and the cast images. So all this must have come back in the two previous kings. He cut down the idols of Baal, he then broke them to pieces and scattered them. He thus fulfilled the three-century-old prophecy concerning him. He did away with the pagan priests appointed by previous evil kings He tore down the quarters of the male shrine prostitutes and executed them. He removed the sacred horses from the entrance of the temple. He burned the sacred chariots. He smashed to pieces the pagan high places He carried out similar reforms outside of Judah and Bethel and Samaria. And then this piece on discovering the Word of God. That's what I just made reference to in Deuteronomy 17. When he was twenty-six Josiah gave orders to repair the temple of God. And again, we'll talk next week about why did it need repairing. During a cleaning of the temple, a copy of the law of Moses, perhaps the only one in existence, was found. Upon hearing it, the king went into mourning, then assembled the priests, the Levites, and common people into the temple area, where he personally read them the law and urged all to follow He then received a special message from God through the prophetess Huldah. God would soon bring down upon the people of Judah all the curses of the law because of their sin. Josiah, however, would be spared all this because of his godly behavior. So again, this prophecy that, yeah, the Assyrians took the north, your fate is coming too. The Babylonians are going to take the South, but he would be spared. Okay, so I thought that was kind of neat to tie that back to Deuteronomy, and that was the king that um you know got to see the word again and and what he did with that. I think that's precious. So, yes. The high priest was his teacher during all that time. That's why he talked Amen. Okay, excellent. Right? Again, the the influence you have, right? So so important. And we see this play out in scripture. I love that. Thank you for that tie. So we've just covered a lot of material, right? We've talked about Solomon. We rolled in all this beautiful poetry that he brings on the scene and is a benefit for us. We also are starting to bring in the prophets, and the prophets play a critical role during this time of the divided kingdom. So I did my best to find a chart because there are a lot of them. And it ties them to the different timelines, which I think is helpful. So You can see here that the north falls, and then Judah is still standing alone, but eventually Judah falls, and you can see where the prophets are aligned to that timeline. So we're just going to cover Isaiah and Jeremiah I'll cover the minor profits next week. I wish I had time. You know, Elijah and Elijah are huge in this time frame And yet they don't have their own books. Um so we will I'm not going to have time to cover them. So who was at the Transfiguration? It was Moses, Jesus, and Elijah, right? So really big um big players in this time frame. But so you can see that Judah falls and Jeremiah is one of those prophets that's going to overlap that time period from the kingdom in place to going into exile. And we're going to talk about that in a little bit. Okay, you can see the quote at the top. A prophet of God is one who speaks the word of God and whose message is confirmed by a work of God. So that's how you know what was the test of a prophet? How did they know a prophet was no kidding a prophet from God? There are basically four questions you could ask. Do they ever predict things that do not come to pass? Right? If they did, then they're not a true prophet. Do they turn people away from the true God to other gods? Do they use instruments of divination? Because you remember there were there were false prophets, if you will, during this time frame. Is Jesus Christ the center of their predictions? Alright, so let me go to another great summary in this resource over prophets. At a high level, the word prophet comes from the word meaning to announce. You guys know that. Prophet, messenger. A prophet was God's mouthpiece or the human instrument through which God declared his message to men. The broad meaning of the word prophecy is to forthell. The narrow meaning is to foretell. The later is more popular today, but the former is by far more common usage in the Bible. In fortelling God's message to his day, the prophet would often foretell what God was going to do in the future. These supernatural predictions form one of the strongest evidences that the Bible is the Word of God. Fourth telling involved insight into the will of God Foretelling entailed foresight into the plan of God. The first was exhortive, challenging evil men to higher moral conduct, and the later was predictive, encouraging the righteousness. So you'll often see in these prophets, during this time especially, there is condemnation, right? You have sinned against the Lord. Everything he told you not to do, you're doing. The things you're supposed to be doing, you're not doing. Right? But they also add hope. Here's what the Lord is going to do in the future. Alright, and let me tell you, I'm not sure this is a job anyone would want. We're going to see that in Jeremiah Right? It was a tough, tough job to be the messenger of God, to convey this judgment, but you were also a messenger of hope. And I hope that's our message today as too as we evangelize. Alright, let me flip over to. So I just talked, you know, the last question of the test is: Is Jesus Christ the center of their prediction? Christ is the central subject of the prophetic word. He said, It is written of me in the role of the book in Hebrews. And everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. That's the road to Emmaus in Luke. Peter declared, to him all the prophets bear witness. Not always did the prophets themselves fully understand what they wrote about Christ's coming. For they searched their own writings to discover what person or time was indicated by the Spirit of Christ within them when predicting the suffering of Christ Isn't it wonderful that we have the benefit of that full revelation? At the time they didn't. We do. We get the benefit of that. Precious. The overall significance of the prophetic message was to show God at work in human history, to reveal that history, his story. The prophets' predictions about a coming messianic and golden age provided a goal or end of history. That is, the prophets wanted to show that history is going somewhere, that it is heading for an omega point. An end point. Alright, so we're going to cover a couple of these prophets, and we're going to stick with the major prophets up front. So Isaiah and Jeremiah. It's uh interesting. I didn't know these facts about Isaiah, but you can you can almost identically compare it to the book of the Bible, and you can see the table there. Sixty-six books of the Bible, thirty-nine in the old testament, twenty-seven in the new testament. Isaiah is broken up very similar, 66 chapters. The first, you know, 1 through 39 cover the Old Testament and 40 through 66 more messianic for sure. Which I just covered, right? Books 1 through 9 cover sin, judgment of Israel, which is what we're going through right now. And in Isaiah, it covers the same topic. New Testament talks about the person ministry of Christ Same with Isaiah 40 through 66. In the New Testament, it begins with the ministry of John the Baptist. In chapter 40, which would be that new section, it predicts his ministry of John the Baptist. The New Testament ends referring to a new heaven and an earth in chapter 66 ends describing similar things. So this beautiful comparison, if you will, with the entire book of the Bible. He is considered probably the greatest Old Testament prophet and one of the most eloquent writers who ever lived, is what he is compared to. So let's go over to Isaiah. And you are all familiar with this passage, but I absolutely love it. Isaiah the first major prophet after all the poetry books We'll be up front in Isaiah 6. Isaiah 6 starting in verse 1, in the year King Uzziah's death I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, lofty and exulting, with the train of his robe, filling the temple. Seraphim stood above him, each having six wings, with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew And one called out to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. and the foundations of the thresholds tremble at the voice of him who called out, while the temple was filling with smoke. Then I said, Woe is me, for I am ruined, because I am a man of unclean lips and I live among a people of unclean lips. For my eyes have seen the king of the Lord of hosts. Then one of the seraphim flew to me with a burning coal in his hand, which he had taken from the altar with tongs And he touched my mouth with it and said, Behold, this has touched your lips, and your iniquity is taken away, and your sin is forgiven. And I'll stop there. Just this beautiful picture of Isaiah possibly Having seen right the glory of the Lord, that veil being maybe pushed away for a time period and seeing the glory of the Lord. And nowhere else in Scripture will you see something repeated three times. I think we covered this when we talked about the the attribute of holiness. And that was a literary technique to emphasize. You see that in the New Testament. Jesus often said, truly, truly, but nowhere do you see it three times I would consider this probably the Lord's chief attribute, His holiness. Holy, holy, holy. Alright, let me cover again just a brief summary of Isaiah. Again, you could probably spend 13 weeks talking about Isaiah alone, but we don't have that kind of time. So you could break it up basically into three sections. Again, I talked about a prophet being one who is condemning, expounding judgment, if you will, but also one of hope. And I'll I'll just summarize some of this. So first it starts with condemnation concerning, again, the two divided lands, Judah and Israel. The first section deals primarily with God's judgments through the hands of the Assyrians on the sins of his people. There's a judgment concerning Judah and Israel in which God charges his people with sin and calls his prophet to warn Judah of the coming judgment. But didn't stop with just those two. Also the surrounding nations Turning the attention of his prophetic oracles, Isaiah moves from one country to another, predicting the judgment of God on Babylon, Philistia, Moab, Damascus, Duma, Arabia, again, all of the surrounding nations. But he didn't stop there. He condemns all the nations. God's holy anger will not be restricted to Israel and her neighbors. The whole world will reel its stinging effects This coming wrath is given as warning of the day of the Lord, which is a time of desolation, to be followed by a time of restoration. Then Isaiah pronounces five woes on the people of the Lord, and I won't go through all those, but again, the two nations, if you will, the south and north of Israel, the surrounding nations, and then a condemnation against all the nations. He moves on though in the second part, if you will, or major section is this historic confiscation. This section deals with the confiscation of Israel and Judah by the Assyrians and the Babylonians. So again they're good they're going to be captured by these two nations and put into exile. Looking back to the Assyrian invasion, again you remember the time he was with Hezekiah the Assyrian invasion had already happened. Isaiah reminds the Judean king Hezekiah of what the Assyrians did to the northern kingdom of Israel in 722 BC and warns him of Assyria's threat to Judah And then as reference, you know, Hezekiah cries out, and that prayer is captured in Isaiah. We won't cover it though. And then looking forward now to the Babylonian invasion. God heard Hezekiah's cry during the sickness which nearly caused his death, added fifteen years to his life. However, but because Hezekiah showed all his treasures to the messengers of the king of Babylon God condemned him for his sin and predicted that the king of Babylon would one day carry his treasure and his sons to Babylon. Alright, so we see this condemnation, this warning of invasion, but the sweetness of the hope, we end with this messianic consolation. The first sections of Isaiah contain many messianic prophecies, but this final section, chapter 40 through 66, of Isaiah, is more explicitly messianic. It emphasized it in it the emphasis shifts from condemnation to consolation. We see the deliverance from God. The stress in these chapters is on the consolation to be found in God's deliverance of his people. The deliverer from God. In this section, special emphasis is placed on this one, Jesus, through whom the deliverance will come, the Messiah. He it is who called Isaiah and who has compassion on his people, for surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities And then the delivered of God. The last section centers on those who will be delivered of God. That is, on those people who trust in Him. God's condition for their deliverance is that they seek me daily and delight to know my ways. For behold the Lord's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save, or his ear dull that it cannot hear. It is only your iniquities that have made a separation between you and your God. The completeness of their deliverance is spelled out in the glorious era of peace and prosperity, in which Israel were will be returned to the land of Palestine. The Savior will come, Zion will be restored, Israel will be converted, and the Gentile nations who call on God will be saved. The consummation of the deliverance will come about when God creates a new heaven and a new earth. And true worship of God will be restored. From new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath, all flesh shall come to worship before me, says the Lord. Thus will God deliver the faithful of both Israel and the nations. His international salvation will endure forever. Is that not a glorious, glorious hope? Alright, so that's Isaiah in like five minutes. Um hard to do. But the little box there at the bottom, I just wanted to Point out again one of the tests was um does a prophet give prophecies and are they fulfilled? So certainly some of those prophecies were fulfilled during the time of Isaiah, some were fulfilled you know after his death But before the end of the Old Testament, some will not be fulfilled until the millennium, right? Until Christ returns again. So all right, so that's Isaiah. Now let's turn to Jeremiah. As you know, known as the weeping prophet. Um and and here's a man that underwent extreme persecution and we'll get into that. As I mentioned, he is one of the uh maybe the only prophet that had this extension or or overlapped um the kingdoms of Israel and then captivity. Alright so he did serve under some of those um kings that were in captivity or the The evil rulers like Nebuchadnezzar, right? He was he he did serve him in a in a capacity, and we'll cover that in a little bit. But all right, let me turn to uh my big resource here Jeremiah. So as I mentioned, let me go back. Here you can see um Jeremiah and it overlaps beyond You know, the end of the the southern kingdom, if you will. So he does, as I mentioned, relate to some of the Um Inhabitants of Babylon. So for example, Nebuchadnezzar Right, he did um he Nebuchadnezzar treated Jeremiah with great respect and there were a couple kings um after that in Babylon that he was Um greatly respected by those folks. But he had a threefold ministry. Uh he warned the majority still in Judah about the coming Babylonian captivity. So again I showed you that remnant that was still in Jerusalem. Let me go back there real quick. So you can imagine um this was actually a process that flowed. So it started About 605, Jerusalem doesn't fall until 586. So there is a migration of folks. So he sends them a letter of encouragement. They were to settle down for a long 70-year stay. So that's where you get the prediction of the 70 years in exile. They were to pray for peace and prosperity of Babylon, that their own lives might be peaceful. And they were to ignore the lies of false prophets and medians mediums in Babylon, lest they be punished along with them. He was trying to encourage them that God still loved them and would some day bring them back to Jerusalem So again, these letters of encouragement to those who were in captivity. As well as Isaiah, Jeremiah also pronounces judgment upon those nations surrounding. There were nine Gentile nations that surrounded um the kingdom here. And I won't go through all that. But again, condemnation not only on God's appointed people, if you will, but also the surrounding nations. So a little bit of history of Jeremiah He was called in the full-time service during the reign of Josiah, like we covered. Again, that great king that we just talked about. He was to remain unmarried He received his call to full-time service during the 13th year of godly King Josiah, like I just talked about. Jeremiah at first protested this call, as Moses once did, pleading his youth as an excuse. God quickly reassures him the Lord had already chosen him prior to his birth as a divine spokesman to the nations. God would therefore give his chosen messenger the message Because of his fearless sermons on the coming judgment, Jeremiah was persecuted by his own family, the townspeople, and eventually the entire nation of Judah. Of any of the prophets, Jeremiah was probably the most persecuted. As he began his ministry, God showed him two things that underline the nature and importance of his call. No, I won't go through that. Sorry. Jeremiah wept over Judah's coming destruction. And that's what the picture at the top right is trying to convey there. So, I mean he was a weeping prophet. So he was weeping and crying out for Judah to return to God, right? And they would not listen. He pronounced the coming judgment at the hands of the Babylonians, and then he listed all their sins. I won't go through all those. He finally warned them concerning the terrible results. The temple would be destroyed. Thousands would be carried away into Babylon for a period of 70 years. Again, that's where we see the the 70 years of exile that we will get into next week. So here's the persecution, right? He was persecuted by his own family. He was plotted against by the people of his hometown. He was rejected and reviled by his peers in the religious world. He was threatened by various kings. He was arrested, flogged, and accused of treason. All right. Just intense, intense persecution. He experienced frustration and depression. Jeremiah had become so frustrated over his inability to call Judah back to God that he determined to quit the ministry. And at this time he uttered one of the most despondent prayers in all of the Bible, Jeremiah 20. I don't have time to go there, but it talks about, why was I even born? Right? Why did you even create me? Who else cried out that same prayer, if you will? Do you remember? Job. Job. We talked about that up front. Same prayer. And these are godly, godly men Alright, crying out. Why did you allow such persecution? Alright, so let me see if I got everything here. So I oh go ahead. Yes, yep. So that's where that overlap happens. We'll cover that next week, Doug. Great, great point. So you see I won't cover in detail, but Jeremiah is also the author of Lamentations, and that's where you see this anguish, this crying out. And I only the note there um he compised four elegies and I had to look that word up, I didn't know what it was. It's a poem of serious reflection, it's a lamentation, all right, um, about the tragic destruction of Jerusalem. Tradition says Jeremiah sat weeping outside Jerusalem's north wall under the knoll called Golgotha, where a Lord was later to die. And that's the picture I'm trying to portray up there in the right-hand corner. Okay, um with time remaining, just got a couple minutes. What is also in Jeremiah? The last covenant that we're going to cover, right? This is the new covenant Jeremiah 31, 31 through 34. That's your homework for today or this week is to go read Jeremiah, the New Covenant. So real quickly, We've talked, we started with the Abrahamic covenant, right? This unconditional, this eternal, unchanging, immutable covenant. That had three elements, the blessing, the descendants, and the land. And we've already covered the expansion of those through the land coven, right, or the Palestinian covenant. That we saw in Deuteronomy 30, and then we covered last week the Davidic covenant, this promise that his throne would be established forever, right? That messianic line that we see in Jesus Jesus Christ. And then the new covenant, the blessings that would happen. Again, all of that fulfilled in the millennium, the new kingdom. So it would include the entire house of Israel. It's unlike the old Mosaic covenant that was conditional God would inscribe his laws upon their hearts. So once again, they would be his people and he would be their God. And it is a blessing for all the nations, right? We see that. And again, it is immutable, unconditional, and eternal. So a beautiful and that kind of closes the chapter on the covenants that we're going to cover. Alright, let me pray