Alright, so this is the last section, right? Last week we talked about them going through captivity and they were in exile in Babylon, right? And so you see Daniel and Ezekiel, these major prophecies that we talked about. We're going to hit that. again real quick before we start. But we're in this last stage now where I'll call it the status of the nation of Israel and Jerusalem specifically, we're going to touch on that, has changed. And now you have these these world powers, the Gentiles. Okay? And that's going to carry us through to the end of the second coming of Christ. But you do have this episode that we're going to see where even in the midst of God's judgment on the nation, that he is going to allow them to go back and rebuild the temple. You know the wall, institute some of their religious sacrifices and feasts. So we have a very gracious and merciful God. So we are at the end of those three historical books and the last three prophets we're going to cover as well. Okay. Alright. Last time um I wanted to hit this topic again because I made this statement. I said the captivity by Babylon is the beginning of Gentile rule over the Israel that lasts until today and will remain, thank you, until Jesus Christ returns and establishes thousand year reign on earth. And a couple of you like, wait a minute Is that right? And I appreciate that. You guys are like the Bereans, and that's how you need to be. It's partially true But I want to nuance that a little bit with we need to be really accurate with our terminology here. So I really appreciate you guys asking those questions. But let's see what our Lord says. So turn to your Bible in Luke 21. Luke chapter 21. Before I do that, let me explain this chart, what you have in front of you. Hopefully this looks familiar, but this is the statue that that Daniel talked about laying on its side Okay, so you have the head, the arms, uh the legs, and then the toes down below. And then the four uh major power, major gentile powers that he talked about that would reign during that time frame And then you would have the ten at the very end. Okay? So that's the statute. Coinciding with that, we talked about the beast, right? Another vision, if you will, that coincides with those four major periods. And then down below is the timeline. So I like this chart because it includes a lot of what Daniel was talking about. You have the 70 times 7 time period that we talked about You're going to see today that that actually starts when Nehemiah goes back and restores um the the the wall around Jerusalem. That's going to be the start of that. Okay, and it will end at the second coming of Christ. So that's the context of the map that we have. So now let's turn to Luke twenty-one. This is Jesus talking to the crowd about things to come. He's really starting to talk about the end times here. And we'll pick it up in verse 20. But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then recognize that her desolation is at hand. This is th those ten um kings, if you will, at the end, the toes in the statue that he's talking about here. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are in the midst of the city depart, and let not those who are in the country enter the city Because these are the days of vengeance, in order that all things which are written may be fulfilled. Woe to those who are with child and to those who nurse babes in these days. For there will be great distress upon the land, and wrath to this people. And they will fall by the edge of the sword and will be led captive into all the nations. And Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles. And here's the here's the verse. Until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled This term, the times of the Gentiles. You can see the second gray box there by MacArthur, the commentary. This expression is unique to Luke. You won't find it anywhere else in the Bible, which makes it hard if you're trying to understand uh what it means, right? But you have to look at the rest of scripture. Um his commentary um it's the era from Israel's captivity Five eighty six. Now five eighty six you remember is when Jerusalem fell. Right? That's when Jerusalem was fell. It was kind of a phased approach, so it's hard to read, but in the In the picture there, it's 6. 05. You know, that's when the first wave was was taken captive into Babylon. But obviously that time period. So it's the captivity from then to her restoration, the second coming That time during which the Gentiles have dominated or threatened Jerusalem. So I want to take the statement I said last week and really narrow it in on what's happening with Jerusalem. Okay? To be a little bit more succinct, I like the commentary up above it. And what is stated here is during this time you will have no Jewish king that sits on the throne of David ruling Israel. That's true today Right? And that's not going to happen until Jesus comes and sets up his kingdom. There are four Gentile kingdoms that will that have conquered Jerusalem and dominated Israel. These are the four kingdoms in the picture there. That's happened Right, we know that. And then there's going to be a future time where you have the ten Gentile kings in the Antichrist that will conquer, they will surround and conquer Jerusalem We have this gap in the middle, if you will, the church age, and we're going to cover that. We're going to cover and see what is the Lord doing with Israel today. But focus specifically on Jerusalem. Alright, that's the key there And what I would tell you is that you've got to remember there when we talk about the land covet, you know, the Palestinian Covenant, there was a conditional peace to it The unconditional peace gets fulfilled when Christ comes again. But that conditional peace is, hey, if you follow my commands, if you obey me, I will bless you in the land. If you don't, there will be judgment And there was prophecy of you will be scattered, right? And that's what we see happening here. So w what I want you to walk away with is just kind of the the high level theme is that before this time, before their captivity The Jewish state, Israel, was a was a major power on the world scene. Not the power, but a major power on the world scene. After their captivity, you see Gentiles are the major power. And specifically in Jerusalem, you you see them in most cases owning that piece of property, if you will. Okay, so stick with the the gray box on the top. No Jewish king will sit on that throne as as predicted. Alright, so does that make sense? Does that maybe clear things up a little bit? Again I appreciate you you asking questions about that and we have to nuance that to make sure we get that right. But the major theme again is there's been a shift from the power they had To now they're in a time of judgment. And yet we're going to see, even in the midst of that judgment, the Lord is going to be gracious and kind to them and allow them to restore their religious ceremonies. Okay? Let's make sure I got everything. The other thing I wanted to touch on is there's another term. Go over to Romans. Romans eleven. This phrase the fullness of the Gentiles, and sometimes um I've I've seen a A couple commentaries where they connect, you know, the times of the Gentiles and the fullness of the Gentiles are the same. But they they are distinct, although they overlap for sure. So Romans 11 You remember this is in uh Dave's Romans class, right? This is the period where he's addressing the Gentiles and he's saying, don't become conceited. Right? The Lord took some a partial hardening, if you will, of Israel and is grafting you in, Gentiles, but he's not throwing away Israel. There will come a time after the fullness of the Gentiles when they will be restored. So let's pick it up in 11, starting in verse 24. So that's the context. He was addressing them to say, don't become arrogant, all right? For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree and were grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree How much more shall these who are the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree? For I do not want you, brethren, to be uninformed of this mystery And here's the caution, lest you be wise in your own estimation, that a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And thus all Israel will be saved, just as it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion. He will remove ungodliness from Jacob. And this is my covenant with them, when I take away their sins. That reference to my covenant in verse 27 is a reference back to the new covenant that we talked about in Jeremiah 31. Okay? So there's a partial hardening, and but he's the Lord's going to restore that relationship. And it is believed that the the fullness of the Gentiles is completed at the time of the rapture. Right, that God will have completed his plan for the Gentiles at that time and then the focus becomes Israel. I just wanted to show that distinction between the times of the Gentiles and the fullness of the Gentiles. You can see the uh the commentary on MacArthur's at the end there. In the time of the Gentiles and even the fullness of the Gentiles, an era of vast spiritual privileges for the Gentiles, right? Amen for for us who are Gentiles that the Lord had that redemptive plan. And did you have a comment? Randy Elkorn. He um says the fullness of the Gentiles means when the last Gentile who's ever going to be saved is saved. And he wrote a novel, this is purely fiction, but it's very good, called uh Finally Home. and he depicts the last Gentile to be saved as a young boy in China. Yeah, that's cool. I I had I wrote down um another commentary from MacArthur, it's not on the slide, to that point. It says Israel's spiritual hardening um when they rejected the Messiah will last until the complete number of elect Gentiles has come to salvation. That's probably a very neat depiction of of what that would look like. So all right, very good. Alright, does that help? Does that make sense Um I appreciate the question. Hopefully that clarifies a little bit. But you gotta keep in mind what what is happening here. I go back to the theme we started with, right? The the road to Emmaus. And these two men walking along were so discouraged and disheartened because they believed that the prophecy was when he returns he was going to be king of the Jews. That's how the the Jews you know thought about it and when that didn't happen during that time they were dejected, right? They were discouraged. Prophecy was though that it wasn't going to happen until his second coming. So we can be very excited about that. Alright, so in the midst of that, like I said, he's actually going to show the Lord is going to show much grace and kindness as he does allow them to restore the temple and restore their feasts and their sacrifices Alright, and that's what we're going to be covering today. So a lot to cover. Uh we'll make sure we get through it though. Ezra and Nehemiah uh its original uh writing were actually one book. And then as the the Bible um progress through time and we have the Bible of today. Those are two separate books, but they were contemporaries. And if you want to go ahead and turn to Ezra Think of it this way. There are three waves of those Jews that were in captivity returning back to Judea and Jerusalem. And you can see it there, wave one Zerubbabel with about 50,000 people that were returned from Babylon into or near Jerusalem to rebuild the temple. So that was his focus, was building the temple. Then we're going to see that there's actually about a hundred-year interval in Ezra between chapters six and seven, and that's when Esther is on the scene. So we'll cover a little bit about what was happening with Esther. And then Ezra is wave two with a roughly 2,000 folks, comes back, focus on religious reform. We're going to go through this in a little bit more detail. I just want to give you the big picture And then wave three is Nehemiah, one of my most favorite characters in the Bible, if you want to focus on leadership. And we'll cover that. And he again his focus is more on rebuilding the walls and the gates, all right, restoring that that level of protection Okay? Alright, so let's cover um the beginning of Ezra. We're in chapter one. And I'm going to use the Geisler commentary to give some good overview, but then we'll be back and forth in actually God's word, because I think it's just a fascinating time frame. In the first year of his reign, Cyrus King of Persia. So let me back up So at the end of the exile, there's a transition from Babylon to now Persia. So keep that in mind. Persia is now the main power, the world power that's happening here As we look at Ezra and Nehemiah, this return back to Jerusalem. In the first year of his reign, Cyrus, king of Persia, made a proclamation that allowed the Jews of the Babylonian captivity to return to their homeland. The tribes of Judah and Benjamin, along with priests from the tribe of Levi, began to make preparations to return to Jerusalem in accordance with the decree of Cyrus. So let's take a look And actually what was happening here. In your Bibles, Ezra will start in chapter 1, verse 1. Now, in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, in order to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah And listen to this, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he sent a proclamation throughout all his kingdom. and also put it in writing, saying, Thus says Cyrus king of Persia, The Lord the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has appointed me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever there is among you of all his people, may his God be with him. Let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judea, or Judah, and rebuild the house of the Lord, the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem. And every survivor at whatever place he may live, let the men of that place support him with silver and gold, with goods and cattle, together with free will offering, for the house of God which is in Jerusalem. Isn't that amazing? That is the Lord. Turning the king's heart towards his divine plan. You know, Pastor Gay preached on divine concurrence. You're seeing that right here. This was a Gentile secular king, and yet the Lord put that on his heart to allow them to return. That is a gracious and holy God. All right, go over to verse uh chapter one, verse seven. Didn't end there. Also King Cyrus brought out the articles of the house of the Lord which Nebuchadnezzar had carried away from Jerusalem. So when Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the temple in Jerusalem, he took a lot of those artifacts with him and put in the house of his gods, and Cyrus King of Persia, had them brought out by the hand of Mithredah, the treasurer, encountered them out to Shesbazar, the prince of Judah. Now this was their number, and it goes through the list of things. All the articles of gold, all the articles of gold and silver numbered five thousand four hundred. Shabar brought them all up with the exiles who went up from Babylon to Jerusalem. So not only this decree, but also a lot of the artifacts that were needed to start that temple um restoration, if you will. I just find that super, super amazing. Okay? Upon reaching Jerusalem, the remnant manifested their observation of the law by building an altar Offering sacrifices and keeping the Feast of Tabernacles, the foundation for the temple was laid soon after they became established in the land. However, opposition from their enemies hampered their work, for these enemies convinced the king of Persia to stop the reconstruction. So wait a minute. You know, they were given this proclamation, and now they're being stopped, if you will, by by the king. So let's take a look at that. Ezra chapter 4. Starting in verse 1. Ezra 4, verse 1. Now when the enemies of Judah and Benjamin heard that the people of the exile were building a temple to the Lord God of Israel, They approached the Rubival and the heads of father of fathers' households, and said to them, Let us build with you, for we like you, seek your God. Sorry, for we like you, seek your God And we have been sacrificing to him since the days of Asadra, King of Assyria, who brought us up here. But Zerubbabel and Jeshua and the rest of the heads of fathers' households of Israel said to them, You have nothing in common with us in building a house to our God. But we ourselves will build together to the Lord God of Israel, as King Cyrus, the King of Persia, has commanded us. Then the people of the land discouraged the people of Judah, so they became fearful, and frightening them from building, and hired counselors against them to frustrate their counsel. all the days of Cyrus, king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius, King of Persia. Now in the reign of Xerxes, in the beginning of his reign, they wrote an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah. and Jerusalem. If you go over to verse 13, now let it be known to the king that if the city is rebuilt and the walls are finished, they will not pay tribute, customer toll. And it will damage the revenue of the kings. Alright? So they were conspiring against what was happening here. And they convinced King Cyrus to actually put out an edict that they would stop the temple Verse 24, then the work on the house of God in Jerusalem ceased, and it was stopped until the second year of the reign of Darius, king of Persia. So we see this great delay, if you will, in the restoration of the temple. However, we now see a couple prophets on the scene. Under the powerful ministries of Haggai and Zechariah, the prophets, the remnants were exhorted to overcome their opposition and complete the temple. An investigation into the work by the king of Persia proved to be favorable to the Jewish cause, and the work on the table commenced again. The decree for the building of the temple was reissued, and the consummation of the work occurred. Go over to chapter 5, verse 17. So what is happening now here is there's an investigation. Um the king, so they come, they're conspiring, the king says, Hey, we need to research this. What's going on? So we pick up in verse 17. And now if it pleases the king, let a search be conducted in the king's treasure house, which is there in Babylon If it be that a decree was issued by King Cyrus to rebuild this house of God at Jerusalem, and let the king send to us his decision concerning this matter. And I believe this is um it's a different king than King Cyrus, right? So they moved on. Darius, right. We get that in ch uh verse 1, chapter 6. Then King Darius issued a decree, and search was made in the archives where the treasures were stored in Babylon. And Ekbatana in the fortress, which is the province of Media, a scroll was found, and there was written in it as follows And the NASB, I love this, says memorandum. Memorandum. In the first year of King Cyrus, Cyrus the King issued a decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem. Let the temple, the place where sacrifices are offered, be rebuilt, and let its foundations be retained, and then it goes through very exact language on what that looks like. So isn't that neat how we see this time and again where the Lord restores something in written word and it's it's forgotten about, but then it comes back in a memorandum. So don't forget those memorandums you all write. They're useful. Alright, it is now some generations later and the spiritual tide in Israel is low. The return of Ezra the priest with a faithful remnant to revive the nation was God's answer to this lapse in faith. However, before we get there, right, there was this gap, if you will, between six and seven. So I want you to turn over to Esther And we're going to put that in context of what was happening at the time of Esther. It's just Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther in your Bible. Alright, important to understand who was the book written to. Remember, we had some folks that are returning from exile back to Judah and Jerusalem. There are still people though in exile. Unlike the other post-exilic books, Esther is addressed to the Jews who did not return. So those people that are still in exile. The book indicates that one should not impunge the piety of those who don't Piety of those who did not return, nor assume that God did not exercise his providential care for Jews who were not part of the remnant that returned. There were apparently many godly Jews, descendants of those of the captivity, who for legitimate reasons, whether that be domestic, social, economic, elected not to return to the land. It is these exiles about whom and for whom Esser was written. I want to jump ahead. Let me first show you this map. This is Persia at the time that we're talking about. It's huge. It's immense. And you're gonna see that the Jews had probably been scattered throughout this area because there are some Events that are going to unfold, especially in Esther, that the proclamation goes throughout the pro all the provinces, all the territories. So there's a scattering that has happened. There is a remnant that has returned But again, I wanted you to see the the magnitude of this dominating Gentile power of the Persians during this time. And the capital you can see is highlighted in red We're going to see later on that's where Nehemiah was at the time of him hearing what was happening in Jerusalem. So I just wanted to give you context of where that capital was versus Jerusalem. Okay? Susa. Okay. Thank you, Malno. I appreciate that. I try and make them as large as I can, but Alright, so here we are in Esther. We talked about who is the audience, those that did not return from exile. And the major players, and we're going to go through this, but just at a high level, you have Mordecai He was Esther's cousin and he was a gatekeeper at the time. Faithful servant, and I use this word, an influencer. All right, and we'll talk about that. He was a an enabler, a facilitator, if you will. He acted to position leadership, right, to get them in the right place at the right time. Haman He was the captain of the king's princes, and we see him abusing his position of leadership, and he set out to destroy the Jews. Again, as we talk about these these uh individuals Take it from a leadership perspective, right? What what are they doing from a leadership perspective? And then obviously Esther, the Queen. And you're going to see her resort to fasting and prayer. Upon Mordecai's counsel, she will conclude that God called her to this high position for such a time as this. Okay? So let's go through that in a little bit more detail. The Persian king Xerxes was scarcely a paragon of virtue. One night, with drinks flowing freely, he demanded that Queen Vashti sacrifice her modesty and dignity before his court. The flat refusal of the c queen threw the king and his court into consternation. Fearing that the queen's action might lead to insubordination by women throughout the kingdom Xerxes disposed deposed Vashti and sought another to replace her. And we know who that is. And here's where Mordecai is an influencer, right? Mordecai, a gatekeeper for the king, viewed this as an opportunity to recommend his cousin Esther for the beauty pageant at which the king would pick the new queen Esther was not only physically beautiful, she was also morally pure. Esther found favor in the eyes of the king. Above all the other women. This favor enabled Esther to inform the king about how Mordecai had successfully warded off an assassinate assassination plot against him. Let's go to Ezra II Ezra chapter two starting in verse 21. In those days while Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate Bigthem and Toresh, two of the king's officials, from those who guarded the door, became angry and sought to lay hands on King. Exerc uh Xerxes. They were plotting to overtake the king. But the plot became known to Mordecai, and he told Queen Esther, and Esther informed the king in Mordecai's name. Now, when the plot was investigated and found to be so, they were both hanged on gallows, and it was written in the book of Chronicles in the king's presence. So again, Mordecai and Esther working together, right people at the right time. Haman, the captain of the king's princes, hated the Jews. and sought to destroy all of them. He was an arrogant, prideful man. By alleging that the Jews did not keep the laws of the king, he managed to acquire the king's agreement to a plan to destroy them. Men, women, and children were to be slain simultaneous on the same day throughout the whole kingdom. Let's go over to chapter three. Starting in verse 5. And the context here was that there was a uh Haman, right, was kind of the right hand man of the king. When he walked through the gates it was expected that the the servants would bow to him. Right. That's what he expected. There was one individual who said, I ain't doing that. That was Mordecai. Right? So Haman obviously became very angry. When Haman saw that Mordecai neither bowed down nor paid homage to him, Haman was filled with rage. Filled with rage. But he disdained to lay hands on Mordecai alone. For they had told him who the people of Mordecai were. Therefore Saint Haman sought to destroy all the Jews, the people of Mordecai, who were throughout the whole kingdom of Xerxes. All right, so you see this hatred not only for Mordecai, but for all the Jews. All the Jews. Alright, picking up in verse 8. Then Haman said to King Xerxes, There is a certain people scattered and dispersed among the peoples in all the provinces of your kingdom. That's why I showed you the map, right? They were scattered in a very broad region. Their laws are different from those of all other people, and they do not observe the king's laws, so it is not in the king's interest to let them remain. Over to verse 13. And letters were sent by couriers to all the kings' provinces to destroy, to kill, and to annihilate all the Jews, both young and old, women and children. in one day, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to seize their possessions as plunder. Hard to fathom, but that's what was happening here um at the time of Esther. Now, when Esther's cousin Mordecai heard of the proclamation, he immediately consulted with Esther. Actually what he did is he tore his clothes and he put on sackcloth and he was mourning in front of the gate. Alright, and we're gonna come to that. Consulted Esther and her maidens. They made the situation a matter of urgent fasting and prayer. So let's cover that first. Over to chapter 4. I'll pick up in eight. So again, this is what's happening to Mordecai. He's mourning and Esther's like, what's going on? So she sends a servant out to find out what's going on with Mordecai. And so the servant is there talking to Mordecai, verse 8. Mordecai now gave him a copy of the text of the edict which had been issued in Susa for their destruction, that he might show Esther and inform her and to order her to go into the king to implore his favor and to plead with him for her people Right, go down to so now now Esther the the ritual was you couldn't just go in and see the king. Right? He had to call you. He had to summon you. You could die if you showed your face before the king and he didn't summon you. So Esther had a bit of fear in her. Pick it up in verse 13 Here's the warning or the counsel for Mordecai. Then Mordecai told them to reply to Esther, Do not imagine that you and the king's palace can escape any more than all the Jews. For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from another place. And you and your father's house will perish. And who knows whether you have not attained royalty for such a time as this? Guys, the Lord's plan is going to happen. Right? We want to be a part of it. If you're in the right place at the right time, you need to act. Alright, let that be an encouragement to you. So Mordecai was telling her, hey, you don't have to follow through, but the Lord will find a way. The Lord will work his plan. Alright, carrying on in 15. So how does Esther respond? Then Esther told them to reply to Mordecai, Go, assemble all the Jews who are found in Susa, and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my manes also will fast in the same way. And thus I will go into the king, which is not according to the law. And if I perish, I perish She was resolute now. And her first reaction was, pray for me, fast for me. So Mordecai went away and did just as Esther had commanded him Covered all that. Bottom line, you know, she concluded that she had been called by God to her high position in the kingdom for such an hour as this. In an act of unparalleled courage, she volunteered to go before the king without an invitation, even if it meant she would perish. It becomes obvious at this point in the story that God has not forsaken his people. His merciful hand is in evident operation. For Esther's plea to the king is received with favor, his plot foiled, Haman is hanged on the gallows, and the Persian Jews are spared from annihilation. But let's walk through a little bit what's happening. So Esther goes to the king and she doesn't blurt out, here's what I need. She says, hey, let's have a banquet. Let's have a party. Right? So she's scheming a little bit, but it's all good. Ah. So they're at the party, you you know that story and um it's realized that Ah, so bottom line is it's remembered, right, that uh Mordecai had done this thing for the king, that he foiled this plot. And so uh the king asked Haman, well how do I how do I show honor to this man? And Haman, thinking it's him, right, says, You need to put a robe on him, have him sit on the horse and all that good stuff And it doesn't turn out the way he wants, right? So we are in chapter six, picking up in verse twelve. Yeah, so she has the banquet. During that time uh Haman's still very angry with uh Mordecai and the Jews. So he goes and he builds the 75-foot gallows gallows Bristling with vengeance, constructed gallows seventy five feet high on which to hang Mordecai. Meanwhile the king happened to read in the royal records how Mordecai had saved him from an assassination plot To show his appreciation to Mordecai, the king honored him by following the unwittied advice of Haman. He dressed Mordecai in rich apparel and paraded him through the streets. on a royal horse. So that's what that's what has happened. Now Haman's going to return home in in shame, in dishonors. So chapter six, picking up in verse twelve Then Mordecai returned to the king's gate, but Haman hurried home, mourning with his head covered. And Haman recounted to Zuresh his wife and all his friends everything that had happened to him. And I love this. Then his wise men and Zeresh his wife said to him, If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of Jewish origin, you will not overcome him, but you will surely fall before him. This recognition of the Jewish favor, right, carries through, even in this time of captivity. I love that. That recognition that God is still in charge. Mordecai the Jew, Esther's cousin, was exalted next to the king, and he acquired great favor for his people. Esther's mission had succeeded The Jews' enemies were scelched and the Jewish sh seed was perceived. God had protected his people. So Mordecai was the gatekeeper, but through all of this he ended up being promoted to the right hand man, if you will Right. That that is our precious precious Lord. Um, Pastor I think it's interesting that the book of Esther is the only book in the Bible where God God is not mentioned at all. Although they say the fingerprints of God is what they pray. There was many times he could have prayed to God because God Yeah. Yep, that's a great point. I did read that and didn't bring it up, but I I appreciate you bringing that up, so thank you. You know, I I would I would close with this again, focusing on the leadership aspect Esther was the right person at the right place at the right time. When I was in the military, one of my assignments was to do officer assignments. So I it was my job to send people where they needed to go when they were done with their tour. And we had them that was our model. The right person, at the right place, at the right time. And the idea was you weren't only assigning someone to um you know to fill a gap. You were trying to make sure they were being developed in those experiences You were trying to build the right person to be at the right place at the right time. I hearkened back to the announcement last week of our senior pastor. Um I will tell you as elders we we took that um decision very very serious. We love Gabe. He is our brother. Yet our first priority is God's church. And we unanimously concluded after discussion that Gabe was the right person at the right place at the right time. And I am so encouraged by um the response that you guys gave. I think part of it, yes, Gabe, we love Gabe, but I think part of it was thank you Lord. For being so faithful. He was very encouraged, but I think we're all very encouraged that we have a senior pastor now, guys. Amen to that. We have a senior pastor Alright, let's go back to the chart on Ezra and Nehemiah. So we just we covered wave one with Rubable, right? Rebuilding the temple, and then we have this hundred-year gap, which we just covered with Esther And now we're going to focus on Ezra. Again, Ezra is going to return with approximately 2,000 folks. So if you want to turn back to Ezra in your Bible We covered 1 through 6, and we'll be picking it up in chapter 7. Alright, we talked about some generations later, and the spiritual tide in Israel is low The return of Ezra the priest with a faithful remnant to revive the nation was God's answer to this lapse in faith. Ezra, the scribe of the law, and some two thousand others, whose hearts God had touched, carried both written authority and gifts from the king to Jerusalem for the house of the Lord there. Ezra records the scene firsthand I took courage, for the hand of the Lord my God was upon me, and I gathered leading men from Israel to go with me. Let's turn real quick, though, to chapter seven, verse ten. We talk about Ezra the scribe of the law, but let's let's look at how he really operated. Verse 10. For Ezra had set his heart to study the law of the Lord, and to practice it, and to teach his statutes in ordinance in Israel. That shows an extreme dedication to the Word of God. Right? Let that be our heart cry as well. Let us be in the Word. I just thought that was very encouraging. More than 2,000 men are numbered among those who returned with Ezra. Prayer and the providential protection of God brought them safely to the house of God in Jerusalem. There they offered their sacrifices to God in thanksgiving for his gracious hand upon them. As we're going to see with Ezra, we saw with Daniel, and we're going to see with Nehemiah, all in chapter nine, these great So turn to chapter 9, if you will. Chapter 9, verse 1. Now when these things had been completed, the princes approached me, saying, The people of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands according to their abominations. Those are the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites. Boy, familiar story, eh? Heard that a few times. For they have taken some of their daughters as wives for themselves and for their sons, so that the holy race has intermingled with the peoples of the lands. This is right, this is continuing behavior Indeed, the hands of the princes and the rulers have been foremost in this unfaithfulness. So not just the people, but the leader, the leadership. And when I heard about this matter, I tore my garment and my robe and pulled some of the hair from my head and my beard and sat down appalled. Then everyone who trembled at the words of the God of Israel, on account of the unfaithfulness of the exiles, gathered to me. And I sat appalled. until the evening offering. And then he goes into this long prayer of confession for uh the people, in and it includes himself, praying for their sin. And that the Lord would intervene Like Daniel 9 and Nehemiah 9, this chapter is one of the great intercessory prayers of the Bible. Ezra identifies with the sins of his people as he prays. From the days of our fathers to this day, we have been in great guilt. O Lord, the God of Israel, thou art just, for we are left a remnant that has escaped at this day. Behold, we are before thee in our guilt, for none can stand before thee because of this I think you remember that was the cry of Moses, right, and so many of our leaders that we see in Old Testament uh history. Following this great prayer of the confession and intercession, a great revival took place. For while Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself, Down before the house of God, a very great assembly of men, women and children, gathered to him out of Israel. For the people wept bitterly The people made a covenant with God, reordered their lives to conform to God's law, and offered sacrifices for their sin. A reading of the book of Malachi reveals the nature of the social and moral abuses that were prevalent during this period. Cheating, stealing, foreign marriages, divorce, and violence were among the more notable sins. But when the people were exposed to the Word of God And when the resultant spirit of conviction of sin led to confession and intercession, there was a mighty revival. And this spiritual revival led, as others have, down through history, to appropriate social reforms. And the last sentence here is the bumper sticker I have on the slide. The word of God and fervent prayer are the wellspring of effective social change. It's not presidential elections. I'm not banging on that, right? We need to be involved, but it is prayer. It is intercession And I love it. You see that in the great leaders that we are studying here. You saw it in Esther. You see it in Ezra, you see it in Nehemiah. Again and again turning to prayer. Alright? Does that all make sense so far? So you have Zerubbabel sets up the temple. We have this gap in time. We talked about the faithfulness of Esther and God's hand of provision on all the Jews. Right? They could have been slaughtered. They could have been slaughtered, but God intervened. And now we have Ezra really coming back for religious restoration, if you will, getting at the the heart. Zerubbabel the temple, Ezra the heart Alright, now we're going to talk about Nehemiah. So again, you can see they were close in time, so they were contemporaries, but Nehemiah focused primarily on rebuilding the wall. Turning your Bibles to Nehemiah. And like I said, one of one of my most favorite characters in the Bible, just um as someone who has studied leadership for a long time, I think there's lots we can take from the example of Nehemiah. You can see I've listed a lot of the leadership traits that you will see, and see if you can pick up some of this as we go through kind of the summary and through the actual book of Nehemiah firsthand. Okay? So I'm in Nehemiah chapter one. As a man of God, the first expression of Nehemiah's concern was prayer. So let me pause there and let's go to chapter one. Get a little bit of a context of who Nehemiah was. The words of Nehemiah, the son of Hekali. Now it happened in the month Shizlev in the twentieth year, while I was in Susa, the capital, that Hanani, one of my brothers, and some men from Judah came. And I asked them concerning the Jews who had escaped and had survived the captivity, and about Jerusalem. And they said to me, the remnant there in the province who survived the captivity are in great distress and reproach, and the wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are burned with fire. So a little bit about Nehemiah. It doesn't say right here, but if you do the timeline, he was about 30 years old. What does that mean? He was born during the exile Right? He he probably never foot touch in in Judah or Jerusalem. And yet you're gonna rece see him respond in a certain way. So let's come back to that. So fairly young man, he was the cupbearer. That was a position of high, high regard. Right? The cupbearer was the one who had to sample the cup before it was given to the king, because poison was a great way to get rid of the kings back in the day Right, so he was highly, highly trusted. So that's the context. Picking up in verse 4, chapter 1, verse 4. Now, it came about when I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days. And I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven. And I said, I beseech thee, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who preserves the covenant and loving kindness for those who love him and keep his commandments. Let thine ear now be attentive. Listen to his prayer. Let thine ear now be attentive, and thy eyes open to hear the prayer of thy servant, which I am praying before thee now, day and night, on behalf of the sons of Israel, thy servants Confessing the sins of the sons of Israel, which have sinned against thee. I and my father's house have sinned. I love that when they include themselves. We have acted very corruptly against thee, and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the ordinances which thou didst command thy servant Moses. Remember the word which thou dost command thy servant Moses, saying, If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples. There it is. But, if you return to me and keep my commandments and do them, though those of you who have been scattered were in the most remote parts of the heavens. I will gather them from there and will bring them to the place where I have chosen to cause my name to dwell. And they are thy servants and thy people whom thou didst redeem by thy great power and by thy strong hands. O Lord, I beseech thee. May thine ear be attentive to the prayer of thy servant and the prayer of thy servants, who delight to revere thy name, and make thy servant successful today. Grant him compassion before this man. Now I was the cupbearer to the king. So what he's saying is he's crying out in prayer because he's going to approach the king Right? And just like with Esther, you just can't walk in and hey King, I got an issue, right? It was a solemn act to go before the king. But I love this heartfelt cry. Now What is the impression you get of Nehemiah? Again, he's never set foot in the land of Judah, Jerusalem, and yet you see a man that has grown up with the understanding of of his religion, of his laws. How did that happen? His parents. His parents. Back to Deuteronomy 6, right? We are to pass on from generation to generation. I I'm speculating here. It's not written, but you see a man that obviously understands his his heritage. That has been passed down to him. And it was not uncommon, right, in the Persian Empire and in these empires that you had Jews that were part of the administration, if you will. Right? We see that time and again And the Persians especially were very accommodating, again allowing them to return back to their homeland. But here you see a man that is that is in this secular government and yet is a a a man of great faith. I I just thought that was very encouraging and pretty neat. Alright, so the first expression of Nehemiah's concern was prayer. He cried out, O Lord God, I now pray before thee day and night for the people of Israel, thy servants, confessing the sins of the people of Israel. which we have sinned against thee. He pleaded that God remember his covenant with Israel to bless them if they repented of their sins. Right, that's the conditional peace that we talked about. And that God grant him favor in the sight of the king. Alright, let's go to chapter two. So he's going to go before the king. And he's going to make this request, and we're going to pick it up in verse four. Then the king said to me, What would you request? And I like this. So I pray to the God of heaven. You ever been in that situation? You need that just that quick prayer? Right? You see Nehemiah here doing that. Right? Before he responds, there's a quick prayer to God. I think that's that's awesome and that's very encouraging. So I prayed to the God of heaven and I said to the king, if it please the king And if your servant has found favor before you, send me to Judah, to the city of my father's tombs, that I may rebuild it. First of all, he says, Send me He didn't say, hey, go send this this cohort. I got some great folks you can send. Send me. I'm the leader. Go and send me. Once God granted Nehemiah the permission of Artaxerxes to visit Jerusalem, Nehemiah immediately began his first-hand investigation of the situation. Having observed the broken down and defenseless state of affairs in the city, he proposed to the nobles and rulers that the walls and gates be rebuilt. So he goes out at night actually, doesn't tell anyone, and he examines himself. What is the state of affairs? What is actually happening? He gets firsthand knowledge of what's happening before he builds the plan. Under the inspiration of Nehemiah, various groups rose up to repair the broken gates. Elisha, the high priest, and his brethren led the way with the restoration of the sheep gate. Others followed until Jerusalem was completely restored and made secure. However, Nehemiah is also going to have opposition. Right? Just because you are doing the Lord's will does not mean you will not have opposition. In many cases you will The work of God never lacks either external or internal opposition. The external opposition came from Sanbalat, ruler of Samaria First he mocked Nehemiah's work, saying, if a fox goes up on it, he will break down their stone wall, meaning he thought the wall was pretty weak. But Nehemiah absorbed the criticism and built the wall, and all the wall was joined together to the half its height. For the people had a mind to work. Sanbalat was angry at the progress and gathered other enemies of the surrounding territories. against Jerusalem. But God brought to naught their evil intentions, as Nehemiah set half of the people to work on construction and half on military watch. That would have slowed down the progress, right? Half of them had to keep watch, the other half built. There's also an instance where they're they have a sword in one hand and they're actually picking up rocks in the other hand. That might look like, boy God, you're you're not in this. And we have to be careful. Right? There will be opposition. There are things you may have to do to continue to do the Lord's will. So don't be discouraged in those times of opposition. Go to the Lord in prayer. The internal opposition was no less difficult. It took the form of complaints about the need to mortgage property in order to meet the Persian tax burden. So this is coming from internal. But once again, employing prayer and decisive action, Nehemiah, now appointed governor, relieved the burden and continued the work. He got the burdens out of the way so that the work could continue. Nehemiah led by example, refusing to draw even a governor's salary, thus demonstrating his sacrificial leadership. That's the type of leaders we want. Servant leaders out in front, leading the way Despite the devious intentions evident in his enemies' diversion tactics, Nehemiah was not detoured from his task He refused four invitations from other rulers in the land with the reply, I am doing a great work, and I cannot come down. Why should the work stop while I leave it and come down to you? It was such resolution, determination that made possible this amazing achievement. So the wall was finished. In how much time? Fifty-two days. I need him as a project manager. That's just uh that's remarkable. Fifty-two days. Only the physical work was completed and the cities were repossessed in accordance with the uh genealogical record. The people requested of Ezra the priest that the law of Moses be read to them. The ancient Bible thon that followed precipitated a great revival, which instigated renewed dedication and social reforms. Again, you know, the physical part was being rebuilt, but they still needed to have their hearts restored. Alright? And that's what Ezra and Nehemiah will play a part of that. Revitalization of the citizens The result of sincere and prolonged exposure to the Word of God was predictable. A revival swept the nation. The people assembled in sackcloth and fasted. The Bible was read for one quarter of the day, and the people confessed their sins and worshipped for a quarter of the day. The Levites led in a prayer of confession, which spanned Israel's history from the time of Abraham. to their own day and which acknowledge the greatness and mercy of God in sparing his people. Again, this is chapter nine. We talked about the the chapter nines that um for Ezra, uh Nehemiah and Daniel As a pattern for true worship, this chapter should be seriously studied and earnestly followed. Several important elements of worship should be noticed. First, it springs from the reading and teaching of the Word of God. Second, it is centered in a knowledge of the greatness, holiness, and mercifulness of God, right? The attributes of God. And then lastly, both confession and adoration of God are the natural consequences of the reading of the Word and meditating on his person and precepts. Which is why here at Hope we put such a high value on preaching, teaching, praying through the Word of God. It was Ezra's Bible Fond which had precipitated the revival and the covenant renewal, but the work of spiritual revival is never complete until it has social or civil consequences. The reforms that took place upon Nehemiah's return from his trip to Persia. So he was in um Jerusalem for about twelve years, went back and then returned, and that's where you see this uh revival, if you will, or the reforms. Upon his return were sweeping social changes. The temple was cleansed, the Sabbath was enforced, and all foreign wives were put away as Moses had commanded. So again, restoring them back to the original um laws that they were governed by. And that was the conditional um the conditions that God put them during that dispensation. Okay? So that's um the the three major players, if you will, about that that restoring, if you will, of the temple and the walls and and the heart attitude, right? The restoration of their hearts. We're going to look now though at the three the three prophets that were on scene during this time. That was Hagai, right, Zechariah and Malachi. And you can see there from the arrows Haggai and Zechariah were the times of Zerubbabel and Esther, so that's when the temple was being restored. And then Malachi is actually during the times of Nehemiah A quick overview of of these folks. Now if you want to go ahead and turn over to Hagee. So you have the historical books, then you have the poetry books And then you have the prophets, and you can just turn towards the end of uh the New Testament. And you get to Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi, the last book of the Old Testament. There are only three post-exilic prophets, Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi, all spoke to encourage the spiritual and moral reconstitution of the returned remnant. Haggai and Zachariah spoke primarily about the spiritual and religious needs centered around rebuilding the temple. Malachi spoke of their moral and social needs centered around rebuilding the nation itself. So again, Haggai was that wave one, Zerubable, restoring the temple. The remnant returned in about 538 BC and began working to rebuild the temple around 536. But discouragement and difference set in And the site lay idle for some sixteen years before God stirred up the people through the prophetic ministries of Haggai and Zechariah. Cyrus had decreed that the Jews could return to Jerusalem. Again, very accommodating, but it was the Lord that turned his heart. Over fifty thousand, as we talked about. availed themselves to this opportunity, and they settled in and around Jerusalem. So here's Haggai on the scene now, forcefully reminded the people that the temple of the Lord was unfinished. Remember they had the opposition, the fear. While they were settled snugly in their paneled homes, he highlights the trouble, the trouble with their heart. The trouble of the people was explained to be the result of this indifference to God's house God had not blessed them domestically because they forgotten him spiritually. Due to the moving of God's Spirit in the hearts of the remnant, the testimony of the prophet was heeded, and they resumed building the temple. However, we still see some grumbling, but when the older generation, who had seen the great and glorious temple of Solomon, saw the much less spacious and less splendorous temple of Zerubbabel taking shape before their eyes. Haggai was faced with the perplexity of the people This temple seemed unworthy in their eyes, but Haggai provides a promise from the Lord that God is with them in their efforts and adds a prediction about the future temple, the temple that's coming that the splendor of this house shall be greater than the former. But isn't that just like us, right? Uh discontentment. It's not like that other place I saw But he focuses them on the future, that future revelation, that future temple. Like Hagai the prophet Oops, hold on. Oh, we're switching. Alright, so that is Hagai again trying to encourage them during this time of the rebuilding of the temple and trying to get them focused on a future temple that's coming. So that's Haggai. Zechariah, same time period. Like Haggai, the prophet Zechariah wrote to the remnants, returned from Babylon, who were discouraged. with the small size of the temple as compared to Solomon's. The prophet asserted that whoever has despised the day of small things shall rejoice In other words, he encouraged them by pointing out that this little beginning showed promise to greater things to come. We won't cover it, but in Zechariah he has eight visions. He has four messages and two burdens that are on his heart, and I want to cover the burdens that he has This last section is highly messianic. It contains two burdens, one about the rejection of the Messiah and one about the reign of Messiah. The rejected Savior, the first coming of Christ. One of the most frequently cited passages in the Bible is in this section. The prediction of the triumphal entry of Christ into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, just before his crucifixion. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Lo, your king comes to you, triumphant and victorious as he, humbled and riding on an ass, on a cult the foal of an ass. But he was rejected and became the shepherd of the flock, doomed to be slain for those who trafficked in the sheep. Indeed he would be betrayed for thirty shekels of silver. The second burden, though, is on the second coming of Christ. When Christ returns, the Jews will look on him whom they have pierced. And on that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and uncleanliness. Behold, the day of the Lord is coming, for I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken. Then the Lord will go forth and fight against those nations. as when he fights on the day of battle. Again, those are the ten kings we talked about, the toes in the statue. Right? That's what's being predicted here. On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives which lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the Lord will become king over all the earth. On that day the Lord will be one and his name one. Then every one that survives of all the nations. That have come against Jerusalem shall go up year after year to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the feast of Booth. In short, after the battle of Armageddon, Christ will judge the nations, and he will set up his messianic kingdom and reign for a thousand years. So that's Zachariah again, Zechariah Hagai, trying to encourage this remnant that has returned, restored their temple, but getting them focused on the future. Lastly, we have Malachi. Malachi prophesied some 100 years after Haggai and Zachariah began to write. Malachi lived in a day of moral and social decline against which he spoke forcibly while placing hope in the expectation of the Messiah. Malachi wrote to the remnant a few generations after the temple had been built, they had lost the spiritual fervor of their forefathers, and both priests and people had backslitten. It was a day of moral and social decline. Malachi begins with a revelation of God's love to Israel And a rebuke to the priest's sins, they were despising his name and polluting his altar by using sickly sacrifices rather than using the best animals as God demanded. So that's the religious decline, the social dispacement. Socially the tide was as low as as it was spiritually. Idolatry was present despite despite the lessons learned in Babylon. Divorce was practiced Even though it was written, I hate divorce, says the Lord God of Israel. There was moral defection. The justice of God was questioned by the people. I'm going to move along here. There was material dissipation Because they had not tithed as God commanded, they were robbing from God. And there was also at the end a messianic declaration. The condemnation of the wicked will be accomplished with the coming of the Messiah. For behold the days comes burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and the evildoers will be stubble. But this day will be a consolation of the righteous, for therein the Son of Righteousness will rise, with healing in its wings. The book ends with a command to obey the law and a prediction about the coming of Elijah in preparation for the Lord. And that is the end of the Old Testament. That is the last prophecy that we see. However, that's not the end. There's about 400 years of time that happens between the end of Malachi and the New Testament. I won't go through all of this. Some of you scholars are probably very familiar with this time period, but I I highlighted some of the activities that happened in this intertestamental years. Now again I want you to keep track of um the different um dominating Gentile nations, if you will. So we had um Babylon and then Persia. Now with Alexander the Great you see coming in now the Greece. the Greek power is starting to form here, right? And then you have the Romans down here. In between that, um some of you are familiar with the Maccabean Revolt. This is a Jewish revolt against some of the Greek culture that was invading itself into the Jewish uh culture. Um I didn't know this, but the Great Wall of China began actually in two fourteen uh BC And we see Herod come on the scene as the governor of Jerusalem in 37 BC, which he obviously plays a prominent role in the beginning of the New Testament. Okay? So again if you want to study that further you can. I just want to show you there was a lot of activity. It's just not um some of that is prophesied in Daniel, some of those events, but we don't have a book that actually covers what happened during that time frame. Now let's get back to I started with what is happening with the nation of Israel. So let's talk about that for a second, because there are some exciting things that are happening to the nation. I thought this was a great map that showed um pre-World War two, so prior to nineteen forty six, and the green is Palestinian control and then the white is Jewish and you can see hardly anything. Obviously a defining moment after World War II in 1947. Let me get my notes here. All right, it was UN Resolution one eighty one. that established both the Jewish state and the Arab State. So the Jewish in white and the Arab state, that was the agreement that was made. But what did they do specifically with Jerusalem, right? Because that was a hotbed. They actually put it um under a special international regime. So it was not owned and controlled by Israel at that point. And it's really uh this depiction of the city was divided uh is probably more indicative of what happened in nineteen But I did want to show you that the Temple Mount is actually in the old city, and we'll come back to that in a second. Alright, so that's what happened in 1947. They make this division But Jerusalem, by vote of the UN, remains this international regime, is not owned by the Jews. All right, what happened in 1967? Six-Day War. Okay, um Israel surrounded the north, south, and the east by their enemies. In six days, all right, they conquered and they gained they almost doubled the amount of land that they had, and they actually retook eastern Jerusalem. It is now under Israeli sovereignty. And those of you that have been to Israel, please chime in if I'm messing this up. But that's what's happening right now. Now The arrangement though in Jerusalem, they have this um status quo, they call it. Status quo agreement. What it means is Israel is sovereign over that land. Specifically for the Temple Mount, they provide the security for it, but it is the Muslims that actually administer the temple. They decide the visitation times. Um and and my understanding as a Jew, you can go visit, but you cannot pray there. You can only the the nearest place to the Holy of Holies is the Wailing Wall. That's why that gets so much significance. You can pray at the Wailing Wall, but you cannot re um pray inside the Temple Mount. Alright? So fascinating to see what the Lord is doing here, bringing a nation back together. You can see the quote at the bottom there or the statistic. Forty-five percent of the world's um Jewish population now lives in Israel. That's as of twenty twenty-one. So is the Lord um providing a gathering? And we know in the end times that has to happen. In the end times during the tribulation, the the temple will be rebuilt and there will be peace. And that's when you will see the abomination that causes desolation, right? He's gonna he's gonna deceive them and trick them. So there will be a time when no kidding um Jerusalem or or the nation of Israel will will have sovereignty over the temple once again. It has to, for that end-time revelation. Okay? Also interesting, U. S. public law, the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995. It was put in place to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel. That's significant. And it calls for Jerusalem to remain undivided. However, it provided the provision to root uh to relocate the U. S. Embassy from I'm sorry, and provided the provision, the the resources to locate the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. At that time I think it was by 2000. However, it had a caveat. It allowed a president to have a six-month waiver based on grounds of national security. And and up until Trump, everyone has signed that waiver every six months to not relocate. It was President Trump, but I'm not making any political statement here, I'm just giving you history Um he initially signed the waiver but eventually said I want that embassy in Jerusalem and as of May of uh twenty eighteen our US embassy is now in Jerusalem. All right. There are only four um embassies in Jerusalem right now versus Tel Aviv. I forget what the other three are, but again, you you want to understand what's happening, keep your eye on Jerusalem Keep your eyes on what's happening there. But I will tell you, and again, take the Revelation course next uh next fall or coming up next week or Anne's class on precepts You know, you will get more more detail on that, but well, I just lost my train of thought. Keep your eyes on Jerusalem. Oh, here's what I was going to say is that um if if you are pre-trib and that's what our teach churches that there is nothing in the standing in the way of rapture. There is no other sign. There is nothing else that needs to happen. So we are close. We are close and we need to be living that way. Alright, we are out of time. Let me um convene this real quick. So again, in summer we we talked about this. I'm not going to go through. We see this beautiful progressive revelation, right? And what I hope, this has been a huge blessing for me to teach a survey, because it helps provide the just overarching context. So as I go back now and read a book, I can fit it into the slot, right, of where this is in God's progressive revelation, which has been just a huge blessing to me. Important though to be grounded with a good solid hermeneutic literal, grammatical, historical, to include prophecy. That's where you see a divergence of some. Don't apply that to the prophecy piece. Right? We talked about dispensations, we talked about doctrines, attributes, we talked about the covenants, which are so important in understanding what God is going to do literally with the nation of Israel. And again, the common theme throughout is Jesus Christ. Right, we talked about the theme, the road to Emmaus. I hope your hearts have been burning. And you don't have this in your slide deck, but you get your one final test question. Who knows where this is? Shiloh. It's Shiloh. So Margaret, I asked for pictures. Margaret was the only one who sent me pictures. This is the picture she sent from uh Shiloh. That's where the tabernacle resided for a long time. And you kind of get the picture of what that might have looked like. So very, very fascinating. But all right, let me close the prayer. You guys have been awesome