Heavenly Father, we thank you for today. Your word says that your mercies are fresh and new every day. just like today, and we're grateful for the day that you have given us. We look so forward to just diving into your word to see what truths You're going to reveal to us. May our hearts burn like those two men on the road to Emmaus as they heard Jesus portray this story, this history of him through the law and the prophets, through all of the Old Testament. That's our hearts desire. desire, Lord, to know you better, to be conformed into the image of Christ. And so I pray for that blessing on us today. Let us have some fun, digging into your word, and may you be glorified. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, I wanna start with um several of you have either come up after class or sent me some emails or some texts. Just you know, there's something that you that that um impressed upon your heart, just a note you wanna make and that's so encouraging. to see how, you know, the discussion and how God's truth is impacting our lives. So I I really appreciate some of that feedback and some of those insights. One of the questions I got though last week I thought pertinent to um have a further discussion because I I noted it was something I forgot to tell you when I first started the class. And that's about translations. You know, which translation do you use? And so I I didn't tell you which one, but I use the NASB I believe our church, if you look at the Bibles that are handed out, those are NASB, it's a really good translation. But it's not the only really good translation. There is the ESV. I think there's the New King James Version. It's important though that you really research and get a good translation. It's really important. But let's talk about the subtlety. The question I got was particularly about the Shema that we discussed last week in Deuteronomy 6. And you can see what I have high. highlighted there, right? So it talks about passing on um this information to the next generation and particularly in the NASB, it says, and you shall teach them dilit diligently to your sons. Okay? Now the ESV as you can see in the New King James Version says children. Now you can have the NASV and stop at sons and and and you can take that, right? You can say is God really saying that we are to just pass this on to our sons. That's a legitimate question. What do we need to do? We need to dig deeper. We need to wrestle with the word We need to understand what that word means in its original language. We need to understand what that word means in the context of where that is in the passage. All right. So you need to do all of that work. But it's good to maybe have a different translation as part of your Bible study tools. But it's good to see how, because there's little nuances. And here's what I would say. Those who put these translations together, and someone can explain this much better than I can, but are meticulous about trying to be as accurate as they can. In a good translation. Okay? So so know their heart motivation is to honor the Lord with his inspired word to get it as accurate as they possibly can. Now in this particular case, that word, uh Hebrew is Then it literally means son. Okay, but you can see in the definition, and I have a study Bible, this is what is explained as part of the definition. Idomatically it can stand for children and descendants. So I think in this particular case the ESV is i is more correct in its interpretation, right? Children. But if you struggle with that, you need to go back to other what does the rest of scripture say? And that's what I have at the bottom. Um it's actually in in our passages this week in Joshua. Joshua where I'll read it. There was not a word of all that Moses had commanded, which Joshua did not read before all the assembly of Israel, with the women and the little ones, and the strangers who were living among them. So it's clear that that was to be passed on. to everybody. Alright? Male and female. Now, the Bible is sometimes very clear about making the distinction between male and female. We see that in the Genesis account, creation account, right? We see that in the census. You remember the two census that we had last week? The criteria of the census though was the warfighting men over twenty years old That was the criteria of the census. That in that culture, the men fought, the women didn't. And that's what they used as a census. So again, you have to understand the context. You have to do the word search. You know, understand the meaning. Look that up. So again, just an encouragement. to to be good disciples of what the Lord has given us and sometimes that means you need to struggle through the word, you need to wrestle with it. Alright, so it was a really good comment. Um highlighted the fact that I should have told you up front what translation I was using but always a good practice to have a couple different versions or translations in your home so that you can compare and really understand what the word's saying. That makes sense? Good? So I appreciate uh I appreciate the comment that was made or given to me. Okay. Where are we at with Turn the corner, guys. We're in lesson eight. Those first five books, a lot happened in those first five books, right? And and as I told you, that was really laying the foundation for Jesus Christ, right? We we talked a lot about the law. And that was really, we talked in Galatians 3, that pointed us, that was a tutor to point us to Christ. Christ would ultimately fulfill all that's happening in these first five books and pointing to the law. Okay? As we go into the the next set of books, um it's really about laying the foundation or the preparation for Christ. That's how this is going to play out. And then you can see we're going to sprinkle in the prophets and poetry as we go along here. Okay? So that's where we're at. We're uh in the book of Joshua. So you see my bottom line up front there, the book of Joshua. Be strong and courageous. You see that throughout the book of Joshua. And we're gonna spend a little bit more time talking about that, hopefully be encouraged by that. Be strong and courageous. And we're gonna see leadership by example. Joshua was a a great warrior, but he was a faithful, faithful man of God. We'll see at the end as for me and my whole household, we will serve the Lord. Lord and it's a question we're all going to have to ask ourselves. Because there is the danger of leaving room for idols. You remember that was the theme last week about um the temptation of of taking on idols and not necessarily statues, right, or things But but there are so many idols out there that we even have to fight with today. So we're going to talk more about that theme. Alright, a stage setter. They are camped out on the east side of the Jordan River. Remember last week Moses basically gave his farewell speech uh is completed the reminders that he gave them and the leadership is now being transferred to Joshua. Uh I apologize, I wanted to give you a quick summary of where we've been, right? And and you guys have seen this time So in Genesis, right, we we talk through these four major events, and what did we see right after the fall? God introducing the seed, right? The Savior right after the fall. And then the rest of the Bible is about His unfolding, his progressive plan of redemption. Okay? And then we saw in the second half of Genesis where God went from the nations and now is zeroing in on a particular nation through a particular set of folks. And we talked about the patriarchs and that lineage. We introduced Job who gave us this beautiful example of of suffering and yet restoration, repentance, the sovereignty of God. And that was the attribute of God that we really highlighted. through the uh the book of Genesis was God's sovereignty. So important to to study the attributes of God. And then we followed uh the Exodus as Mod Moses led them out of Egypt and we followed their path, but we saw God worked miraculously, right, with the ten plagues and the the parting of the Red Sea, how he provided for them with manna and food, the cloud that they followed, uh the presence of the Lord throughout. And then we talked about the Mosaic Law How the Lord gave them his law. I'm going to separate you as a holy people. I will be your God. You will be my people. But that meant something. And we talked about some of the dispensations, right? The the stewardship of how God interacts with man. And we are now in this stewardship or this dispensation of the Mosaic Law. That's the responsibility that the people now have. Obey the law. And that's going to carry out until we get to the New Testament. There at Mount Sinai, right, the instructions to build the tabernacle, and they built the tabernacle, and and we talked about the wanderings um in in the desert plains there up to Kadesh Barnia, right? And we talked about the sin, the fear that they had, and they ended up wandering another thirty-eight years. They were right there on the edge of the promised land. And yet God would not allow them to enter. And we talked talked about um the Palestinian covenant, the land covenant, part of the Abrahamic covenant, right? The Abrahamic covenant, that foundation, and then the expansion of that through these other covenants that we'll discuss. The first one was the land covenant. Now remember the Land Covenant had a I'll call it a um a conditional peace to it right while they were while they were there. If you follow my commands, you will have blessings in the land. If you don't, you will be cursed. But the final covenant will not be fulfilled until the Millennium Kingdom. So that's where we will see that unconditional piece of the covenant take place as part of the Abrahamic covenant. Okay? So if you recall, we had a quick summary of each of the books. books. So do you remember the the primary theme of Genesis? It's the book of beginnings, right? Book of beginnings. And we talked about uh those events, the people, uh we talked about the dispensation. and where we're at now and the introduction of the Abrahamic covenant. Again, those three major uh aspects, the land, the seed, and the blessings. Exodus, you remember the theme? Redemption. Redemption. Oops, sorry, we we plugged in Jove there, right? That was written during the time of the patriarchs that's believed and reinforce God's sovereignty. So, yes, Exodus Redemption. Moses is called, leads the people out, and establishes the covenant. Leviticus? Holiness. Holiness. Right? God is setting apart a people for himself, now giving them instruction. on how to how to come forth to a holy God and how to live righteously. And that's where we get all the laws, the feasts, the tabernacle, all that we discussed about. Alright, numbers. Lot happened in numbers. Alright, but that was you remember they went up to Kadesh Barnia, they were right there, they sinned, and they ended up wandering. And we have the two senses. You have the The removal, if you will, of all of the old generation except for two people. Two people. That's just astounding. And then we have the census of the new. So the new generation now is right there at the Jordan and they're about to go into the promised land. That's the stage center, that's where we're at. And we see this beautiful example of leadership, right? Just in the twelve spies. How ten of them reacted in fear and how that influenced the people And you had the two that were bold and courageous. And we're going to follow up on that today. It's a beautiful, beautiful testimony of Caleb. Alright, so keep that in the back of your head. And then Deuteronomy. The theme, the second law, it's not really another law, it's just the the Ten Commandments you know given once again to the people, a renewed covenant before they go into the promised land. This is Moses's last chance, his retirement ceremony, right, to give his farewell speech to remind the people of what God has has done for them, remind them of their sin and his sin. He wasn't going to get to enter the promised land either. And it was obvio you know obviously the passing of the baton from one leader to the next in Joshua. So that's where we're at. That's the stage setter. Make sense? All good? Alright, so a little bit about the book of Joshua. Obviously, the author is Joshua. The theme is Conquer and Divide. Conquer and divide. The period of the book is roughly 25 years. You'll see that the the war campaign though is about seven years. Primary characters, Joshua, Caleb, so the the two that survived the generation, if you will, and then Ray. Rahab. Beautiful, beautiful story about Rahab. Now a little bit of a comparison with Exodus and what we're what's happening here. Obviously in Exodus, God led his people out of bondage from Egypt, right? In Joshua we're going to see how he's going to lead. them into the land of blessing. When they departed, the Red Sea was departed to bring them out, the Jordan River is going to be departed to bring them in. So we see some comparisons there. The order of events is pretty simple. You see the gray box there. They need to enter the promised land. So we're going to talk about what that looked like. And then the people there, right? They're not entering the land that's vacant. There are inhabitants. And they're wicked, and they need to be conquered. Okay? So that's the setting. They need to conquer the inhabitants, and then they can distribute the land between the twelve tribes. So that's the basic order we're going to see here Okay? Alright, so again, stage setter, where are they at? You can see they're actually camped over here, and here's the Jordan River, and they're going to go across and over to Jericho. So that's kind of a the scene setting, if you will, as we progress through the order of events here. So it starts by preparing the people in the battle space. Okay? So it starts with God speaking to Joshua. So let's go to Joshua 1 and follow along with me. Joshua 1, 1 through 9. This is God's charge to Joshua. Now it came about after the death of Moses. the servant of the Lord, that the Lord spoke to Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses' servant, saying, Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore arise, cross the Jordan, you and all his people, to the land which I am giving to them. to the sons of Israel. Every place on which the sole of your foot treads, I have given it to you, just as I spoke to Moses. From the wilderness in this Lebanon, even as far as the great river, the river Euphrates, All the land of the Hittites and as far as the Great Sea toward the setting of the sun will be your territory. No man will be able to stand before you all the days of your life Just as I have been with Moses, I will be with you. I will not fail you or forsake you. Be strong and courageous, for you shall give this people possession of the land, which I swore to their fathers to give them. Only be strong and Strong and very courageous. Be careful to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right or to the left, so that you may have success wherever you go. This book of the law shall not be. Again the importance of passing on to the generations. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have to be able to be able to be able to do it. have success. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not tremble or be dismayed. For the Lord your God is with you. wherever you go. I I love this anthem, Be strong and courageous, right? And you can see the the note I have there. It's a reminder for all of us that we can actually we must walk in faith and confidence because Greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. I mean that's just one proof text. There's there's several others you could apply there. Romans 8 talks about, you know, the assurance of our salvation, the perseverance of the saints. Also talks about nothing can separate us. from the love of God. You gotta understand the context of here we got two million people sitting right on the river edge. They're about to enter this land that has inhabitants. Right? It's gonna be dangerous. They can be anxious. Alright, they need to be strong and courageous. And I asked the question for ourselves: what what adversity are you facing? You might have a big decision in front of you, maybe you have a job decision, a move decision. decision, maybe you're dealing with chronic illness or uh a difficult relative you gotta deal with. So many so many hurdles, if you will, and we can lose hope Right? We can become discouraged. And you're going to see the inhabitants became demoralized because of the people of Israel. I would just encourage you to be strong and courageous because of who you are as a child of God In all the promises that that means. Okay? So God speaks to Joshua. Now Joshua's got to talk to the people. So he turns to the people and he says, Prepare provisions for yourself, for within three days you are to cross I I can't imagine what they were thinking. Here they are after forty years About to go into the promised land, and here it is. And Joshua says, Get your stuff ready. It's showtime. We're going. We're going in. And to the Reubenites and to the Gedites and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, remember the word which Moses struck. The servant of the Lord commanded you. You shall cross before your brothers in battle array, all your valiant warriors, and shall help them until the Lord gives your brothers rest. Then you shall return to your own land. So you remember these tribes asked Moses, Hey, can we can we have this land on the eastern side? We really like it here. And basically, yes you can, but first you gotta fight. You gotta fight with your brothers, and then you can go back to the land. And we'll see that happen. So just like at Kadesh Barnia, they needed to understand the order of battle. Right, they needed to understand what was happening with the enemy. So once again Joshua the great you know battle warrior gathers intel He needs to understand the order of battle. What does the inhabitants look like? So Joshua, the son of Nun, sent two men as spies secretly from Shitam. Now that's uh over here on the right hand side. You can barely see the name there, but that's where they're camped out. All right, so that's where they're at right now. And he sends spies out to go into the land and check it out. And he says, specifically Jericho. Go view the land, especially Jericho. So they went and came to the house of a harlot, whose name was Rahab, and lodged there. Now let's look at Rahab's response. This is really important. I know that the Lord has given you the land, and that the terror of you has fallen on us. Do you think word got out? Absolutely. And that all the inhabitants of the land have melted away in parentheses is that's my um insertion there, became demoralized. That's what that means, melted away. They became hopeless, discouraged, demoralized before you, for we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt. Do you remember when we talked about that, we talked about that we're got out about what happened with the Red Sea. I mean a miraculous event. Word got out. And what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to Sihon and Og. We didn't talk about that um in Deuteronomy, but there were some battles that took place. As they were wandering in the wilderness and came upon their camp where they're at right now, um there was wars and they defeated kings. Again, word got out, whom you utterly destroyed. And when we heard it our hearts melted, and no courage remained. Again, compare that with be strong and courageous. They had no courage in any man any longer because of you, for the Lord your God He is God in heaven above and on earth beneath. Now this is Rahab the harlow. And you remember when we talked about the plagues, why why did God provide those? He wanted Egypt to know that he is God. Right? He's done all of this so that the world will know that he is God. So who is Rahab and why did the spies go to her house? So you see the gray box uh gray box on the left, this is from a a commentary, but It's possible that she had a believing testimony, repented of her sins. It's possible that the spies knew this, and so they went to her house first. It's not clear in the Bible, right? We're we're just making a guess here. But it does seem like they were they were vectored to her house initially. So word might have gotten out that she was a believer, or at least a supporter of the people of Israel. And later the king of Jericho assumed they were there. If you go to Don't need to turn there, Joshua 2. 2. And it was told the king of Jericho, saying, Behold, men from the sons of Israel have come here tonight to search out the land. And the king of Jericho sent word to Rahab, saying, Bring up. How did he know they were At the house of Rahab. Again, it's not clear in the Bible, but she may have been known as someone who was a supporter of the Israelites. So just something to think about. What's more interesting is that Rahab is mentioned three times in the New Testament. And I have them here in James, when he's talking about um proving faith, you know, faith without works is dead. And he was trying to emphasize that what Rahab did was a demonstration of her faith. Right? A demonstration of her faith. So that work was important to demonstrate her faith in God. So we have evidence there of her faith. Hebrews 11, this is the hall of faith, right? Who's in there? Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses. Guess who else? Rahab. Rahab is in that list. By faith, Rahab, the harlot, did not perish along with those who were disobedient after she had welcomed the spies into the room. peace. Her name is in that list. That's pretty incredible. And just as important, you look over on the right hand side. In Matthew 1 we see the the genealogy of Christ really um recognizing his deity. You know Christ as king. Married Solomon and gave birth to Boaz, which means she was the great great grandmother of David She's in the messianic line, this harlot. I hope that gives us all great hope and encouragement. We are all Rahabs, right? We are all sinners. Romans 1 and 2. There's none that does good. It's a beautiful demonstration. Of God's grace, is it not? That Jesus would come from that line. So I thought that was a pretty neat uh testimony of Rahab. So, the two spies return with a good report? Surely the Lord has given all the land into our hands And all the inhabitants of the land, moreover, have melted away before us. Again, totally demoralized, totally discouraged So the people are now going to pass into the Promised Land. So you get the the little picture here of again the parting of the Jordan River, and you get a visual of what that might have looked like. But the process, the Political pr priests would carry the ark into the center of the river, and the people were then to follow, and it says specifically about a half mile behind the ark. When the priests first put their river, when it first touched the water, the water just dried up. It stopped flowing from where they were. And so you can imagine, you know, two million people again crossing this river. There's the ark, the power of the the Lord out in front of them. So Israel commanded was commanded to construct two memorials, basically twelve stones that represented the twelve tribes of Israel and and they erected this pyramid, if you will. One was to go in the middle of the river, but there was one that was supposed to be on the bank And that one was to be a reminder for future generations. So as the granddaughter or grandson was walking along with grandpa And they came along the bank and and they saw the pile of stones, they're like, Grandpa, what's that all about? He would share. He would ru uh provide a remembrance of what the Lord did in his life. You know, I wanted to pause here and just ask all of us, you know, what uh what pyramids do you have in your life as a reminder of what the Lord has done? I was thinking about this um and I'll give you an example for me. It's an email. It's a monthly email that I get from Pushpay. I do my tithe online and I get the email, right? And it's a constant reminder of God's sweet, sweet provision. Right? He is blood. know, I told you I got seven kids and I'm in the military. You don't join the military to become a millionaire, trust me. Right? But the Lord has always, always provided. And that monthly email is a reminder to me of God's sweet provision. Now let me give you a little I told you the story of our dishwasher breaking last Thanksgiving, right? And I invited the parks over to do the dishes and it worked out really well. So it's not even a year yet, right? Thanksgiving dishwasher breaks. Um we had a wedding in April Weddings are expensive, but that's okay. And I had to fly everyone out for the wedding, so that added to it. We got home and there was a little bit of water downstairs by our utility closet, and I'm like, hmm, that's not good. Water heater needed to be replaced, water tank. Okay. Shortly after that my car starts having problems. You know, you always go into the auto mechanic and you're like, Man, I hope it's just a hundred and fifty dollar part, but I I know it's gonna be like an engine or a transmission. It was a transmission. Transmission. Fourth of July, guess what start not to work? My air conditioner. That needs to be replaced. So so you get the idea here. It'd be Very easy for me to be like, Lord, what are you doing? And and I gotta be honest, does that ever enter my mind? Absolutely I'm a human being sometimes, but here's what I would tell you. Over time a as I continue to just have a spirit of thanksgiving with my ability to give, it's fleeting. It it starts to come in and then you can fight that right away. Say, No Lord, here's here's my pyramid. I remember. Here's my mound of rocks. You've been so faithful to us for so many, many years. So I just give that as an example that sometimes it can be very difficult, but those those um not idols, but those pyramids if you will, those mounds of rocks, whatever that is for you as a remembrance, so that you can put off that old self, right? Renew your mind and put on the new self. Over time it will become fleeting. Those seeds of doubt will start to come in. Boom. You can fight 'em off. The other example I want to give you is my ring. I I don't s usually sit there and play with my ring but every once in a while I'll look down and yes it's a covenant of marriage between me and my wife but what immediately comes to mind is just the blessing of my family. My precious wife, my children. Really, I I just love it. And now Green's not even here. I'm not trying to get Bonnie points or nothing, man. It's the real deal. I just it is a constant reminder of how the Lord has blessed me so richly with my family. Okay, so just a couple of examples. Hopefully you guys have your own pile of pile of stones and what that looks like. So all right, moving on. We now have this new generation of men. Now as they went through the the wilderness wanderings, they were not And so that is going to happen um in Gilgal and you can see that's right to the east of Jericho right here. So they're passed through the Jordan and here they are camped out in Gilgal and they're all going to get circumcised. And so there's a time to heal as they're waiting there. But the city called Gilgal means roll away, and it's where God finally rolled away. the reproach of Egypt from them. Alright, so that's the significance of the of that city in that event. Now before they go into battle, Joshua receives a heavenly visitor right on the eve of the battle. Now it came about when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold the man was standing opposite him, and his sword drawn in his hand, and Joshua went to him and said to him, Are you for us? Or for our adversaries. And he said, No, rather, I indeed come now as captain of the hosts of the Lord. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and bowed down and said to him, What has my Lord to say to his servant? Servant. And the captain of the Lord's host said to Joshua, Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy, just like Moses and the burning bush, right? Um many commentaries, there's a lot of consensus on this that This is the pre incarnate Christ. Right, the Lord of the hosts going before Joshua and the people Very very exciting. Alright, so now they have passed through the land. Now what do they gotta do? They have to conquer the inhabitants. Right, there's there's inhabitants in the land, they are wicked, so that's where we're at. We're gonna talk about these campaigns. Um and it's maybe not fun to talk about war campaigns, but there's some significant events that happen that I think are worth noting. Three major thrusts. Trust areas, if you will. They start out in the central part of the country, then they move south, and then to the north. And we're going to cover each in a little bit more detail. So, as I noted, though, who's in front of them in all of this, right? The Lord of hosts. the captain of their army. So we're going to start with the central campaign. And you can see moving from Gilgal, they're going to now approach Jericho and then continue to move to the west. But specifically with Jericho, you know the Story, but it's worth repeating. They marched or commanded to march around the city one time for six days. And at the end of that, they would blow the trumpets. Right? On the seventh day, though, they marched around the city seven times. They blasted the trumpets and then the people shouted. You can imagine each day as they were marching around. Here is Jericho fortified in the city. They were probably trembling. They had heard about this people. And and all they're doing is they're marching around the city and they blow some trumpets and then they go away. Come back, march around the city. They had to be freaking out. Right? What is going on here? And then the seventh day the walls just come crumbling, crumbling down. You could argue it was maybe the first use of uh psychological warfare. I call it spiritual warfare, but clearly a clear demonstration of God's power. It wasn't man that tore down the walls, it was God. And that would be important because guess what? That's gonna be fed throughout the land. What just happened at Jericho. Okay? Alright, however, the Lord has a warning. But as for you, only keep yourselves from the things under the band. lest you covet them and take some of the things under the band. So you would make the camp of Israel accursed and bring bring trouble to it. So there's gonna be a lot of stuff that they're gonna have privy to once they go in and and go after these cities. And and the Lord knew Right, that they would create these idols. And he said, I'm gonna put a ban in place. There's some things I want you to take so you can bring them to the the tabernacle and use as resources, but there's a lot that I don't want you to take. So he put that ban in place. Again a warning of idolatry. And what happened at Jericho? And they utterly destroyed everything in the city, both man and woman, young and old, and ox and sheep and donkey with the edge of the sword. You know, we had this discussion last time. It seems brutal. God really? My love Pastor Alan in his prayer last week, he he said the word relentless justice. Right? Our God, relentless justice. Why? He's holy, holy. Holy, totally separated from sin. That's the kind of God that we serve. Again, Romans 1 and 2. We deserve the same punishment. We will receive the same punishment unless Jesus Christ is our Savior. You are a child of God. Sounds brutal, but that's a holy God that we serve. So the Lord was with Joshua, and his fame was in all the land. Again, word got out. But we know not all is well. Sin is always crouching at the door, and they actually experience defeat at the city of I. And you can see that um just west of Jericho up in here. Okay, so let's read that um account. Joshua 7 1 through 11. Joshua 7, 1 through 11. But the sons of Israel acted unfaithfully in regard to the things under the ban And Achan, the son of Karmai, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, from the tribe of Judah, took some of the things under the band Therefore the anger of the Lord burned against the sons of Israel. Now Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai So this happened in Jericho, right? So now they're going on to the next city. Joshua doesn't know what happened. Now Joshua sent men from Jericho to I, which is near Bethhaven, east of Bethel, and said to them, Go up and spy out the land. So the men went up and spied out I. And they returned to Joshua and said to him, Do not let all the people go up. Only about two or three thousand men need to go up to Ai. Do not make all the people toil up there, for they are few. Basically Joshua, this is going to be a case of the Cakewalk. This one's an easy one. Alright, we don't need everybody. So about three thousand men from the people went up there, but they fled from the men of I. And the men of I struck down about thirty six of their men and pursued them from the gates as far as Shabarim, and struck them down on the descent. So the hearts of the people melted, that same word, melted, and became as water. Then Joshua tore his clothes and fell to the earth on his face before the ark of the Lord until the evening, both he and the elders of Israel, and they put dust on their heads. And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God, why didst thou ever bring this people over the Jordan, only to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us. If only we had been willing to dwell beyond the Jordan. O Lord, what can I say since Iz Israel has turned their back before their enemies? For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it, and they will surround us and cut off our name from the earth. And what wilt thou do for So the Lord said to Joshua, Rise up, why is it that you have fallen on your face? Israel has sinned, and they have also transgressed my covenant which I commanded them. And they have even taken some of the things under the the band, and have both stolen and deceived. Moreover, they have also put them among their own things. So again, Joshua didn't know what had happened here, the the sin that resulted. He sent the the troops off, go take, and he gets a report back of what had happened and he was just crushed. And he's not complaining, Lord, why did you do this? He he doesn't understand. Lord, I I thought you were with us. Why did you bring us here if this was going to be the result? And the Lord answers them, Someone in your camp, sin. Someone in your camp sin. We find out through the story, right? He brings the tribes before him, and it was Achan who was the culprit And he was the one signaled out. But what was his sin? Let's go to seven twenty-one. And this is um I'll start in twenty. So Achan answered Joshua and said, Truly, I have sinned against the Lord. the God of Israel, and this is what I did. When I saw among the spoil a beautiful mantle from Shannar, and two hundred shekels of silver, and a bar of gold, fifty shekels in weight, then I coveted them, and took them, and behold, They are concealed in the earth inside my tent with the silver underneath it. He coveted, right? We talked about that in the garden. Isn't that where it all started? You become discontent. You start to covet what you do not have, what does not belong. And what did he do? He didn't even just take it, he he hid it amongst his other belongings. It became a part of who he was. He and his family, if you will Alright, it all starts with discontentment, with coveting. And that's what the Lord was warning against. That's why he put the ban in place. Be careful, brothers and sisters, about coveting. Alright, so they end up oh comment. Go ahead, Doug, sorry. The uh the question that's in my mind as you read through this passage was the plural pronouns that are here in the beginning where it says Israel. Israel has sinned, they have sinned, and they're all called to consecrate themselves. And the these first couple of verses in this story um g may may imply that it wasn't just Achan that was sinned. But it may also imply that Achan sinflies all the whole nation. Right. Um is it possible that there were other people that took stuff that were under the ban also and that during that consecration period they confessed and repented? It's um it's certainly possible, Doug. We have no recording of that. All we can go with is is what we have. Um I I like your second um maybe theme there of you know his sin was a sin on the entire nation. Right, the the covenant was with the entire nation. So all we can do is go with what the word um tells us and it clearly points out Aiken. So I I don't know, Doug. to be honest with you. Yeah. Yeah. Chris Sir the way it's uh worded, uh uh he broke uh the first command that he broke was the greatest one which was he disobeyed the Lord. And then there were other The covet age, he took it, stole it. Yep. Oh he had a long laundry list, you bet. But yeah, it started with uh going after another guy. That's what you know, discontentment and covetousness is at the end of the day. So great, great point. So That gets rectified. What happens to Achan and and his family, right? They take them out and they stone them to death. Right? Again, it sounds very, very harsh, but this is a holy God trying to set a people to be holy for him. And that message will go out through the entire It's imperative that they be a holy people. And it's a burden they can't carry, right? We know that Which is just the beauty of the salvation of Jesus Christ and what we have in the Lord today. So now they return I, right? They get that all rectified and they return and and obviously uh defeat um those at I. They actually um incorporate a new tactic, you know, and this ambush tactic. Again, Joshua is a seasoned warrior by this time and um knows all the techniques, if you will, but they get defeated. As Moses had commanded, the law to include the blessing and the curses were were read atop Mount uh Gerizim and Mount Abal. So you see that kind of a star shaped um do you remember we read that, that when you get to the promised land, I want you to read on one mountain the blessings and the other mountain the judgments or curses. And so that takes place. as part of this uh central campaign, if you will. Sir, you know, you must have read this other passage in the beginning that that clicked in my head as well, and that's in chapter one verse five where it says, No man will be able to stand before you all the days of your life. And and I got a conflict now with that because I was air, however pronounced the place, was able to press stand before them at least that day. And I think I think that I'd like maybe confirm is that there are places where God gives us a promise, but if we're not walking in accordance with His way, He's not going to bless us in that situation. Um is that I'm looking at that and I'm going And yeah, God made that promise to Joshua, but one of the things that we can see in our I'm trying to think about this and how it applies to my own life is that God's given me promises, but if I'm not walking right before the Lord Sure. Well I I would frame it this way, Doug, here's the nuance I would give give you. He he because he loves us, he's certainly gonna deal with our sin. But remember there is no condemnation. for those who are in Christ Jesus. So I I don't want to use the woodshed analogy on purpose, right? He is doing that for uh now he may allow us to go through consequences of our sin. And and maybe that means we have to wander in the wilderness for a little bit. But it's really, really important important that we not see it as condemnation. It is a loving discipline for his child. And so that's how I would frame that. But I think that's true, right? There are there we we have the promise of those blessings, but if we're not obeying there are consequences. But no condemnation. But my people We worship on Mount Garrett. That's where the blessings work from Mount Gar. Lovely. Lovely time. Miss Margaret, did you have a comment? Yes about Gareth Mount Garrisine, the trip to Israel. Doctors, bookman pays us there. Awesome. Three years ago I was there and the two mountains are relatively close and they faced one another. Okay. With a valley between and it would be easy to imagine thousands of people arrayed on each mountain and shouting out the blessings and the curses and you can hear because of the acoustic. There's also a stone marker where Joshua says, As for me and my house with the Spirit of the Lord, it's very near there. Today, um it's Palestinian territory and the valley area is quite built up and it's swallowed with great heaps of garbage laying around. So I saw rats running around. Yeah. But you can imagine several thousand years ago when thousands of Israelites were lined up there on the mountain hearing the curses and the blessings, nobody had an excuse for saying I didn't know. Yeah. Great, great insight. You know, I've asked those that have traveled to Israel to share some of their insights. That's great perspective, Margaret, thank you. In great tie-in. I love it. Love it, love it. All right. So that's the central campaign. Now they're gonna move to the Just for one last question on this. Um is there sin to Joshua's account in pursuing AI or I without the Lord's approval? Like here we have the Gibeonite coming next, and like Joshua's a great leader, but we know he didn't seek the Lord specifically as the Gibeonites came and was he was deceived. Um with with I, the first time he attacked, it just sounds like he's initiating everything without the Lord's direct Did you come across anything and whereas the second time after the treat, after the celebation is laid out, then the Lord says, do this ambush. So is there some fruitship failure as well that might attribute to the pronouns of they? Yeah. It's a great question. We're we're gonna get to how that happens in the Southern campaign, because that does happen, right, where they go forward without the counsel of the Lord. Again, I I can only tell you what's in the word. We don't see an indication of that. Um again, Joshua as a leader, he had no idea of that sin. So it it's it could be that the Lord wanted them to go forth. He was going to discipline them, right? He was going to test them and let them have some pain, if you will. Some people were going to die, they were going to get turned away. And you you see the reaction of Joshua, I think he just you know he tears his clothes, he cries out to the Lord, Why did this happen? So in my opinion I would say no. I I think he went thinking the Lord was before him, um the the the host if you will. He had no idea of the sin and um it m I I think the Lord was using that as an opportunity to to showcase his sovereignty. That that's my opinion. But we will see that. Let's move into the Southern campaign because we're going to get after what um Angela just talked about. So here Here we are in the south. So the remaining kings again they they heard about what happened with Jericho and I. And so now they're like, uh oh, what do we do? So now they're gonna join forces, they're gonna they're gonna work together Um and specifically the inhabitants though of of Gibeon acted very craftily, very sneakily, right? 'Cause they fear these guys. So what did they do? They put on clothes that were were old, their wise wineskins made 'em look really old. Their feet, their donkeys, everything looked like they came from a far, far away land. Right? And they're coming and they're like, hey, we we heard all about you. We want to have a peace agreement with you. So the is the men of Israel took some of their provisions. Provisions. Whoop uh I don't want to get ahead of myself. Acting craftfully to save themselves and dressed as though they were from a faraway country. So the men of Israel took some of their provisions and here's where they did not ask for the counsel of the Lord. And Joshua made peace with them and made a covenant with them. And when he makes a covenant, he keeps his word. To let them live, and the leaders of the congregation swore an oath to them Alright, so they were tricked because they didn't seek the counsel of the Lord in this case. Now, what happens to the Gibeonites though? They end up being the slaves to the Israelites, but they're not dead Right, they're not being wiped out, but they do become the slaves. So after seeing what happened at Gibeon, these these kings that were joining forces now said, and this is me paraphrasing a little bit, but hey, you know, maybe the Israelites are too strong to take on. Let's go go after the Gibeon. nice for the these people that have established this peace agreement. And what is uh what does Gibeon do? They invoke NATO Article V. Right? Attack on one country is attack on all. So they're crying out for help. Article five. So Joshua, what does he do? He conducts a s a surprise attack by marching all night from Gilgal. Right? So you see the again the city of Gilgal here And he's going to be marching south to take on these uh these traitors, if you will. Now there's some miraculous things that happen happened during this campaign, right? We read about the miraculous hailstorm. I'm not talking about little Little you know, snow white these are big stones that are coming down and and wiping out um the the um the army, thank you. Um and then we see in Joshua ten, go over to Joshua ten. This is where you have the account of the sun basically standing still. Joshua ten, twelve through fourteen. Then Joshua spoke to the Lord in the day when the Lord delivered up the Amorites before the Lord. And he said in the sight of Israel, O Sons, stand still in Gibeon, and O moon in the valley of Ijalum. So the sun stood still, and the moon stopped, until the nation avenged themselves of their enemies. It is not written in is it not written in the book of Jeshar? And the sun stopped in the middle of the sky and did not hasten to go down for about a whole whole day. And there was no day like that before it or after it, when the Lord listened to the voice of a man. For the Lord fought for Israel. Then Joshua and all Israel with him returned to the camp to Gilgal. Again this this morale Miraculous events of the Lord that I'm sure was obviously written down, um, spread throughout the community, demonstrating God's incredible power and the fact that He was with this people. Okay? So central campaign, they have the Southern campaign. campaign. They got one more area to tackle, obviously the Northern Campaign. Again, the Northern Kings, led by Jabe and the King of Hazer, joined forces trying to trying to collect forces or integrate forces, if you will. the fight against Israel and once again Joshua and his army wiped them out. Um in this particular case it talks about their horses being hamstrung. It doesn't say exactly what that means, but maybe they were very speedy horses and whatever was done was to slow them down so they couldn't be as effective in battle. Again and again you see the Lord intervening in miraculous ways. So now the war effort was complete. Joshua took the whole land according to all that the Lord had spoken to Moses, and Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel according to the divisions by the tribes. Thus the land had spoken. Rest from war. So again, I mentioned all of these campaigns took about seven years to complete. The whole book of Joshua covers a period of about 25 years. Alright, so we are on now to the distribution of the land. And this is again the how the the twelve tribes and and you have to include the Levites in there, how that was all divvied up um in the New Promised Land. So they entered the land, they conquered the inhabitants, and now they're going to distribute it, right, to all the tribes. And part of this, and what we're going to cover this next week, um, is that when they when they gave the land to a particular tribe, it was up to that tribe to continue to um conquer the rest of the inhabitants. That that wasn't finished, right? And we're gonna see that that was not complete. And that has consequences for it. So right now it looks pretty nice that they have all this territory, you know, all the way to the the water, if you will, the Mediterranean But we're going to see that's not actually the case, and that's going to cause all kinds of problems as we continue to look through uh the history of the Old Testament. So, particular interest, though, you see, east of the Jordan, right? Remember the tribes that wanted to go um or stay on the east side, Reuben, Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh, they were given that land back. Now why half a tribe? Um I'm not gonna go into it. Chapter seventeen kind of talks about the inheritance between the sons and the daughters. So there there was basically two groups. Um I didn't go into a lot of great detail, so don't ask me questions there, but if you're interested you can find more but that's why they were were split up. And actually when these tribes um went on the east side they built an altar, it was miscommunicated and they the the folks on the west side thought it was a form of rebellion. So there was almost a civil war that happened. um as they're dividing up uh the land. That never happens in our families, so um in addition the Levites were given forty eight special cities and then we talked about the six cities of refuge for the the involuntary manslaughter. Okay? Now I wanted to highlight. Here, I want to show you. Here's Hebron. Okay, so you can see by the Dead Sea, it's south of Jerusalem. Jerusalem for our next story, I w I just want to give you context. Oops. Alright, so you remember this map I showed you? This is when they were in uh Kadesh Barni and they sent out the spies and they were supposed to go up into uh excuse me the hill country. And they went to this place, um, the village of Eskol, and remember Eskol was cluster where they got the the large cluster of of grapes. But what city is there? Hebron. Alright, so just for context, as we go into this next story, that's where at. And this is a beautiful, beautiful testimony. So turn to Joshua 14. So this is in the midst of them dividing up dividing up the land and you remember uh the major characters we're talking about. We talked about Joshua, we're we talked about Rahab, and now comes Caleb back into the picture. Fourteen, picking up in verse six, and this is just a wonderful testimony. Then the sons of Judah drew near to Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb, the son of Jephunah, the Keneshite, said to him, You know the word which the Lord spoke to Moses, the man of God, concerning you and me. In Kadesh Barnia. I was forty years old when Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me from Kadesh Barnia to spy out the land, and I brought word back to him, and it was in my heart This conviction, right? That's the sense you got of being strong and courageous. Nevertheless, my brethren who went up with me made the heart of the people melt. There's that term again, melt with fear. But I followed the Lord my God fully. So Moses swore on that day, saying, Surely the land on which your foot has trodden shall be an inheritance to you and to your children forever, because you have followed the Lord my God fully. And now behold, the Lord has Let me live just as he spoke these forty-five years. From the time that the Lord spoke this word to Moses when Israel walked in the wilderness, and now behold, I am eighty-five years old today, and I am s I am still as strong today as I was in the day. Day Moses sent me. As my strength was then, so my strength is now. Now then, give me this hill country about which the Lord spoke on that day, for you heard on that day that Anakim was. were there, with great fortified cities. Perhaps the Lord will be with me and I shall drive them out as the Lord has spoken. You remember Anakim and the Nephilim, right, these were very vicious people, and here Caleb is, I'm ready to take 'em on. This beautiful testimony of the Lord promising this land. And here is Caleb, you can almost run in with excitement. Do you remember what the Lord told us? Do you remember the promise he gave me? It's here. A wonderful demonstration of the faithfulness of the Lord. Lord. And you know, Doug, I'll go back to maybe your comment is, yeah, there's you know, what what happens to us when we fall sometimes in the Lord disciplines? What happens when we keep his commandments? You see this wonderful, wonderful testimony of Caleb who was faithful throughout, even though his peers were saying something different. Even though his peers, these were respected leaders, the the ten spies, right? And they gave a message of discouragement and the people were demoralized, but not Caleb and not Joshua. I think that's just a a beautiful, beautiful testimony of God's grace. Okay. And then we we come to the end. Just like Moses, Joshua provides his his farewell sermon to Israel. Joshua reminds them of God's goodness and charges them to remain faithful. Be very firm then to keep and do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, so that you may not turn aside from it to the right hand or to the left. I read that up front. earlier, right? That was the charge. And here we are again, this reminder. Do not turn to the right or to the left. He gives warning of disobedience and the consequences. A reminder of God's faithfulness. And then Margaret brought it up. So let's go to that passage. A challenge to all. Which God will you serve? Let's go to Joshua 24. And this is a question all of us, especially moms and dads, our families, we need to be asking. Joshua twenty-four, starting in verse fourteen. Now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth, and put away the gods which your fathers served beyond the river and in Egypt. and serve the Lord. So already, right, they they are intermingling with these false gods. And if it is disagreeable in your sight to serve the Lord, choose for yourselves today whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers served, which are beyond the river, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living Here it is. But as for me and my house we will serve the Lord. And the people answered and said, Far be it from us that we should forsake the Lord to serve other gods For the Lord our God is he who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage and who did these great signs in our sight and preserved us through all the way in which we went and among all the peoples. through whose midst we passed. And the Lord drove out from before all us all the peoples, even the Amorites who lived in the land. We also will we also will serve the Lord, for he is our God. Then Joshua said to the people, You will not be able to serve the Lord, for He is a holy God. He is a jealous God. He will not forgive your transgression or your sins. If you forsake the Lord and serve the Lord, you will be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do it. Serve foreign gods, then he will turn and do you harm and consume you after he has done good to you. And the people said to Joshua, No, but we will serve the Lord And Joshua said to the people, You are witness against yourselves that you have chosen for yourselves the Lord to serve him. And they said, We are witnesses. Now therefore put away the foreign gods which are in your midst, and incline your hearts to God. Again they were already starting to play with the false gods. And the people said to Joshua, We will serve the Lord our God, and we will obey his voice. So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day and made for them a statute and an ordinance. And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God. And he took a large stone and set it up there under the oak that was by the sanctuary of the Lord. And Joshua said to all the people, Behold, this is the stone. This stone shall be for a witness against us, for it has heard all the words of the Lord which he spoke to us, thus it shall be for the witness against you lest you deny your God. Then Joshua dismissed the people each to his inheritance. Margaret, I gotta assume that's the stone that you referenced earlier, right? Again, a remembrance of of their testimony, if you will, that said, we yeah, we're gonna follow the Lord. We know the history, right? We know the history. So again, the question for all of us, we'll wrap up here a little bit early, but you know, the question to you guys, who are you going to serve? For me in my house we will serve the Lord. Let that be your cry. Um we have a little bit of time. Those who have gone to Israel, anything else you want to add as we now start to enter um the promised land, you know, some of you have been to some of the sites and so very very helpful insight. We do have a couple comments or questions. Miss Amy, I'll start with you. Um so there are two things I thought of uh as we were talking in the lecture and one thing is the altar and then we're talking about it. I never understood when I was reading it after the joy and just said it would say it remained there to this day and I always thought at the time it was written it would say that. I thought, Well, how did it survive that long? I envision a pile of rocks or something. But when they built, I mean the land is made of rocks and the rocks are huge. They're like immovable. So whenever they built, you realize it was a very removable, memorable structure that people could look at. And it had that significant. And the other thing that was really um fascinating what we learned about in Jericho was that it talks about in the Bible the wall can fall down flat or at least should be upon itself. And um what happened was if you think about uh a nation coming in to conquest another area and they're landing down walls, those walls would typically fall inward. But what happened with Jericho because God brought down the walls and went outwards and created a ramp for the Israelites to walk up into the conquered city. Okay. I don't know if you gu uh uh everybody heard that. The walls and typically would fall in, in this case they fell out, so that now was a ramp for the Israelites to come in. Excellent. Um Sasan first. Yeah, I I wasn't I'm not sure if I was a while back in what my memory could be a little fuzzy, but during the trip and say it's just areas where they show relatively different obviously they don't have all the land now, but they show like different areas with different tribes um lands were and some of the areas near uh the border like the goal heights and um it's even to the state's still pretty fertile so yeah um that's a cool aspect of like what our reason I think Yeah, let me give you I think I kept it in here. Uh it's hard to see, but a little bit of precursor of what I was talking about, right? These uh let's for example sorry, you look at Manessa, right, the half tribe went all the way to the Mediterranean. And here we are. You can see that land um across the coast was not fully conquered. You have some areas here, um, from Jerusalem all the way to the coast, so Yeah, very interesting. Richard also with the walls that uh the archaeologists have uh examined the sediments under it and found that the walls did uh com there was compression and it and the walls went out. Uh another thing is that uh uh Rahab her house was in the wall. The walls were so thick and uh and massive that the people lived in the walls. Yeah. And it was interesting that she hung her thread from her house And I'm thinking maybe her house didn't fall when the w when the walls came down. Right. They were certainly preserved, right? So we know that. But yeah, great. And uh speaking of the stones, just a l a little warning. On my first trip to Israel They took us to the site of David and Goliath, that that valley, and there's a broker stream. And he said, Now you can go down there to the stream and get your five smooth stones. I was all excited, you know, I was done. I got my five smooth stones. Have in my pocket. This isn't a joke, is it? No, this is happening. You're teeing it up like it's a joke, Ann. It is a warning. So when we all got back on the bus, the uh tour guide, he gets with his microphone, he says, Well it's a good thing that you didn't come here on a Friday because that's the day the dump truck comes and jumps in the new set of stuff. So, you know, over thousands of years of stones are not the same. I I uh great point. I have never been to Israel, but I just I can't imagine as we now sit here and read of of these places, you know, some of you that have been there I think that's just uh spectacular. So he was still there. Yeah. Yeah. Mr. Kirk. of how these various people groups could actually communicate with each other recorded in Scripture. And of course, Doctor Bookman and his team they couldn't answer it definitively. And I was thinking of that in the communication with Rahab, if they could actually speak in the same language as a translator, or even David and Goliath being able to at the time that that Goliath was issuing the threats against against the true God, whether there had to be any sort of interpretation going on. Yeah. So the the best answer that was available is there had to be a a common language for these very people groups in order for for it to be recorded as it's as it's found in scripture. So interesting point. Interesting. A question. This is a serious question. We know Joshua's a son of none. Mm-hmm. And we were speaking of sons and grandsons and everything. But I can't think of who was Joshua's son. You know, it it's a great question, Anne. As I was coming here I I thought it's funny you say that, I thought, I wonder if I'm gonna get a question of was Joshua married? Did he have children? So typically you can go to the end of of a book and see, you know, that kind of relationship. I don't see it. It did you know if it talks about me and my house will serve the Lord, right? I'm assuming he had a family. family but it's not really clear. Now maybe somewhere Rob, do you know is there a lineage or genealogy there that yeah. Yeah. I'll research that. I mean it it it J Judges chapter one talks about uh Joshua uh Um the the transition from Joshua's leadership. I I just don't remember Yeah. Well we're in judges next week, so alright, that's your homework for next week, guys, to see if see if you can find Matt. So I I have to take questions and And uh in First Chronicles when it gets to genealogy it ends with Joshua. Um which is in in First Chronicles seven. But for Caleb there's family mentioned, right? Like his giving his daughters and for things and that kind of stuff. It is interesting because both of them had like references household, we know about Caleb's household. So when we talk about who survived that wilderness period, uh i I don't know if it's going too far to suggest the you know, their households also perpetuated along with them um as their sort of like uh representative of the let's do some research on that because that's a great question Matt. You know, I told you guys up front, follow the lineage, right? Follow the money. if you will. And and we know we see Rahab is in that um as part of some of the storyline. But but where are Caleb and Joshua? What does that lineage look like? I don't know. So that's your homework for next week. One more question then I'll wrap us up. Right. Uh I really appreciate this class. Uh there's some every time I look in the Bible I'm I'm like, wow God, there's more there that I didn't think about before. One of the things that is interesting is as they cross the land they stop at Yoga. they have their Passover, they get their circumcision, and then they keep coming back to that place. They also put the pile of rocks up at that place. But later on, Gilgal becomes one of those cities they keep coming back to with a new start. Which you're probably Yeah, great, great point. We'll come back to that. All right, let me close this