So I like to start with kind of a bottom line up front. In an Exodus, the theme is redemption. Redemption of God's people from the bondage of slavery from Egypt. We're also going to see God's omnipotence unfolding. display here. You remember last week what was the the attribute that we talked a lot about? Do you remember? Somebody said it. The sovereignty of God. So I think it's really important that we go over these attributes to really dig in deep and really get an understanding to review sovereignty, please do that because it's really important. You're going to see today though, just the hand of God, his power at full, full display. And of course this is a growing disciples class. So we should always be thinking about what is the application of that to us into our lives. And of course we get the introduction of the Mosaic Covenant, the law. Right? We're going to see another dispensation, if you will, and this is going to be w the one that will carry us through the rest of the Old Testament. Okay? So let me pray first, and I want to start by reading Psalm 139, starting in verse 13. For thou didst form my inward parts, thou didst weave me in my mother's womb. I will give thanks to Thine eyes have seen my By on form substance, and in thy book they were all written, the days that were ordained for me, when as yet there was not one of them, even today. Heavenly Father, we are grateful for today, for this is the day that you have made. You have ordained each and every one of our lives, the the intimate details of each and every day. That's miraculous, Lord. That's wonderful. It displays your holiness, your sovereignty, your power. Thank you for today. I'm grateful for the time we get to be in your word. Teach us your truths, O Lord. Help us to see you better, your attributes, and the unfolding of your plan of redemption. We give you all the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right. So we have to start with um obviously a little bit of background to make sure we're all on the same context as we go through this process. So we've already completed three weeks. We're on week number four. Uh we'll be uh in the book of Exodus. And so again, just kind of the framework that we're using here. Oh let me get my excuse me, let me get my pointer up. So you remember uh the foundation is these the historical books if you will that go from Genesis all the way to actually it's Esther um whoops and those first five is really laying the foundation for Christ and then the rest of those from Joshua to Esther is the preparation for Christ. The poetic books that we had the first one last week in Job, the aspiration or longing for Christ. And then the prophets, which we will get to towards the end, the expectations. So we're still in this segment up front, laying that foundation. Okay? And we talked about this progressive revelation. We're going to see God's plan of redemption revealed progressively over time. And we do that by using a literal, grammatical, historical hermeneutic. Very important, right? The art and science. We talked a lot about the dispensations, how God arranges a stewardship arrangement, how he's going to deal with man. That's important. to see that interaction and what that looks like, especially as it changes. And those dispensations come with what? Responsibility and and accountability. And things change when we are unfaithful as man. And then doctrines. We've covered some of the doctrines. Doctrines will continue to do that, and attributes, like I just said. It's important to talk about all of that again to get a greater understanding of who God is. Alright, so a little bit of summary and introduction of a timeline. I told you up front when we first started, I don't want this to just purely be a history class. And I don't know about some of you, I was never good with memorizing dates. My wife is exceptional at it. She remembers all kinds of things, right? And it's funny, you know we have seven kids, all the moves that we did. Often when we try and figure out where were we at a certain time and we tie it to How many children did we have? Who was being born? Who was she pregnant with? That that's our timeline, right? It's a lot of fun. But it is important, I think, to anchor some key key points on a timeline. And that's what I want to get at here. And and we'll I'll continue to update this as we go through it because as you see um out here in this timeline there's a lot that happens that isn't on this chart. So we will update that. But some of the big a big anchors. We talked about Abraham last week. Good rule of thumb is from creation Abraham about 2,000 years. Now this chart doesn't necessarily show that, and you can talk to Rob Thompson afterward to get a very detailed description of what he thinks. The idea though is it's not billions of years, it's not millions of years, it's not hundreds of thousands. Thousands of years, right? It's a very small number. That's what I want you to take away. But the anchor point, Abraham, is about two thousand Okay? And then we're going to talk about the Exodus today, 1446. So those are the big key dates I want you to remember. Again, we're going to continue to update this. Having those key anchor dates is really critical to helping you understand the flow of what's happening in the Old Testament. Alright, I talked about when we cover a book, I want I I want to highlight the major theme. That's what I want you to remember. What is the major theme and some of the maybe the high level bullet points if you will. So as we go through a book and we close it, I'll do something like we have here. So the book of Genesis, beginnings. Right? It's the beginning of of our evidence of who God is. Right? And you want to understand who God is, you start in Genesis. In The beginning. We see creation. And we talked about the four major events in Genesis 1 through 11. Right? The creation, the fall, the flood, and then the nations. And we saw how God was dealing with the entire world, if you will, at that point. But then at the episode of the Tower of Babel, what happened? He dispersed the nations and now you see him pivot to focusing on a particular person, Abraham, and that lineage to a particular nation. and we're gonna see that even narrow down further to a particular tribe. Okay? So very, very interesting. But that's what we see in Genesis one through eleven and then twelve through fifty. We talked about the dispensations of innocence, conscience, human government, Patriarchs or or the promises, right? And we saw the introduction of the Abrahamic covenant. That is just the foundational covenant For God's plan of redemption, right? And three major items there the land, the seed, and the blessings. And as we cover additional covenants, you'll see how they're actually extensions from the Abrahamic covenant. Alright, so Abraham a covenant, really, really important. As we talked about, Job most likely written during the time of the patriarch. So we wanted to roll in that book of poetry so we can get a good sense of what was happening during that time frame. And that was really a book about suffering of the righteous and God's sovereignty. And you saw the three major distinctions, right? The affliction that happens to Job, right? That the great accuser, Satan. was given an audience and the Lord said, What about Job? And he wasn't an evil man, he was a righteous man, and yet the Lord allowed that to happen for his glory and his purposes. And then you see the discussions with his buddies, his three friends, weren't really And then Elihu, who was a bystander, he's the one that brought them back and said, No, that's not what the word says. And then obviously the discussion with God, where were you when I created the earth Right, his sovereignty. And of course we see Job ultimately repents and gets restoration greater than what he had before. Wrapped in all of that, when you see Just the intricacy of how the Lord is moving and shaping his sovereignty just blares at us, just screams at us. Let that be a reminder, right? When you're going through difficult times, go back to this account of God's sovereignty. So how we ended up with Jacob and the twelve sons, like we talked about. And this is the nation of Israel, right? This is the beginning, the forming of the nation of Israel. And we talked a little bit about the the lineage which I I find absolutely interesting. So later on we'll see the twelve tribes when they actually get to uh Canaan. Um Levi, as you know, is a tribe of priests, so they're not really given a piece of land um like the others are. So you can move them out, but then Joseph isn't a tribe in itself, it's actually Manasseh and Ephraim that are the named tribes. Okay? And we're gonna see some characters today, Moses and Aaron, and again they come from the tribe of Levi. What about Joshua? We're going to talk a little bit about Joshua. Anyone know what tribe he's from? Rob, you can't answer. Judah. Good guess. Actually he's from Ephraim, right? Joseph's son. And then obviously uh the Davidic line and the Messianic Like Pastor Gabe mentioned last week, you know, Judah wasn't necessarily a righteous person. And yet God works through that line. We're going to see that in a lot more detail. um as we get further into the Old Testament. So I I think it's fascinating. You can see the heritage here of J uh Jacob in in all these different players, these characters that we're going to talk about coming from you know the different tribes. I I just think that's fascinating. Christopher, I think there's one thing missing on that chart. Judah goes all the way up down to Jesus, so he should take it over to the right. The tribe of Benjamin should go through King Saul all the way down to Paul the Apostle. That's fair. Now I grabbed this from Google, so I didn't build it. But I will look for that. Great, great catch. Thank you. All right, so that sets the context for where we're To Genesis. Let's pick up at the end of Genesis where we left off. So we can kind of set the context, level set everyone with where we're at. Genesis fifty, I'm actually gonna pick it up in verse nineteen because I think it's great. This is Joseph right um uh speaking to his brothers because his the father has died and the brothers were afraid that Joseph was gonna uh be bitter against them. Verse nineteen. But Joseph said to them, Do not be afraid, for I for am I in God's place? And as for you You meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, in order to bring about this present result, to preserve many people alive. So therefore do not be afraid. I will provide for you and your little ones. So he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. Again, remember, Abraham was given this promise. At the same time, he said, Your people, th you're they're gonna be in bondage for four hundred years, right? And and now we're gonna see the start of that. But this whole this whole line through Joseph and all that he went through to be in a position where he could preserve life for for all the nations. Just remarkable. Alright, continuing on. Now Joseph stayed in Egypt, he and his father's household and Joseph was Lived one hundred and ten years. And Joseph saw the third generation of Ephraim's sons, also the sons of Makir, the son of Manasseh, were born on Joseph's knees. And Joseph said to his brothers, I am about to die, but God will surely take care of you and bring you up from this land, to the land which he promised an oath to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. Then Joseph made the sons of Israel swear as he said. saying, God will surely take care of you, and you shall carry my bones up from here. So Joseph died at the age of one hundred and ten years, and he was embalmed and placed in a coffin in Egypt. So remember that promise of taking his bones up to the promised land. But my point is of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, as we enter into Exodus, who's alive? From that crew? Nobody. Nobody. They're all dead. Alright? That's kind of the context that we're in. As we now enter into Exodus. Now, we see in the beginning of Exodus, Jacob's family consisted of about seventy people. So when you look at this lineage, when they came to Egypt, about seventy. And they came, why? Because of the famine. Abraham came there because of the famine. Jacob came there because of the famine. However, it says they were fruitful and increased. And that that word increased means swarmed, right? Greatly. A lot of people. So it's estimated that at the time of the Exodus there was actually two million people. So they went from 70 to 2 million So keep that in mind if you're if you're Pharaoh. Now, generations had passed since Joseph's death, and a new king arose, and he didn't know Joseph's legacy. All the things we just talked about, the morale Miraculous things that God did in Joseph's life, right, to bring him to be the the second in command, if you will. There's a new king in place that doesn't remember any of that. The legacy is gone. And here's what happened. I just talked about all the two million people, and he had fear that the sons of Israel were mightier than Egypt. Israel became an existential threat. That means a fear of extermination. That's a real vivid fear. We have nuclear weapons as the US for fear of existential threat from Russia and China. It's a real thing. And it drives a lot of behavior. So this is what happened. So the king instituted two major policies He created hard labor. So before that, they they weren't in hard labor. They were living in the land of Goshen and everything was good. But now that the king had fear, he put hard labor on them. And you know that story. But also, the newborn sons were to be killed or cast into the Nile. And I love the story about the mid the midwives. They're crafty. They feared God more than they feared Pharaoh. And they said, Those Hebrew women, they are fast. By the time we get to them, child's already born. Right? They feared God instead of Pharaoh. So it says that they still increase, but absolutely babies were being murdered. Like today. Like today. Yeah, absolutely. Alright, before we keep going, I I want to take a pause and talk about this attribute of uh omnipotence, God's power. You see a couple definitions there. The quality of deity that means God is all powerful and can do anything that is consistent with his nature. The attributes of God whereby he is able to do all his Holy will. Important words here, consistent with his nature, his holy will. Can God sin? Absolutely not. Can God stop Himself from existence? Absolutely not. Because it goes against His nature, it goes against his holy will. Okay? Um if you remember the definition from last week's sovereignty. Ex God's exercise of power over his creation. So sovereignty is the exercise of the power that we're talking about today. That's how those two are linked. Okay? So again, my idea is trying to get you we we often talk of these attributes. We even we even pray over these attributes. I really want you to meditate on the magnitude of these attributes. So really encourage you to take time after closing. class to kind of go over the notes again, um go over some of these scriptural references. And when you come across that, I mean the Psalms are just full of of the power of God and the sovereignty of God. Um use that as a worship opportunity. But just really encourage you to dig in deep on the attributes. And there are others, you know, I'm using the reference pink, but there are other references. I think Tozier, I think Lawson, there are several other books that um cover God's attributes. It'd be good to get a smattering of each. But let me read from Pink. Not only does all creation bear witness to the great power of God, but also to his entire independency of all created things. We talked about that a couple weeks ago. Listen to his own challenge. Where was Thou when I laid the foundations of the earth, declare if thou hast understanding, who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? Or who hath stretched the line upon it Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened, or who laid the cornerstone thereof? Job 38. We talked about that last week. How completely is the pride of man laid in the dust? And then continuing on, um God's power in creation. The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine, as for the world and the fullness thereof, thou hast founded them the north and the south, thou hast created them. That's from Psalm eighty-nine. Before man can work, before man can work he must have both tools and materials. But God began with nothing And by his word alone, out of nothing made all things. The intellect cannot grasp it. Meditate on that. Meditate on the power of God. Alright, what I decided. If you'll see your notes here, rather than this chronological flow through Exodus, we're gonna kind of do that, but I want to do it from the viewpoint of several different characters. So who are the major players here? We have Moses We have Aaron, little bit of Joshua, but I wanted to to bring that to bear because we do start to see the presence of Joshua and of course he gets his own book, so we'll cover that in more detail. And then the Israelites, right, we need to cover. So I'm gonna kind of walk through Really from the view of each of these characters. There's probably a literary term for doing that, but I don't know what it is. So it's all good. Cream, do you know off the top of your head? All right. Alright, so let's talk about Moses. Moses is really easy to to decipher, right? He he's 40 year chunks, 120 years and they're nice and concise. So first forty years, um you know the story, right? He was in the basket. Um this was during the edict when the the sons were to be murdered Right? And mom puts him in a basket in the Nile and kinda floats it over to Pharaoh's daughter. Really neat story where the the uh maiden comes up and um she finds the baby, the Pharaoh's daughter, and then the maiden comes up and says, Hey would you like me to get someone to you know take care of that baby for you? Sure. Goes grabs mom, mom gets to take care of the baby, which is pretty precious. But ultimately Moses is brought into you know Pharaoh's court and he is brought up there. So he's learning the traditions, he's being educated. Yeah. So that's in Egypt. And then we know 40 years in Midian And we'll get to that in a second. And then 40 years leading the Israelites. Okay? So 40-40-40. Pretty clean and nice. We talked about his upbringing. Um let me go to Exodus, or you guys can, to 11. Also important, he would have had. had access to ancient documents. Um so so again we talk about the first five books, who wrote those, right? It's Moses. We believe Moses may have written Job as well, but he would have been educated. He would have had access to these documents. Which is another kind of evidence that it was probably probably Moses who wrote that. Alright, Exodus 211. Doesn't forget where he's where he came from. Now it came about in those days when Moses had grown up That he went out to his brethren and looked on their hard labors, and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his brethren Right, so he he recognizes these people as his brothers. We don't have a whole lot of detail what that looked like um in the upbringing of Pharaoh, but But maybe mom, whoever, continue to instill in him his his heritage, if you will. Alright? And we see Moses being the defender here, and we're going to see that again in a second. We know the story. Moses acts as judge and jury and king. kills an Egyptian. Pharaoh finds out and tries to kill Moses, causing him to flee. So why did he go to Midian? Because the Pharaoh found out and he was after Moses. Sir in in any of the studies did you see or find out what it was during all these generations that made Israel distinct from Egypt. It's just a demographic type question. Uh there's you know, here's this people group that's inside of Egypt and they've been there for long enough that they forgot Joseph. I would have thought that they would have become just part of Egypt at that point, but they stayed distinct during all that time. Um is there anything that people indicate that may have done that? Because they don't have the law yet, they're not doing sacrifices but They're not trimming their beards differently or wearing you know tassels on our own. Yeah, well that's kind of private. Alright, let's come back here. I will jump to Chris I suspect obviously the Egyptians were probably well known, had their traditions. I suspect the same was true even though they were living in the land Um they were still very distinct. But something to add, Kareem? I just recall that when they first came they were shepherds. That's true, yes. So I mean they were disgusted with the Hebrews because they were um somehow in their sight them being shepherds was disgusting. It it revolted them, they didn't want to eat with them. They didn't want 'em anywhere in the room or anything like that. So I would assume that just kind of carried over. Isolated themselves in the land of ghosts. That's right. They didn't have a lot of people. Right. Yep. Yep. Good question though, Doug, thank you. Good distinction. Yeah. So they they were living in the land but they were still very distinct. That's a good point. Well the uh the the other thing is the providence of God. Remember who's in charge and God's purpose was for this people to be separate. Mm-hmm. And so they were separate. Yeah. And there may have been other I think that's probably right that that Egyptians looked at him as shepherds, they were disgusting, so they didn't want to go near 'em. But ultimately, God's purpose is God's purpose was for these people to be separate. And so they were separate. Yeah, distinct. Great. Great, great ads, everybody. Good. Alright, so we see we see Moses flee, right? He flees to Midian and I'll show you where that's at on a map as we get to that. But we also see once again Moses as I'll call him gentleman and defender. So he's sitting there at the well Um the story of Jethro's daughters are coming, um, and there's some some shepherds there that might be causing some trouble. So Moses intervenes, pushes them off, and then he helps the ladies Right, fill fill the water jars and they're home early and the dad says, What what are you guys doing home so early? And they're like, This dude, he helped us out, right? And that's how you get that whole story. And he ends up marrying Zipporah. So um again I just wanted to highlight you see Moses is kind of again a defender but also a gentleman and then the call to leadership let's go to Exodus 3 so this is now God coming to Moses with the call verse 1 now Moses Moses was pasturing the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a blazing fire from the midst of a bush, and he looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire. Yet the bush was not consumed. So Moses said, I must turn aside now, and see this marvelous sight. Why the bush is not burned up. When the Lord saw that he turned aside to look, God called to him from the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here I am. Then he said, Do not come near here. Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground. He said also, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Then Moses hid his face, for he was afraid. And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have given heed to their cry because of their taskmasters, for I am aware of their sufferings. So I have come down to deliver them from the power of God. the Egyptians, and to bring them up from that land to a good and spacious land, to a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite and the Jebusite. And now behold The cry of the sons of Israel has come to me. Furthermore, I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians are oppressing them. Therefore come now and I will send you to Pharaoh, so that you may bring my people, the sons of Israel, out of Egypt. And Moses said, Yes! Absolutely, let's do it! Not exactly. So you see the chart, and I do have an error, someone pointed out. I have Abraham there at the top, it should be Moses. Right, so apologize for that. Just cross that out. Four evidences of doubt, I'll call it. And we can follow along here. So the first one happens in three eleven Right? And he says, But mo uh yeah, but Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and that I should bring the sons of Israel out of Egypt You see doubt right away. Lord, why me? Who am I? And how does the Lord respond in verse twelve? And he said, Certainly I will be with you, and this will be the sign to you that is I who have sent you, when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall Worship God at this mountain. God saying, I'm all powerful. I've come to you. I'm asking you to lead my people. Trust me. Moses has doubt. He goes on in verse 13. Then Moses said to God, Behold, I am going to the sons of Israel, and I shall say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you. Now they may say to me, What is his name? What do I what do I tell 'em? Again, doubt what what do I do with this leadership role you've just given me? And this is this is precious, right? In verse fourteen, and the first time we see this. And God said to Moses, I am who I am. There's a little asterisk it's it's at the top of uh the second page there. You know, that's where we see Yahweh. And that was a very sacred term, the timelessness of God, the very foundation of all existence. Where do we see that in the New Testament? In John eight, fifty-eight. Turn over there real quick. John John 8 58, you know John is really about the deity of Jesus Christ. And you see in verse 58, Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born I am. I am. I gotta tell you um a little story. One of the Marvel movies, I don't remember which one it was, but where um you remember Jarvis was this just computer that Tony Stark worked with and at some point he turns into this dude. Iron Man. No, not Iron Man. Who? Vision. Vision. And I forget the scene, but but someone's asking him, who are you? And there well I can't even say it. There's this pause. And he says, I am. I I I audibly guessed when I was sitting in the movie theater. It just Ooh, it just hit me hard. Hit me hard. Now, again, it's a secular movie, not a surprise, but that term is so special. I am. Okay. That was the second time. Can I can I go We're gonna be singing this really cool song today. Okay. It's called the God of Abraham Brace. And and the line that's in that song is Ancients of Everlasting Days and God of love, Jehovah Great I. Yeah. Love it. By earth and heaven confessed. Yes. Anyway, I just thought an email. Thank you, Doug. Love it. Love it, love it. Great tie. God's time. Yes. All right, let's go to uh verse chapter four, verse one. Again, more doubt. Then Moses answered and said, What if they will not believe me or listen to what I say? Moses gives three signs in two through nine. And the Lord said to him, What is that in your hand? And he said, A staff? Then he said, Throw it on the ground. So he threw it on the ground, and it became a serpent. Moses fled from it. But the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand and grasp it by its tail. So he stretched out his hand and caught it, and it became a staff in his hand, that they may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Of Isaac and the God of Jacob has appeared to you. And the Lord furthermore said to him, Now put your hand into your bosom. So he put his hand into his bosom, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous like snow. Then he said, Put your hand into your bosom again. So he put his hand into his bosom again, and when he took it out of his bosom, behold it was restored like the rest of his flesh. And it shall come about that if they will not believe you or heed the witness of the first sign, that they may believe the witness of the last sign. But it shall be that if they will not believe even these two signs, or heed what you say, then you shall take some water from the Nile And pour it on the dry ground, and the water which you take from the Nile will become blood on the dry ground. So again, every time Moses is doubting, God responds with affirmation, here's what I'm going to do for you Right, here's the three signs that that will show you that they can believe in a holy, powerful God. Didn't end there though. Exodus four ten, we pick it up Then Moses said to the Lord, Please, Lord, I have never been eloquent, neither recently nor in time past, nor since thou hast spoken to thy servant. For I am slow of speech and slow of tongue. That's how I at the ordination council a couple weeks ago. I understand Moses. Now it's curious because again how he was brought up, I I would have thought that he would have had that experience of speaking or but maybe not. Right? There are some that are just terrified of public speaking. And that's okay. I just would encourage you, there are lots of things you can do to help overcome that that fear. But anyway, that's the doubt that he now has And what is how does uh God respond? Picking up in verse 11, 411. And the Lord said to him, Who has made man's mouth, or who makes him dumb or deaf, or seeing or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? Again, his power being displayed. Now then go, and I, even I, will be with your mouth and teach you what you are to say. Moses doesn't stop. But he said, Please, Lord, now send the message by whomever thou wilt. Then the anger of the Lord. Burned against Moses, and he said, Is there not your brother Aaron the Levite? I know that he speaks fluently, and moreover, behold, he is coming out to meet you. When he sees you, he will be glad in his heart. So again, lots of doubt that we see in Moses. But guess what? He's a human being. So you can see at the top of the page kind of a pause for an application. Again, this is a growing disciples class. How often do we, do you, do I Why doubt or resist when called by God? Do we trust in the sovereignty of God and the wisdom of God? And I just would encourage you, if you're if you're finding that, take time to repent. And ask God for forgiveness. A couple of examples maybe. Um, you know, when I became a parent, I I don't think I ever had doubt, but kids started coming out fast and it's like how how do I how do we do this well? How do we do this with excellence? There was no doubt that God had given me that role and that He would equip me. Right? We go through times of doubt, maybe there's that sanctification process, but we had some very dear friends that turned us on to a parenting class early, early. early in our family, if you will. And it was it was um it was wonderful. It was absolutely wonderful, kind of setting that foundation not only um application wise, but I'll call it from a philosophy standpoint. So really getting that after the heart of the child, not necessarily the outward behavior. And it's um so when we came here, you know, I saw that Pastor Plumley had put that parenting class together. He took a lot of the material from the class that Crean and I took, added some additional, really a great, great question Which is why we're passionate about teaching that because we want to we want to share God's truth about how to parent with excellence. But that's that's an area where there's no doubt. There should be no doubt. If you're a parent If you're a husband, if you're a wife, that is a role that God has given you, you will be equipped. But we can do things, right, to become better equipped, to be sanctified in those areas. Um you know the last couple months we we've had some some tough times or or had to make some tough decisions here at church and we've had some leadership gaps. It's been so encouraging to see those gaps filled though. People stepping up and and filling those roles. You know, I don't want to call you out but Doug in the music ministry. and all the people we're now seeing up there. Friday night I came and visited the VBS program. Um they did just a a miraculous, wonderful job for those kids. It was really, really very encouraging. But I don't know if you know The leadership of that, Lauren Levin and Amy Keene, you know, basically you need to ask them about the story about how that came to be, how they ended up stepping up. It it's it's it's God. But they basically had like forty-five days to pull that all together. And it was fun to watch uh Lauren. I don't know if you guys know Lauren's background, prior military. Do you know what she did in the military? Public affairs. So her getting up and speaking in front of people, I I mean she's very comfortable. She was very good with the kids. Kids showed a lot of authority up there. It was fun watching her as volunteers were moving around. She was directing them. Just you know, it was the natural, but I you know God God led her to that position and she obeyed All right. Were there times of fear? Probably. But but she led with obedience and it was really neat to see. So several people in this room helped out with VBS. I I thank you all. I think a huge impact on those kids. Okay. Now, so now Moses he's on courage. He's got his buddy, his brother Aaron with him. They're partners in this deal now, so they're gonna go confront Pharaoh. So they do. However, that initial confrontation doesn't work out maybe the way they wanted it to. Pharaoh becomes even harder in heart. And what did he do? He increased their labors, and the sons of Israel became bitter towards Moses and Aaron. So not only did he have fear about what God was asking him to do, now he has the people angry with him and bitter, right? Tough, tough position to be in leadership sometimes, but when God calls, you obey. But God Promises action. This is a really important passage. So I want to go through it. Starting in chapter 6, if you turn there, and I want you to notice the number of I wills that you see, and I am the Lord. So as we read through this, keep note. I actually have them circled in my in my Bible just to make them stand out. And again, I encourage you when you see stuff like that and you're you're looking at a certain attribute, go ahead and circle, underline to be a reminder for you, a monument. if you will, um of the Lord's attributes and his power in this case. All right, picking up in verse one. Then the Lord said to Moses, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For under compulsion he shall let them go, and under compulsion he shall drive them out of his land. God spoke further to Moses and said to him, I am the Lord. That's kind of his his stamp, his signature will, if you will. I am the Lord. And I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as God Almighty, but my name, Lord, I did not make myself known to them. That's the um reference back to the name Yahweh. And I also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they sojourn. And furthermore I have heard the groaning of the sons of Israel, because the Egyptians are holding them in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. So chapter 6 is really about their redemption. Say therefore to the sons of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will Bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage. I will also redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments. Seven is about adoption. Then I will take you for my people, and I will be your God, and you shall know that I am the Lord your God Who brought you out of from under the burdens of the Egyptians. And then eight talks about the land again. And I will bring you to the land which I swore to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and I will give it to you for a possession. I I am the Lord. Do you see all the I will? This is God displaying his omnipotence, his power. I will do all those things. However, God will continue to harden Pharaoh's heart. Why? In order to multiply his signs and wonders. So the Egyptians will know he is the Lord. Anything you get from today, right, when you see all that's happening with the ten plagues and the Red Sea and the I wills, it's all about God's demonstrating his power so that they will know that he is God. Alright, so we talk about the ten plagues. I'm not going to go through these in great detail, you know them, but here's a good reference chart that shows um the ten plagues. And what was what was why those particular plagues? What what did it uh discredit, if you will? The various different gods. The various different gods that Egypt had, and they had a ton of them. So this chart shows you, so for example, uh the water turned to blood Um you see happy is the spirit of denial. Now if you look over at the interesting notes, there's some some neat things there that showed the first couple plagues actually affected everyone, but then there was a turning point, I think it's the fly. where where the Israelites are not affected any longer. So good reference chart on uh the ten plagues. I don't want to go through those in great, great detail. You guys know the the story there. I want to focus on The last plague though, right? And this was the death of the firstborn. Yes. Um that when you said the flies number four and it did not affect the Israelites but the good evidence that they were separated. Separated, good tie. Yes. Yes. I don't know if you guys caught that the question earlier about were the Israelites separated. Um and her point is with that particular plague it did not affect the Israelites but it did the Egyptians again showing that separation. We'll see that again with the last plague, right? So this plague is going to go through the the death of um the sons, right? The the firstborn sons is what's about to happen here. And the commandment or the the warning, instruction, if you will, to the Israelites is this idea of the Passover lamb. So they were to take an unblemished lamb and put the blood on the doorpost and the lentil. Okay? And that was the sign as the plague was going through to pass over that particular household. And of course that's um and that's supposed to be um remembered right that's where you get the feast from generation to generation it's why we celebrate excuse me ordinances today right the lord's supper to remember to remember Remember the Passover. For the believer, obviously, Jesus Christ is our Passover Lamb. Right? It's Jesus that appeases the wrath of God so that he now looks at us as righteous. Okay? The Passover Lamb. Alright, Moses' leadership, we've talked a little bit about that, but you see a mix of we we talk about defender, he's a gentleman, we saw that uh at the well. We also through this um ordeal, if you will, see him as intercessor. So he's often interceding for these Israelites that are just so thick headed, right, and full of obstinence, time and time again you see Moses interceding on their behalf. He also gets angry though, in in often a righteous anger. So the um episode where he's up on the mountain, he gets the Ten Commandments, the tablets, and he comes down and you know the golden calf, right, we'll go through that in a bit more detail. But in his anger he shatters uh the two tablets. Right? And what does he do with the calf? He burns it up in the fire. Just righteous indignation at what the people have done. He was only gone for a very short time. And that brings us to the next character, his his partner, his what should have been his deputy, if you will, Aaron We saw earlier that Aaron became Moses' spokesman and was reunited after many, many years. So go back to 414. We just read that. At the end of it, it says, when he sees And then over in 27. Now the Lord said to Aaron, Go to meet Moses in the wilderness. So he went and met him at the mountain of God. And he kissed him. And Moses told Aaron all the words the Lord with which he had sent him, and all the signs that he commanded him to do. Then Moses and Aaron went and assembled all the elders of the sons of Israel. So obviously becoming his partner, what I I don't we don't have a lot of insight in what was happening to Aaron during the whole life of Moses. You remember Moses was in Pharaoh's court, then he runs and hides to Midian. This might have been a reunion after many, many years of being separated. Right? It's not exactly clear, but it it might have been a sweet reunion of bringing these two together. Bottom line, they are now partners, and you can see age-wise. Moses was 80 and Aaron 83. And again, I'd have to do more research. research on this, but so Aaron is older. Was Aaron born under the edict of the first you know, the the newborn sons being killed? Maybe, maybe not. Right? Obviously he's older but he is alive, so it'd be interesting to find that out. But it's not clear what that looks like. But he is the older brother Aaron works in partnership with Moses. A common pattern that we see especially during the plagues is that God speaks to Moses, Moses tells it to Aaron, and then Aaron does the staff thing. Um not every plague, but we do see that repeated where Again, Aaron being the spokesperson is often the one um exhibiting the behavior, if you will, it to include talking to uh Pharaoh. Alright, so we see that during the Ten Plagues. However, another contrast in leadership. Aaron's lack of leadership and fear of man. Let's go to the incident. All the way over to Exodus 32. Exodus 32 will start in 1 through 5. Now again, Moses is up on the mountaintop. It's the the the law of the Ten Commandments. Picking up in verse one thirty two one. Now when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people assembled about Aaron Aaron had a choice here, and said to him, Come make us a God who will go before us. As for this Moses, the man who brought us up from the land of Egypt We do not know what has become of him. And Aaron said to them, Tear off the gold rings which are in your ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me. Aaron had a critical choice to make here. He saw the absolute wonders of the Lord, right? The power of the Lord through all the plagues. He saw the signs, the miracles, and here he is in this this critical leadership position, in this critical leadership decision, and he fails. He fails miserably. Verse 3, then all the people tore off the gold rings which were in their ears, and brought them to Aaron. And he took this from their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool, and made it into a molten calf. And they said, This is this is your God, O Israel, who brought you up from the land of Egypt. Now when Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it, and Aaron made a proclamation and said, Tomorrow shall be a feast to the Lord. two, right? Just it it's inconceivable, but again these are human beings, right? How do we respond when we are in these situations as well? Richard. All the golden uh earrings I think are marked like slavery. Actually they they um we'll get into this, but when they left Egypt, the Lord gave them favor and they actually plundered from the Egyptians all of this jewelry. So that's why they had all the gold and the jewelry, it's because they took it from the Egyptians. I I don't think in this case that's what we're trying to point at really. It's more about like I said, we'll get into this, the plunder. You know, the they they wouldn't have that jewelry if it wasn't for plundering the Egyptians. So that's that's the key there is they now had something that the Lord gave them favor. They were to have this. And yet what did they do with it? They turn it into a golden calf. Yeah. Okay, let's go over to verse 21, 32 21 21 through 29. Then Moses said to Aaron, What did this people do to you that you have brought such great sin upon them? And Aaron said, Do not let the anger of my lord burn You know the people yourself that they are prone to evil. So we feared man versus God. For they said to me, Make a God for us who will go before us For this Moses, the man who brought us up from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. Such a fickle people. And I said to them, Whoever has any gold, let them tear it off. So they gave it to me and I threw it into the fire, and out came this calf, miraculously. Now when Moses saw that the people were out of control, for Aaron had let them get out of control to be a di a derision among their enemies. Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, Whoever is for the Lord, come to me. And all the sons of Levi gathered together to him. And he said to them, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel Every man of you put his sword upon his thigh, and go back and forth from gate to gate in the camp, and kill every man his brother. And every man his friend, and every man his neighbour. So the sons of Levi did as Moses instructed, and about three thousand men of the people fell that day. Then Moses said, Dedicate yourselves today to the Lord, for every man has been against his son. And against his brother, in order that he may bestow a blessing upon you today. Really see a contrast in leadership here, right? Even though Moses, we showed the doubt that he had, um, and and maybe it was a sanctifying process, but when he came down to the mountain, there was nothing. Nothing but bold leadership that you saw from Moses. Aaron, how did you let this happen? Then he takes the golden calf, burns it up, destroys that idol. And then there's judgment on people as well. Right? He makes the hard decision and does what has to be done. So that's the contrast we we see between Moses and Aaron. Let's bring in Joshua. And we don't have a whole lot about Joshua that starts in Exodus, but we do start to give So Joshua first comes on the scene in Exodus seventeen, when Moses asked him to lead men in battle against Amalek. And this is, you know the story. Moses positions himself up on a hill, and when he raises the staff, the battle goes well. And when his hands get tired and it comes down, the battle swings the other way. Now you do see Aaron and her join him so that they can they can keep his arms you know up in the air so that the power, God's power can be displayed. But bottom line is you see Joshua, you don't have a whole lot of information about Joshua at this point, but Clearly Moses, a great leader, goes directly to Joshua to be his war leader, right? His his general, if you will. So we get insight into who Joshua is there. We have another incident Again, the cold the golden calf incident. So when Moses came down from the mountain, Joshua warned Moses about the sound. So I I get this feeling that the people were off doing their thing. Moses was up on the mountain, and I can see Joshua just Just the faithful servant kind of standing guard, waiting for his leader to come off the mountain. But what does he say? He tells Moses, he says, I hear a sound coming from camp. Now, it's not the sound of triumph, I know what that sounds like. It's not the sound of defeat, I know what that sounds like. This sounds like singing. And you really get the impression that it wasn't a good thing It wasn't like they were in worship. It's something bad is happening, Moses. So that's the little bit that we have about Joshua, a loyal, obedient servant. And again, we're going to see a lot more of Joshua as we continue on in our study. All right, we talked about Moses, Aaron, Joshua. Now let's talk about the people themselves, the sons of Israel. Taking it back to the beginning, right? The king of Egypt died and the sons of Israel cried out because of their bondage. You remember All the bondage that was put on them, the king dies, and they're just crying out. And you see the verse there. And the sons of Israel sighed because of the bondage, and they cried out, and their cry for help because of their bondage rose up to God. So God heard their growth. And God remembered his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and God saw the sons of Israel, and God took notice of them. So here we have the people crying out. And then you see we just talked about the city. So that's what happens. And at the death of uh Pharaoh's firstborn, he finally told the Israelites to go. So that plague went out uh around uh midnight, I think it says in And Pharaoh's son is killed or dies, and and there's just a a crying out across Egypt. Right. And Pharaoh finally says, Fine, your people can go. He summons Moses and Aaron and says, Your people can go. Get out of here. I'm done with you. So that's the scene. That's what happened. Rise up, get out from among my people, both you and you. Now at the time of their departure they had been in Egypt for about four hundred and thirty years. Remember, we talked about that, it was foretold to Abraham. that they would be in bondage for about that time. And remember how many people we're talking about? Roughly two million. Right? A lot of people that are about to exit. Now remember this was that night. Pharaoh summons them and he's like, go now. So the people are like, they gotta go right now. So they hastily packed up their unleavened bread. They didn't have time for it to leaven. Their kneading bowls, their possessions, livestock, and this is where we see that the Lord had given them favor, and they plundered the Egyptians. So that's where they got the gold and the jewelry and and all that good stuff. And this is where you actually see the beginning of the feast of the unleavened bread, because it was supposed to be a reminder of God's power. It was to be celebrated and passed down to generations as a sign of God's power. Right? His powerful hand. A sign given by what was worn on the now Um it talks about signs that were now given for this uh for this feast or this um event, if you will, was worn on the hands and foreheads of the phylacteries. Right, let's go to Exodus thirteen, back to thirteen, sixteen. Uh let me go back up to fourteen. And it shall be when your son asks you in time to come, saying, What is this Then you shall say to him, With a powerful hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt from the house of slavery. And then down to sixteen. So it shall serve as a sign on your hand And his phy phylacteries on your forehead, for with a powerful hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt. I thought that was interesting because we know in the New Testament, right, Jesus addresses the Pharisees that were abusing these signs. It was all about their opponent. Outward behavior. And he was saying your inward heart is evil and deceitful. But I thought that was a neat connection. That's where you see that brought up here, and then we see how it's abused in the New Testament. Okay? All right. Moving on to page three. Let me go to the map because I think it's it's really helped to ground ourselves on what's happening and where. Now let me caution you, you can see up in the far left corner possible route of the Exodus. I don't think it's definitive on exactly where this goes. You can see a lot of question marks near some of the cities. Don't worry about that. You're going to get the general sense of how this flowed and more importantly I want you to be thinking about the timeline. Okay? The general sense and the timeline. Alright, so the Exodus begins, but God takes them on a route by way of the Red Sea lest the people lose courage. lose courage, alright, because of war and return to Egypt. So if you're in thirteen, Exodus thirteen, seventeen and eighteen. Now it came about when Pharaoh let the people go that God did not lead them by way of the land of the Philistines. Which would have been up to the north there. You can see Philistines um by Gaza. So how far they stretched, I don't know. But you could have gone directly acaw across, but he didn't. Even though it was near, for God say l God said, lest the people change. Hence God led the people around by way of the wilderness to the Red Sea, and the sons of Israel went up in martial array from the land of Egypt. Okay, so he took them a different route because he didn't want them to be discouraged because of war that could have happened and turned back Alright, so that's why we see them start to move south. So just just south of Succa, the Lord went before them. So this is where we see the pillar of a cloud, right? By day and the pillar of fire by night. Again, this incredible display. So here they are, they're on the run, but but God is visibly in front of them, displaying his power once again. However, so they get to the Red Sea, Pharaoh's heart is hardened Once again, and now he's back in hot pursuit. The Israelites, of course, respond in fear, crying out to the Lord. So here's where you see the incident at the Red Sea. Then they said to Moses, Is it Is it because there were no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? Why have you dealt with us this way, bringing us out of Egypt Is this not the word that we spoke to you in Egypt saying, Leave us alone that we may serve the Egyptians? For it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness. How quickly they forgot God's power. You know, all those plagues they were witness to the Passover they were witness to the pillar they were witness to and here once again fear of man forgetting the power of God so what actually happens is uh the this pillar actually moves people between so they're kind of locked in. There's the Red Sea and then Pharaoh's army, the pillar moves in between them to guard them. Again, God's protection. They get through the Red Sea and I I have a little picture there. Again, that must have been just this incredible event. right of the Red Sea parting, them crossing on dry ground, again another uh demonstrations of of God's incredible power that will play out across the nations. We're gonna see that. The nations will remember this event. So now they're on the backside of the Red Sea. And when Israel saw the great power which the Lord had used against the Egyptians, the people feared the Lord, and they believed in the Lord and his servant Moses Alright, so now they have a change of heart after seeing this clear demonstration of God's power. Ah! But the grumbling continues. After three days, just three days in the wilderness. After all of this has happened, they start grumbling. So the people grumbled at Moses, saying, What shall we drink? And you know the story, um the where they're at in Mirah, the the water is bitter, so he cuts down a tree, puts it in there in the So again, God takes care of them. He is testing them though, right? The Lord was testing them And starts to lay that foundation for a conditional covenant. You can see the text there. If you will give earnest heed to the voice of the Lord your God and do what is right in his sight, and give ear to his commandments And keep all his statutes. I will put none of the diseases on you which I have put on the Egyptians, for I the Lord am your healer healer. So different from the Abrahamic covenant, you see kind of the if then statement, right? A conditional um covenant. In Exodus sixteen, in two months too, right? So less than two months of their journey, they are grumbling once again. Concerned about what they will eat, and reminiscing about the good old days in Egypt. So let me ask you, um it's easy to to maybe condemn them How how could they grumble in situation like that? But how often do we find ourselves grumbling when the Lord has provided so so richly? So let me ask you, what are some ways to to defeat that grumbling, to overcome that grumbling in our own lives. What are some practical ways? Just shout 'em out. Thankfulness. Thankfulness. Someone up here, thankfulness. Praising. Praising God. Remember what God has given you. And that's what Anne was kinda saying. Keep this You know, keep this, I don't want to say a Rollodex, this um portfolio, if you will, in your own lives of what God has done for you. Right? We talked about praising God. How do you do that? You gotta meditate, be in the Word. The Psalms, right? Rich, rich opportunities to practice. Praise the Lord. It was mentioned thankfulness. I love Philippians 4. And all your prayers and supplications with thanksgiving. And what will happen? God's peace that surpasses understanding will guard your heart and your mind. We must have a spirit of thankfulness. If we don't, we be we start to grumble. Why? We become discontent. Where do we see that? Early on in in Genesis. In the garden. Right? That's what happened to Eve. She became discontent. She started to covet. She became prideful. We have to combat the grumbling. Moses reminds the people, your grumblings are not against he and Aaron, but against the Lord. Our grumbling is against the Lord. But the Lord is is precious. The Lord provides manna and meat so that why? So that you shall know that I am the Lord your God. It's always about the glory of God. Now they ate the manna for forty Years. But they didn't have to. So we're going to talk about that in a second. Very interesting. Exodus seventeen the Israelites are back to complaining What shall we drink? The Lord instructs Moses to strike the rock at Horeb with his staff, and they were camped out at Raphidium. Now we're gonna see this again in numbers, this idea of striking the rock, so keep that in the back of your head. But again the Lord provides, the Lord is testing, and they continue to grumble. In the third month, it's actually the very beginning of the third month, so it's only been a couple months, the Israelites are led to the wilderness of Sinai, camping in front of the mountain. And the Lord again lays the conditions of his covenant with the people. You see a new dispensation, if you will. Again, now then, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be my own possession among all the peoples For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. So this Mosaic covenant, you see the notes there. Conditional covenant between God and man. You see it. the if then statement. Basically God is establishing Israel as that mediator to the rest of the nations, right? God's theocratic kingdom. Is Margaret in the room today? Margaret, can you um Um share what you sent me on the email. You recently went to Israel, right, about the location of Israel that we'll see later. But why was that so important? So God expressed that the geography of Israel is no coincidence. And God put Israel on that piece of land because it's a land bridge between three continents. And before modern transportation, anyone who wanted to travel by land from Africa to Asia or Europe had to pass along that narrow strip of land that Israel has in the Mediterranean the road is called it Diamond. And that brought the world to Israel. Where if they would hear of Israel's God. Yes. Did you guys catch that, right? The location was so important. And we see this, we see God demonstrate this that through his power, because he wants people to know that he is God. And because of that location, they were forced to travel through and hear about Israel's God. Thank you. Yes, Amy. things from that trip as well and it's what we're trying to share is that it looks really far on the map, but a lot of those places are much closer and you can see areas from other places uh very well. And so the crossing of the red Excellent point. Yep, excellent. I don't know if you caught that, but peep the the depiction here, right, the things were much closer and people would have seen the Red Sea incident and and even the plagues and what have you. And we're going to talk a little bit about distance here at the very end. So back on the Mosaic Covenant, uh again, Israel was set up to be that mediator. It's broader than the Ten Commandments. We often think of the Mosaic Covenant, we think of the Ten Commandments. That was absolutely a part of it. But it included those three elements, if you will, moral, civil, and a ceremonial instruction. A lot of that in Exodus twenty through twenty five, we're not going to go through that in detail today. You'll see more of that um in Leviticus when we pick that up next week. And it was a precursor to the the new covenant. You remember I talked about the Abrahamic covenant, and then you had three, the Palestinian, Davidic, and the New Covenant, kind of extensions of that. The Mosaic Covenant is really a precursor pointing to the new covenant that we're going to see in Jeremiah. And it also provided the means to meet with the Lord through the tabernacle. Again, you see a lot of that in 25 through 30. And we're going to discuss that um next week when we talk about Leviticus. So let's talk about timelines a a little bit here again. From them to get to um from Goshen to Mount Sinai, about seven weeks, right? Not a whole lot of time. And we'll see next week that they'll spend about eleven months. So there was time with um the construction of the tabernacle, but they'll spend about eleven months um in the wilderness there and then five themselves in this area Kadesh Barnia. And it's estimated it took them about 24 months to get to that location. And to Amy's point, from there they were about eleven miles away from the Promised Land. In two years. But guess what? And we're gonna study it, something happens there, that they end up wandering in the wilderness and you see the path another thirty eight years, which why is why they ate manna for forty years. So I said they didn't have to. Alright, so we're going to cover that in detail. But I think that's interesting to note. It didn't take them long to get to Mount Sinai And it only took overall two years to get to Kadesh Barnia. And then something significant happens there. But you gotta come back to hear it. Okay? Alright, let's see. Alright, that's all I had. Um any big questions about the theme that we're trying to to have here, right? Genesis, the book of beginnings, Job, um, suffering and sovereignty, and Exodus, the redemption of God's people. Anne? Modern day universities that are so secular and they don't believe the Bible or God or anything have come to realize that they graduate students that are uneducated because they have no record, biblical records. to know about art, about literature, about music, all those things that are rich in our heritage. So they start having this class called the Bible as history. Where they read the Bible, they don't believe it, they don't believe God, but they make the students read it. So the story goes that one day the professor was w came to the library and one of his students was in there and he was obviously reading the Bible. She was so excited. Wow, gee, God, you're so great. This is wonderful. And it upset the professor. He went over and he says, What is this? He says, Professor, did you know that when the Israelites were being chased by the army, they got to the sea. God opened it up and they walked through on dry land. Isn't that wonderful? Now, now, son, you must read remember that when it says the Red Sea, it really means the red sea. And that sea was just about twelve inches at the most three feet deep. So of course they could go through it. Oh, okay professor. Thank you for telling me. I'll remember. The professor goes off to the stacks to get his book. He comes back and the kid is even more excited. Wow, God, so wonder how could you do this? Well Professor is upset. I thought I told you about that. Yes I know, but Professor, do you know that God drowned the entire Egyptian army and all its horses and chariots and just three feet of water? But um However, we know that God's word is powerful and will not return. Unvoid. Let's pray.