Less than 10 already. Can you guys believe it's August? August 6th. The summer has just been flying by. So we're going to be primarily covering 1st and 2 Samuel And as you can see we're gonna start to have this introduction into the books of poetry and the prophets. There is just gonna be a ton of material that we need to cover. But again we're trying to pull out those major themes. Again that theme, think of Jesus walking with those two men on the road to Emmaus, right, and revealing this history, if you will. That's kind of the themes we want to pull out of this. So where we're at as far as the the historical line, if you will. We've gone through all of these books already and laid the foundation of the nation of Israel being re redeemed, taken out of Egypt, their journeys. all the way through the wilderness, Joshua bringing them into the promised land. We finished up with Ruth, the the beautiful love story, if you will, the kinsman redeemer. And here we now are in the book of s books of Samuel. And and there's this transition that's gonna happen, right? From judges to kings. So that's the major theme I want you to think of is that transition from judges to a monarchy. And we get the the beautiful privilege of rolling in the Psalms today. So we'll take a look at uh that book as well. Okay? To put that in a little bit more context, you see the timeline at the bottom. So the first nine books that we just covered covered about you know four thousand, six thousand years of history, depending on when you say creation started. That's a lot of time that we just covered in nine books. However, in about the next six hundred years We're going to cover thirty books. Lots and lots of material, but very, very exciting. Okay, so hopefully that's helpful. To put it into even further context, I really like this timeline because it helps give you a visual of of some of the the breadth, if you will, or or span of some of these books. So Genesis covering a very long time, um Exodus, their time in in Egypt, and then their wandering in the wilderness, but as we discussed, you know, the book Of um Leviticus Numbers and Deuteronomy covered a very short time frame. So I like this chart that demonstrates that. And then Joshua as he conquers and divides uh the the promised land. We covered Judges. Uh again, that was about know, three hundred to four hundred years of time and we talk about these cycles, right? These cycles of sin that they just repeatedly went into. And as Anne pointed out, not only cycles but a spiral downward. I really like that analogy. Very typical to uh what we see today in our world. But like I said, now we're going to see this transition into the the monarchy. And it's actually going to be a time of great stabilization like I have written over here. But let me point this out first. You see a lot of overlap now as we get into first and second Samuel, first and second Kings, and Second Chronicles. Right? There's a lot of overlap that we have to kind of decipher and say, hey, what's going on here? What I want to highlight though, it's kind of like uh how many of of the Baltimore aquarium. Really nice aquarium, yeah you gotta go. But you know the way they've structured that, if I'm thinking of the right one, you can see it from different angles, can't you? There's opportunities you can go down below and kind of see different different window shots if you will. You can climb up on top and look down. It's just different viewpoints of the same time and period, if you will. So that's what we're going to try and parse out is how do we bring all this together to get a bigger picture of what's happening during this time frame. Summarized it here on the left in the blue box. So Samuel is really about stabilization. Right? Bringing in the kings is going to stabilize that nation. And you're gonna see with David, he actually expands. You remember there were a lot of um inhabitants that we're still occupying much of the land, right? And that causes a lot of problems. So you're going to see David address that. First and second Kings is is more about the glorification. Actually it's the high point of Israel under Solomon. And we're gonna see that. However, it's also uh upon his death that we're gonna see the division of that nation. And then first and second chronicles, you could say Kings is more about the the politics and Chronicles is maybe more about what's happening religiously and a focus on the temple. Okay, that makes sense? Again, I I hope this adds a little bit of context of how complicated this time period is and we're going to do our best to kind of fit that all together so we get some of the overarching themes, the survey of what's happening during this period. Okay? So I I thought a way to approach this. We can do chronological of a lot of events, but I thought it might be neat to add a little color color by doing character studies. Um so the intent and why I just went with the slides is to cover some of the major characters. So Eli and Samuel, you remember last time that uh they were the last two judges. In in the fourteen judges that we covered, they're gonna be the last two in history. And then we're gonna transition to the monarchy, to kings. And that's how we're gonna cover it and hopefully this will add a little bit of color color. To do that, I'm going to reference this big honkin book, uh Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, a really good resource that gives kind of a quick summary of the events of their lives. Because many of you are familiar with the stories. So I don't want to spend a lot of time you know digging in too deep. We'll just kind of hit the surface and we'll do some deep dives in certain areas. So that's kind of the format we're going to use. Again, we'll see how it turns out. Not my typical routine. So I'll probably be all over the place, but we'll be good. All right, so we're going to start with uh Eli. He was the high priest over the tabernacle, which was at Shiloh. And you can see in the map down there, just north of Jerusalem is the city of Shiloh. And that's where the tabernacle and the Ark of the Covenant reside. Okay? He's also judge. He ends up being a judge over the nation for forty years. I want to go now to uh specifically Talking about Hannah and how we get Samuel and Eli, and I want to make this comparison, this parenting comparison, as we read through this. So I do want you to turn to your Bibles. this section a contrast in parenting. Now we're going to start in first the uh first book of Samuel chapter one verse one now there was a certain man from Remind Athem Zophim from the hill cum tree of Ephraim, Ephraim, and his name was Elkhana, the son of Jerobam, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuf, and Ephraim, an Ephraimite. And he had two wives. The name of one was Hannah, and the name of the other Panina. And Panina had children, but Hannah had no children. Now this man would go up from his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice. And the two sons of Eli, Hopni and Phineas, were priests to the Lord there. And when the day came that Al Kanah sacrificed, he would give portions to Peninah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters. But to Hannah he would give a double portion, for he loved Hannah, but the Lord had closed Her rival, however, would provoke her bitterly to irritate her, because the Lord had closed her womb. And it happened year after year as often as she went up to the house of the Lord. She would provoke her, so she wept and would not eat. Then Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Hannah Why do you weep, and why do you not eat, and why is your heart sad? Am I not better to you than ten sons? Typical man response, right? Then Hannah rose after eating and drinking in Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the temple of the Lord, again he was the high priest. And she, greatly distressed, prayed to the Lord and wept bitterly And she made a vow and said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thy maidservant, and remember me, and not forget thy maidservant, but will give thy maidservant a son Then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and a razor shall not come on his head. Do you remember that? Who was the other Nazarite? Samson, right? We just covered that last week, right? So So these were um people that were to be set apart for the Lord and no razors should touch their head. That was one of the qualifications. Um there is a reference that he may have been a Nazarite too. That's right, Ann. It came about as she continued praying before the Lord that Eli was watching her mouth. As for Hannah, she was speaking in her heart. Only her lips were moving, but her voice was not heard. So Eli thought she was drunk. Then Eli said to her, How How long will you make yourself drunk? Put away your wine from you. But Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman oppressed in spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I have poured out my soul before the Lord. Do not consider your maidservant as a worthless woman, for I have spoken until now out of my great concern and provocation. Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace And may the God of Israel grant your petition that you have asked of him. And she said, Let your maidservant find favour in your sight. So the woman went her way and ate, and her face was no longer sad. 19. nineteen. Then they arose early in the morning and worshipped before the Lord and returned again to their house in Rama. And Okana had relations with Hannah his wife, and the Lord remembered her. And it came about in due time after Hannah had conceived That she gave birth to a son, and she named him Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord. Then the man, Elkanah, went up with all his household to offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice and pay his vow. But Hannah Did not go up, for she said to her husband, I will not go up until the child is weaned. Then I will bring him that he may appear before the Lord and stay there forever. And Elkanah her husband said to her, Do what seems best to you. Remain in the child. Until you have weaned him, only may the Lord confirm his word. So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him. Now when she had weaned him she took him up with her, with a three year old bull and one eveth of flour, and a jug of wine and brought him to the house of the Lord in Shiloh, although the child was young. Then they slaughtered the bull and brought the boy to Eli, and she said, O my Lord, as your soul lives My Lord, I am the woman who stood here beside you praying to the Lord. For this boy I prayed, and the Lord has given me my petition which I asked of him. So I have also dedicated him to the Lord. As long as he lives, he is dedicated to the Lord. And he worshiped the Lord there. I'm not going to read uh verse two, but this is Hannah now with this this song of thanksgiving. You You get this image and I often think of my mother, this just very dedicated mom crying out to the Lord, right? Always praying for her children, um fulfilling the promise that she gave, and then now overflowing with thanksgiving. She's now giving Giving her son to Eli, right, dedicated to the Lord, and she's overflowing with thanksgiving. I hope that's uh our heart cry for all of our parents, all of us as parents. Let me go over though to chapter two. Starting in verse 20. It says, Then Eli would bless Selkanah and his wife and say, May the Lord give you children from this woman in place of the one she dedicated to the Lord. And they went to their own home And the Lord visited Hannah and she conceived and gave birth to three sons and two daughters, and the boy Samuel grew before the Lord. So the Lord blessed her faithfulness with more children, and and yet she still had Samuel, her child who who now would rise to be a a great leader in the nation. So I think just a great um summary or reflection of a very, very faithful parent. Now let's contrast that. We know Eli had two wicked sons, right? Hophni and Phineas. So let's do a little bit of a summary of these characters. We're still in chapter two, starting in verse twelve Now the sons of Eli were worthless men. They did not know the Lord. Let me pause there. This is Eli. They do not know the Lord. How can that be? Right? Well back to Deuteronomy 6, the Shema, passing on from generation to generation. And not only that, but especially the priests. They did not know the Lord. And the custom of the priests with the people, when any man was offering a sacrifice, the priest servant would come while the meat was boiling, with a three pronged fork in his hand. Then he would thrust it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or pot. All that the fork brought up the priest would take for himself Thus they did in Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there, this wickedness. Also before they burned the fat the priest's servant would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, give the priest meat for roasting, as he will not take boiled meat from you only roasting. And if the man said to him, They must surely burn the fat first, and then take as much as you desire, then he would say, No. But you shall give it to me now, and if not, I will take it by force. Thus the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord, for the men displeased the offering of the Lord Alright, flip over to verse 22. How does Eli handle this? Now Eli was very old and he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel. And how they lay with the woman who served at the doorway of the tent of meeting. Right? They were they were committing sexual sin right there. And he said to them, Why do you do such things? The evil things that I hear No, my sons, for the report is not good which I hear the Lord's people circulating. But if a man sins against the Lord, who can intercede for him? But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for the Lord desired to put them to death. Verse twenty nine. This is a a uh man of God uh that was uh coming before Eli with the Lord's words, and he says, Why do you kick at my sacrifice and at my offering which I have commanded in my dwelling? And honor your sons. above me, by making yourselves fat with the choices of every offering of my people Israel. By not taking action, not disciplining his sons, he was honoring his sons above God. 34. And this will be the sign to you which will come concerning your two sons, Hophne and Phineas, on the same day, both of them shall die. Right, so there are now consequences for Eli for not um addressing this this situation. One more reference, um just one chapter over, verse uh chapter three, verse thirteen For I have told them that I am about to judge his house forever. Oh, forever for the iniquity which he knew because his sons brought a curse on themselves and he did not rebuke them. So the sin was not in how Hoffney and Phineas ended up. So what I want to say to you parents, right, we We can't control our children's salvation. However, we are certainly going to be accountable for how we raise them, how we discipline them, how we love them. Alright? We will be held accountable for that. So I'm going to make a plug. We have uh two parenting classes. That we serve here at HBC. Really, they're quite excellent. One is for t um infants, and then we're gonna have another one start up toddlers to teens in the probably October time frame. And it's great in the sense that it's broken The first half really gets into the some of the scriptural principles, the philosophy of parenting, and really a focus on getting after the heart. Not the behavior but the heart. And then the second half is really some practical application on how to do that. Parenting is hard, right? But we will be held accountable. So I just encourage you if you are in that position where you have children Or if you know of somebody through your small group or anyone else in the church, um even even outside of the church, we we can offer help, so just keep that in mind. Very, very important. Comment? I'm pausing because I I would love to back it up. with proof text to give you but but I think the major theme is to know uh like the law was presented right in in when you look at the Shema it's you are to pass down the law. That's what they mean by knowing the Lord. Knowing the law I would imagine that they had heard the father teaching. If he did teach him that so the the question would not be that they didn't have they haven't worked in the mission book, rather that they did not obey what they had heard. That's that's a potential, yes. That that's fair um uh Uh Henry, I'll I'll buy that. But along with this knowledge is the instruction from Eli. And I would argue that he did not do his due diligence in ensuring the application of that word. on Eli, uh certainly the two of them, right? They they're accountable for their own sin. But Eli clearly in scripture, we just read it, is being held accountable for not doing what he was supposed to be doing. But I I like how you you kind of parse that out. I think that's fair. They probably heard again and again and again, right? But it was the application, the the discipline of ingraining that into their minds, if you will. Doug. Um there I I think and I don't know I kinda just did the same thing as you did, we're just Like we stop and then think about this, but uh there's uh the guy in the Old Testament in the who walked with God and was no more, whose name is Enoch, and there's you know, Noah. seem to know God also. And Abraham seems to know God and has faith in Moses especially. Because God says to Moses, I speak to him face to face, I relate to him like nobody else. And then It's David and it says that he's at the end after God's own apart again sets him apart also in that that's kind of the opposite of what's going on here with Eli Eli's sons. And I I get the sense that that also would then apply to us from the standpoint of God inviting us to go and hear to him and to abide in him as well. Those kinds of things would fit into s how we also nowadays approach God and know who God is. And I think that potentially fits in with Proverbs where it talks about the fear of the Lord. Um potentially all of that Knowledge of who God is is to understand who He is and to respect Him and to honor Him and fear Him and love Him. Like those examples that we have in Scripture. Um I you bring up a good point, you know, many of the the giants that we studied whose names are in the hall of faith, right? They knew God in a different way and it says they had faith. Right. So there is that distinction, um, Henry, but I I think um in this case it was they didn't know God in that way for sure. But it was uh Eli's responsibility to pass on that instruction. And even today, right, we can we can share the word to our children Day after day after day. But if it's not integrated with you know, walking them through that, applying scripture, that that's a responsibility that we have. I I think that's the point I want you to walk away with there. Okay. Yes. Um I think the one point I would point out is that you see the like a priest's job was in some way to teach the people what God's word was to walk the fires. And there's just kind of over the course of judges this complete lack of knowledge like basic knowledge about what the law requires on the part of everyday people. So like when an angel comes to stand some parents, they're like, What what is we don't know how to do this. And yet it was clearly written in the law. So I think it's probably worth noting that Eli had a job not just to teach his sons but also the people in in general. Great point. And it seems like that was failing to happen to the point that his sons were flagrantly flouting the law and nobody seemed to know how to respond to that. Yeah. That's a great great point. point. And we saw that repeatedly in judges, right? The cycle of sin and where in just one generation they forgot the law, right? It they they did not carry on that responsibility. I I gotta keep going. Let me keep going here guys. Great, great discussion. Love it. Um we can come back if there's some other questions about that. All right, so that was kind of that compare and contrast between uh t two styles of parenting, if you will. So now we have Samuel with Eli. Let me just kind of quick summary of what's going on. You know the story. Growing up in the tabernacle, Samuel one night mistook the voice of God for the voice of Eli on three occasions. Realizing the source of the voice, Eli instructed Samuel Just how he should respond to God's call, which Samuel did. The following morning, Eli urged Samuel to relate God's message Sadly, the old man learned it concerned his future as a father. So there were consequences, of course, for his lack of parenting or his poor parenting. Okay, so now there's a situation where The Philistines are are now attacking Israel. Alright, and that's the next scene that we have here. And so Eli sitting on his chair by the side of the road in Shiloh He's awaiting the news of what's happening during this battle. And what happened is the Israelites went out with some folks. Um it wasn't going well, so they said, Hey, let's bring the ark with us. So now the the Ark of the Covenant is now on the front line. So that's the if you will. Sitting on his chair by the side of the road in Shiloh, awaiting news concerning the battle between Israel and the Philistines. Soon after a runner appeared and gave the tragic report. Israel had lost the battle. In addition, Eli's two sons, Hophne and Phineas, were dead, as prophesies. And in more concerning, the Ark of the Covenant had been captured by the Philistines. So now you had the the Ark of the Covenant, right, where God was residing, now in the hands of the enemy. Upon hearing this, Eli fell backwards. So he's sitting on his chair. I can think of like a barstool chair, right? He's sitting down there, he he hears the news and he falls backwards, cracks his neck, and dies. That's what happened to Eli, 98 years old. Forty years he was judged. However, let's let's pause and and look at this um idea of the covenant now being in the hands of the Philistines. If you go over to Samuel, first Samuel chapter five. 1 Samuel chapter 5. Now the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer to Ashgod. Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it to the house of Dagon. And set it by Dagon. So that was their false god that they were worshiping. When the Eshadadites arose early the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground. Before the ark of the Lord. So they took Dagon and set him in his place again. You can imagine the scene, right? You wake up, it's like, what? How did that just happen? And I I it's almost a little bit amusing, God's like You don't want to mess with me. Knocks it over. So they pick 'em back up. But when they arose early the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of the Lord. And the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off on the threshold. Only the trunk of Dagon was left to him. Therefore neither the priests of Dagon nor all who entered Dagon's house tread on the threshold of Dagon and Ashod to this day. Now the hand of the Lord was heavy on the Ashadites, and he ravaged them and smote them with tumors, both Ashad and its territories. When the men of Ashad saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel must not remain remain with us, for his hand is severe on us and on Dagon and God. They're like, We got to get rid of this thing. So they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines to them and said, What shall we do with the ark of God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark Shall the God of Israel be brought around to Gath, and they brought the ark of the God of Israel around. And it came about that after they had brought it around, the hand of the Lord was against the city with very great confusion, and he smote the men of the city, both young and old, so that tumors broke out on them. So they sent the Ark of God to Ekron. All right, we're not going to keep this thing. Move it on. And it happened as the Ark of God came to Ekron that the Ekronites cried out saying, They have brought the Ark of God Words getting out, right? Then they sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines and said, Send away the ark of God of Israel, and let it return to its own place, that it may not kill us and our people. People, for there was a deadly confusion throughout the city. The hand of God was very heavy there. So they do. They return it to um the Israelites, but guess what? The first place it went, the Israelites are like, hmm. And they actually look inside the wheel. And so God punished them. There was a plague that happened. And then they moved it farther north and then it were good. Things are stable now. But it is now back in the hands of the Israelites. So yes, they stole the ark, but but God said, Okay And he said, I am more powerful than you. Okay, so that is Eli. Good discussion on Eli. Now we're going to transition right to Samuel. Samuel was not only the last judge, but he was also a prophet. So we talked about Hannah, his mother. We went through that story, and there's a note here. He became the second of two famous Old Testament Nazarites, Samuel. was the first like we had discussed. After he was weaned, Hannah dedicated him in the tabernacle. So there he was at at uh Shiloh with the the tabernacle. His calling, right, as we talked about a a prophet. Samuel, like Jesus in the New Testament, grew in stature and in favor with God. and men. So Samuel began a very fruitful ministry as a prophet. People know him as judge, but often forget that he is a prophet. So Samuel led Israel in a great revival. as it says there on the slide. He ordered the people to assemble at Mizpah. The Philistines attacked this assembled crowd, but were restored by God. So God's certainly showing his favor with Samuel He also had a responsibility, you can see the map there in the the bottom right, he went on a circuit, uh a circuit riding ministry, if you will, traveling from Bethel to Gilgal to Mizbah with his responsibility of judging Alright, so he went on this circuit um to to fulfill his responsibility as judge in Israel. As we know, he is going to anoint the first king of Israel. Saul and we're going to get into that and as well as the second King David. So we're going to be in this transition period. But I did want to highlight, you see at the bottom there, um I love where we see Old Testament characters who are referenced in the Old Testament. And so if you want to turn uh specifically to Acts 3, we'll cover one of those. I'm not going to cover all of them, but Acts three. Acts three. So what so Peter and John had just healed the lame beggar. That's the context that's going on here. And I'll pick it up in uh verse eleven And while he was clinging to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them at the so-called Porticle of Solomon, full of amazement. But when Peter saw this, he replied to the people, Men of Israel Why do you marvel at this? Or why do you gaze at us as if by our own power or piety we made him walk? The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus. the one whom you delivered up, and disowned in the presence of Pilate when he had decided to release him. But you disown the Holy and Righteous One, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you But put to death the Prince of Life, the one whom God raised from the dead, a fact to which we are witnesses. And on the basis of faith in his name, it is the name of Jesus which has strengthened this man. whom you see and know. And the faith which comes through him has given him this perfect health in the presence of you all. And now, brethren, I know that you acted in ignorance, just as your rulers did also. But the things which God announced before Beforehand, by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ should suffer, he is thus fulfilled. Repent, therefore, in return, that your sins may be wiped away, in order that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord. The Lord, and that He may send Jesus the Christ appointed for you, whom heaven must receive until the period of restoration, all the things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from ancient time. Jesus said, The Lord God shall raise up for you a prophet like me from your brethren. To him, who is referring to Jesus, you shall give heed in everything he says to you. And it shall be that every soul that does not heed that prophets shall be utterly destroyed from among the people. And here's the reference to Samuel. And likewise all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and his successors onward, also announce these days It is you, it is us guys, who are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham And in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So Peter here is, you know, relaying the importance, if you will, that has been carried down through the ages from the prophets, including Samuel, of this coming Messiah. Messiah. He has come, right? And he says, You must repent. So Samuel, again, the prophet in this lineage. So again, I think it's always neat to to see that reference in the New Testament. And of course, Samuel is what? He's in the hall of faith. Hebrews 11. 32. We won't go there, but we've covered that. Alright, so Samuel. So now last judge. And now we're in this period of transition. uh to the monarch, to the kings. And so if you get anything from today that really this is the theme I want you to walk away with is this transition period, if you will. So the condition. God sets the condition. We covered this in Exodus nineteen. Basically if you keep my covenant, then I will be your God or your king, and you will be my people Right? He was setting apart a people for himself. He was to be their king. He was to be their God. And we covered this in Deuteronomy, so I want to go back there. If you remember, um Moses in his second sermon was talking about What was going to happen with the king. So let's go back there to Deuteronomy. Because we want to create this thread, if you will. We want to pull this thread of what's happening with kingship and why is it happening. Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy 17. So God sets the condition as we just talked about. Deuteronomy 17, starting in 14, and I'm sure this will come back to you as we covered it a couple weeks ago. This is Moses speaking to the people. When you Enter the land which the Lord your God gives you, and you possess it and live in it, and you say, I will set a king over me, like all the nations who are around me. You shall surely set a king over you whom the Lord your God chooses. So yes, they're gonna get a king. God's gonna God's gonna do that. So he knows this needs to happen. We we know that the people need a righteous king, and you're gonna see this evolution of what happens Okay? For you shall surely set a king over you whom the Lord your God chooses. One from among your countrymen you shall set as king over yourselves. You may not put a foreigner over yourselves who is not your countryman. Moreover, and here's the characteristics that will be necessary for this king, he shall not multiply horses for himself Nor shall he cause the people to return to Egypt to multiply horses, since the Lord has said to you, you shall never again return that way. Neither shall he multiply wives for himself, lest his heart turn away, nor shall he greatly increase silver and gold for himself. So this year we're hearing about a very humble king not lording it over them. Now it shall come about when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself a copy of this law on a scroll in the presence of the Levitical priest. And it shall be with him, and he shall read it. That his heart may not be lifted up above his countrymen And that he may not turn aside from the commandment to the right or to the left, in order that he and his sons may continue long in the kingdom in the midst of Israel. We will see, I think, next week, and to the comment earlier, that that law was lost. Right? And we're gonna see one of the kings is gonna find they're gonna uncover the scrolls, if you will, and he's most likely going to come across this passage and it's just gonna stir his heart. Right? He comes back to this as King, this is what I'm supposed to be doing. So be watching for that next week. Okay? Alright, so that's that's um the proclamation if you you will, that yes, they are going to ask for a king. But this is how the king should be. These are the characteristics, the attributes that the king should have. Yes, Angela. So when we look at Judges and there's that repetitive verse that basically says, There is no king in Israel, is that reflecting on the rejection of God as their king or is that comparative to the other nations that surround us for a typical thing. Because um my theory is is as we talked about, we don't see the lineage of Joshua because there's a transition happening. And he says, I'm gonna let the nations be problem for you during this time period, right? So that you you can see your sin, you can see your need for a king. So I think it's just highlighting the fact that you don't have that king and there's a lot of instability because of it. Right? Now they're gonna act We're going to see. They're going to ask for a king, but it's for the wrong motive. They absolutely need a righteous king. That's what this is pointing to. But there's this interim period where they're going to get kings and they're not all going to be great. Does that help? Okay. Great question. Alright. Let's go over to 1 Samuel 8. So we see the condition, the proclamation there in Deuteronomy, and now we're getting to, no kidding, them demanding a king. 1 Samuel chapter 8. And it came about when Samuel was old that he appointed his sons judges. Now you might say, wait a minute, I thought there were only fourteen judges. True, he appointed their sons. He appointed. The fourteen were God appointed. Alright, that's the difference. And we're going to see another example of some Some poor parenting. So they were appointed as sons, uh his sons judges over Israel. Now the name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judging in Beersheba. His sons, however, did not walk in his ways, but turned aside after dishonest gain, and took bribes and perverted justice. So again, they were probably knowledgeable of the word, like you were saying, Henry, and yet they turned aside. just like Eli's sons. And where was Samuel in all this? Right? We don't have a lot of detail. Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Rama And they said to him, Behold, you have grown old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint a king for us to judge us like all the nations. But the thing was displeasing in the sight of Samuel when they said And Samuel prayed to the Lord. And the Lord said to Samuel, Listen to the voice of the people in regard to all that they say to you. For they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them. Like all the deeds which they have done since the day that I brought them up from Egypt, even to this day And that they have forsaken me and served other gods, so they are doing to you also. Now then listen to their voice However, you shall solemnly warn them and tell them of the procedure of the king who will reign over them. So we just read in Deuteronomy what a righteous king or a A good king was supposed to look like. And now he's going to give a warning. Right? Let me read this and then I'll get to you, Dan. Alright, so here's the warning. You want a king? I'll give you a king. Your motives are wrong. Here's what's gonna happen. So Samuel spoke all the words of the Lord to the people who had asked him of a king. Asked of him a king. And he said, This will be the procedure of the king who will reign over you. He will take your sons and place them for himself in the world. The chariots and among his horsemen, and they will run before his chariots, so basically conscription into the army. And he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and of fifties, and some to do his ploughing, and to reap his harvest, and to make make his weapons of war and equipment for his chariots, so slaves basically. He will also take your daughters for performers and cooks and bakers, and he will take the best of your fields and your vineyards and your olive groves and give them to his servants. And he will take a tenth of your seed and of your vineyards and give to his officers and to his servants, so he's going to tax them. He will also take your male servants and your female servants and your best young men and your donkeys and use them for his work. He will take a tenth of your flox and and you yourselves will become his servants. Then you will cry out in that day because of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves, but the Lord will not answer you in that day Nevertheless, the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel. And they said, No, but there shall be a king over us that we also may be like all the nations, that our ma king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. Now after Samuel had heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the Lord's hearing And the Lord said to Samuel, listen to their voice and appoint them a king. So Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his city. Very understandable for some for people to want a leader. Right? God appoints and gives us leaders, but you can see their motives are are absolutely wrong here, focusing on the nations around them. But they've gone through this very long period of again these cycles of sin without having a a cycle. solid stable ruler uh put in place. Dan, did you have a question? Yeah, I I don't have more context on that. I think that's a great question. Um and and the word doesn't really give us a lot of insight. Was was the the right step to remove or they were to sta stay there but they had to be disciplined? It's a great question and I don't know. We don't see it in Sam the case with Samuel. We don't see the consequences for Samuel like we did with Eli per se. But it's just a note of reference I think tying back to our role as parents. But Diana, it's a good question. I don't think I have more context other than what we glean from the word. So, you know, should he should the right step have been to remove them? We'd like to think yes, but I uh again to your point, according to the law I don't know if that was possible. I just don't know. Comment. Well, I'd like to kind of cut out the uh UI sense was reached and single sense was not. Correct. Two separate job. Yeah. And it does seem like Samuel's life as a whole operated very differently than his life did based on what we have. So it might also just be the culmination of, you know, a life of service to God that makes sense. Yeah. Um I think that's a good point. I I would say both positions are so cr you know incredibly important at the time, um, priest and judge. It's a great question. Um I I think we can just start to surmise at that point, but I think the theme I want you to walk away with is just our role and responsibility as parents and you see the consequences, even with these giants, these giants of the faith, right? We're still human beings. They still they still sin. Yes, Samuel is mentioned in the Hall of Faith. In the Hall of Faith. Eli not. Eli not. Correct. Correct. And we're actually gonna we're gonna get to that point and when we uh cover the book of uh Psalms. So I gotta get moving here. Alright. We are on to Saul the first king Saul was from the tribe of Benjamin. As you probably remember, he was very tall and equally impressive. It's kind of like you know Pastor Gabe walking in the room. Hard for him to hide, isn't it? He was sent by his father to look for some donkeys that had strayed away, and after a few futile search, Saul determined to return home lest his father begin to worry about him. Saul's servant, however, suggested they ask Samuel, the seer, the prophet, who lived in a nearby town, if he could help them. At the same time, God was talking to Samuel And he said, On the previous day, God had told Samuel he would send a man to the prophet from the tribe of Benjamin within twenty-four hours. Samuel was to anoint this man as Israel's first King. At the meeting of the two men, God revealed to Samuel that Saul was the one. Samuel greeted and astonished Saul. So you can imagine Saul getting the news from Samuel. I found your donkeys And you're gonna be the king. Shocking. What we see though is that the beginning of his reign on On three separate occasions, Saul demonstrated great humility and seemed actually reluctant to assume the throne. When Samuel first told him he was God's choice to be king, Saul replied, Am not I a Benjamite of the smallest of the tribes of the Israel and my family, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Wherefore then speakest thou so to me? Kinda how like Moses responded initially, right? When it came time to be crowned, Saul disappeared and hid himself again. He tried to hide the wall. within the crowd, but he towered above most people of his day. When he became established in power, Saul displayed a merciful spirit, refusing the request to punish those who had previously ridiculed him. So he started out a very You know, humble, righteous man, if you will, um kind of aligning with what we just read in Deuteronomy, right, of what a good king should look like. However, that did not last very long And um in the notes here it talks about uh basically five areas that he showed some very grievous sins, and we'll cover those um uh kind of skimming the top, if you will. He was guilty of disobedience. Both before and after a battle. Before, Saul was instructed to wait for Samuel and Gilgal for seven days. at which time the prophet would appear, sacrifice an offering, and blessed the troops. Well got to seven days and Samuel had not appeared. At the end of the seven days the impatient king offered up the sacrifice himself, only to see Samuel appear. So maybe there's some pride that's uh flowing into to Saul at this time. Took matters into his old hands. Samuel told Saul two tragic things would result from his act of disobedience. His kingdom would not endure, and And God had sought out a man after his own heart. How'd you like to hear those words? All right? God is already planning the next king. Now after the battle, so he goes on, he does his battle, um, and the king of Israel Set aside the God of Israel, pride again. Saul was commanded to utterly destroy the Amalekites and their king because of past hostility against Israel. Not even their animals were to be spared Saul disobeyed, however, sparing Agag, the Amalekite king, plus the best of the sheep and cattle. He was wise in his own eyes. Alright, another area uh is self will. He was guilty of self-will. Again, another battle. Saul forbade his soldiers as they went into battle against the Philistines to eat any food whatsoever until he had exacted full revenge upon his enemies. So he's saying you guys can't eat. He's trying to motivate them, right? Wrong motivation. Don't eat anything until we seek revenge. The hero of this battle, his son, Jonathan, unaware of the order ate some honey. Upon learning that Jonathan what Jonathan had done, the self willed Saul ordered his execution of his own son. However, the Israelite soldiers refused to allow the death of Jonathan. God's protection. Another area was his hatred. He loathed David, right? Saul that killed himself and he was a man. That's it. The people honor David more than Saul He became extremely, extremely jealous. So his attempts were both private. He began by demoting David from high ranking army officer to a lower rank He attempted to kill him on two occasions with a spear. Uh he tried to arrange for David to be killed in battle. He put pressure on his own son Jonathan, you know all these stories. But right privately trying to take out um David. Am I got some echo here? So private but also publicly he attempts, right? And and we We know those stories of trying to take out David again. It's just incredible. So hatred, hatred, hatred for David. Another area is murder. At the King's Order, Ahimelech, Israel's high priest, Ahimelech, um, yeah, the high priest, along with eighty-four other priests. Plus all the men, women, children, and livestock at Nob were put to the sword in a bloody massacre. And why? Because Saul had learned that Ahimelech had innocently befriended David. Again, that ties back to what we just talked about, his hatred for David. He ends up killing the high priest and eighty-four other priests. A slaughter. And lastly he is guilty of of apostasy. So the context, um, he was faced with a vast and imminent Philistine invasion. So a lot of his time with Saul was against the Philistines. So that was the context. A big invasion coming. The prophets could not offer him advice. and the Lord would not offer him advice or assurance. So what does he do? He goes and he counsels a witch. Disguising himself, Saul visited the witch and requested that she put him in contact with the dead Samuel. Uh Don't have time to go into that, but he does hear from Samuel, and Samuel says uh says this that Saul would lose the battle the next day. Both he and his sons would be killed And the kingdom then would go to David. All this would happen because of Saul's disobedience. Finally, the battle takes place, and he is going to die during the battle with the Philistines on Mount Gilbal. Um the method, he was critically wounded during battle, and instead of uh wanting to be captured and maybe tortured, he decides to commit suicide and he basically falls on his sword And he dies. Philistines cut off his head, his body is nailed on the city wall as a as a symbol of what they can do And his body was later recovered by the men and given a decent burial. But catch this. All that Saul had done to David, upon hearing of Saul's death David lamented over him. Doesn't that show you the precious heart of David? Um, can you think of uh uh someone in the New Testament also from the tribe of Benjamin? Famous person, Paul Saul, Paul, Saul, Paul, another Saul. Really neat comparison here between the two Sauls. The Old Testament Saul was tall and impressive. Paul in the New Testament was short and unimpressive. Both were from the tribe of Benjamin. Saul began as God's friend but ended as God's enemy. Paul began as God's enemy. And ended as God's friend. Saul in the Old Testament went to the witch in the hour of death. Paul went to the Word in the hour of of death. Saul took his own life in great fear. Paul gave his own life with great expectation. And then Saul from the Old Testament was characterized by disobedience Saul or uh Paul was characterized by obedience. So I thought that was a pretty neat comparison, if you will, between the two Sauls, both from the tribe of Benjamin Alright, so we move on to David. David, the second king, also from the tribe of Judah. So he was Jesse's youngest son, I'm reading from the slide here, um, appointed as the next king. Um from the time of his appointing first from Samuel to when he would actually become king was actually uh a gap of about fifteen years, so it wasn't an immediate thing. As you know Well he started out as a servant of Saul. He was the armor bearer, he was the musician, um playing the harp, removing the ear evil spirits from Saul. You all know the story about David and Goliath And the passion of David at this point, right? He knew the word. It was passed down to him. He was trained. The same God who delivered me from those animals will deliver me from this one. David is persecuted by Saul, we talked about that, and forms this very special friendship that we see in the Bible between him and Jonathan. So he it started out though, how this plays out is he initially became king over just one tribe Judah, and he was king for about seven and a half years. It was one of Saul's sons that took over the eleven uh the eleven other tribes. Alright, so that's the context of what's happening here. Eventually, though, he became king over all the tribes. So now you have no kidding and installed king over all the tribes in David. Alright, so let me pick up with some of the uh summary here. So that's the context. So so he now is king over all the twelve tribes and he's gonna set up shop in Jerusalem. Right, it's gonna be kind of his final resting place. At the time, um the Jebusites were defenders of Jerusalem and had ridiculed David's plan to take the city. David promised that the first Israelite soldier to enter s enter the city would become his military leader And so that's how that played out. Um and and we also now see the Ark of God was in Israel, but it is now returning to Jerusalem. That's where David is setting up shop in Jerusalem. He's bringing now the ark. You know the tabernacle's gone. It was probably destroyed in war Right? And you know the Philistines took the Ark of the Covenant, it was brought back to Israel, and now David said, Hey, let's bring it up to Jerusalem. That's where I want it to camp out. You know the story though is that was happening uh Uzah's uh Uzahs touched it, right, and and he died because of that. Okay, so that a tragic story, but again pointed to um you know, the sovereignty and omnipotence of of God. And the holiness. So now the ark comes here in in what does David want to do? He wants to build a temple. He wants to build a house For God. After defeating all his enemies, David proposed to build a temple to house the Ark of the Covenant. Now, his um his trusted agent, if you will, Nathan, the prophet, encouraged David to do this. So he was getting encouragement. However, that That very night God revealed to Nathan in a vision that it was not his will for David to build a temple, because he had shed so much blood in war. However, what God was going to do was establish a covenant. And that's where we get um the Davidic covenant. All right, and I don't have time to go if we do have time to go back to it we will. But we've talked about the Abrahamic covenant and the three elements, the blessing, the descendants, the land. We talked about um the land piece of that, an extension, if you will, of the Abrahamic covenant, right in the uh Palestinian covenant, which we covered in Deuteronomy. We talked about the Mosaic covenant in Exodus and now in 2 Samuel 7 It is the Davidic covenant. And this is where he says, Your throne will be established forever. So critical, critical covenant. God would make David's name great, his son Solomon would succeed him and build the temple, and then David's kingdom would would be established forever. Alright? The Davidic covenant. Alright, so now David is established as king and now we see this um expanding of the nation. You know, we're creating this stabilization with the king and now he's expanding. So his military conquest. Um I'll just highlight him. Um he he defeats the Philistines, the Moabites, the Aramaeans, the Edomites, the Ammonites The Syrians, all the ites, get defeated, right? I'm not going to cover it, but we know the tragedy of his sin, right? His adultery with uh Bathsheba. But what is critical is what happens after that. There are consequences for his sin. And I'll just touch on him. His first son dies with Bathsheba. Amnon his son deceives his half sister, son of David and half brother to Tamar, David's daughter, burned in his lust acting upon the advice of a crafty friend, he schemes to be with uh Tamar and he actually rapes her. He defiles her and and basically pushes her out. Absalom, another son, is uh livid. right that that he would do this. So he he conspires and actually kills um Amnon. And then Absalom flees. So after a four year period of preparation, Absalom went to the city of Hebron So he's also in rebellion. So he's also rebelling now against David the king. So very much a mess Exactly. So in his dying days he instructs his son Solomon to be anointed as king. And again he is mentioned in the Hall of Fa Alright, I'm trying to get to here, so we do have about five or six minutes left, and I want to cover that because it's important. So go ahead and open your Bibles, and and we may have to do this as an exercise, or or you can do this as The Psalms, just so so beautiful. As you know on day lesson one, um I had this trivia, the most quoted Old Testament book. It's Psalms Right, as you can imagine. David is the author of about half of it, so roughly 75 of the 150 Psalms, numerous messianic references. Uh I called out Psalm 22, but there are many. Maybe hard to see, but the the chart as at the bottom there does a really good job I think of showing um how it's divided up so basically five books of Psalm um and and there's a likeness if you will to the Pentateuch. It's not that they were written during that time period but the the the attitude, if you will, of what was happening with the people comes out um in a likeness to these periods. So that's how that is um formatted. And then there's actually a doxology at the end of each of those uh periods which is which is need to see. But what I wanted to say, and this is coming from the Wilmington book, is this this little commentary here. There's a section called the Devotional Psalms, roughly 70 Psalms, and this is a quote from the commentary. He Here the naked soul of man is manifested as perhaps in no other writings. Is that not true? You get the full emotions, feelings of mankind, of some of these leaders, certainly David, as you look through. The Psalms. If you are ever struggling with anything, rejoicing, struggling, questioning, you need to be in the Psalms. The Psalms need to be a very important part of your Bible reading. It shows the human humanness of some of these great leaders and the interaction with a God who is personal. Right? One popularly held misconception about the Bible is that its heroes were in some ways superior to other men. Absolutely. Absolutely nothing could be further from the truth. They were at times overwhelmed with despair as the sons and daughters of Adam are today. And we've covered a lot of those men, right? And we've covered a lot of those situations. So what I thought would be neat if you open up to And let's just follow David, right, as as we've covered all of this time period. Let's cover David and just get a sense of his heart and his attitude and what's happening as we pull this thread. So Psalm eight, go to Psalm eight. This is written after his victory at Goliath uh over Goliath. So this is the whole David and Goliath account. And again, as I read this, I want you to think of there is David praying or rejoicing. What kind of attitude, what kind of demeanor does he have? O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is thy name in all the earth. Who has displayed thy splendor above the heavens? From the mouth of infants and nursing babes thou hast established strength Because of thine adversaries, to make the enemy and the revengeful cease. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained What is man that thou dost take thought of him? And the son of man that thou dost care for him. Yet thou hast made him a little lower than God And dost crown him with glory and majesty, thou dost make him to rule over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet. All sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes through the path of the seas, O Lord our Lord, how majestic is thy name. in all the earth. Just shout off out of for me one word. What what are some characteristics or thoughts when you when you listen to that prayer of David? Majesty. Majesty is a great one. Power Sovereignty, holiness, right? You can just see David shouting out, You are the God of the universe right after the victory. And I'm struck by what you said. This was written after the battle with Goliath and how young David Yeah, yeah, great, great point. Alright, so that's Psalm 8. Alright, I want to do this. I I had several steps that I wanted to walk through here. If you just want to jot a note, Psalm 63 Written when he is fleeing from Saul. So you see a very different demeanor now, right, as he's fleeing from Saul. And again I want to show you some just different viewpoints of of David as he walks through his life here. Psalm 101 Written to celebrate the capture of Jerusalem. So now he is here. He's the the king over the twelve tribes, and uh Jerusalem is going to be the main city. Psalm 89, written after receiving the Davidic covenant, which we just covered. Psalm 51, written in regard to his sin of adultery and murder. So I know you're all familiar with that one, but just this. contrite, broken um spirit and yet he recognizes who he is in the Lord. I I really encourage you as homework, go and review Psalm fifty one. It is precious, precious, precious. And then I was going to end with Psalm seven seventy two written as a prayer before his son Solomon. So again that kind of flows you through the the life of David. But as homework I want you to go and review Psalm fifty one. Okay? And we are out of time. I would just add this. Also in the Psalms, like I said, lot of references to Jesus Christ, talking about his betrayal, his resurrection, his ascension, and his millennial reign. Woof! Alright, let's close in prayer