Good morning. Scottish minister and Theologian John Knox said, I have never once feared the devil, but I tremble every time I enter the pulpit. And I pray that even in application to what John Knox said, I have to wonder if when we come to church to hear the Word of God, if we tremble the same way. And I pray that every time this book is opened, that we would just get a glimpse of Christ's sovereignty, that we would tremble because it's God speaking. It's his word that we want to hear. Let's pray. Oh Lord. May your word awaken and glow in the hearts of your people Help us this morning, O God, to get a glimpse of you. Resurrect our hearts. This morning. May your truth thunder from the pulpit. May your truth thunder and resonate in our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. What do you say to a world in chaos? What do you say to a world who's lost for compass? What do you say to a world seemingly without direction? A world on the downgrade. What do you say? A world where factions inhabit the heart of men, taking their pleasure against said people group. Or stay lording it over one another, hating one another for a myriad of reasons Confusion inhabits this planet. Confusion inhabits the unregenerate heart. And I think you can smell where it comes from. I have an answer for you, my friend. I have an answer for you. I have a message of hope And it's a solution that's been forged from the days of eternity. One Christ, one cross, one blood. Hope Bible Church, my friends Without the Christ to reconcile, sin is an unconquerable resident evil in the heart of man, and you cannot possibly save it To devour or dethrone such a powerful foe who has rendered you dead. Thomas Watson describes our fallen condition as a nursery for sin. And when it grows and it germinates unconstrained, it will engulf you and it will overtake you and it will kill you. Sending you into a bed of unquenchable hellfire. But I have a reminder for you Church, a hope for you, O unregenerate one who may be here. This morning. O world in so in need of reconciliation. One Christ. One cross One blood. A Christ to redeem from the marketplace. Turn to Luke chapter 7, if you will. Luke chapter 7. I want to sort of use this as an illustration, and you'll see the point pretty soon. Understand by way of backdrop that Christ is talking to the people of his day as well as the Pharisees. Who were unceasingly critical to his ministry. They were always looking for a way to put a stop to his ministry. They were always looking for a way to put a stop to his gospel message. And Jesus just Looks at them. He sees the incessant nature of their hearts. He sees their unregenerate condition. And he says this in verse 31. He says, To what then shall I compare the men of this generation? I mean, what are they like? Verse thirty-two. They're like Children, children who sit in the marketplace and call to one another. And they say, we played the flute for you and you didn't dance. We sang a dirge and you didn't weep In other words, this people were acting like petulant kids. We played the kind of music for you in which you are to celebrate and to rejoice. But you didn't dance. And when it was a season for mourning and for tears, and there was a song for that too. But you didn't even grieve. He didn't even cry. And then you can see the point in verses thirty-three to thirty-five. For John the Baptist has come, eating no bread. Drinking no wine. And you say he has a demon? The Son of Man has come Eating and drinking, and you say, behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners Good wisdom is vindicated by all her children. But the punchline is this. He says, John the Baptist's ministry was one of mourning. He didn't eat. He didn't drink. He preached repentance for the forgiveness of sins. But you didn't mourn over your sins You thought he was crazy in the wilderness. Because only demon-possessed people go in the wilderness. Only madmen go in the wilderness. You thought he was demon-possessed And here I come to you with a ministry of rejoicing, of eating and drinking. A proclamation of the kingdom of God and to repent for the forgiveness of sins People rejoicing over their loved ones being raised from the dead as a testimony to who I am. And all you can conclude about my ministry is that my power is from Satan. And I am a drunk Am I McGarton? That's what you concluded? Perpetual children you are Running around in an unredeemed marketplace. You are never, ever satisfied. Never You can't satisfy. Wherever I go, whatever I do, I raise the dead, you're not satisfied with that. You're not satisfied with John the Baptist's ministry, and you are not satisfied with my ministry. Oh, my friend, fallen is this world, is it not? That we live in, think about it, occupied by a marketplace of ideologies A marketplace of philosophical thoughts and creeds and systems, full of the vanities of this world. Oh, they are not satisfied. And inscribed in our person bears the earmarks of a fallen condition stamped by a curse motif. And it's it's uh I don't know, it's a leprosy that cleaves to our soul. No wonder, no wonder why nothing can ever Satisfied because you haven't denied yourself. Mark eight Chapter 34 verse 36 it says, if anyone, Christ said, would come after me, let him what? Let him deny him self and take up what? His cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. So what will it what does it profit a man to gain the whole world to have everything And forfeit his soul. Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? And in an unredeemed marketplace they will give everything. For their soul. They will get everything completely devoid Of redemption. They will give it all. Hollywood will give it all. The actor and the actresses under redeemed will give it all. The unregenerate heart will give it away. They will give it all. They will forsake Christ. Doesn't matter what he says, doesn't matter what he does, doesn't matter what he He will accomplish, they will give it away. They will give it away John Piper says this. This is an interesting quote. He says that the call for self-denial teaches The pursuit of the satisfaction in God. He says the reason, this is his quote here Which is John Piper. The reason we have to take up our cross and deny ourselves is not because we're liable to have too much pleasure in God. It's because we are so liable to find our pleasures elsewhere. He says this about himself: I am 64 years old, and every day I have to deny myself. The corruption of the human heart doesn't need a conversion story out of drugs. It just needs to look in the mirror at age 70. Where would we be without self-denial? In love with the world, that's where we'd be. Suicidal thoughts and pleasures, that's where we'd be And you will never outgrow the need of that command. Die, Christian, every day! Put to death what is earthly in you. The teaching of Jesus Christ is about self-denial. That is what it teaches you to pursue your joy where it is. Not where it isn't. End quote. That is the problem with our generation. They don't want to deny themselves And some in the church don't want to deny themselves. And I promise you, you can't have two masters. Because Christ bought you. And you belong to him. And your life will be a completely wreck when Christ chases you When he grabs a hold of you, oh Christian, your life will be so uncomfortable. Because He bought you. He purchased you from an unredeemed marketplace because your pleasure is in him It's in him. But the unredeemed world, they don't believe that. They're children running around in a marketplace, never satisfied. I hope you are not like them. A generation of misfits is the world that we live in. A generation of vagabonds is the generation that we live in. In. Just look on TV. We see a generation of vagrants. That's what we live in. We live in a generation of drifters, petulant children. In a fallen marketplace. They are not the enemy church. They are the mission field. They are not the enemy. This marketplace, the authors of scripture so free Frequently, frequently referred to. It's the very marketplace in which Christ came to redeem a slave people for himself One Christ to redeem a people from a fallen condition and an unredeemable mind. One Christ to redeem a people out of racism and her creed. One Christ to redeem a people from immorality and impurity. One Christ to redeem a people from sensuality One Christ came to redeem a people out of idolatry and sorcery. One Christ came to redeem a people from enmity and strife. and jealousy and outbursts of anger and disputes and dissension. Hello, racism? And factions and the envying and drunkenness and carousing. One Christ came to redeem from all of those things. One Christ One cross, one blood One Christ to give his life a ransom for so many in order to see like he sees, don't you see? To think like he thinks, to live as he lived, to know the Christ who sets us free. The word of Christ richly dwelling in us, flowing through our veins And his people walking with a holy glow, shattered with the preparation of the gospel of peace. That's what the world should see. That is what they should see. I see a church here, unified, under one banner. It looks absolutely great. An image of what it's gonna look like in heaven Christ transferring us over from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his beloved Son, Jesus my Redeemer Name above all names, precious Lamb of God, Messiah, hope for sinners Slain. One Christ to redeem. One Christ to redeem Let's not forget about the cross. Let's not forget about the cross. One Christ to redeem. One cross. Cross One cross to reconcile. Turn to Romans chapter five Time would fail me to go through the many passages of Scripture regarding the supremacy of our Christ. Time would fail me. For if while we were enemies We were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled We shall be saved by his life. And not only this, but we also exalt in God Through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. Reconciliation means to make peace with God. It means to make peace with God. Peace with God by means of a sacrifice. When our first parents sinned, God no longer walked with man in the cool of the day And man was left in the heat of sin and the wrath of an angry God. And sin has separated You between you and your God. And on that day, God veiled his face And close his ears so that he does not hear your prayers. On that day, God became the enemy of man Unless you are perfect, you cannot enter the kingdom of God Heaven. God became an enemy of man. As one pastor put it, their rest on us demands that we cannot meet, and a curse That we cannot bear. But before the fall, from eternity to eternity. From before the foundations of the earth and the establishment of the heavens, there was a divine plan. A plan of redemption. A covenant plan of redemption. The Father saying to the Son, I will give you a people. I will give you an inheritance from among the nations, from among the nations of the earth. And a body will be prepared for you. And you will be their representative head, and you will live a perfect life of active obedience And you will be a sacrifice on behalf of them. On a cross. To reconcile, to make peace between God and man, to bridge an eternal gap that no fallen man can bridge Save one Christ, one cross. You will die for them, and you will make an actual atonement for them. Being raised from the dead in power. And you will be gloriously exalted, and every knee will bow to you And every tongue will confess that what Jesus Christ is Lord. One Christ, one cross. There have been many events in history that have fueled the overflow of strife that we call racism. Whether it be Adolf Hitler's rage against the Jews, or whether it be a white group of people versus a black group of people, and everywhere in between, it's in every single people. Group, every single people group. In America we are pretty acquainted with the racism in our culture, in our society. On every side. And now the church faces another problem with recent circumstances over in Charlottesville, North Carolina. The entire nation was completely stirred up by thousands of clue, klutz, clan nationalists, and then he had it Antifas to make it work. And running the through the streets that as a result of this kind of activity m t activity, many b people began tearing down Confederate statues, even bearing the name of a Confederate leader was enough to get a person fired from a popular news network program. And I just sat back and was watching this whole thing. I just pondered it all. Just watching. What does the body of Christ do? What does the body of Christ say? Such a world of confusion. Such a world of confusion Is the tearing down of statues a solution to mitigate racism, to mitigate actions, to mitigate strife? These are the things that were going on in my mind. It may be a little, I really can't say. I'm not good at answering those questions. And again, now people groups seemingly from every single corner of the market are debating this issue. And other issues as well. And my concern is not so much the debate itself, I'll be honest with you, it's for the fallen image-bearers who have yet to be reconciled, yet to be resurrected to spiritual life That's my concern. That's where my heart is. I want to see a resurrected heart. Don't you? Because if the human heart doesn't undergo a spiritual transformation, my friends, it will not accept a ransom in which to be satisfied, though you give her many gifts. It will never be enough. It's like a leech with two hooks saying, give, give. It's like the grave that is that never Closes to those who come into her. Come, come, come, come. Christian, without the cross to reconcile, the hearts of men are given fully to do evil. Without the cross to reconcile, strife will always give rise to strife. Racism will always give rise to racism. Factions will always give rise to Conflict will always give rise and give birth to more conflict. That is the nature of the human heart. That is what generates the human heart. called depravity. Without the cross to reconcile, more reformations are merely temporary images without spiritual transformation. Christian, the cross redeems from God's wrath. It redeems you from your fallen condition And when it redeems a person, and when it redeems the people, their mind changes. They see things differently. Completely differently. Robbie Zachariah famously said that the cross of Christ stands as a mystery because it is foreign to everything we exalt. Self over principle. Power over meekness. The quick fix over the long haul. Cover-up over conf Escapism over confrontation, comfort over sacrifice, feeling over commitment, legality over judgment Justice, the body over the spirit, anger over forgiveness, man over God Almighty cross, love lifted high, the Lord of life raised there Die. His sacrifice on Calvary has made the mighty cross a tree of life to me. O mighty cross with throne of grace. He knew no sin yet took our place. His sacrifice on Calvary has made the mighty cross a tree of life to me O mighty cross, O Christ so pure, Love held him there, such shame endured, His sacrifice on Calvary has made the Mighty Cross, a tree of life to me. Almighty Cross, my soul's release, the stripes he bore have brought me peace. His sacrifice on Calvary has made the mighty cross a tree of life to me. And I, Christ said, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men. To myself, of every tribe, of every nation, of every kindred, of every tongue One Christ, one cross Number three. One blood. One blood to what? One blood to atone. Romans three Romans three. Romans three, twenty one It was hard to decide what scripture references to use and when you're preaching on a theme like that. This, but it's God's word, and I pray that it is a benefit to you. Romans 3, 21 to 25. But now, apart from the law The righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God Through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, for there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified as a gift by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. Committed for the demonstration I say of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. God's justice demands a blood sacrifice His character demands that sin be tried. God's holiness demands that blood be shed. So a system of sacrifice was implemented, which could not remove permanently. It was implemented foreshadowing a coming day in which the penalty for sin would be put upon a spotless lamb. One Christ, one cross, one blood. And what do we learn, follower of Christ? We learn that at the proper time the righteousness of God was what? Was manifested? Christ manifested himself as a wrath remover, as an atonement In order to propitiate, to satisfy God's righteous judgment. What is God's righteous judgment? To damn sin. And cast it away into an eternal darkness forever to judge it. And God could have simply executed Adam and Eve For their sin of injustice against their Creator, but what did he do instead? In his kindness. I think Romans 3, in his forbearance, he passed over the sins previously committed. But the days of ignorance are over, you know this. And God is now declaring to all To men that all people everywhere should repent, because he's fixed a time which he will judge the world in righteousness Through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. He made him who knew no sin Sin, sin for us. That we might become the righteousness of God in Him and that, my friend, what Christ has done You know it because you are here this morning, a changed heart, one Christ changed. Change your life. One cross in which he put himself on, and an exchange took place Your sin, his righteousness, applied to your account. One blood to satisfy and appease God's wrath In the blood of all the nations, if they would but repent and turn to Christ. They would receive what you receive. They would have what you would have only by his grace Only by his grace. God, in his design for the church, made it so that all nations would be united under one banner, Ephesians 2, what Pastor Allen. Preached to you this morning. One banner. One banner. It gets rid of factions. It gets rid of racism. It gets rid of strife. And he gave it to us to give it to them. To give it to them. Or maybe you're still struggling. Maybe you're still struggling in your own circumstances in terms of what is going on in our society, and you don't know what to do. Can I offer a suggestion? Preach one Christ. Preach one cross. Preach one blood. It's the only thing that is designed to change blood. Person. It is the only thing that removes a person out of the marketplace of sins. That is what God designed. Man of Sorrows, what a name for the Son of God who came. Ruined sinners to reclaim. Hallelujah! What a savior! Bearing shame and scoffing rude in my place, condemn Condemned he stood. Sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah! What a savior! Guilty, helpless, lost were we, blameless Lamb of God was he Sacrifice to set us free. Hallelujah. What a savior He was lifted up to die. It is finished, was his cry. Now in heaven exalted I! Hallelujah. What a savior. And when he comes, our glorious King, all his ransom home to bring. Then anew the song will sing. What, church? Hallelujah! What a savior! Every banner will sing that. Every banner will say that One Christ, one cross, one blood. It is the only solution, the only way for a people to see everlasting change and when men look up to see the Son of Man, then and only then will kingdoms change. Father in heaven Lord, your loving kindness is better than life. Help our lips, O God, to praise you. Oh Lord, we will bless you as long as we live. We will lift up our hands. In your name, under one banner, under one Christ, under one cross, under one atoning sacrifice Jesus Name