You know, the Bible is a book that tackles the toughest human questions and issues, every one of them. And it gives honest answers. Answers that often offend man, but they are logical, they're consistent. They're solid answers. There are answers that put God as the solution, not man. There are answers that show that man is in desperate need of God. God is not in need of man I want you to imagine one tough issue. Having a child born blind, destined to live a life as a beggar Or imagine being that blind person yourself and experiencing that handicap every single day of your life, never ever having seen any of the things that you've seen. Well, for some people, they don't have to imagine that. That is their lot in life. They are born blind, others become blind later. Certainly, the question why comes to mind. Why Would God allow a child to be born blind? Why does he allow ailments and diseases? It's a tough question, isn't it? It's a tough, tough experience we have when we're dealing with things that are just difficult. Well, today we're going to learn. We're going to learn of the love of God. We're going to learn of the power of God. But here's the one sometimes we have the toughest time with the wisdom of God and how he orchestrates all these things. It's going to point to Jesus as he heals a man, and he is born blind, and yet it points to a greater reality, a blindness that all of us have experienced. Some of you may be experiencing right now And you need to know about Jesus who can open your eyes as well. This is an historical count, and it's found in the Gospel of John, chapter 9. Verses 1 through 41. We're not going to read it up front. We'll read it as we go through it. If you'll open there in your Bibles though now, John 9, verses 1 through 41. It is meant as an historical narrative, but it also illustrates spiritual truth, the truth that only Jesus can remove ultimate spiritual blindness. And pray that God will speak to your heart about this today, whether you believe your eyes are opened or not. The truth of this lesson, this Lesson of Christ opening the eyes of the blind is revealed progressively through three stages of the account. The first stage is the healing itself in verses one through seven. And then the second stage is the testimony. That's the largest portion of the text, verses eight through thirty-four, and then you conclude with the meaning in verses thirty-five to forty-one. The meaning is given by Christ Himself. So we have the healing, the testimony, and then the meaning, the meaning. Let's get into the healing. Look at verse 1. It says, as he passed by He, Jesus, saw a man blind from birth. There's the situation. There's the circumstance. Tough, tough situation. Now this is a continuation of chapter 8, but it's only a vague continuation. We don't know the setting for sure. It was somewhere in Jerusalem. Maybe it was near the temple, since uh beggars often would go near the temple to beg for alms as people came into the temple. And Christ knew all men. He didn't need anyone to tell him this. Maybe someone did, but he knew all men that this man was born blind. And so Jesus purposefully chose this impossible situation. This impossible healing to demonstrate its great power, in this case, over human blindness. Both the physical and the spiritual, as we'll see. Look at verse 2. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents? that he would be born blind. So the disciples are ever in the school of learning, call Jesus a rabbi, following around. They have a question. They're always learning from him. And the question is really to our benefit, why was this man born blind? Now these are the kinds of questions that you want to ask God, right? Why this tragedy? Well, here's a time in Scripture where it's asked and it's answered and it gives us an insight into why God does certain things. In their mind, there had to be a reason and there had to be a just reason for it. It was common Jewish belief that a person was stricken with a disease because of some Sin. And if he was born that way, it very well could have been, and they actually believed you could sin in the womb, but more likely to be a sin from the parents. Otherwise, why would God allow that kind of suffering? Every suffering had to be just in their thinking. But Jesus' answer is not at all what they were expecting. They gave him an either-or. Look at verse 3. Jesus answered. It was neither that this man sinned, nor his parents. Don't give me a false option here, disciples. Don't put me in a false dilemma. It's neither of these. Both parents and blind man were sinners, for sure. It's not denying that. But the purpose for the blindness was not due to any specific sin of theirs or you could then project that back he meant grandparents or great grandparents or whoever. In fact, have you read the book of Job sometime recently? You ought to do that in the summertime, want some extra readings just sit down and read through the book of Job. It's all about suffering. It's all about God's sovereignty and human suffering. And really the one of the major lessons of the book is that people sometimes suffer even greatly and has nothing at all to do with their personal sin. Sin of Adam and the curse on the world, sure enough, but not their personal sin. God is sovereign and he has many purposes for suffering. One of them is his own glory. Which is where he takes a bad circumstance and he turns it into something that is great. And it shows his greater wisdom and his greater power. He outsmarts Satan. He outsmarts every evil person in the world. This, guys, is important theology because there are a lot of people out there that get all of this wrong. They often think that people suffer from terrible diseases or tragic happenings because they have sinned. And they look for a particular sin for which they are being punished. That's not always true. Sometimes it's true. We can read about it that in Scripture too. In Acts chapter 12, it talks about this fellow named King Herod, Agrippa I He uh thought he was a god, voice of a god, and so God struck him with worms and he died. Terrible way to die. He shouldn't have been so proud. Then there was Miriam, sister of Moses. She got proud Does God only speak through Moses? There was Aaron and Miriam. They thought they were something too. God struck Miriam with leprosy and removed it after she repented. David and Bathsheba lost a newborn baby because of their sin, right? And then there was a layman back in John chapter 5. Jesus healed him and said, Behold, you have become well. Do not sin anymore so that nothing worse happens to you. He connected sin. and pain there as well. If you read 1 Corinthians chapter 11, some people were abusing the Lord's Supper, and Paul wrote in that letter, Some of you have gotten sick, and some of you have died, some among you have died, because you took the Lord's Supper wrongly. So that sometimes is the case. That happens, but not always. And it should not be our assumption that in every case that is what has happened. Well, then, what was the reason for this blindness from birth? Look at the last part of verse 3. But it was so that the works of God might be displayed in Him. We must work the works of Him who sent me as long as it is day. Night is coming when no one can work. While I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Remember, he declared just recently in John 8 that he was the light of the world during the feast of dedication there. During the Feast of Boots. Well, here he says, it was so that the works of God might be displayed in this blind man. That is an intriguing and marvelous answer, if you just take time to think about it. He was born blind. Why? So that God might do something special, display his special power in him. Obviously, Jesus knew what he was about to do. And he knew why this man suffered blindness. And he taught his disciples, and you and me as well. God was about to do a mighty miracle. And then Christ adds a word of exhortation to his disciples as he says that, we must work the works of him who sent me, referring to the Father, obviously. Must is the Greek word death, and it it it it means of necessity. It gives the work that they were doing, going around preaching the gospel, of great weight and importance I saw a guy uh working out in the gym and he had on his t-shirt, you know, a sense of urgency. So I can tell how he's working out. But that ought to be our motto as Christians in doing the work of Christ. There ought to be a sense I think in the heat of summer sometimes we forget that. And then we just kind of you know just flake out during the summer and we don't realize that you know every day, week, month, year we have is a gift from God. There should be a sense of urgency. We must be doing the Father's work. There's coming a time when we won't be able to do it anymore. Well God sent Jesus into the world to do that work. You know, he only had a three and a half year ministry, public ministry on this earth So he had to use every bit of time that he could. It shows us once again too that whatever the Son did on earth was really the work of the Father through the Son. And Jesus adds that time frame. He says, we need to do it as long as it's day, because the the night is coming and we won't be able to work anymore. Now day is used figuratively there. He's talking figuratively, he's taking the general truth that when people go out to do their labor, when they go to their job, particularly in a agrarian society, they go out and they labor at what time? During the day, right? And then when sunset, they come in, they get washed up, they have dinner, tell stories, and they wake up the next morning with fresh and they get at work again, right? We have to work during the day. And he's talking about his ministry while he is the light of the world in the world as the time of day. When he's gone. The night will fall, and so we need to get this work done now, he said. Night is coming. The fact that in chapter twelve, we'll get to this later in verse thirty-five Jesus said to them, For a little while longer, the light is among you. Walk while you have the light, so the darkness will not overtake you. So he means he's about to depart the world. He knows it. He's about to go. His earthly ministry is just about over. They had to finish their work in the daytime while he was there. And he makes it very clear in his next statement in verse 5. Look at it. He says, While I am in the world, I am the light of the world. So that people can see me, they can look to me, and they can get truth. And so he was about to leave, and that light was going to be gone. Night would fall once again. So now was the time to take action, to do the Father's work. Look at verse six. When he had said this, he spat on the ground And made clay of the spittle, and applied the clay to his, that is, a blind man's eyes. Verse 7, and said to him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which is translated sent. So he went away and washed and came back seen. Well, here again, unembellished, is another supernatural, miraculous act of Jesus Christ. And it's quite interesting how he does it, spitting and mixing with clay. In Mark 7, verses 32 to 35, he used a little spittle to heal a deaf man. And then in Mark 8, 22 to 25, he also used a little bit of his spit to heal a blind man from Beth Saida. But as far as we know, this is the only time he mixed it with clay and he put it on someone's eyes to heal him. But don't read too much into that. Jesus used a lot of gestures in his healing ministry. There was no actual healing power in the clay itself. There was no healing power in his spit. That wasn't the point. It was not a chemical healing or a trick of some kind. The clay probably gave the man a sense that Jesus knew of his ailment and was Applying something directly on that for him, touching him personally, it would be on his eyes all the way that he went to the pool of Siloam, causing him to think about that and maybe encourage him to trust in Christ. There was no power of healing either in the pool of Siloam. John translates the name or the meaning of that name for the non-Hebrews who would be reading his gospel. It means sent Why that? Well King Hezekiah dug the water tunnel from the spring of Gehon and had the water go through the tunnel to this pool, and so it was sent there. and Siloam was its name. But really the name may also be used here because it fits the fact that God has sent Jesus to uh heal the blind, and that Jesus indeed had sent this blind man to the pool to be healed. Well, his instructions gave the man something to do so he could show a little bit of faith in the promise that Christ had just made. Jesus notice did not assist the blind man to the pool. He relied on the blind man being able to know his way to the pool. He let him walk there all alone, let him show his eagerness to be healed, let him show a little confidence, and it says that the man obeyed And he obeyed immediately, and he obeyed everything that Jesus told him to do. He did exactly what Christ told him to do, and he came back seeing. No great statement other than that. He just came back, and now he was seeing There's the miracle. You can trust this. It's an historical account. It's not embellished. And the healing, by the way, is not as those who say they have the gift of healing today. Notice it was done immediately. It was done completely. There was no fanfare. There was no falling over. There was no music. There was no emotional uh drumbeat to get them all worked up. This is not psychological manipulation. This was a real organic healing by divine power. And now for the very first time in his life, as the water is dripping off his eyes, he is looking and he is seeing light first, for the first time in his life. And and and then he's seeing the water and then maybe he's looking around and seeing some other people around the pool and maybe a bird that flies by and he turns and he sees the stores that maybe he's been begging outside of and he looks up On the mountain, and he sees the beautiful temple, the temple of Herod. And it's a whole new world of wonder for him. And remembers what Jesus told him: come back. And so he came back seeing. And so he is excited and his eyes are opened and everything it's just wonderful for him. But now this miracle is meant in John and was meant at that time to be a sign. In fact these are often called sign miracles because it wasn't just a A cold or detracted kind of use of God's power, it it meant something, it pointed to something. This man who was blind, and everyone knew he was blind And we could now see he became like a poster board, a sign that would point to Christ. It was a sign miracle. The healing power was not in the pool, not in the clay, but in Christ. It was God's power. And so now, interestingly, Jesus disappears out of the scene for a while, and this blind man becomes center stage for a number of verses. Look at stage two of the development of this story, and that is the testimony. The testimony starting in verse 8. And this I said is the longest section, so we're going to break it down a little bit more. Really, there are four testimonies that are given here. Four testimonies. First is the man's testimony to the people that knew him in verses eight through twelve. Look at that, verse eight. Therefore the neighbors And those who previously saw him as a beggar were saying, is not this the one who used to sit and beg? Others were saying, this is he. Still others were saying, no, but he is like him. He kept saying, I am the one. Verse 10. So they were saying to him, How then were your eyes open? He answered, The man who is called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went away and washed, and I received sight. They said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know. So this guy has been well known. He's a beggar. He's been around for quite some time. After all, he was born blind. He's been asking for alms. A lot of folks know who he is. Some saw him regularly sitting there by the road. Some were his neighbors Some saw him holding his hands out to get a coin, hopefully, as people are going into the temple so we can go buy some food or some clothing. That's the poor lot of a beggar. A lifetime of blindness leads to a lifetime of begging in that culture And those who really knew him saying, this is him, this is him, I know it's him. And others are like, well, it can't be him. It must be someone like him. Maybe it's a brother or something like that. There must be it would be easier to believe that they got the wrong guy than it would be to believe that a blind man now could see After all, who can open the eyes of the blind? Nobody does that, and that doesn't just happen. Blindness doesn't just wear off after a few years. They knew that And so the more skeptical ones still are not convinced, and they're talking among one another, just as we would do. But he keeps saying over and over, I'm the one, I'm the one. No, I am the one. No, that was me. And they want to know, okay, okay, okay. But how? That's the burning question. How could your eyes be open? And now the sign starts pointing to Jesus, right? The healing was the signpost, and it's pointing to Jesus, a great giant sign. And the man very simply, I think, very directly Factually just recounts what happened. The man Jesus made clay, he anointed my eyes with it, said to go to Saloam, said to wash, so I did it, and now I see there are the facts. That's exactly how it happened. He tells them exactly what happened. That's what happened in my life, see. I just want to pause a moment and just talk to you about that because you see what he did for his testimony, isn't that simple? You can do that also, can't you? In fact, you should do that. Has Jesus Christ done anything for you? Oh, that was good. Then tell people what he's done. It's not the gospel, but it leads into sharing the gospel. Tell them. Just be factual. This is who I was. This is what I was thinking. And then and then Christ opened my eyes, spiritually speaking. Now I see truth. My sins are forgiven. And maybe other good things happened. My marriage was repaired. My Whatever happened to you. I'm happier. Tell them. That is a testimony that God gave to you and you're supposed to speak it. You're supposed to say it. You become center stage. And you become like a signpost that points to Christ if they want to know more, then give them the gospel of Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection. Tell them about that. Just make sure you speak up. Don't hold it to yourself. You have a testimony, give it out. Alright, well now it appears now the crowd is convinced what they want The officials to examine it. So we come to the second stage in the testimony, and that's the man's testimony to the officials, the religious officials, that is. Look at verse 13. They brought to the Pharisees the man who was formerly blind. Formerly blind. We never get his name, by the way. Now he was the man blind. Now he's the man formerly blind. Okay? Verse 14. Now it was a Sabbath S On the day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eye. Then the Pharisees also were asking him again how he received his sight. That's the question everybody wants to know. How could you receive sight? You know, the Pharisees were held in high esteem among the common people, so they wanted the Pharisees to judge this. They would know best what to think the people thought. But all of this is leading to another conflict between Jesus and the authorities. And the conflict of the Pharisees is foreshadowed by that comment. Notice I read it slower in verse 14. It was the Sabbath. Oh no, because we've seen this before. Here we go all over again. Remember back in chapter five, Jesus purposefully heals A layman on the Sabbath, knowing full well it would cause conflict, and he'd be able to teach them the right use of the law and right attitudes towards God by creating that conflict. Very bold and courageous man, the Lord Jesus. He's bringing about a conflict with the Jewish leaders. He wants to correct their wrong understanding and he wants to help the people. Well, you hear he's doing it again. And so the Pharisees do their thing. They do their proper inquiry. It's a more formal kind of questioning. And again, the man very freely presents his testimony. He said to them, He applied clay to my eyes, and I washed and I seen. What else is there for him to say? I mean, he's just sticking with the with the facts. Please see again that when the Bible records miracles, it can be trusted. There's no embellishment here, there's no myth. This could have been done up in all kinds of ways if it was a church myth that was added into the Bible later. He just told As it happened, simple and straightforward. Now, about this time, if you were one of the Pharisees, that's kind of hard to imagine, I guess You don't want to think about that because we know so many negative things about the Pharisees. But if you were one of those religious leaders, shouldn't you be excited about the fact that this blind man now sees? I can only imagine elder's old Bible says someone comes forward and says, Well, this person was born blind and now they see. And we might sit there and go, Well, was that done on the Sabbath? I mean, you don't you don't that's you don't do that Here, you you start getting excited. There is a healer in Israel who's helping your people get excited about it. But they're not excited. Oh no, they're not excited at all. They're angry. Verse 16. Therefore some of the Pharisees were saying, This man is Not from God, because he does not keep the Sabbath. You see, when you have man-made rules that get in the way of the Bible and what the scripture actually says, now your whole process of judging becomes wrong This is about as pathetic as it gets for spiritual leaders. He already went through this debate of the Sabbath stuff back in chapter 5 and 7. Obviously he knows he didn't get it. I like R. C. Spohl's quote He says, never mind that the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath, Mark 2, 27. Never mind that the Lord of the Sabbath declares that it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath If these people had been the people of God, they would have been throwing their yarmakas in the air and praising God for the manifestation of his mercy in the healing of this poor beset man. Instead they quibbled over their own technicalities and accused Jesus of breaking the Sabbath. Yes, the history of chapter 5 is repeating itself. Continuing on in verse 16, look, it says, But others were saying, How can a man who's a sinner perform such signs? That's an obvious question. It's not possible for a sinner to tap into God's power. God wouldn't let it. And so there was a division among them. Oh, there we are again. Jesus divides people. By the way, you have to make up your own mind about following Jesus. You can't wait around for someone you like or a family member to decide to follow Christ. You've got to just use your own head. Listen to Christ and make your own decision. You can't avoid divisions. It will happen. Verse 17. So they said to the blind man again. What do you say about him, Jesus, since he opened your eyes? I mean this guy has not been in his entire life used to being the center of attention. Maybe some of you are like that. You really don't like to be the center of attention Well his whole life he'd never been the center of attention. And now it's like everyone is looking back to him. There's the Pharisees, there's the crowds, and he's not only the guy that was healed, but now they want to know his opinion about Jesus. He's not used to that at all His power worked on you, so what do you think? Man, this is how God works in our lives, people. You go about your normal life doing your routines, doing the things you always do, and every once in a while God is going to take you. Yes, you, you and specifically you And he's going to put you on center stage in front of somebody who wants to know something about you. And it's at that time you better be ready to what Speak up, right? Because he hasn't chosen the preacher to do this for you. He hasn't chosen some evangelist on TV to do this. He chose you and he puts you there with a testimony and expects you right then and there to speak up and you better be ready. You better not close your mouth. So, what does the man say? He doesn't fumble. It says, and he said, He is a prophet. I just think he did something like that. He's a prophet. He's true. No hesitation there at all. Boom! You want to know my opinion? There it is. No confusion about this guy at all. I love this man. He's direct. He has common sense. He doesn't care about posturing to try to look good, giving well parsed answers, standing up, clearing his throat. Well, let me tell you what I've been thinking about during this whole time since I've been to Siloaman back See, no, he's just he is a prophet. No other words. Yes, this is true. By the way, same thing the woman at the well said of Jesus when she came running back. Is this man a prophet? Come see a prophet. That was just the common man or woman's way of saying he's really of God. And he speaks the words of God. And he taps into the power of God. That's what prophets did. Jesus was a prophet. Now, that's a good answer for him at this stage, but it's an incomplete answer, and you're going to see that Jesus moves him to the better answer, to the answer that will save his soul. Well, the Pharisees, of course, they do not like this testimony. And so they realize the whole veracity of this miracle rests on whether or not the man was truly blind. And so they call for his parents. Very, very crafty. And so we get the third testimony. His parents' testimony, verse 18. Look at it. The Jews then did not believe it of him that he had been blind and had received sight until they called the parents of the very one who had received the sight and questioned him, saying Is this your son, who you say was born blind? Then how does he now see? Verse 20. His parents answered him and said, We know that this is our son. And that he was born blind, but how he now sees, we do not know. Or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him, he is of age, he will speak for himself. His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed him to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. For this reason, his parents said, He is of age, ask him. They passed the buck. They passed the buck. They had a child born blind, Jesus healed them, and they didn't even have the guts to stand up for Christ. They could have asked a few questions, found out, and been bold. Their son puts them to shame. You know, the Pharisees were skeptical. People today have a prejudice against the ancients. They think the ancients were naive and they could believe anything if it was said to be of the gods or it was supernatural, that they tended to believe those kinds of things, whereas we are in the scientific age and we know those things don't happen So they tended to believe in miracles and write about them, even though there probably was some scientific explanation for why they didn't have it. That is not true. The ancients were as skeptical, if not more so, than the superstitious people alive today. They didn't believe in miracles. They had the man who was healed. They had the parents on the very day, probably, or the next day, when he was healed. They had the evidence right in front of them and they still didn't want to believe. They were more skeptical They acted like skeptics would act today. They didn't believe. It's clear testimony. It's first-hand testimony. You have all the proof that you need. I mean, it's a slam dunk in a court of law. This is not circumstantial evidence. This is direct eyewitness evidence. Multiple witnesses. But they have a bench away from miracles. They have a bench away from believing the power of God. Not toward it. In fact, Dr. MacArthur entitled this whole section, Unbelief Investigates a Miracle. Unbelief investigates a Miracle. Have you ever wondered what would happen if a just a fabulous clear-cut Organic miracle happened in our day, how all of the skeptics and agnostics and people would what they would do with it. Well this is exactly what they would do with it, because that's what these guys are like They would act this way, just like you're reading here. They call the parents. Parents know it's the son. Parents know that he was born blind. Parents know nothing at all about how he received his sight or who did it. And so they say, Ask our son, he is of age, he will know. These parents fear the Pharisees. It's a real glimpse into the power of the Pharisees, by the way. over the average person. You didn't you didn't buck the authorities, you see. There was intimidation at work there. To be put out of the synagogue meant your entire life was going to be ruined. You lose your job, you lose your home You lose a lot of things because you can't support yourself anymore. You lose social standing, you lose your friends, you lose everything. Being put out of the synagogue isn't like today, you leave one church, you can go to another church, right? It wasn't like that then. And so it was it was going to be tough on them to be put out of the synagogue. They were afraid. They weren't believing. They were caught off guard with this. They weren't expecting this this day. And so they wanted to hang on to what they had in their life. Well ask him, he's of age. By the way, that only means he was at least twelve years old because you became a adult, a boy adult, a son of the law, bar mitzvah, when you were twelve. Maybe he was older, maybe he was eighteen. He appears to have been a young man. The very least they could have done is to thank Jesus. So, anyways, the man gets put back on center stage again, and we get his testimony again to the officials. This is the fourth round of testimony. Look at verse 24. And this gets even stronger and better. So a second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man, talking about Jesus, is a sinner. So now we can smell the Pharisees' motives. They are so adamantly against Jesus Christ. They want to make sure everyone that is hearing of this miracle and gathered around there goes home that day, knowing that they are the righteous keepers of the law and this Jesus, the Sabbath breaker, is a sinner. That's what they're after. So they they do not think the blind man was telling them the truth about Jesus. They think there's something there still to uncover. This man's a sinner, and so they began what would be a cross-examination. They're going to try to discredit his testimony in some way and thus reduce the miracle and reduce Jesus, you see. They're just filled with unbelief. This is amazing unbelief. By the way, the very Gospel of John that's written so people will come to faith and be saved documents over and over and over again the unbelief of the nation of Israel. It started with it back in the prologue in chapter one, verse eleven. It said, He came to his own those Jewish people, his own, and his own received him not. And later in chapter 12, verse 37, it says these words. But though Jesus had performed so many signs before them, yet they were not believing in him, so much for the power of miracles to persuade people. So they come in, they come back to this guy and they say, Give glory to God. Oh, you love the piousness of people that think they're all religious and snuggle up close to God and they have concern with the will of God while they're attacking the Son of God. It's sickening, isn't it? By the way, this is similar. Give glory to God to the words that were told to Achan, that he was uh hiding the gold that he had stolen that was under the band after the Battle of Jericho in Joshua's day, you may remember. They came to him and they said, Give glory to God. In other words, we know you're lying. We know you're hiding something. This is your last chance before you die to give glory to God and to speak the truth. You're a liar. So basically they're telling this blind man, you're a liar. Fear God, give glory to him, tell the truth. Verse 25, check out the answer. He then answered, Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see. Boom! Again, he just gives it to him plain and simple. He can't be manipulated on the stand. He's just speaking as he ought to speak, forthright. A lot of common sense this guy has. I don't know anything at all about the background of Jesus. I was blind, I couldn't have seen anything anyway. I can't speak to what I don't know I do know this one thing, one thing better than any of you here, because I lived the life of being blind. I was blind, and now I see. Now what are you going to do with that? You know, maybe being blind, he had learned not to give so much credence and importance to outward appearance. These guys with the long beards, you know, the long cloth, standing there amongst each other, looking so holy. They care about none of that stuff. He didn't care about appearance. You know, you can really define a lack of discernment by people who give too much credence to appearance. Wow, that person looks so nice in the pulpit. He smiles a lot. What is going on upstairs? He looked like he knew what he was talking about. That's how people get fooled. This guy, he had bypassed all of that. Who cares about pomp? Listen to what's being said. See, we have the intelligentsia in our society too, right? And they tell us we are the mathematical and scientific wizards, and everything you see happen by blind accident and chance Please use your own brain and bypass all of that stuff. Homosexuality is normal I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think I would think so if I wasn't a Christian. No, it's not normal. You can't make babies that way. It's not normal. Many, many kinds of things that are being shoved down our throat like, well, we know better. What do you know? I don't know. I have a brain. I think I'll try to use it. You got the Bible, and you got a brain, and if you're saved, you got the Holy Spirit, use it. That's discernment, right? Stick with that. And often the simple people have more common sense than those who are filled with so-called education, who have been prejudiced by their education, and they no longer can even understand the presuppositions they have in their own mind. Verse 26. So they said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? Go through this a little slower. Stretch this thing out. He answered them, I told you already, and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? You do not want to become his disciples. too, do you? Oh! Oh! This is getting entertaining. You can just see them squirming, taking a few steps backwards. They wanted to find something else out about the way it was done. Show us again how it was done. It must have been a trick. There must have been some magical incantation. Maybe he tapped into the devil's power. Show us that again. But what else was there to hear? They've heard it. They want to hear it again? The blind man could tell their their motives were wrong. And so he outwits them. You don't want to be his follower too, do you? This blind man was of nobler character than the lame man who was healed back in chapter 5. Who gave in and told the authorities on Jesus? This man took his stand with Christ even at this time. I think they're foaming at the mouth at this time and starting to curse. I mean they have just lost it Verse 28, they reviled him and said, You are his disciples, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses. But as for this man, we do not know where he's from There it is, it's all out in the open, all the pretensions are gone, their full motive is clear. They're so proud of their connection to the law, the law of Moses, how they keep it. They're Pharisees, they're the separated ones, they keep every last jot and Tittle of the Law. In fact they add a few thousand more on top of it to show how excellent they are. And they don't even know where Jesus originated from, but when the Messiah comes they thought they would know where he originates from. Dr. MacArthur comments, this man's bold rebuke and biting wit struck a nerve. Pulling themselves up by their self-righteous bootstraps and reacting to the man's mockery, they retreated to the safety of their supposed loyalty to Moses. If an uneducated beggar like him wanted to follow an outcast sinner like Jesus, that was his choice. They would follow Moses. Verse 30. The man answered and said to him, Well, here is an amazing thing that you do not know where Jesus is from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not hear sinners. See he got the This is this is theology 101. This is below 101. This is this is kindergarten, you know. God doesn't listen to the prayers of sinners, such as unrepentant sinners. Obviously, if you want to cry out to Jesus as a sinner and be saved. He'll listen to that prayer. But he doesn't listen to you asking him, please do this for me, please do that. God doesn't listen to unbelieving sinners who break his law. That's just basic theology, right? This guy had got that. You could get that sitting outside the walls of the synagogue and listening to a few drops that you would get. That's simple stuff. We know that God does not hear sinners, but if anyone is God-fearing and does his will, God hears him. Since the be and he adds this, since the beginning of time, now he probably knew this, he probably asked all the time, has anyone ever gotten past being Born blind. Has anyone who has ever been born blind ever received a sight? He wanted some kind of hope from it. And he says, since the beginning of time it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a person born blind If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. Boom, boom, and uppercut, boom! From the mouth of a simple beggar comes the strongest testimony to the truth of Jesus Christ. I think in the whole gospel, save maybe Thomas, when he bows before him at the end and says, You are my Lord and my God. Was all this blindness through all those years worth it? Definitively worth it. His words are now sealed in eternal and holy scripture. There's no way God would listen to Jesus if he were not in touch with God. The righteous cry And the Lord hears and delivers them out of all their troubles, Psalm thirty-four seventeen. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous, Proverbs fifteen twenty-nine But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. Isaiah 59:2 Had God heard Jesus. And they couldn't tell. They couldn't tell whether he was from God or not. Verse 34, they answered him, You were born entirely in sins, and are you teaching us? So they put him out. Out of the synagogue, that is. He lost it all. He lost it all. Excommunicated. Yes, the Jews did that. That's all they could do to him. What else are they going to do to him? The guy has lived a life excommunicated. He's not afraid of this. He's been an outcast and a beggar his whole life. Put me out of the synagogue. Judge didn't even let me in in the first place. When people are out of arguments, they begin reviling those that disagree with them. You're lower than us. You don't know, we know. That's the response of the proud. They dismiss you with a wave of their hand and an appeal to their credentials. They want to intimidate you into silence. Don't speak. Just listen and follow us. That's what the pundits, the politicians, and the professors do today. Don't listen to them. Listen to your word. Don't let them ever silence your testimony. Alright, last part, the meaning of all of this. Third stage. Verse 35. Jesus heard that they had put him out. Now he's suffering already for his name. And finding him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? So Jesus went and searched for this guy. Because he hurt. He's been put out. He went and searched for him. And Jesus is now going to minister to his soul by asking a probing question. He's ministered to his body, but his ministry is incomplete. By the way, it's uh kind of a hint of the medical mission, isn't it? You minister to the body, it's incomplete, you've got to minister to the soul. That's why Christian missions has always been about getting the gospel out. Sure, we help poor medical missions Help with agriculture, all kinds of things, but you've got to bring the gospel for it to be missions, right? He wants to minister to them to him spiritually. And so he confronts him with this question. He needs to believe. What he's believed so far, he doesn't know enough to be saved yet. And so the proper response to Jesus is not just arguing for him. It's not just amazement in his power. It is A personal trust in the person of Jesus Christ. That's the proper response to the miracle of Jesus Not, wow, you got a lot of power, but I need you, Jesus, and I trust in you. That's the response. Believing was more than accepting the sign. The lame man knew all about that already. It is putting personal confidence in Christ for your own life. Do you Now that your eyes have been opened, your physical eyes that are, do you believe in the Son of Man? Son of Man was Jesus' favorite title for himself It avoided the confusion of the term Messiah that tended to be interpreted more politically only in that time, and not that it wouldn't eventually have a political element, but it had the first start with the people receiving him spiritually repenting of their sins, as he said. And so he used this title, Son of Man, that hearkened back to the prophecies in Daniel. where the Son of Man was the one who received all power and authority from the ancient of days, God the Father, and would return to earth and set up a kingdom that would never, never end. And so he refers to himself as the Son of Man. But the blind man doesn't know that yet. Verse 36, he answered, Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him? He's hearing Jesus speaking of someone in the third person, so he asks the natural question and he calls them Lord. Don't be too excited by that. The term kurios often would be used the way we would use the word sur. It seems that might be in the first use how he's using it here. Verse thirty seven, Jesus said to him, You have I love this, you have both what? Seen him Seen him, how precious for a blind man, right? You have both seen him, and he is the one who is talking with you. Listen, he hasn't seen too many people up till now, right? And the only one of real import that he's seen besides the Pharisees is Jesus. And then he says, You are talking to him right now. That's crystal clear. That's unmistakable. And he picks up on it, verse 38. He said, Lord. And here when he uses the same term curiosity It may be filled with even more understanding here. Lord, I what? Have you told Jesus that? In your life? Have you told Christ, Lord, you're my Lord, I believe in you. If you haven't, you're not saved. You need to say that. You need to say that's Christ. You need to get your soul saved. That's important. Lord, I believe. And how do we know his belief was genuine? What did he do next? And he it doesn't say he worshiped. It says he worshipped him. He bowed down before a man that was speaking to him, and he worshipped at the feet of the Son of Man, thereby implying he realized his greatness went beyond his humanity. This use of Lord here and this worship is reminiscent of what we'll learn in the future In chapter twenty, where Thomas, who had doubted the resurrection of Jesus and saw him, got down before the risen Christ and said, My Lord and my God. to Jesus. This is a confession of faith everyone must make. This is the right confession of faith. Jesus is Lord. Every tongue must confess that to the glory of God the Father, says Philippians 2. This is the confession of the mouth when it's genuine in the heart that results in the salvation of a person. Look at verse 39. It's very, very important. Because we've got to get the meaning of all of this. And Jesus gives the meaning right here in verse 39. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world so that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may become blind. Here is the main message. Here is the main meaning of the whole chapter of the healing. It's not about the physical healing primarily. Many blind men Jesus did not heal and does not heal today. It is about the greater spiritual meaning. He didn't go around making anyone, by the way, physically blind there when he says that they may become blind. His mission to earth confirmed some people in their blindness and opened the eyes of others. When he says, I came into the world for judgment, that seems to contradict what he said way back in John 3:17, where he said he did not come to judge, but that people could be saved through him That's because there the judgment in John 3. 17 means condemnation. He didn't come into the world to condemn the world. He came on a saving mission. However, even in John three it's clear that when the light comes down into the world and men hate the light and run from the light, they are judged because they won't come to the light. The light divides, and the light becomes the basis of all accurate judgment by God How people react to Jesus, the light of the world, indicates how God will treat them. It indicates their position with God. They either move towards the light and embrace the light of Christ, or they run from it. And by the way, when you bring the message of Christ, you are acting like the light. And when they run from your message and run from the Bible and run from church and run from you, they're indicating they don't want God. And so Jesus opens the eyes of the spiritually blind, and he closes the eyes of those who think they see. That's how to interpret. It's really a riddle. They think they see, but they are really blind. They're proven to be blind. In other words, spiritual blindness is God's judgment upon them. They deserve it. He can open the eyes of the blind, and only he can do that. But he also makes sure the proud never see the light. They're confirmed in blindness. Look how the Pharisees reacted as verse 40. Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things and said to him, We are not blind too, are we? I don't think they really thought they were blind You know, in the physical realm, when someone's blind, they know they're blind. Are you blind? Yeah, I'm blind. Can't see. That's how I know I'm blind. I can't see In the spiritual realm, when someone is blind, they don't know they're blind. They think they see. They're proud of their insights, of their education, of their understanding, of their religion, of the way they live their life. But they're blind And more than blind, they are blinded by God. When the Bible says that unbelievers are blind in their sin, do you understand what that means? Blindness is a complete lack of sight. They don't see partially They don't see 10%. They don't see at all. Blindness is blindness. They're not seeing impaired. They're truly blind. Listen to chapter 12 and verse 39, same gospel. For this reason they could not believe. Could not believe. For Isaiah said again, verse 40: He, God, has blinded their eyes, and he hardened their hearts so that they would not see. With their eyes and perceive with their heart and be converted and I heal them It is divine retribution, it is divine judgment, blindness. They're not just blind, they're blinded In fact, God can use even their own sin and their own pride and the working of evil angels and the devil himself to carry out the blindness that he wants upon them because of their rejection of truth. 2 Corinthians 4:4. In the case of unbelievers, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving so that they might not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ Who is the image of God? We present Christ to them and say, See, He's the light of the world, and they can't see. It's not just that they don't want to, they can't. They have no capacity. Sners have no capacity to see truth or to see Jesus as Savior. They can't do it, not on their own. And that's why Romans 3:11 says, there is none who understands. They're blind. There is none who seeks for God. They can't see where the light is to seek for Him. Listen, spiritual blindness means total inability to see. If you can't see the truth, you can't believe the truth. And so unbelievers are unable to believe in Jesus Christ. That is what the scripture teaches. That is why Jesus already taught. In John 6. 44, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And in verse 65, no one can come to me unless it has been granted him from the Father. The Father And the Son must open the eyes of the blind so they can see. When someone gets saved, it requires first that their eyes be opened so that they can even see enough of Christ to believe. Nobody, nobody, nobody chooses to believe in Jesus Christ. Jesus himself chooses them, opens their eyes so they can see and they can believe. That is the point of this passage. A blind man is a blind man is a blind man, and he can't do a thing to heal himself. It takes God and God alone. Paul wrote, A natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God for their foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they're spiritually appraised or spiritually discerned. They have no capability within them to see it. And Jesus makes that point at the very end of verse 41. Jesus said to them, to the Pharisees, and this is fascinating how he says this if you were blind, you would have no sin. Now he's not extolling the virtue of blindness. But since you say, we see So he knew what they were about. We see. We are of Abraham. We are of Moses. We are a guide to the blind. We know the truth. We see. Since you say we see, your sin remains on you, that is. It abides on you. It has not been lifted off of you. You're not forgiven. You're not part of the kingdom of God. You have no part at all in what Jesus came to offer. He's not saying blindness removes sin. He's saying someone has to understand that they're blind, someone has to come to that understanding which only God can empower them to do. And when they can say that, then God gives them life and removes their sin. They can't do it themselves. Listen, if you are the kind of person or you know the kind of person that says, look, I'm basically a pretty good person than you or they are a blind man or a woman. If you say I haven't done something that's really all that bad that would deserve the wrath of God, I don't think God would send me to hell then you are a blind man or a Blind woman. If you think of yourself that you're a pretty good religious person and you've lived a pretty good life and you think the chances are better than even that you're going to get into the kingdom of heaven, then you are a blind man or a blind woman It is not your righteousness or your goodness that will ever get you into the kingdom of God. First, you have to know you're blind. And if you don't, cry out to God and ask Him to show you. And He will, He'll open your eyes. He'll save you. When you go out to evangelize, you need to understand what you're up against. Now I wonder why it is that we don't pray harder. If God alone, if Christ alone is the one who opens the eyes of the spiritually blind, why are you and I not on our knees crying out day and night for their souls? Why not? Why are we not praying more vigilantly that God will open up opportunities by bringing people that He will open their eyes for and thus confirm his gospel in their heart, and then they will confess Jesus as Lord. say. If God does the real work and only God can do the real work, why are we not pleading to him more in prayer? Let that be a challenge to each of us in our prayer lives. And when we have prayer meetings as a church, come pray for the lost, pray for the evangelists, pray for the missionaries, pray for God to work. Amen. Heavenly Father, we pray we would have that sense of urgency that we are here and we must work your works like Christ. We thank you you've given us this very day to serve you, this week. We don't know how much longer we have. We don't know when you're coming back. And um you've told us to be about your business now. We are so grateful you opened our blind eyes. We could never have seen on our own. We would never have been we never had the insight. Lord, we know any decision we made to trust in you, you first have made a decision to draw us to yourself. And we know, Lord, that this is your sovereign right to leave some in blindness and to open the eyes of others. And no one can say to you, why have you done this? For you alone, Lord, are sovereign, and it is your grace and mercy to bestow on whomever you desire. We would pray that we would so believe in your mercy and in your grace that our hearts would be filled with faith to plead for the lost around us. And for you to open doors to save sinners through this church, Hope Bible Church. We ask it. In Christ's wondrous name. Amen.