Well good morning. It is really a joy to be here this morning. Before we open God's word, let me just uh take us before the Father in prayer for a moment, if I might. Father God, my prayer today is this That you would instill in each of us a huge desire this morning, as we open your book, to be challenged. to be humbled, to be corrected, to be excited, to be moved, strengthened, and overwhelmed, to be shaped and stretched. and really propelled out into this world to be a different person. We pray that each of us, Lord God, would have a holy spirit-tempered affection to be transformed. That we would be moved to commit to real change in our lives, and that is a heart change. And we pray these things, Lord God, for our own good and for your glory. We pray this in the name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Well, I would ask that you would turn to the book of Hebrews this morning. And I'm going to be preaching from Hebrews chapter 4. And and let me just say uh as far as background stuff, uh the book of Hebrews has one theme that runs through the theme consistently. It is one thread through a very complex tapestry that surfaces again and again, and it is the superiority of Jesus Christ. In chapters 1 through 4 of the letter to the Hebrews, you can see the superiority of the person of Christ continually raised by the writer. And as I mentioned, we're going to look at verses 14 through 16, which speaks of a great high priest, our great high priest. And I know that as you are used to exposition of scripture, we would have been if we would have exposited this entire book, you would have been exposed to This concept of a high priest before. And so I would give you a brief description before we read the text of Scripture. so that you are in tune with me to know about this high priest, this great high priest that we have. Some things I will also work into the message so I'm not going to be use this time at great length to to give you background material, but I just thought that on the onset I needed to lay some groundwork about this great high priest that we have. He, the high priest in the Jewish culture, was the chief priest of the Hebrew people. He was especially of the ancient Levitical priesthood tradition. Traced through Aaron. In the Old Testament, if you would go back and do some Hebrew exposition, you would find that he has translated many times the head priest or the great one from among his brothers. And the ruler of the house of God. Those are literal translations in reference to his office found in Leviticus and 2 Chronicles. The high priest was the supreme religious head of the people. And Aaron held this position above his sons, and it was continued through them. The firstborn was the succession of the Levitical priesthood. The high priest was known for a number of things. His character, his conduct, his clothing. Yeah, they all start with C, I kind of kinda figured like that but it was also found in the services he conducted yes most important was when he went on that day of atonement before the Holy of Holies, behind the veil, and there he would offer a sacrifice first for his sins and then for the sins of all the people The high priest stood as the mediator between God and man. And it's a vital concept that we need to understand. Much more could be said, but let's get into the text at hand today, and I'll, as I said, I will I will bring some of that material into the into the text of Scripture. So if you would with me, it's my custom, and I I don't know if it's yours or not, but I would like us to stand in honor of God's word to read through this text of scripture together Nehemiah, the the people the people in in the letter to Nehemiah they stood all the while Nehemiah preached, and so I'm gonna forego that part of it today. Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. Therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace that we might receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. He may be seated. Well, these three verses that we've just read form one short paragraph in the Greek text These three small verses, this single paragraph, can really have an extraordinary effect in the life of a believer. And my hope is to show you that this morning. In this paragraph, the writer gives us three facts to hang on to so that we can keep our faith vital and living and confident in the world in which we live Three facts to hang on to. And those three facts are found one in each verse as we walk through that text. The writer begins in verse 14 with what we have. Then he will transition in verse 15 to what we don't have. And then in verse 16, he will end with what we should do. So it's very, very practical. So hang on to number one. What we have, and notice in verse 14, he begins with therefore. And we always know, we can always ask ourselves the question: well, what's it there for, right? And normally in a in a passage of scripture, that therefore is there to connect a preceding passage. But here, what I really believe the writer is doing is he's proving to us the superiority of Christ again, and he uses this word, therefore But he is taking us all the way back to 217, chapter 2, and verse 17, where he initially broaches this subject of the high priest. And there he says in 217, therefore he had to be made like his brethren in all things, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in all things pertaining to God. to make propitiation for the sins of the people. And again, this is speaking of the Christ here. And so it goes back to that, to that initial introduction of the high priest And as how Christ is unfolded there as the high priest. Then the writer moves us on, and he states: if you notice in your text of scripture, therefore, since we have And really this is one word. It could be easily translated having. We could say therefore having. And what we have is noticed here. Here is what we have. Therefore having a great high priest. And notice it's not merely a high priest. It is something far better than that. He designates our high priest, Jesus Christ, as the great high priest. And this Greek term is a term that we all will recognize. It is the term mega. We recognize that term, right? Mega, according to Webster's dictionary, means vast. Sometimes you go to the mega electronics store where you can easily get lost for hours, right? Or I remember reading in the paper a while back of some lady that won six hundred million dollars in the mega million lottery thing. So mega, we use that term to describe big things. Another rendering of this term, Greek term mega, would be of the highest level of rank or excellence or of importance. Let me use that in a sentence to kinda to kinda get us a a feel for that. She had a number one hit and it made her a megastar. And that's all it takes anymore is one hit. We hear that terminology of one hit wonder, right? Well, one hit, you're a millionaire for life, you retire. Let me give you some other synonyms though that'll help you think about this great high priest that we have. Astronomical. Colossal, cosmic, enormous, galactic, grand, Herculean, immense, massive, huge, mighty, monumental, mountainous, tremendous, and vast. And my favorite word is a word that I was totally unfamiliar with, but so I have to use that. It is uh Brob Dig Nagion. Which means marked by tremendous size. And in fact, the word was first used in 1728 in a book that I bet many of you have read, at least a child's copy of it, Gulliver's Travels He went to the land of the giants, and there's that term. And that's the kind of a high priest that we have. A huge mega high priest. Amen. And you can say, well, why does the author say a great high priest? And I'm glad you asked. Let me run through some verses from the letter of Hebrews so contextually we get an idea of what's running through the writer's mind here. In 217, we saw prior to this, it says that he became a merciful high priest. Merciful is an interesting choice of words here. It's a one-time use here in the New Testament. And one other time in the Beatitudes where it says, where the merciful are promised mercy. So he is a merciful high priest. And not only that, in verse 17, it says he is faithful. And we know this term because we see guys driving around with the Semper Phi logo on their cars, right? Semper Fi, Semper Fidelus, always faithful. That is our high priest. He is merciful, and he is always Semper Fi. He is always faithful. What a great couple of terms just to get our wet our whistles on what this great high priest actually is. He is merciful and he is faithful. In chapter 5 and verse 6 It says that he is great because he is a priest forever. He is absolutely eternal. Here in verse 6, it shows the eternality of Christ. Never in a time he did not exist. And if you think about that for a while, I remember in my theology one class, my first year in seminary. And we had to think about this this concept of God being eternal. And really after you start dandering that about it really becomes sensory overload because your mind really can't wrap itself in total around this idea of eternality. Because we measure everything. One rotation of the earth is 24 hours and that's one day and we measure that. But this is before anything was ever created, there was Christ, our great high priest, and he will always be for eternity. Now, how do you get your head around a concept that big? But that's what the writer of Hebrews explains for us. He is a great high priest forever. Forever. Not only is he the great high priest forever, and as I'll let you ponder that, the thought is again raised in chapter 7 and verses 23 and 24. But if you look with me at 726, and if this passage is not highlighted in your Bible, this is one of those passages that just gives us that illuminates Christ so well that that it should excite you. In in verse 26 of chapter 7, it says these words For it was fitting for us to have such a high priest, and look at these this terminology that he uses: holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. The word holy means pious and pure and hallowed. The term innocent means without evil. It has the idea of an absence of all that is bad or wrong. He is undefiled. The term means he is stainless or untarnished or faultless. The text says he is separated from sinners. The separation is due to the qualities that were just given there. So he is totally separate. He is exalted above the heavens because of the qualities just listed. He is lifted up and exalted in a glorious position. In addition to that, verse 27 continues this thought. He is a great high priest because, unlike human high priests, his sacrifice was once for all, meaning it is permanent. It is perpetual. It is ongoing. It was not a one-time thing where he went in behind the veil one time. He made a sacrifice that was permanent. And thus, so are his benefits permanent. And we should be singing those hallelujah choruses with vigor because of that. Now Norwegians are known as the frozen chosen, so I personally rarely if ever raise my hands in a worship service. But that song that we sang today, that was worthy uh of several amens and and of hand raising. I just want to segue into that. He is the great high priest made perfect forever, verse seven twenty-eight says. Made perfect forever, right at the end of the verse. The commentator O'Brien says this is high Christology. And that is so good because there's no other way really to define perfect forever. Perfect forever and ever and ever. And one day we will be in that glorious choir singing his praises forever and ever. The commentator F. F. Bruce says this he is absolutely efficacious or effective and eternally suited then to meet the needs of his people. And here we are, a needy people, and we have a great high priest who will meet those needs. Beautiful. Well finally, in 911, we find he is great because he is a high priest. when Christ appeared as the high priest of the good things to come. That little phrase there of the good things to come The ESV says, or the good things that are to come, it's pointing us forward. In a side note here, it could be translated, things that have come. I don't know about you, but to me that is a great high priest because we have so much to look forward to. Those things that are to come in Christ, in the body of Christ, and in eternity with him. It's a glorious future that believers have. For we know he is the only begotten Son of God. A high priest forever. He is merciful, faithful, eternal, exalted, holy, innocent, undefiled, permanent. His sacrifice was once for all. He is perfect forever, and we can count on good things to come. That's just what the writer of Hebrews believed. That's what the Holy Spirit illuminated him to list in this letter, and we only look at a few verses. So he is a mega high priest for us. And you know, perhaps we should just call the choir back up and sing a hymn and go home and rest on that for the for the day or for the week, right? If we contemplate how good and illustrious and how awesome and how worthy of praise this Jesus Christ is, this great high priest actually is. It should affect us. We sang a song a couple of weeks ago in the church that Marie and I Alright, and I was not familiar with the first stanza, but it was so full and rich I shot I thought I would share it with you. The title of the song was How Rich a Treasure We Possess. And it goes like this How rich a treasure we possess in Jesus Christ our Lord. His blood, our ransom and defense, his glory, our reward. The sum of all created things is worthless in compare for our inheritance in Him whose praise the angels declare. Hallelujah. Amen. We can't stop there, however, because we have a great high priest. A great high priest in verse 14 back in our text tells us another vital piece of this great high priest. Because there it says specifically, since we have a great high priest who passed through the seven the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. He is a great high priest because he is the Son of God, which also makes him great. John 3. 16, we think of that verse regularly, at least I do. We know he is the only begotten son. And the only begotten son gave His life for us. Or I think of 1 John 4:9, where it says, by this the love of God was manifested in us that God has sent His only begotten Son, into the world that we might have life through him. Life from death to life. Now that's a hallelujah, right? He is a great high priest because he is the only begotten Son of God. And the description of this Son of God, he is a great high priest because he passed through the heavens. Now the writer here is contrasting. the the Aaronic priesthood with that of Jesus. The Jewish priests were permitted to present sacrifices every year. But it was not a one-and-done thing for them. Every year, hundreds of thousands of animals were slain and sacrificed Before God, Jesus' sacrifice was a once and for all, for all time and eternity thing. And the Jewish high priest would go behind the veil and they'd make that sacrifice. He had limited access. One time, once a year. On the contrary, Jesus Christ, our great high priest, penetrates with direct access to God the Father. He is so great. Our high priest, because he has passed through the heavens and now is seated at the right hand of God the Father. Hebrews 1:3, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. This seated posture that is seen there is a posture of rest. Because his atoning work is done once for all for us. He is seated at his right hand. It is a place of great honor and authority. And we see this wonderful reality all over the scriptures. Philippians 2, 9 through 11, where God, it says, God highly exalted him. Colossians 1:3 says he is seated at the right hand of God. So set your mind on those things. And so often we get caught up in this world. And memorizing things like the Redskins Victory Song or whatever that is that Tom spent working on me with Uh you know it plays it plays at night when you're trying to sleep before you go to bed in Tom's room. Ephesians 1, 20 and 22, 20 through 22 says he is seated at the right hand, far above all authority, and he is head over all things, and he is head of the church. The ruler of our church is this great high priest. How good is that? Hallelujah One author put it so well when he said of Christ, this is the language of transcendence Transcendence to go beyond a limit or a range, to surpass in quality or achievement, to exist far above this world. And that's our great high priest. This is why in Revelation we see the elders falling down before him crying, Worthy are you, O Lord and our God! To receive glory and honor and power for all things were created by you, and by your will they were exit they existed and were created. We should get up caught up in thoughts like that each and every day. The question is, why don't we? Why do we see a great high priest like this and we get caught up in things? Why do we hear these things and let it float from our hearts so quickly? This is exactly why I believe the writer gives us the end of this verse, where he says, Let us hold fast our confession. Let us hold fast. The Greek term here means to seize, to hold on to, to control, to keep hold firmly, to possess. And to be strong in those things. The NIV translates this: let us hold firmly to the faith we possess. Just as in Hebrews 10. 23 says, let us hold fast to the confession of our hope without wavering. For he who promised is semprified, faithful. Beloved Saints, this challenge is for each of us to hold fast, to hang on, to get a grip. Sure, you could say, well, this is a contextual challenge to the Hebrews. And I've heard people do that. But our confession is the same as these Hebrews, these believing Hebrews It is inclusively speaking rightly of the great high priest, the son of God, and those who make a confession of him. Romans 10, 10, with a heart the person believes, resulting in righteousness, and with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation. The Hebrew believers would have made that exact same confession, and so should we. It is belief that is inwardly entertained in the heart and is outwardly professed unto others. We have a great high priest. Living and announcing Jesus Christ. That's what we are to hold fast to that objective The Greek scholar A. T. Robertson says this should be rendered to cling tenaciously to Now my wife is i is a lover of rides at amusement parks, roller coasters, and the faster and the higher and the more intense the better I go on the little kitty roller coaster and I'm clinging tenaciously to the rails. So that's the thought here. We need to cling tenaciously to this great high priest. Hang on to him. We come back to the question. We know we have this great high priest. Why don't we get more excited about that? Remember, he is merciful, faithful, eternal, holy, innocent, undefiled, permanent. His sacrifice was for all time and eternity. He is perfect forever, and we can count on good things to come because of him. Why not more passion in our personal lives? And I am as guilty of this as anyone. And I get sidetracked. I hold fast to certain things of good memories. And all of you Ravens fans know where you were February 3rd, 2013. And we hold on to that, right? We hold on to things like Super Bowl commercials. Horses kicking field goals and using zebras as umpires, right? Pretty clever. I still remember that commercial. Can you I what is that in my head for? Talking babies that throw up on their computer. Frogs on lily pads, mean Joe Green throwing a jersey to a kid that gave him a Coke. That was way back in 1979, before some of you were born The little kid dressed as Darth Vader and he's starting his dad's car with the force, and then his dad's in there with the little clicker, right? But we remember these things and they're placed in our memory and in our minds And it totally sways us from the things that are critical and important in our lives. We get distracted so easily. And now that I have your minds totally aware from where we were and the glories of Christ and the great high priest thinking about commercials. And maybe you're just thinking, Pastor Kent, your mind is just weird. The point is how easily we get moved and s and s shifted in our minds and in our hearts to other passions, passions of this world Remember the terminology here. Let us hold fast. Let us cling tenaciously to our confession of this Christ, this great high priest. The merciful, faithful, eternal, exalted, permanent, perfect, forever, great high priest. That high priest, the mega high priest, the only begotten of the Son. We're seated at the right hand of the Father. So that's point one, what we do have. And grasp tight onto that is the admonition from the writer. Without wavering, And I just would segue away once again for a moment and say that if we cling tight to this great high priest, When you go through trials in life and trials will come, that the scripture does promise us that. When those trials and temptations come in your life, if you're clinging tight to this great high priest, you will overcome. Isaiah 26, 3 says, you keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you. That is a glorious passage of scripture. If we have our minds clinging to the Savior, we will not be shaken. So we've seen what we have. That takes us to point two of the three things to hang on to. The second verse 15 transitions us to what we don't have. And if you read that with me, you might be thinking this is a little weird what we don't have, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are yet without sin. We might think, and we might have the tendency, because we are all fallen and finite human beings. Well, our high priest, uh, he is great. And and now he's at the right hand of God, and he's in heaven. Uh, but he is removed now from this world. And all these cares and all these things that you have to worry about here, none of those daily issues Are his, the struggles, the battles, the hostility that he faced of daily life. He hasn't faced those any longer. And we can go on and on with that kind of encyclical thinking. So our writer here gets rational. In fact, he anticipates this kind of thinking, is I think what exactly what he's doing here. So he tells us what we don't have. And he does it in a really unique way, I think. He says, we don't have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses. We don't have one who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses. And so what the writer does here in the grammar is he uses a double negative. And he's doing that to drive hard and fast. the emphatic, compassionate reality that we actually do have this kind of high priest. So he's he's phrasing it in a negative fashion. The double negative to to emphasize the reality of our great high priest, the Son of God. What we do really have. In this high priest. So he's accentuating and drawing our attention to that reality by using this kind of grammar. And in addition to that, he uses some really unique terms here to emphasize. How he can sympathize with us still being here on this earth. The first Greek term that we translate, sympathize, really means to suffer with. It comes from the roots to feel something and to feel something with someone. One author said the word was used in the Greek of a bond similar to the feelings of a mother for her children. And and and you can see this flesh itself out in in real life because if you're ever watching uh a mom with kids and one of the kids is rambunctious and he's running down the sidewalk And he falls and does a face plant in the concrete, and the mom's just grimacing with pain, knowing what he's feeling. She's actually feeling that pain with her child. The guy looks over and says, Toven up, kid. But that's how it is. Our high priest will sympathize with us like a mother sympathizes with children. He can he can suffer with us, with our weaknesses, the text says. The term here means weaknesses physical and moral. The context tells us those weaknesses can certainly have to do with the inability to resist temptations as well as making it difficult to keep us from sinning. But here That is what makes him sympathetic. Look back with me at the passage once again. But we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses. But one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. He was tempted in all things as we are. Ecclesiastes 1. 9 says there's nothing new under the sun. You remember Christ's temptation from Matthew 4 or Luke 4? It says there that Jesus was full of the Holy Spirit and he was led around by the Holy Spirit in the wilderness for 40 days. And he was being tempted by the devil without food. So the scripture says he was hungry. We understand that, right? That concept of being hungry. In Matthew 4, 3 it says he was tempted to serve for physical reasons. Remember Satan's temptation? Turn these bread, this bread to stone, these stones to bread Yeah, that was a little different. In verses five through seven, he's tempted for personal reasons. He says, Surely if you throw yourself off the temple, the angels will catch you and lift you up So he's tempted for physical reasons, for personal reasons. In verses 8 through 11, he's tempted for powerful reasons. Satan shows him all the kingdoms of the world. And he said, if you just bow down, I'll give you all that. Just worship me. But he doesn't succumb to the temptation. Physical reasons, personal reasons, powerful reasons. And I would just ask: Christ is tempted like this. How many of these temptations can we relate to? Many times in life we are tempted to sin for the physical, or we face a trial and we're tempted to ungrasp our confession of faith for personal reasons, for gain. Gain in recognition, gain in position. But he responded to the temptation We have a high priest that can sympathize with us. Maybe you're attempted to let go of your confession for power, for promotion, for advancement. See, we have a high priest that was tempted in every imaginable way as we are, yet, the scripture says, without sin. One pastor gave an example of this list, and let me share that with you. He says Jesus can sympathize with us in our pain and our dying because he experienced excruciating pain and entered all the way into death. And he can sympathize with us in our allurements to sin because he was tempted. For example, he was tempted to lie to save his life. He was tempted to steal to help his poor mother when his father died. He was tempted to covet all the nice things that Zacchaeus owned. He was tempted to to dishonor his parents when they were the strict ones He was tempted to take revenge when he was wrongly accused. He was tempted to lust when Mary wiped his feet with her hair. He was tempted to pout with self-pity when his disciples fell asleep in his last hours on earth. He was tempted to murmur at God when John the Baptist died at the whim of a dancing girl. He was tempted to gloat over his accusers when they couldn't answer his questions. See, we cannot really fathom all of the temptations that Jesus endured. He withstood deep Temptations, the deepest temptations of Satan's craftiness, because Satan had him one-on-one In the desert. Yet, the scripture says, without sin. He defeated the evil destroyer, Satan, every time. He was tested like we are, yet the Bible says we have a sympathetic high priest. He doesn't roll his eyes at our pain. He doesn't shrug his shoulders and say, well, that's life. He understands what we're going through. There is a sympathetic high priest. We have this sympathetic high priest. He is so good and so gracious. Remember this there is sympathy for the needy, but not for the self sufficient. 1 Peter 5:6. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, that he might exalt you. All of the temptations and the fury the devil could muster, but Scripture assures us again and again he was without sin. Our Lord's ability to sympathize with us. Helps us as a result of his being fully manned and fully tempted, in every way as we are, yet without sin. His own experience of being tested, tried, and standing to those tests. Even the betrayal and The death on the cross and the pain of the sins of the world poured on him, this is what has equipped him so well. He is able to understand and to support us in our sufferings and in our trials and in our temptations. So two of the things to hang on to, what we have, what we don't have. And thirdly, what we should do. And we need to get a grip on this. Verse 16. Therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy and find grace. In help to help in time of need. Our writer begins here again with therefore, and here he's just connecting all the thoughts of this paragraph. He's synthesizing it now for us. He's gonna boil it all down. He's gonna tell us. So here's what we need to do. You know what we have, you know we don't have, now here's what we need to do Application. This great high priest who understands, who sympathizes with us Now, the writer challenges us. For the second time in this paragraph, he challenges us. Literally, he says, Let us approach. It's unbelievable. Here it is a first person plural. Let us approach. Let each one of us approach. We are now approaching to what the Jew, to what the Hebrew writer uh uh uh initially would have seen as unapproachable One man could approach. Now he's telling all of us, as believers, in this great high priest, to approach each and every one of us. The high priest would go in on the Day of Atonement, behind the veil, one day. Now we have this amazing opportunity to approach. Let each and every one of us approach. Let us approach each of us We are challenged, we are confronted with this charge. Let us approach, each and every one of us has the privilege to approach the unapproachable God of the universe. And the challenge makes it almost inconceivable because the verb here indicates that we should approach not one time a y a year like the high priest But we should approach again and again and again and again and again. This reminds me of the the the story in the Gospels where the guy came knocking on the guy's door in the middle of the night. Hey, I need some food for a friend who's come for a long journey. And he kept knocking and bugging the guy until he finally said, Alright, alright, I'll help you out. So approach the throne of grace like that Again and again and again, let us draw near in 1022, it says, with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith. Each of us can approach this great high priest again and again and again. And notice the manner of the approach. Therefore, let us draw near with what? Confidence. Confidence. And the term here is unique. It actually means courage in public. So we can approach this high priest in with confidence in public The high priest would go privately behind a veil. We can approach with confidence, approach even in public And have courage to approach this throne The connotation is a boldness, and that's the way the King James Version translates this. The term could be translated daring Let us approach with daring. How often do your prayers, could your prayer life be signified by daring and courage and boldness? Donald Guthrie wrote, this is one of the most striking features about the Christian way to God, that it is unencumbered even by a man's sense of awe in the presence of God. We hold God in a high and lofty position because of what we know of Him from Scripture, but here the Scripture tells us we can approach again and again and again with boldness and confidence. We don't need to be afraid to approach this God. Remember, Moses had to hide in a cleft of a rock as God passed by. Now we can approach the throne with this kind of excitement. We can lay our weakness and our loneliness and our fears and our sins before the throne of God. It's such a rich and striking feature about the privilege we have And we need to practically ask ourselves, do I do this or do I timidly go? If you read through the Psalms, you don't find that. The psalmist in 171 says, give heed to my cry. In verse 6 he says, I have called upon thee, for thou wilt answer me. He's like, absolutely sure that this is going to happen. Psalm 55 plainly says Give ear to my prayer, O God, and do not hide thyself from my supplication. Give heed to me and answer me Psalm 102, the same kind of cry. Incline your ear to me. Hear my prayer, O Lord, in Psalm 143. Give ear to my supplications and answer me. Exclamation point in the Hebrew. Verse seven of that psalm says, Answer me quickly, and that's daring. Nehemiah 1, 6. Let thine ear be attentive and thine eyes open to hear my prayer. Each one of these instances, we can see confidence and certainty and courage and daring and boldness and almost a brashness in their approach before God. But that's what the scripture is telling us here. Each one of us has the privilege to do To approach the throne with this boldness and confidence. And look in verse 16 once again, because it is the throne of grace. Draw near with confidence to the throne of grace. This is a place of kindness and goodwill toward those who approach. And we have that privilege, grace, unmerited favor. We can approach the throne of unmerited favor with boldness The NIV and the NISB have so that we may receive. The original here has what is called a HINAC clause. It means a purpose-result clause. The best translation of that is in order that. We do not have, therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, in order that. In order that what? In order that we may receive We have access to the throne of grace to receive from him. The word receive means to take hold of or acquire. And what is it we want to know, and what is it we want to acquire? Well, the text tells us that: that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. This is a beautiful ending to this wonderful passage of scripture. What is it we too are to receive and acquire two things, mercy? Mercy, the best definition I could find was compassionate treatment of those in distress. One said, it is mercy was divine pity. Psalm 103. 8 talks about the plenteous mercy of God. I like that term. But not mercy alone, we also have grace. The Greek Septuagint here translates grace from the Hebrew word of favor. We can find that word in Genesis 6. 8 where Noah found favor in the sight of the Lord. Grace is unmerited favor towards humanity or to show kindness. One put these two words this way, and I thought it was excellent. Mercy is love that helps the wretched. And grace, the love that pardons the guilty. Man, that is so rich. Mercy is love that helps the wretched. I know that describes me many times. And grace is the love that pardons the guilty. Mercy's placed first because of the weaknesses that have been stressed We have mercy because we indeed are a wretched people, easily becoming preoccupied, losing our grip on the one who understands our pain and who understands our suffering. Our agony at times, and not only mercy, but we need grace, that unmerited favor. That undeserved kindness from him, that unwarranted friendship, the place where we can find help in time of need. And don't we all need that? So we have seen in this passage what we have, what we don't have, and what we should do. Let me just have you for a moment. In your mind's eye, think of it this way. You have a great need, but you know that our president could answer that need for you. And so you head to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue and just a few blocks from here. And you go to the gate and you knock on the do on the gate and you tell the sixteen Secret Service guys that show up, well armed. Uh I'm a great citizen of the United States and I have a request of the President. What do you think those guys up there at the gate would think? The point is, and the reality is, is that we are children of the great and glorious God of the universe. Who have a great high priest, a mega high priest. We have an open invitation to invitation to come boldly with confidence to the throne room of God, the God of all creation, anytime, anywhere, all the time. Again and again and again. And yet we don't pray. We have a prayer meeting in our church. Twelve people show up Why is that when we are challenged to come before the throne room of the very God of the universe? The context here tells us to hold fast to the great high priest and make good use of him. The psalmist in Psalm 27, 13 and 14, put it this way: I would have despaired unless I believed that I would see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait on the Lord. Be strong and let your heart take courage. Yes, wait on the Lord. In closing, let me give you one brief quote by a man named Maurice Roberts. He said this, if God be God, then no insoluble problem exists. And if God be my God, then no problem of mine is without an appropriate solution. Do we believe that? Are we holding on to that thought? There is in God just exactly what is needed to solve every riddle of life, he continues. Such a being is God that He comprehends in Himself all that we should ever need to neutralize all evils, veto all temptations, negative all sorrows, and com compensate for all sor all losses. More still there is a God of such supply and competence and wisdom that He is able to transform every ill into good God has, so to say, the mightest touch. Romans 8. 28, right? He will work all things together for good. So many times we let ourselves become enamored in the problem That we forget of this great asset that we have of being on our knees before the very throne room of God. I would have despaired unless I had believed. I would see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Let's pray. Father God This is really a unique passage of Scripture. It is a passage of Scripture that challenges us to really Concentrate, to get a grip on, to hold on tight to this high and great high priest. Because he can sympathize with us, with all of our weaknesses. And we are to draw near, to come boldly before the throne of grace. And to come again and again and again. Lord, help us to be those people Help us to know that we will receive mercy and grace, and that you indeed are working all things together for good to those who love you. We exalt you, Lord God, and your Son. We are so grateful for the work of your Spirit in our lives. Help us to glorify you in all that we say and do this day, in Christ's name. Amen.