Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your kindness this morning. You have given us life and breath. You've sustained us through the night. And now we come together on this Lord's Day to worship you, to go into your word and mine out of it. Riches of wisdom and knowledge that you have uh put in there for us through Christ. And Lord, today we're we're talking about anger, and this is um a universal struggle. Uh at various levels in various degrees. Uh we all have experienced this and some ex struggle with it more than others, but it is so common that we all need uh this truth. We need it for ourselves. to grow, to become more like Christ in uh putting away sinful anger and exhibiting the righteousness of Christ. And we also need it so that we can minister to others as we talk to fellow believers, our family members, our children. Uh so that we can help those who are caught in sin, who are caught in a net as it were, uh to overcome this uh this difficulty, this struggle, this this sin. So help us, Holy Spirit, uh illumine our minds, give us understanding. Uh take the things that we discuss and enable us not just to to hear it and agree with it, but to put it into practice even later today uh or tomorrow or sometime this week as as we encounter situations that uh rise within us uh that sense of anger. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So we're talking about anger today, and uh man, there's so much to say about this. Uh so much is scripture and just boiling it down uh is is always a challenge. But uh one of the things that I want to just start by acknowledging is the reality that uh one of the challenges in dealing with anger is the fact that there is a lot of uh worldly ideas about anger that uh are just uh not true and unhelpful and yet they have infiltrated The culture and because of that then how many believers think about anger. I was reading an article this week in the New York Times called The Science Behind Your Child's Tantrums And I won't go into all the details, we don't have time, but basically it it uh isolated the experience of anger and the or I should say the explanation of a child's tantrum to physiological processes that were going on in the body. And therefore as as this author sought to give help to parents who are struggling with with a tantruming child child throwing a tantrum. It provided physiological uh ways of approaching that child and trying to help them, even with your own physiology. So a very humanistic, materialistic, naturalistic way of thinking about anger. And this wasn't just one particular author's perspective. They quoted, I didn't count the number, but like every paragraph had a different you know, top psychiatrists, psychologists, sociologists from you know mainline universities, researchers. This was across the board, you know, in in at least in the in terms of uh how many people this individual quoted and and uh and qu and borrowed their ideas from. And certainly we are all familiar with the term bipolar Right? We uh have heard that. Maybe we have heard someone or known someone who's been diagnosed as bipolar. Maybe we've thought that we should diagnose someone as bipolar. uh something along those lines. And one of the uh misunderstandings of that particular diagnosis, I think we've talked about this earlier at some point in the class, but it's especially true uh with this diagnosis. is the the things that come together to produce a diagnosis of bipolar is not uh m m medical uh examination, there's there's no blood work, there's no physiological thing that is identified in the body of what's actually going on that would uh convince us that Bipolar is a uh a disease that requires medication. Instead, what what produces that uh diagnosis is the combination of experience, a combination of responses, the way that a person responds to their circumstances Uh and therefore you you kind of boil all of those uh experiences, those symptoms, if you will, those those responses, those ways of thinking, and they they develop this idea of of bipolar. But that diagnosis, again, as I've mentioned from the DSM, says nothing, not a word about why that person do what they do. Why do they respond the way that they respond? And so Uh really it's an unhelpful uh terminology. It's unhelpful language because it it plants in our minds the idea that this is a disease, that this is something I have, when really All the diagnosis is saying is this is what you do. So uh it it's not that it's it's a a false diagnosis because it's just a summary. It's a summary of of experience, a summary of of behavior, uh and it just says nothing about why does a person behave in that way. So when we look to scripture As we've seen, the scripture gives us a wealth of wisdom of why do we do the things that we do. So we're going to see that today. And I would just encourage you as we work through the material that you just Consider in your own heart, again we've all experienced anger, we know what it's like to feel anger, we all express anger in different ways And so just consider how the Holy Spirit might use this m this truth uh to uh convict you, to encourage you, to to help you know where you need to grow in your own life and uh and ultimately uh where you might have an opportunity to minister and disciple others. So let's start with this idea here in the notes that anger is a serious sin. It's not a disease. It's a serious sin. We don't often think of it as a serious sin because of how common it is, but look at how Jesus describes the seriousness of this sin. You we know this passage, Matthew five, twenty one and twenty two. You have heard that the sci that the ancients were told, for some reason I almost said scientists. You have heard that the ancients were told, you shall not commit murder. And whoever commits murder But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court, and whoever says to his brother, You good for nothing shall be guilty before the Supreme Court, and whoever says you fool shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery Hell. Now again, we're familiar with this and and perhaps almost too familiar because we we hear these words and we're like, yeah, I know. I I know that Lust is equivalent to adultery. I know that anger is equivalent to murder. But stop and think about what Jesus is actually saying here. Express anger when it's expressed in a sinful way is as serious in God's eyes. as murder. I I know every single one of us, I don't know of any convicted murderer murderer among us So I know every single one of us would be loath to think of the possibility that I could actually take someone's life in a fit of anger We certainly heard of people doing that. We see that in the news. We've seen that a lot this summer. And we think of ourselves, I could never do that. What we don't realize is we actually do that all the time. We've done it many times. And so we really, as as we think about anger, this isn't just something, oh I just I struggle with this. I know I have a bad temper. This is something that the Lord Jesus Christ Himself says, you need to take this seriously because in God's eyes it's as serious as taking someone's life, as as murdering someone. Now obviously we have the grace of Christ, there's forgiveness, there's redemption and restoration, but this is a serious sin. It's not something that we can take lightly. So just with that in mind, consider this definition that you have there in your notes of what is anger? How do we describe What this emotion is. I didn't make this up. This is a kind of a summary of someone else's definition. But anger is a whole person moral response to a perceived wrong or injustice. Every word there is critical. Eger is a whole person moral response to a perceived wrong or injustice. Let's start with that first description. It's a whole person. What do we mean by that? It means that anger is something that happens in every part of us. It happens in our soul, our heart. our mind and it happens in our body. It takes place in our body. You know, we know someone's angry because their voice is elevated. Because they got that vein popping out of their neck. Because their face is red, right? We see anger. We hear anger physiologically Physically, but it's also it's it's uh coming out physiologically because of what's going on in the heart. So it's involving the whole person, it's not just an external physiological experience. Nor is it just an internal experience. It's the whole person being involved in anger. Second, it's a moral response. We'll look at this in a in a little bit uh in more detail, but just to say There is a sense of morality. It's not just uh hey I saw the green light and I pressed the gas button or the the gas pedal uh where it's just an innocuous thing. There's a moral component to this. There's It's a matter of sin and righteousness. There's judgments that are being made of what is right and wrong And then the last part, that moral response, we're responding to a perceived wrong or injustice. Now, perceived doesn't inherently mean the wrong or injustice is made up in our mind and it doesn't exist. Perceived just means that's how I view it. And I might be viewing it accurately. I might have a a proper perspective of somebody's words or actions that they have committed a wrong, there's been an injustice done, and I I interpret that and I I respond to that in a moral way. I say that's wrong and I'm angry about that. On the other hand Many times we observe something, we hear something, and we perceive it to be a wrong or injustice when it really isn't at all. And again, we'll We'll look consider different facets of that a little bit later. But but I think there's a really helpful, just succinct definition that's easy to memorize And and we can think about when we get to, you know, how do I evaluate myself, how do I assess my own anger We can work through the even just this definition and and write out ways in which I am experiencing and exhibiting anger and then evaluate that through scripture. The next point on your outline there is the three distinct terms for anger in Scripture. We won't spend much time on this but scripture does identify the different ways in which scripture is or in which anger is experienced. So first there's a word in the Greek thumos, which almost sounds like an angry word, thumos. Uh it's a more of an explosive anger, that boiling agitation of of the feelings and passion of anger. Uh you it's translated as wrath in Ephesians chapter four uh in Acts chapter nineteen verse twenty-eight we see an example of it uh where Paul has gone into Ephesus And in verse 28, because of uh the the preaching of the gospel, because people are being saved, and because idols, idolatry is being done away with by those who have been saved. What happens? The idol makers uh are upset, you know, because their their uh their business is being ruined. And so it says uh In verse 28, when they heard this, they were filled with rage. That's the word there, Thumas. They were filled with rage and began crying out, saying, Great is Artemis of their Ephesians. You know, they had come together and uh Paul was accused of denying Artemis, which of course he he was, because he was proclaiming the true God. And so these unbelievers were filled with rage in their heart. Thumos is what we've seen. in the news, right? It's what you see when people are rioting. It's what you see when there is violence. That's Thumas kind of anger And then there's orge, which is an abiding, settled attitude of indignation that frequently seeks revenge. And that's translated anger in first, or excuse me, in Ephesians 4, 31. And this anger is not necessarily uh wrong or sinful In fact, in Romans 1. 18, we see God having this kind of anger. This is really what defines God's kind of anger Where we read for the wrath, that's orge, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppressed the truth in unrighteousness. Now when you go Forward in that passage and you read about how God's wrath is being revealed. It's not an explosive anger Right? It's not the kind of wrath that he's going to bring at the return of Christ where he's going to destroy his enemies in one fell swoop. This is the unfolding of the wrath of God over time. in a thoughtful and purposeful intentional way. Why? Because he has this settled attitude of indignation towards the sinfulness and the hostility of mankind against himself. And so we can have this anger, right? We we can have just this underlying under the surface uh bitter attitude towards people uh that doesn't really Flash in the pan, but it's it's there and it it influences how we think and how we treat other people. A third word, which is actually only used once there in Ephesians 4. 26, that's the only place it's used in Scripture, related to orge, but it's it's emphasizing more the angry mood mingled with irritability, exasperation. uh and or embitterment. So all that to say that scripture recognizes that there are different experiences of anger. Scripture is always true to life. It It explains life in a way that is accurate, uh that that we would be able to agree with, yep, that's how I feel. You know, it doesn't express life in a way that's like that's a idealistic view, and I don't I don't I don't identify with that. We can look at these words and we can identify. We can see them in our hearts and we can see them in our world. And it's just helpful to know that Scripture speaks accurately and clearly to this issue. The next point there in this introductory section is that anger is something that we do. It is not something that happens to us. Right? Have you heard someone say, or have you ever heard yourself say, my anger got the best of me You know, it just came upon me. I I don't know what happened. It just it just happened. No, that's that's not what's going on. What's what's going on is I am doing something It welled up within me because of how I think and interpret and respond to a situation and I engaged in this anger. I may not have felt in control. I certainly may have felt like I was being overtaken, but it is something that I do, that I am responsible for. So that's that's critical because we we have to take responsibility for our sin. We can't allow ourselves to think that this is something beyond ourselves that that we are powerless in the face of it. The next sub point there, and I know we're these are almost random, but these are just kind of helpful things to think through. Anger has a target. a person or object toward whom the anger is expressed. Right? Even those who have that underlying settled uh bitterness that you know they just kinda go through their day and they woke up on the wrong side of the bed as we might call it and they're just kinda angry and bitter and gruff They express that toward somebody. They express that toward the dog. objects. Uh someone might be able to kind of hold it, bottle it in within themselves, but eventually it's gonna it's gonna have a target and and it's gonna hit its target. Whether it's a person or an object. And then the next point is that sinful anger is often used to coerce, manipulate, and intimidate. It is a weapon by which For someone who has anger as a as a true um uh uh struggle in the sense that they they have a habit that they're habitually an angry person. One of the clear manifestations of that is not just how it's expressed, but what their purposes are in expressing Husbands or wives, um people uh in positions of leadership, they express Express anger often for the purpose of controlling those who are under them. Controlling those that they have power over I want you to do what I want you to do. I want you to think the way I want you to think. I want to control, I want to manipulate you, I want to coerce you. And so they'll use anger to produce fear in that person and thus control them. And we need to examine ourselves, do we, even in situations where we might think, well, I'm just I'm parenting a child. uh or I'm I'm trying to get my employees to do what what they need to do. Or I'm trying to get my coworkers to see the things that that they need to see. of what they're doing wrong and the way they should be doing it. Are we sinning in our anger in order to manipulate them? Not not to Bring them along, not to shepherd them, not to help them learn and grow. But are we using our anger to produce fear and to control them? That certainly is what defines abuse. When you think about physical abuse, emotional abuse, verbal abuse, it is the intention to uh coerce and manipulate someone and control them. So it's very serious because it's very damaging. And then we see that anger is natural. Anger is natural. Anger is not, get this, it's not the product of sin. It did not come out of the fall. Anger exists In us because we are made in God's image. God Himself, as we'll see a little later, is a God of anger. And our capacity for anger comes from God. Now obviously because of our sinful nature, because of the fall, that anger is self-oriented almost all of the time. And it produces anger driven by selfishness and pride, and even our own righteous anger can be tainted by sin. You know, I remember hearing uh an author talking about his book on anger, and uh one of his colleagues had written uh another book on anger You guys know David Pallison who had wrote a book called Good and Angry. His colleague Ed Welch wrote a small book a big a small book for big uh small book about a big problem. Um and Ed Welcher was being interviewed about his book. Uh and he's like, why did you write this book on anger? Because David Pallison, your colleague, just wrote his book on anger. Why why not do something else? And Ed Welch said that uh David Pallison characteristically was somewhat balanced in his book in terms of talking about sinful anger but also righteous anger and developing uh a better approach to righteous anger, how we can practice righteous anger. And he said, Well for my book, yeah, I was just recognizing the fact that I don't know anybody that struggles with righteous anger I I don't know anybody that's good at it. Everybody struggles with sinful anger, so I'm just gonna focus on that. And so I thought it would be helpful to to do that. The the the two books um uh you know can be helpful. But the reality is even our righteous anger can be tainted by sin. You know, we we can be angry about uh things that are truly unjust, things that are truly wrongs. We could be angry about racial uh injustice, we can be angry about injustice when people get away with actual wrongs. We can be angry about abortion. We can be angry about unrighteous laws. But the question is, how am I expressing that anger? Am I expressing in a way that's righteous? Often we don't. We are often tainted by sin even in our Our righteous anger. But it exists again because we are made in God's image. That's why we even have the capacity for it. At the same time, even though it's natural, it's also learned. How we express anger is often a reflection of observations we've made of those around us No, no one needs to learn how to be angry. When they're one year old, give them a lesson, okay, when you don't like what I'm doing as a parent, let me show you how to express anger. Nobody needs to teach their child that. But as a child grows, often, not always, but often the way that they express anger can be reflective of how they've seen seen their parents or their siblings or kids at school. You observe the world around you like, that seemed to be effective. I think I'm going to do that. Or even if it wasn't effective, hey, I guess that's that's one way of trying to get my way. Repeated expressions of anger become habits or second nature. You know, as adults, the way that we respond in anger is often just the result of repeated acts of of res responding earlier uh in in life where it's just become a habit for us. So it seems natural. It seems to overtake us, but that's just because it's it's become part of our habitual listening. We've mentioned that um anger is moral Anger is the result of moral judgments. It evaluates a situation or information to determine if it is good or bad, right or wrong, innocent or offensive, and then acts based on that determination. You know, when someone says something to me, uh they they tell me something uh about myself, they say, hey, you know, I I'm disagreeing with with what you say. Here's what I think you're wrong. in this you're evaluating the situation wrong. I'm hearing those words coming from their lips, regardless of their tone, regardless of our relationship, and I'm making a a moral judgment of do I like what they're saying, do I not like what they're saying? saying? Do I think they're right? Do I think they're wrong? Are they unjustly accusing me? Are they falsely accusing me? Are they accurate in what they're saying? I'm, in a sense, in a in a instant analyzing what they're saying I'm making a moral judgment. I don't like what they're saying. They must not love me because they're saying something that I don't like. I disagree with what they're saying. What are they thinking? And then I will respond in anger. Again, we'll get more into that as we look at Scripture in the heart of anger. But we need to recognize that because anger is moral, God will judge us for our judgments. God will judge our judgments. We know Matthew 7, 1, do not judge, or you two will be judged, right? For with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. So God will uh in a sense measure us according to the same standard that we've used to measure others, but ultimately he will judge our anger on the basis of his righteousness and his perfection. But anger is moral. We're making moral judgments. We'll just get a little bit deeper as as we go along in in that area. We know that anger is destructive is the next point. Sorry, it's deceptive. It's deceptive. You know, sometimes we think that our anger is justified. Well look at what they did. Look at what they said. Can you believe that? Of course I'd be angry about that I've had conversations even recently over in in response to violent, verbally violent conversations, and the res the the justification was, well that wasn't nearly as bad as I've done in other situations. So it's okay. No, it's it's not okay. That that is a deceptive thought to think that just because it's maybe not as bad as I've act in other situations that it's okay. We we can't justify our anger. We definitely always minimize the seriousness of our anger, as we talked about at the very beginning. We don't recognize that in God's eyes it is as serious as murder. We need to come to grips with how God views our anger and not be deceived. by the flesh that would seek to minimize our culpability. One of the ways we minimize the seriousness of it is we re redefine it. We return it as it were. We we say, well I was just frustrated in that moment. Or I have a I have a pet peeve. That's just my pet peeve. And so, you know, when that when I see that happening I just I I get angry. Well, even those underlying those low level uh ex expressions of frustration and and peevishness, if you will, that's anger. Biblically that's anger. That's not a different category of of behavior. That is anger through and through. And so we need to treat those in exactly the same way as we would even the most explosive expressions of anger. And then finally, as part of the introduction, anger is almost always sinful. It is almost always we almost need to take out that phrase almost always because of again how much our anger is tainted by sin. It is sinful when it is selfishly motivated, and it usually is Even when we see true wrongs and injustices, there's uh often a selfish element to that, uh how we interpret that, how we think about that, how we express it. I mean you think about um you know this uh season in our nation where uh there's been mass violence, destruction of property. It it's right to be angry at uh at those kinds of things. There there is a sense in which that is an offense against God. That's a violation of his law. Uh that it's it's uh obviously violence against people who are made in the image of God. There's there's been untold death and destruction. And so there there is a righteous indignation that we should have about that. But sometimes our anger is kind of like it's not so much uh because uh uh out of the fact that it's it's a violation of God's law, it's it's almost more out of the sense of Well, I would never do that. How could people do that? I I I could never do that. So there's that selfish uh sense in which it's it's evaluated. Of course anger is sinful when it's manifested in simple ways. When it's destructive, when it's tearing down, where when it when it's um manipulating, when it's coercing and controlling. And then finally, anger is sinful when it stays stoked, when we don't deal with it, when we continue that to to to k put lobs in the fire as it were. You know, a few days goes by, we start to calm down a little bit. And then, oh, you know what, I I need to be angry about that. Let me put another wood in the fire. And we just keep it going without dealing with with our anger in a biblical way. So those are those are just a number of introductory thoughts just in thinking about anger, uh understanding it uh from from a s a certain level. Uh yeah, we have biblical examples here, but we know this is common. Just to go through this quickly, Cain of course was the first one in scripture to experience anger. when he saw that God did not regard his offering and instead regarded Abel's offering, it says he was angry. and downcast. He was angry because he didn't like God's evaluation. He saw how God handled the situation. He said, God, that's not right. And he got angry and obviously responded in a murderous way. Moses, I mean there's there's a bunch of instances where Moses got angry. This particular one, Exodus 1620. is when he had given instructions of course from the Lord about how they were to collect the manna. You know, you collect it one day, you only collect one day's worth. On the day before the Sabbath, you collect two days worth, but o Each day just collect enough of that day. And what did the people do? They collected extra. And so they they did that, and Moses says Moses got very angry at the people. Saul, 1 Samuel 18, 8, one of the instances where he got angry, he was hearing these songs David has killed his ten thousand or Saul has killed his thousands. David has ten thousands, right? So as the king, he's getting jealous, and it says he got very Angry. And then David in 2 Samuel 12 5, this is an interesting one. This is after he has Committed adultery with Bathsheba. Nathan comes to him, tells him a story about a man who's who's taken a four-neighbor's lamb, uh, and David gets angry at this injustice. And then David says, you know, you are the man. David gets angry at this obvious example of injustice, not recognizing that he had done exactly what the same thing. And that story highlights the reality that often we can that's part of the deceptiveness of anger, that we can evaluate situations, we can look at other people, we can hear what other people say and what other people do and we can be like, oh that's wrong. Yeah, how could they do that and not realize we're doing exactly the same thing? That's part of the prideful element of anger. Put there Ahazuerus, who later became Esther's husband. Remember, he asked for Queen Basti's presence. And she refused, and so he became very angry. So this is just a sampling. But there is one who is by far the most angry person in Scripture. I left the blank there for you. Who do you think it is? What's that? Did I hear something? Who who is the most angry person in Scripture? God. God. God is the most angry person. In fact, Psalm seven eleven says he is a righteous judge. He has indignation every day. And and the passages, the list of passages that I put there are just specific instances. A sampling of them of when God was angry with the nation of Israel, with specific individuals, uh at the wicked. And and so on. God is the most angry person. Again, we have a capacity for anger because we're made in God's image, and God expresses his anger. He evaluates mankind in a moral way. He looks at man and he makes judgments about what is right and wrong, you know, who is guilty, who is innocent. What is offensive, what is innocent. And as he makes those moral judgments, when he sees that which is unrighteous, that which is unjust, that which is contrary to his nature, that which is hostile to him He gets angry. And people don't like to think about that, do they? They want to say, God is the God of love. You know, the Old Testament God, sure, he was a God of anger, but but not the New Testament God. Of course Romans one eighteen does away with that. But the the fact that God is angry, that He's an angry God is a good thing. You have there at the subpoint, anger is not opposed to God's love. It is the result of it. I mean, would you really want a God who sees a man violate a woman in a violent way or in any way and just be ambivalent about it. Oh, I love you. It's okay, it doesn't matter. No, we get righteously indignant about that. And it's right and good. That God is angry at that. God's love for mankind, his his love for uh his his own glory, his desire to see righteousness and justice upheld on the earth, results in anger when it isn't done, when when when man violates his law, when there is injustice. We know Jesus felt and expressed anger when God's name was dishonored. There's numerous examples you could identify when he cleaned out the temple. Uh he wasn't selfishly angry, he recognized that people were taking advantage of uh of the people of God. They were turning the the place of worship into a a place of prophet and so he cleaned out the temple. There were many times when he was standing with someone who was uh deformed or sick uh on the Sabbath day and he would ask the Pharisees, is it right to heal a man on the Sabbath day? And of course they didn't think it was, and so knowing their thoughts is it would often say he would get angry And he would heal the man. Because they cared more about their own man-made laws than they cared about someone who's made in the image of God. Jesus felt angry. When God's name was dishonored. The result of God's anger towards sin is salvation. If God wasn't angry towards sin, we could not be saved. Because we could never have our sins forgiven. If and if we couldn't have our sins forgiven, then we wouldn't be able to be in relationship with God. God hated sin so much that he had to do away with it. He had to find a way to have justice done in order for people to be saved in that justice. Justice was sending Christ, and we know from First John four ten, but it's it's his love for mankind. He hated the sin in his in the people he had predestined, so he had to send Christ to pay the penalty for their sin, to rid them of that scourge, so that he could save them. And so salvation is the result of of God's anger. Again, he expresses it in a way to uphold righteousness and justice. That means both condemnation of the wicked And also salvation of those whom he has chosen to save. So God is an angry God, but he exhibits and manifests it in a way that is consistent with his character. Alright, so now let's really dive into talking about the heart of anger. Maybe I should just pause there and see If anybody has any particular comments or questions about what we've gone over so far. So is anger itself sin or is our response to anger the sin? So uh I would say uh the reason that we're we we we must evaluate it's not in and of itself anger anger is just an emotion. Uh it's a kind of a visceral response to circumstances or or something that we observe. So again, because we do have the capacity, because we're made in God's image, to to exhibit righteous anger. So the question is to determine if it's sinful, and we'll talk more about it, but why am I angry and how am I expressing that anger? Uh and as we'll talk more specifically to know um how to evaluate the the sinfulness or the relative righteousness are of our anger uh on on that basis. But if you have your Bible, turn to James chapter four. If you've taken classes from me, we've we've looked at this a number of times, um, especially when we talk about the heart, but it's one of those passages that you just have to keep Looking back at over and over again because you want to get it in your mind. You wanna you want to understand it to the fullest extent that you can. And so, you know, we've we've used this diagram of the heart and so what I did here was uh uh We'll we'll read the passage and we'll kind of walk through uh the steps of anger, if you will, of what's going on in the heart and and how that relates to the diagram as we've talked about it. So let me just read verses 1 to 6 of James chapter 4. He says, what is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. You are envious, you cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask, and you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you think that the scripture speaks to no purpose? He jealously desires the spirit which he has made to dwell in us But he gives greater grace. Therefore it says, God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to the humble So reading that you immediately see the word anger is not used there, but there are words within the family. uh that are clear quarrels conflicts uh murder fight quarrel Right? These are all words that that are the experience or the result of anger in a person's life. And so what is he saying? Fundamentally at a basic level, the reason you experience anger and you fight and you quarrel with people is because you have desires in your heart that are in conflict with other people. And in fact, not just that You have desires in your heart that are in conflict with God. He says there, when you make yourself an A friend of the world, you have desires uh that are of this world, you make yourself an enemy of God. He identifies there in verse six the reality that anger ultimately is the result of pride. So let's just kind of walk through what I think is a A progressive act or uh what's going on in the heart with regard to anger when we experience anger. Well we don't think about these things. This is not a thought process that we ourselves walk through You know, when when you're living life, uh you're not uh stepping through these things in your own heart in a in a conscious way But this is what's actually going on in the heart. First of all, anger begins with a proud heart, just really like every other sin. That proud heart is the heart that says, I'm in control. I get to determine what's right. I get to determine the rules and laws of my life. My expectations, my desires are what's most important. On the man or on the woman. It's a proud heart. And that proud heart really results in hostility toward God. We again we don't think, well, uh I'm being hostile to God. I'm angry at God. We may not have that thought, but immediately when you lift yourself up, when you have those those thoughts and convictions uh you know the the cognitive part of of your heart, what you're immediately doing is you're lowering God. You're saying, I have a better sense of what is right and wrong than God does. I have a better ability to evaluate my circumstances than God does. In fact, if I were God I would know that there would be a better way to uh to live my life or to experience life, to control the circumstances of my life. I would not have allowed this situation to happen if I was God. So that proud heart results in hostility toward God. And then hostility toward God results in elevating personal desires. That affective part of of the heart that my my desires, my priorities, because I I'm setting aside God's desires and priorities for me, now I elevate my own as most Important. And then our elevated desires become a law by which others must live by Right? So I have my own expectations, the way I think things should go, the way that I assess this world and what's right and wrong. And everybody else needs to live according to that. Everybody else needs to follow my way of thinking, my way of living. They all need to have my perspective. And when they don't, when anyone else, including God, violates my law, my sense of what is right in this world, that's when anger arises within us and we choose to express it in a multitude of ways. When s somebody does something, they cut off cut us off on the freeway. Well my law says thou shalt not cut me off. And so I'm gonna express anger. Uh when uh someone uh does something w you know, when when the kids do something at home that annoys me. Well, my law says, thou shalt not annoy me. I need to be happy and you need to accommodate my happiness. So I'm going to get angry at my children who You know, they're just tootling on the ground and playing, but it's I find it annoying because I'm trying to watch something, I'm trying to read something, I'm trying to do something, and you're distracting me. When somebody does something at work that doesn't meet your standard. Well, my law says my standard is what's most important. Therefore, if you don't meet my standard, I'm going to get angry at you. Circumstances of life. You know, COVID-19 hits the world. I lose my job. It's nobody's fault, and I know it's nobody's fault, but you know what? God's in control. God did something wrong here. God doesn't know what is the right way to rule this world. I'm going to be angry at God because he allowed all of these things to happen into my life. We elevate our desires and our expectations and our perspectives of what we think should happen in this world to such a degree that we completely set aside the law of God and we expect others, including God, to abide by them, and when they don't, When things don't work out the way that I want them to, people are going to feel my wrath. Again, we don't necessarily consciously walk through that process, but that's what's happening. It is pride through and through. It's really simple when you think about anger It's just pride in thinking that I know what's right, I know what's best, my desires are most important, and therefore when I express my anger, whether it's through yelling through uh physical ways, through um uh leaving someone, uh uh the silent treatment, uh whatever I I do, it's justified because that's the punishment for violating my law That's the just punishment that I have determined for myself when you violate my law. It's pride. Anger is pride. Now, because anger is a response to a perceived wrong or injustice, uh the following questions here can be helpful in examining examining what is going on in the heart in terms of How am I analyzing this situation? We need to ask ourselves, in in a situation where I'm getting angry, is my anger over a legitimate wrong or injustice? Did someone actually violate God's law or or the civil law? Did someone actually do something that is objectively wrong? Or did they violate my law and Some of the ways they might do that is maybe that they did something that's at cross purposes with me. You know, I'm trying to get to work and they're trying to get to work and their c they're trying to get to work is conflicting with my trying to get to work and therefore I'm going to be In Greece at them. They they they didn't sin, they didn't say anything. They just went in front of me. And therefore because they did something that was at cross purposes with me Therefore I'm angry. Or something somebody did something to inconvenience me. Again, because I'm filled with pride and I'm thinking that uh my life should go the way that I want it to go and I have to keep my schedule and everybody has to w work around me. If somebody inconveniences me, it may not be it's not going to be a sin issue. It's just they've just done something that's been an inconvenience then then I'm angry and I need to recognize that it's that it actually is an inconvenience and not an actual sin or wrong or injustice. Or did somebody do or say something that I just disagree with? They voted differently than I did. They uh they live their life differently. They structure their home differently. They They listen to music that I don't listen to. Uh that they have hobbies that that I don't think maybe a Christian should have or They go places and do things that I don't think Christians should do, and therefore I get angry because you're not living according to my law. Well, no, you're you're just pridefully lifting up your own preferences. in your own way of thinking rather than being humble about evaluating what other people are doing I if we think about our instances of anger, you know, maybe you go home later today or sometime this week. There's going to be something that's going to happen in your life that's going to that's going to cross your desires, that's that's going to violate your expectations. Uh in some way, small or big, you just need to ask yourself in that moment, what desire, what expectation is being violated, and is that wrong? Is that unjust? Most of the time it would be the answer would be no. It's just it just is what it is, right? We just live in a world with seven billion other people and uh we can't always miss each other. Sometimes we bump into each other. It's not a matter of sin or righteousness. Wrong or injustice. We need to recognize when we are being proud. And that Happens to be a lot of the time. So when we have pride, what do we do? Well, when we add as we address the heart, we can look at the rest of the passage verses seven to ten. And see what the solution is to our pride. I know we didn't go through verses one through six in detail. This is kind of the the the big the big picture there, and we'll do the same here with seven to ten. Submit them therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will hear flee from you. Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be miserable and mourn and weep, let your laughter be turned into mourning and your joy To gloom. Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord, and He will exalt you I don't think this is a one, two, three step kind of thing. These are just all uh principles of how we are to respond when we recognize that we have been sinfully angry, when we've been prideful, that's produced anger in our hearts. Number one, submit yourself therefore to God. We need to correct that situation where we put ourselves off the on the on the throne. We need to get off the throne and put God back on the throne, right? We need to adopt his way of thinking, his way of evaluating, his express his example of what is a proper and biblical uh response to wrongs and injustices. We need to put God at the highest place in our life. Say, all right, Lord, whatever you say is important, that's what I'm gonna think of as important. Uh whatever you say is necessary or an appropriate response in this is this situation, that's what I'm gonna That's what I'm gonna do. Whatever whatever are desires that you want for me, I'm gonna adopt those desires as my most important desires. That really coincides with the last part of the verse where he says, humble yourselves before the Lord, where we just put ourselves under God and his wisdom and his righteousness and his instruction. That's that's really the most important part. We we have to recognize that we have lifted ourselves up against the Lord and and his standards and his desires. And so we need to humble ourselves. He says, resist the devil. We talked a few weeks ago about the spiritual battle. One of the schemes of the devil, as we see even in Genesis chapter 3, is that the devil wants us to be filled with pride. You know, he told Eve, and you know Are you sure that God really has your best in mind? I think you might have a better idea of what's good for you than than God does. Oh, yeah, I think you're right about that. No. We we have to resist the devil. Resist those temptations to think that I know better than God does. And so instead we need to draw near to God. We need to recognize that His law, His standards, His righteousness is not arbitrary It is certainly his character, but it's what's good for us. He he gives us the instructions that it gives us because He loves us and he knows that that what is best for us is if we follow these these laws, these principles, these character traits, these ways of thinking about life. We need to draw nearer to God. We need to cleanse our hands and purify our hearts. There's the kind of a picturesque way of describing confession and repentance, seeking forgiveness and reconciliation. He says, lament and mourn and weep. There's that sense of we need to recognize the seriousness and impact of our sin. We can't just say, okay, yeah, I know that was wrong, but please forget me and you know move on. No, we need to again we need to see how deep our sin goes. That's not just an act that we've done, but it's a heart that's been hostile to God, and it's had a deep and lasting impact on others that should cause a godly kind of remorse, which Paul talks about in 2 Corinthians 7. A remorse that leads to repentance. You know, I had that first subpoint there. While we ought to be concerned with violations of God's law. in the lives of others, we ought to be more concerned with abiding by it ourselves Again, a problem with anger is we we look at others and we say, I don't think they're living right, I don't think they're doing things right I don't agree with how they're living, I don't agree with what they're saying. And so we get so focused on that we we rise up in anger, we respond And we're not at all thinking about, well, what would God have me do? How can I abide by the law of Christ? You know, Jesus said, how do you handle, how do you respond to those who do wrong to you? How do you respond to those who sin against you? Well, you love your enemies. You pray for those who persecute you. You do good. You bless and do good. You don't curse. He said you overcome evil with good. You know, this is Matthew five, Romans twelve. Um we've we talked about this in our last uh quarter class, the gospel For life. The way that we are to respond to the wrongs of others, or at least the perceived wrongs of others, is in a way that reflects the love and the grace and all of the attributes. of God. In fact, tur turn over to Galatians chapter five. I think this is a helpful um way to look at how we should think about uh responding to anger and understanding it. In Galatians chapter 5, you know, hopefully you know that well as the chapter where we find the fruit of the Spirit, but the fruit of the Spirit is two verses out of the whole chapter. So Before we have the fruit of the Spirit, we have the what you could call the the deeds of the flesh, the fruit of the flesh. And that's in verses 15 to 21. Look at those things. And and as we're reading through it, see if you can identify which deeds of the flesh relate to or in the famil or are in the family of the sin of anger. Okay? There's a there's a whole list that Paul Under the inspiration of the Spirit, identifies as things that we do in the flesh, identify which ones are in the family of anger. I'll start reading verse 15. But if you bite and devour one another, take care that you are not I lost my spot, take care that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. For the flesh, that's its desire against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, for these are in opposition, for these are in opposition to one another, so that you may not do the things that you please. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now, the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are Immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmities, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions Envying, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these, which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who practice practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Alright, now just in the part of the deeds of the flesh, there are 15 deeds that he listed out. And of course, then he ended by saying things like these. So it's not an exhaustive list. But out of the fifteen I didn't ask you to count specifically. Anyone want to guess as to how many of the fifteen are in the family of anger? As you were trying to identify those. I counted seven, so I Half. About half. I mean of all the sins that under the inspiration of the Spirit that Paul could list out of the the kinds of things that we do out of the flesh, half of them are again in the family of anger. The things that we do out of our anger, which tells you this is a big deal. And he says, again, to highlight the seriousness At the end, he says, of which I forewarn you that those who practice those things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Now my purpose is not to cause you to question your salvation, though sometimes we do need to ask if we're in the faith, if we're struggling to such a degree. But we do need to recognize This is the kind of sin that will keep me out of hell if I continue in it in unrepentance. Sorry, keep me out of heaven. Like that didn't sound right. This is a serious sin, but but notice the language that he used of how of the nature of this battle This is a spiritual battle. This is a battle between the flesh and the spirit. This isn't between you and another person. This isn't you against the world. This is between your flesh, you, and the Spirit of God who dwells in you, seeking who's going to have control of me. Who am I going to allow to control my life. Every time we express anger in a sinful way, or that we are angry because for a simple reason, we are Giving the flesh control. We're allowing the flesh to control us. We're grieving the spirit. We're acting in a way that's hostile to God And so what he's saying here is, no, don't allow the flesh to take control of your life. Allow the spirit to take control of your life. The second subpoint in verses 13 and 14 there is adopt God's way of thinking about your role in the world. Again, because of our pride, we think the world has to revolve around me. People have to live the way that I want them to live. They have to move around me in a way that's convenient for me, that doesn't cause any problems with my life. But that's not how the Spirit would have us to think about life. He says, in verses 13 and 14, there for you were called to Freedom, brethren, only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity to the flesh for the flesh, but through love serve one another Yeah, of course he's been talking in the context of uh following the Mosaic Law versus the freedom that we have in Christ. And he says, take your freedom and make it your your character of life, your goal in life, the way you live and move in this world. To serve. Not to be served. Not to not to have everybody be oriented around you, but you serve. And then secondly, and Verse 14, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word in the statement, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. The way we typically experience and express anger is the exact opposite of that. We are not loving. We're hating our neighbor because we're we're seeking to conform them to us rather than conforming ourselves to Christ and seeking to prove to promote Christlieness and righteousness in the world. So what what he's saying here is the the the problem with the deeds of the flesh is it's our own flesh seeking to to take control, whereas we need to be controlled by the Spirit, which then produces a different way of thinking about life. My role in life is not to accomplish my desires, my goals, have everybody think the way that I want them to think, have them live and move around me. But rather my goal in my life, my orientation is to serve and to love others. And so when someone does something wrong, let's just say it's a legitimate wrong, instead of becoming simply angry about it and expressing it, no I can move into that situation and respond in a in a serving loving way. You know, we talked in the biblical reconciliation class, uh if you've taken that, that uh conflicts are an opportunity. They're an opportunity to glorify God, to grow in Christ and to serve others. Either the person you're directly in conflict with or those who are observing the conflict. That we can serve others by showing Christ likeness. in our lives. That is our mindset, not to puff up ourselves, to to put ourselves in a prideful place, but rather to serve with humility and love. And then finally, we need to, as it says in verses 22 to 26, measure growth and success by God's standard. So I know I've overcome anger not when I've just stopped. yelling. Not when I've just stopped cussing. Not when I'm just hunkered down in my room, not interacting with people. Okay, if I just don't talk to anybody, I won't get angry. Okay, I think I've overcome this. No, instead we need to examine what's God's standard for overcoming anger. And that is, verse 22, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness. Faithfulness, gentleness, self-control, against those things there is no law. Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. Let us not become boastful, challenging one another, envying one another. So how do I know when I've grown? How do I know when I've overcome anger? It's when the characteristics of Christ and of God are exhibited and manifested in in my life. When when I encounter those situations where I would previously become sinfully angry, but now I'm characterized by love, by patience. Kindness, goodness, those are all words that are in direct contrast to sinful expressions of anger. So that those are the kinds of things we need to be seeking to cultivate in our lives, and how do we cultivate them? Well, verse 25, by walking by the Spirit. by taking in the truth of God's word, allowing our minds to be washed and cleansed and renewed. So that the Spirit Himself is controlling us, not our own fleshly thoughts about life, but the Spirit is controlling us with his truth. And then as he is transforming us from one degree of glory to another, then we begin to express love and goodness and patience and all the rest. Alright, now with The few minutes we have left, I'll go through this quickly and uh and then we'll uh hopefully have some time for discussion for a couple minutes. So just some practical steps, and I know obviously with every individual uh it's helpful to do specific purposeful interaction uh and and uh working through these principles and and how they work out in your particular life but but I think these general biblical principles are helpful. Number one, recognize and don't minimize your sin. Recognize that it is sinful. Just be honest about that. You know the beautiful thing, I I find myself saying this to people a lot of times, the beautiful thing of just being honest about our sin Is that when when we acknowledge it as sin, we can confess it, repent of it, seek forgiveness, and find God's grace in that And then grow. If you identify it as something else, there's really very little hope. There's uncertainty about how to move forward, of how to reconcile. But when we're honest about our sin, we can just confess it and repent. And receive God's forgiveness and the forgiveness of others. We need to identify idolatrous desires, that is, those idio those desires that have so been lifted up in our heart that they They are we're more committed to them than we are to serving God. So we can ask ourselves, what am I getting that I'm not wanting? Or what am I wanting that I'm not getting? In this situation, what what are my desires that are that I feel are being violated? What perceived values or rights or expectations are being violated? Th those specific questions are better than why am I angry? And as you identify those things you can begin to recognize, okay, is that something that is consistent with God's standard? Or is that really my own standard that I have lifted up above God's? Identify the sinful manifestations of anger In other words, how have I expressed it with my words, with my behavior? How have I compressed it in a sense? How have I bottled it up? uh in a by having malice in my heart towards others, by being bitter toward others. Just identify those things and then confess. Just agree with God that the way that you the reason you've been angry and the way you've expressed or compressed anger has been sinful. Humbly agree with God and others about the reality, significance, and impact of your behavior. Which that means that if you're gonna have to if you're thinking about the impact, you need to ask others. uh about what that impact has been in some cases. You may not always realize how much of an impact there's there's been. And it requires humility to do that. Humbly acknowledge to God and others the hard attitudes and desires that give rise to your behavior. I confess to those who were sinned against or somehow affected by your sin. You know, if you're a mom and a dad, you have kids in the home, and you have an argument and you sin against one another. And your kids are aware of it. Don't just confess to one another and reconcile between the two of you. You have to go to your kids and say, you witnessed my anger and that was sinful. Confess even to those who were impacted or are aware and observed the sin. And then ask God and others for forgiveness. Be specific. Asking the question allows for a transaction to take place. We've talked about this in the biblical reconciliation class. Don't just say I'm sorry. Don't just say I apologize. Say, will you please forgive me for You know, everything from the outward expression to the inward heart attitudes and that allows them to have a transaction of reconciliation with you. Accept the forgiveness of God and others who extend it by living as one who has been forgiven. So don't allow shame and regret to hinder your attitude in life. Don't wallow in your shame You know, day after day, oh I can't believe I did this. I'm so sorry, you know, this is terrible. You know, once you've been forgiven and grace has been extended to you, live in the freedom and the joy of that forgiveness. And then pray for God's help in putting off anger and putting on patience and gentleness gentleness, and then develop an action actionable plan. to replace anger with godly thinking and living. Obviously that'll depend on each individual. What are the kinds of things that they tend to get angry about? How do they tend to express anger Thinking through, okay, what are my tendencies, what are my hard attitudes that I tend to struggle with? What are ways in which I can grow in those specific areas? So that next time I'm confronted with a situation that would typically make me angry, I can be in a better place to respond in a godly way. Just one example of something you can do if this is something that you struggle with, to uh assess yourself. is record uh for a week every time you feel anger coming on. Each time answer these four questions while learning to put into practice Romans 12. 9, which uh of course says cling to what is good, hate what is evil. H, what happened? You're just you're asking yourself, maybe even writing it down. Uh who was involved, what took place, where was it, when was it? Over time you might be able to see patterns that emerge. A, how did you act? What did you say, uh, do or feel when you got angry? What what came out of you? T, what were your thoughts? What was in you? What were you thinking? Not not like what were you thinking? But what what thoughts were you having? What desires were you were you uh pursuing? What What mastered your thoughts and desires in that moment? And then E, what is excellent? How would God want you to deal with this situation the next time? If God put you in that situation, again, exactly that same situation, what would have been a God-honoring way to think and respond? How would God want you to be ruled and and led by the Spirit in that moment, other than ruling, being ruled by the flesh? Alright, we we have just a couple minutes. So um any any thoughts, comments? Questions. It's a good week for us to keep all of this in mind then in practice. It is, isn't it? That's gonna potentially rile some emotions. And we need to ask ourselves, what do we really believe about life? What do we believe about God? What do we believe about God's purposes and what God uh calls us to as believers in this world. So maybe, yeah, maybe you should just keep it handy. Keep these notes handy. Jeff. Um so we we talked about the uh person who is exhibiting anger. What about the person who's at the other end of the bed? So the person who's on the receiving end of anger? Yes. So forgiveness is the thing Given or not given, where are some of the things of ways that that person Well, um I mean the first thing that pops into my mind is Proverbs fift fifteen one. Soft answer turns away wrath. A harsh word stirs up anger. You know, one of the things that uh exacerbates conflict is one person is, you know, they're just living their life d doing what they're doing. They're they're not angry, they're not trying to stir up anger, but another person interprets them uh interprets their actions or their words in in a hostile way so so they they get angry and of course now now I'm offended and so now I'm gonna respond in anger and you know then it just ratches up from there. So initially you know we have to recognize, you know what, I I need to stay calm. I need to s re uh return whatever they're saying in in a calm uh soft way. Um Obviously humility, have a heart of humility, uh to not um elevate my own sense of self righteousness in this moment. Um you know, because sometimes we again we don't feel like we're doing anything to be hostile, but another person responds in a hostile way. And so the temptation can be, well, I'm I'm righteous in this situation. I'm innocent. And so because of I'm innocent, um I I I need to justify myself. I need to make sure that they know I'm innocent. And and that produces then words and responses that uh can be ungodly. as opposed to imitating Christ, who uh you know when he was reviled he didn't revile in return. When he suffered he didn't utter threats But it says he kept entrusting himself to God who judges justly. The more that we cultivate um um the attitudes of Christ that he had as he suffered uh for us in those final hours as well of course as the rest of his earthly life. the more we will be in a position to respond in a gentle, loving, conciliatory way. Um but if somebody responds to you in anger, maybe just something we could say is I can I can tell you know you're you're upset. Um Can you know can can we just have a a calm conversation about this? You know? Can you help me understand what I've done or what I've said to upset you? Uh obviously how that conversation goes gonna Depend on the moment, but um having a humble heart, responding in a gentle, kind way uh trying to keep in your mind, uh I I need to love this person as Christ has loved me. You know, as Jesus was hanging on the cross and people were Still s uh scorning and mocking him. Scripture says he kept saying, Father Forgive them for they know not what you do what they're doing. So in our minds, at least in that moment, we're thinking, Father, help me. I'm gonna respond. Lord forgive them for I don't know why they're so angry. I don't know why they're doing Lord please forgive them. I they probably don't know why why they're doing this Help me to love them well. You know, of course Romans twelve, twenty-two, twenty-one, overcome evil with good. Um so as I I maybe point you back to the Gospel for Life class and so many of those principles. Um But th those are uh those are hard attitudes that produce certain kinds of responses. You know, there's certainly you could come up with phrases or or a uh tip and a trick to respond in a situation, but then what do you do when it doesn't work, right? So what's most important is that we cultivate a heart attitude that's like Christ, a gentle, humble, loving heart uh that seeks to find our our rest not in in the peace that we experience with others, but rather peace with our relationship with God. And so because I'm at peace with God, Now I can pursue peace with others. Of course Paul talks about that if he's there's so many passages we could talk through, but there would be some Initial thoughts. Alright, well we're a few minutes over time. So appreciate your your patience. Um I'll I'll stick around here for a couple minutes. Uh if any of you online have a question Uh or if any of you here of course want to want to come up and talk. Uh but let me pray and ask the Lord's help so that we can honor Him with our hearts in these things. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you are a God who loves, and because you love, you hate evil and wickedness, injustice, unrighteousness. And because you love us, you hate the sin in us and and cannot literally stand it. And therefore in order to have relationship with us To reconcile to us. You couldn't just ignore it. You couldn't just sweep it away. But it had to be done away with in a just way. And therefore you sent your son. The perfect, holy, undefiled one, to pay the penalty that we deserve. And you justified us, clothed us in his righteousness, and brought peace between us and you. You adopted us, you removed us from the domain of darkness, and hostility and sin and brought us into the kingdom of your son. And Lord, we just confess that in our hearts we struggle. We struggle with pride. We struggle with viewing this world through the lens of our own desires and responding to it in that way. And so we ask for your help, for your spirit to fill us with truth, to remind us of Christ and how he responded to those who sinned against him. Lord, help us to bring glory to your name by being a people who are characterized by the fruit of the Spirit, who glorify Christ by reflecting his character in the world. So that there would be a clear distinction between those who are of Christ and those who are not, and that you would be honored. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.