Let me pray and uh we'll dive into the notes here. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning This is the day that you have made, and uh we rejoice and are glad in it. Lord, we thank you that uh you are a faithful God, that you are trustworthy, that But uh you are reliable, uh you never change, your character uh is the same always, and your character is such that you are for your people. You love us, and you've demonstrated that love by giving your son to us. And not only in that one act, but in ten billion acts since then, you continue to demonstrate Your overwhelming love for us and your mercies and your kindness and your goodness. Lord, we just give you praise and thanks for who you are. That no matter what our circumstances are, no matter what our personal struggles are, uh that you are for us and not against us. And we can look to you, we can trust in you. We can seek you for wisdom, for help, for comfort. Lord, as we finish out this class today, this quarter. Help us to uh just grow in our understanding and thinking about these issues. Uh this is still only just uh a surface introductory uh into this this significant issue of depression. But we thank you for what you have revealed in your word. And I pray you would help each one of us to grow in our understanding so that in our own lives when we face the difficulties and challenges of this fallen world that we would grow in our trust in you and as we encounter those who are struggling with sadness in various degrees. that we would have the ability to minister effectively to them. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Alright. Well um uh as you can see I uh took the diagrams that we didn't get to last week and uh integrated them into this new set of notes. So if you didn't get them, we can post them again on the chat or you can find them in the Hope Book group. When we post the recordings on sermon audio, the PDF of the notes are there also. So if you don't get them any other way, or if somebody you know that somebody missed a session Uh they can always get the notes, the PDF notes from the Sermon Audio uh website. Um so let me know if you have any questions about that. Well, uh as usual, I suspect that we probably will struggle to get through all the notes today, but uh I hope that what we go through here will be encouraging. I'm certainly looking forward to getting to the section in the notes on hope. Uh 'cause that's the I think the best part of how we as uh believers, as those who are in the kingdom of light uh have that's that's what we have that's far superior uh among other things, uh but especially that uh far superior to the world. But I want to start with just some introductory thoughts. Um this is Kind of review, but not necessarily covering the same material. These six thoughts, I put there in a footnote, come out of Wayne Mack's book, Out of the Blues, one of his helpful books there. And uh this is just kind of a logical flow just to get our minds up to speed on what we're talking about here. So we're talking about depression, and the the first thought here is that The experience of depression is something that is only possible in a fallen world. Right? Uh glory be to God when we enter heaven, whether it's because we die or the Lord comes back and and we enter into his established kingdom here on earth, one of course eventually into the eternal state There will be no reason to be depressed. No one on the earth will be depressed. There will be no sadness. There will be no tears. There will be no crying. It is solely and only because of the fall and the the curse of the fall on the earth, uh in our lives, in our bodies, that the experience of depression is possible. Uh even more than that, we could say, number two, that depression is the only logical and rationally consistent result of living In a fallen world, uh uh that is to say, in a world without God. Uh it should not surprise us that depression is common among unbelievers. It should not surprise us that At this stage, uh somewhere around one in five people are on medications for depression or anxiety. Uh that is uh the the rational, reasonable result of not having God in this world. I mean if you Just take the time to think about it. We're not gonna dwell on it too long. But if you remove God from your life today, just think about your life, take God out of the picture. Take out of the picture uh someone who loves you uh without uh without uh end, uh someone who loves you without uh you having to do anything to earn that love unconditionally, who cares for you, who's for you, who has good purposes for you, who gives you an identity. Remove out of the picture of your life. uh the the promises of God that He is working all things together for good. Remove out of your life uh God who promised you Promises you an eternal future that you can be confident in, not just wish for and hope that somehow you might be able to attain, but you can be confident in your eternal future. Remove all of the things out of your out of your life that we have uh because of who we are as believers. And what we come to the conclusion of is that life is hopeless. It's dark. I mean scripture uses The term the kingdom of darkness is what we've been transferred out of. A life is completely dark Uh to unbelievers. They have no hope uh in this world. Um at the uh annual um uh s suicide prevention walk that's at Lake Elkhorn. Our church had a booth there uh a year a little over a year ago. And you see the word hope everywhere. You know, it's plastered on t shirts, on uh water bottles, just on everything. And uh uh You come to realize very quickly that w if you ask, well, what hope is there? What hope do you have to offer someone who is so depressed that they're suicidal? There's nothing. I mean it just falls away. This this grand idea of hope that looks so promising and so wonderful. If you just kind of Press into it just a little bit. Okay, what what is that? What is that hope? It just crumbles to the ground because it's it's vain. It's empty. There's nothing there. A number of years ago when we lived in Washington, I served with an organization called Support Officers and basically when we were on call, you did a couple shifts a month uh you would get called out by the 911 dispatch to uh situations where there was a fatality outside of the hospital. So it could be a drug overdose, it could be a car accident, it could be just somebody dying of old age in their home. It could you know, whatever it could be. So you you show up to these situations and you have no idea or They give you some idea but uh you really don't know what you're encounter and and the whole purpose of the support officer is to care for the W survivors, the the family, the friends who are around in that moment, because the law enforcement, the first responders, they're not there to care for the survivors, they're there to deal with the situation, the uh either trying to revive a person or you know, handle what needs to be. So anyway, uh I remember as when uh when I was training for that, I went out with uh this gentleman. Uh this is uh by the way, uh a faith based organization, Christian but very broadly speaking, uh certainly not Not um uh as theologically sound as as we would uh desire. But anyway, so I I went out with this guy uh who was uh training me, I was just shadowing him. And we went to this home, very sad situation, of a family where their early twenties um daughter had just come home from a rehab center. She had been struggling with just extreme clinical depression for uh a long time and uh had gone to this uh center in um uh uh finally had had made it home. And so you can imagine that if you're the family of this individual, uh that you would be glad for uh having your daughter home finally once again, hop hoping that she's well, that she's been able to overcome her struggle. Well, she hadn't been home for more than a couple days before they found her in her room one morning dead because she had overdosed on her medications. She'd taken her own life. And so we were sitting here in the living room with this just devastated family, parents and siblings, a couple siblings, and And I heard the other support officers say to them in an effort to comfort them, uh, you know, she didn't choose this, this was a disease, you know, there's nothing you could have done, there's nothing she could have done. And I just thought to myself, how horrible is that? On the one hand people would think, well that's hope in the sense that, you know, sh she uh uh she didn't choose this for herself. It's just something that came upon her. It's like cancer killed her kind of thing. You know, she she didn't wish this on herself And certainly, you know, I don't want to necessarily say that she did wish it on herself. It's it's more complicated than that. But on the other hand, it's hopeless because if you have the disease of depression, that's it. Like you're locked you're done. And that's how the world deals with it. Because they have no hope to give, they have no true hope for overcoming uh without God. The the best they can do is hope for a better tomorrow. Just stick with it and things will get better. And if things don't, then what do you do? The the world without God is lost and without hope. Uh and that that's a reality. Well, deliverance point number three is uh deliverance from depression is made possible through the redeeming work of Jesus Christ and the regeneration of the Holy Spirit. Now we know that unbelievers can come out of a state of depression uh in a variety of ways. Uh Stephen was telling us, you know, you could uh just live your own life the way you think you ought to be lived, you know. Uh divorce your spouse who's causing you problems or go out and commit your own adultery or uh, you know, get high on drugs. You you can come out of your depression in a whole host of ways. And and that's possible, but that's not change. That's not really dealing with the problem. That's just changing your your mental state uh in in so It is only through Christ, because of the hope that He gives us a new identity, a new eternal life A confident expectation for the future that we can be transformed into a life of hope because of what he has done and the the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. So again, as believers, we're not just looking for temporary solutions. You know, just uh give me a pick-me-up for today so I can get through it. No, we're looking for transformation and that's made possible because of what Christ has done for us. As at the same time as saying that though, we also have to acknowledge that experiential deliverance from depression is not an automatic result. So just because we get saved and we get our sins forgiven, we get that eternal life, the Holy Spirit dwelling within us, Doesn't mean that all of a sudden life is roses and wonderful and uh and you know we never have any problems. No, that's not true at all, because we still live in a fallen world. We still live in sin-cursed bodies, we still are surrounded by other sin. And so there can still be that experience of depression. Point number five. Because we all still struggle with indwelling sin, it's possible for believers to experience depression. And it's not just indwelling sin, it's just uh we live in a difficult world where we we lose the things that we love. We we lose our loved ones. We lose our our hopes and our dreams for the future. Uh we'll talk about more of those kinds of things, but in the syncurse world we We have reasons for sadness. And it's not always bad. Sometimes sadness is good. It's it's right. It's a right expression. of what life is like in this world. But then finally, we can just remind ourselves that believers can look forward to a time when they will be fully and eternally delivered from sin and all its problems. including depression. So again, this is the ultimate hope. That no matter how difficult life is in this world, no matter how challenging our circumstances are for today or or ten years from now, we know that this life is just a tiny, tiny fraction of the span of eternity Where there will be everlasting joy. And so we can look forward to that time and not be overwhelmed with sorrow over the difficulties of this life. So that's just some introductory thoughts to remind us of the reality of depression and yet the great hope that we have. in Christ. So we want to get into as as a follow-on from last week, the heart of depression. And and before we we get into this sex, I just want to say, you know, we talked a a lot or I showed you videos about medicine last week. Uh and again I don't want to come across as you know, anti medicine, like medicine's always wrong. Nobody should ever take medicine. I d I don't want to come across that way. Uh but one thing that I think is important to acknowledge is that one of the downsides uh of medications for depression is that often Not always, but often, it becomes the end of the road for someone in their search for solutions. That once they are given a medication, and let's just say the medication helps, now all of a sudden, okay, I'm good. I guess I I did have a chemical imbalance. And so I don't need to look for uh any other solutions. I don't need to actually deal with the problem anymore. I'm just I'm good with my medication. Uh or even if it didn't necessarily help, well let me find a different medication. Let me keep trying that that aspect of excuse me of of help. But what we want to do is is not necessarily just end right there. We want to examine the the struggle and what is it that's that's causing the depression so that we can know how we ought to respond and how we ought to work through those challenges. So you you see this diagram here that reflects the reality that depression is a response to life Depression is a response to life. Um situations, um, hardships uh difficulties, trials, uh sicknesses, um they don't necessarily cause depression. And I'm setting aside here an actual illness that actually causes depression. Uh but but just having uh you know some chronic illness doesn't in and of itself necessarily cause depression. just like going through a difficult time in life doesn't cause depression. I have this quote here by Ed Welch mental pain usually needs an interpretive push to send it to the hell and hopelessness we call depression. What what he's getting at there is this reality that as we live life, as we encounter the difficulties and the challenges of life, it's not the things that that come at us or the things that are around us that define whether or not we're going to be depressed What what defines whether or not we're gonna be depressed is what comes out of us in response to those other things. Okay? And again, sometimes, in some situations, depression is a right response. It's an accurate and appropriate response to a difficult circumstance, just like we would say grief. Uh depression in in the form of grief is a is a right response to the loss of a loved one or the loss of something else that Uh that's tragic. But many times, and of course, because of the nature of our discussion, we're focusing more on the the problematic aspects of depression. It's what's inside of us that's interpreting our surrounding circumstances, that's interpreting what's happening around us, that is causing depression. So again, you see that diagram. It says there's outside events, starts with that top box there. that outside events, uh things that are outside of control, or things, people, events, or illnesses that come at us. Uh sometimes it's it's a person who's just particularly troublesome. Uh maybe it's uh a spouse, an unbelieving spouse who's causing difficulty, or even a believing spouse who's who's acting like an enemy in your life, or or a a child that has not chosen to follow in the ways that you sought to raise them, or just some personal enemy who is seeking to make life difficult for you. Perhaps there's an event, just uh some situation in life that uh has taken place, some some tragedy uh some uh disappointing uh s uh situation where y you haven't been able to accomplish what you wanted to accomplish. Um you know, your your team lost the Super Bowl. And you have to keep watching those replays every time you turn on the T V. Uh it can be something as simple as that or of course far more significant. Uh illnesses, and again I'm not talking about illnesses that actually do produce uh the physiological uh and psychological psychological effects of depression. I'm talking about other just being sick uh having chronic illness uh that just weighs us down physiologically. Uh those things uh that are outside of us um and even in our b in our body in the sense of it's outside of our soul, it's something that we don't have control over. There there's something outside of us that happens And then we, in our soul, in our mind, we interpret those things based on our beliefs based on our perspective, just our perception of what's actually going on. Uh we assume that there's maybe a an element where we can make a a difference, we can change things, but we're struggling to make that happen. Uh there's there's just a r a natural response maybe that comes out of us that we don't like. You know, you're Your child does something, they disobey you for the hundredth time, and what comes out of you is rage, and you realize, oh my goodness, how in the world can I Can I do this? And you then interpret that and and potentially uh become depressed. There's there's that sadness then that results from our interpretation of what's going on around us. uh even what's coming out of us. And that that uh uh interpretation that can result in depression. Doesn't always, right? We're just talking about when it does. That's what depression comes out of. It's our interpretation of the events around us, the situations, the people, our own responses to things. Let's kind of dig into that a little bit more. What what are the things that are in us that could potentially and this is all dependent dependent on the individual person, but what are the things that are in us that can potentially lead a person into depression on the basis of how they interpret their uh their circumstances. Well, you have here two different sections, the inclinations of the heart that lead to depression Just how we kind of tend to be inclined generally and then specific responses to our circumstances that lead to depression. Okay? So first the inclinations. By the way, this is not intended to be exhaustive by any stretch, but these are some of the more common things that are underlying a person's experience of depression. Well we know that because we're born sinners, that one of our greatest inclinations is that of pride. That we we build ourselves up. We place ourselves on the throne of our lives. We want others and everything in life to work out the way that we want it to work out. And therefore, everything around us becomes a tool that I view as uh useful for my benefit, for my gain. Uh uh I want to be in a relationship with you because of how you make me feel. Or I want to network with you in my business because of the the benefits that I receive by being partnered with you in some way. Or I want to obtain this degree or this education because of how it'll meet my goals for the future. Just everything in life, just naturally, we tend to view as a tool for our personal benefit. And so when we do that, that means that when things don't work out the way we want them to, you know, we are the king or the queen, and when our Our subjects, everything and everyone around us doesn't obey us, then that has the potential to produce in us a response. of depression uh when uh when that happens. So just pride in general, this sense that I should be in control. Everyone and everything should work out the way uh that I want them to because I am the king. We've talked about idolatry, uh idols of the heart. When you when you think about worship and idolatry Uh we don't tend to worship false gods and sometimes even the true god because of uh the fact that they deserve it. Often we tend to worship false gods especially because of what we can get out of them. Right? You think about those cultures that actually do worship uh physical idols. Why do they bow down to these idols? Why why do they sacrifice their children like they did in the Old Testament? Well, because they're hoping to gain something from the idol. You know, they want the rain to fall on the harvest. They they want everything to grow the way it should. So they they worship this idol in order to get what they want. So again, that's that's the the thinking that I'm the one who's in control, not this God. And again, sometimes we could even treat the true and living God Himself that way. John Piper wrote an excellent book called God is the Gospel, and he points out points out that sometimes we treat God and we love God because of what he does for us. Oh, look at the gifts that He's that He's given me. Look at the the way He's or He has oriented my life. And we know that we kind of had that askewed view of God that we that we love him because of what he gives us when life gets really difficult. Now all of a sudden I haven't I have a really hard time understanding God's love for me because if God was if God really loved me, how could he let this happen? And so we even sometimes treat God Himself as a tool for our own gain. And that just comes out of our inclination of pride. That everything and everyone should should be oriented around me A second inclination is autonomy, and these are all related to each other, but autonomy, the desire to live outside of God's design standards. and purposes. We fundamentally are born rebels against God, right? We're enemies of God, Scripture says. And so we we wanna live life the way I wanna live life. I don't wanna have to do what uh what God tells me to do. I don't wanna d do what uh everybody else tells me to do. I wanna do what I want to do, I wanna have my own standards, I wanna have my own purposes in life. And when I am now confronted with a reality that, you know what, I might not be the one in ultimate control. Uh someone might be trying to conform me to something else, to another standard, to a different design, to a different purpose. I can become depressed over that because, oh my goodness, what's the purpose of living if I can't live the way that I want to live? We have this desire for autonomy. We We fundamentally lack um the commitment to uh to live under God's rule. Desires is the third one. So again, these are interrelated, but this kind of uh sweeps out to all the the the many particular desires that we might have. You know, we we lack contentment in life. What whatever your station in life, whatever situation you're in, we lack contentment Uh we have Thanksgiving Thursday and then Black Friday on on Friday. So we want more. We want better. We want different things. We look around us and see what what are the shiny things that I want in my life? What's where where is the grass greener? Uh where are the people happier? That's where I want to be. Uh w where are the people making more money? That's what I want to do. Uh what are the the possessions, the technology, you know what are what are all these desires? Desires in my heart. What if what's what's the relationship that's going to make me happy? That's the relationship that I want. We just have a multitude of desires in our hearts that we strive after because we fundamentally lack contentment. And again, we know that we strive after these things when we can't reach them, we can't obtain them, and then our heart just w uh bends toward depression. So these are again just three common uh inclinations, just bents of our heart that tend to move us in the direction. Toward depression when life doesn't work out the way we want it to. And so when when we are in a situation of of extended sadness where our emotions are just oppressing us and where we feel like uh there's no purpose or meaning in life or there's no hope. Uh we need to examine our own hearts and say, okay, in i is there a sense in which one of uh I I'm I'm living out of these inclinations. That uh these have become more than inclinations, these have become the ruling um commitments of my heart Well, i in light of those inclinations, we can respond in a variety of specific ways, and so that's where we see the heart responses that lead to depression. And again, these are uh not exhaustive, uh they're not universal. Uh one might be uh existing in us and the other one's not, or we might have a combination. But these are all things that are worth considering. Um we talked about anxiety a number of weeks ago, but anxiety and depression are really closely linked together. And so we have fear as a common uh response to our circumstances that lead to depression. Uh fear is a rational or irrational concern over an uncertain future that is debilitating. You know, fear over the loss of a loved one, fear over not being able to accomplish our goals, fear over not being able to measure up to other people's expectations. There's all kinds of fears that that might be residing in our heart that because of our circumstances we're afraid of what might happen or afraid of what might not happen. And some of those are legitimate fears in the sense that, you know what, I might not pass muster in a situation. I might not be able to be the best uh you know at this particular thing. I may not win the gold in that competition or I may not hit the sales numbers at my job or you know th there's all kinds of of those fears that are rapid in the sense that th that there there are real potential uh shortcomings that we might arrive at. Or, you know, we could potentially lose a loved one. uh we could enter into a difficult situation. Uh when we get that diagnosis, we could actually die from that So it's not that it's always irrational, sometimes it is rational. The problem becomes when it is debilitating. When it oppresses us, and that fear becomes so controlling in our mind that it it clouds or crowds out all other thoughts and it controls us Sometimes the fear though is irrational. It's just silly and ridiculous and um uh insane. And so uh that's that's obviously uh something that we have to work through and and work uh in humbling our own hearts to recognize those things. But fear is a common thing that that leads a person to depression. There are those who respond to fear by doing, okay, I just gotta control everything and I gotta get out and do this and do that And there are those who uh res uh act out in fear or really don't act out in fear, they just go into themselves, and that's usually when it leads to depression. Just the they become um so hindered in their actions that out of fear of what could happen or couldn't happen they just don't want to do anything and you know of course then the natural result often is some of their fears come true. because they failed to act in a in a responsible way. So fear is a common response that leads to depression, anger Is another common response. This is an anger that's underlying bitterness and resentment toward a person or a situation. Right? There's different tendencies that people have. uh in how they act out in their anger. Those there are those who are very uh outward in their expressions, that they're attacking uh in their anger, they're yelling, they're boisterous. Uh and there are those who kinda go into themselves in their anger and that's the bitterness. That's that's a resentment in the heart. And there are times when we can get so angry at a person uh or at a situation that uh we go into ourselves and that results in in this depression. This it's it's a sadness combined with um with malice and anger and hatred in our heart and sometimes that can lead even toward anger uh anger toward God because of what he has done in allowing things to happen in our life a certain way. Uh anger is not something we typically think of when we think of a depressed person, but uh in um uh Charles Hodges' book uh uh Good mood, bad mood, he he notes that many researchers assume that anger is actually the most common reason for depression. And so in in in that kind of a situation the way out of the depression is to deal rightly with anger. Dashed hopes is another common reason. This this would probably be the reason we generally tend to think of That I I have hopes and expectations uh for my life, for the future. Uh you know, I wanna by the time I'm this age, I wanna be married, I wanna have two kids, I wanna have a house. You know, we uh we want to be at a certain place in our career. Uh we have just goals and accomplishments that we have in our in our life that we're working towards. Uh and when our hopes are dashed, when it becomes clear to us that this is not going to happen the way we want it to, that's when we can become sullen and vexed, just like we looked at Ahab last week. He w wanted that vineyard. He was hoping and expecting for that vineyard. Hey I'm the king. I'm giving you a reasonable financial trade here. But when he couldn't get what he wanted, when his hopes were dashed, he moved into depression. And so um So we need to consider what are the things that I've been hoping for and expecting that might be the result or that might be resulting in uh my depression. I'm responding in a particular way. Uh I'm basically acting as though in order for me to be happy I need to have these things. In order for me to have joy, my life needs to work out a certain way. And if it doesn't, then I'm gonna be depressed. Failure and shame, falling short of the expectations and standards of others It's not just that we fall short of others' expectations, it's that in our own minds we have established, we have submitted ourselves to the expectations of others, to the standards of others. And because we've essentially made them uh a God in our life, uh because we want to derive from them, you know, a good reputation or we we want them to think well of us, when we fail to uh to live up to what we think others have uh expectations of us, then we can uh be overwhelmed by the shame and failure uh that that we've uh done. We're we're ashamed of our failure. Uh we realize, you know what, I I guess I'm not worthy to be looked dwelled upon by these people. I guess I don't fit into this crowd. And and so we're just overwhelmed with failure and shame. We all fail, right? We all we all don't live up to the expectations of others, whether we know it or not. But this when it when it leads to depression it shows that we have lifted up this person or these people uh up in our minds as uh uh um you know in the form of idolatry where again we've been seeking to derive maybe our identity out of uh being part of the crowd. Uh we've we've uh sought to derive our um Our our hope and our joy out of you know being the person that everyone loves and and likes. Um one of the hardest things for any of us to receive his criticism, right? When someone criticizes us constructively or unconstructively, uh man That just digs right in the heart. But how we respond to that criticism will be a reflection of how do I view this person in my life? Do I is my joy based on what this person thinks of me? Uh even even if they uh say things in a sinful way, if they criticize me in a sinful way, uh or is my joy based on something else? So failure and shame, realizing that we fall short of the standards of others can lead to depression. And then there's guilt and legalism. So this is falling short of God's standard and living out a false gospel. Well, we know we fall short of God's standard, right? We know we're we're sinners. So that's that's a universal Principle. But what I mean by living out a false gospel is this idea that we can sometimes fall into where we think, you know what, in order for God to be happy with me, I need to live up to a certain standard of perfection. I know God saved me. I know He forgave me in the past. But you know He's He's now sitting in heaven and He's just really disappointed in me because of all my failures. I've sinned so much, God is just not very happy with me. And so I need to work and I need to strive. And every time I fail, again and again That's just another ding in my record that that just makes God disappointed, makes him frown at me. And so it's really a legalistic type of life that doesn't recognize w what God's disposition is toward us, which will get to when we talk about hope. Uh but it's it's just this life that is so focused on seeking to try and and meet God's standard of perfection because that must be how I make God happy with me. And because I can't do that, then I'm I fall into depression because I'm never going to be able to do that. And indeed we won't. So guilt and legalism can lead us into depression. Sometimes the person can sin in such a grievous way that they fail to be able to receive the forgiveness that God offered They don't see God as the gracious, forgiving God that He is. And so out of their death the depth of their guilt, they've set up their own standard of you know, whether or not they ought to be worthy of God's forgiveness. And so they they fall into depression because of guilt over their sin. We saw that with David, right, in Psalm thirty two, how when he was guilty and he he wasn't letting that sin be known, he wasn't confessing that sin. He was he talked about his bones wasting away, how tears were his bed all n uh all night long. Um but it was when he finally realized, you know what, no, there is blessing and forgiveness when we confess our sins that he rose out of that depression. And and then finally death. The end of life as we know it. And I said here, viewed positively or negatively. Because positively, and I don't mean this in the in the truest positive sense, but a person can view death positively in the sense of Death will get me out of my circumstances. Death will end my pain. That's a suicidal person. Death is the solution to my problems. And in fact one of the things that uh if you study kind of how to identify people who struggle with suicide Uh if a person has been struggling with depression uh for a significant period of time and all of a sudden just become happy uh one of the potential things that's going on is they've just come to realize, you know what, if I just kill myself, everything's gonna be better. And so they they get happy about that reality. My pain's gonna be over soon. And again it's not that that's always the case, but when where is that when there is that drastic change of mood uh that can't be explained in any other way, it's worth Investigating and making sure that someone isn't developing that uh false way of thinking. So there are those who view death positively No, it's gonna it's gonna get me out of my difficulty. But then there's of course there's those who view it negatively. I d I don't wanna die. They're afraid of dying, they're afraid of losing uh just the life that they have, they're afraid of what's gonna happen for their loved ones. And so death and the fear of death becomes the source of depression. So I know I've run through these rather quickly, but these are probably the most common reasons why uh the the I should say these are the most common responses uh to the circumstances of our life that that result in depression And so uh when we are seeking to examine our own hearts, if we're the one who's depressed, or if we're seeking to minister to somebody else. These are the kinds of things that we need to be investigating and asking questions to see what what is going on and Uh whatever it is in a person that that they're struggling with, that's where we need to bring the particular truth of God's word to bear. Again, if if a person goes to the doctor and says that they've been struggling with sadness and the doctor prescribes them some medication, they're not gonna ever think about these things. They're never gonna think about their circumstances and what's coming out of me and have the opportunity to grow uh through the challenges that they're facing. And so as believers we want to bring truth to bear. This is where Scripture speaks into our lives and helps us overcome these various responses in a way that honors the Lord and brings true hope and joy. So, we've been talking about the heart of depression. One thing I want to say when we think about these responses. is that depression can be a learned response. You know, um sometimes uh when a person uh experiences depression they've experienced it maybe cyclically in their life repeatedly Sometimes somebody will say, you know, it runs in the family. You know, my my mom struggled with depression, my grandmother struck struggled with depression. Therefore I must, you know, be biologically um predisposed to depression. There must be some gene in me that That is causing me to do this. Well, there's no evidence of that, but what there is evidence of is the fact that we can learn how to respond to life in particular ways. Uh we can learn uh from our parents. You know, when life is going hard, um this is the way to respond because this is the only way to respond. And so uh sometimes it can be a learned response that causes us if there's a a family history uh to do that, uh to respond to life in that way. Uh I do not believe in generational curses. Some would identify that as the source of of uh uh re re repetition. of depression or other maladies uh over generations. I do not believe scripture teaches that. But I do believe again that depression and other things can be a learned response. We observe not just our parents, but even those around us. How do they respond to the challenges of life? On the positive side, even good responses can be learned, right? When we see testimonies and witness others who are going through difficulties For example, like Pastor Leek, and we see his response uh in others like him, who respond with steadfastness, who respond with trust. Uh and we can we can learn from that as well. Uh so just recognize that, that uh when someone if you ever hear someone or maybe you've even thought yourself, you know, it's just a generational thing or it's it's biological. Uh well, it's more likely that it's a learned response. And if it's a learned response, then that means that we can learn to respond differently than depression. So thus far we've identified depression as a response of the heart to the circumstances of life. where we are interpreting life in a particular way, we respond, and that then results, you know, in some cases in depression This next point here is that depression is not just a a single response, it's often a cyclical response. Depression is a cycle. And I know the the wording here is really small if you have this printed out. You can zoom in if you have it electronically. But the first downwards cycle is labeled as the downward spiral that results when depression takes over. And so you can see what's written there. It says, you know, it starts with the sad thoughts and feelings from various causes, like the things we've been talking about. So there's that initial experience of sadness that any anybody would have in that situation. The this the disappointment Uh the the grief, the the the sadness, the um kind of the melancholy feelings that result from from all kinds of situations and our heart's response to it. But then what can happen is in the midst of our sadness, then we kind of let go of life a little bit. We don't fulfill our responsibilities. Maybe we sleep in late uh multiple times and don't go to work or we go to work late, um then other consequences come from that. Uh you can lose your job. You can uh get into conflicts with others because of what you're not doing or the dishes pile up and every time you look in the kitchen, you know, it just makes you more and more depressed because it's just getting worse and worse. Sad thoughts there in that third cycle, sad thoughts are compounded by irresponsibility. And based on that, then more sadness and lack. of energy. You know, there are those, you know, be there's a a natural result of uh loss of appetite. We mentioned that last week. Uh that when you don't eat very much, well you're naturally not feeding your body, so of course you're going to have a lack of of energy and you're maybe going to stay in bed more and the more you do that, it just gets worse and worse. And it gets to that point where the heart and the body are imprisoned by depression because it's gone down this down cycle uh of continued and repeated problems. And that's usually where it gets to that position of what we might call clinical depression where a person cannot function in their life because they've gone down the cycle so far. Generally, and again there are there are exceptions, but when someone is in that state, the problem is not a medical problem per se. It can be but it may be that they've just gone down that cycle then they need to start making their way back up. They need um to address the various issues, not just the source issue, but even everything in between. Uh and so you see there in the second diagram the upward spiral when we make there's a missing word there, when we make right choices in response to depression. And we start uh with this one we start at the bottom. It says deciding by faith to complete responsibilities no matter how you feel. Uh this is what you might say living a principle oriented life versus a feeling oriented life. You just choose, you know what, no matter how much how badly I feel, I'm gonna I'm gonna do something and I'm gonna fulfill a responsibility. I'm gonna do what's right in front of me. And when that's done, even it's a very simple task like getting up and making your bed and taking a shower, feeling that good feeling produced is produced by knowing you're doing what God wants you to do. When we begin to take even the simplest problems and follow the Lord, and then at the top there of it, uh working by faith on your problems and seeking to be faithful in God's strength. So th that's just a diagram, of course, you can look in in the the book by Fitzpatrick and Hendrickson um to to get a more detailed explanation. But when someone has gone down the path so much that it's hindered their functionality, their their functioning of life, that's a helpful thing to remember that you need to start moving up the chain. It's not about wholesale change all at once, one day to the next. It's about moving in the direction back to a life that honors the Lord. Alright. Well time is quickly escaping us. So key principles for change. Again, we're not going to cover everything because it it entirely depends. Most of the truth that a person needs is going to depend on just where they're at, what their particular struggles are. And so we're just going to cover some of the some high points here. But we need to start with the fact that as believers, as as we're seeking to uh grow ourselves or minister to uh others, the primary goal is not to feel better. Okay, the primary goal is not to feel better. Because the primary problem is not Feeling sad. None of us likes to feel sad. None of us likes that that sense of uh that experience of life. But that is not the primary problem The primary problem when we're thinking about depression is if I am in my depression not honoring the Lord in some way. That's the problem. That's usually when we know that something has gone wrong in someone's life, that they've gone down And so the the primary goal is to honor the Lord with our thoughts and our words and our actions. No matter what we feel. Again, in his book, Ed Waltz says, in the mind of God, sin is a much more serious problem than suffering. In ours, the order is reversed. We tend to think, hey, life hurts. I have this mental pain. I have this emotional pain I want to get rid of that pain. God's far more concerned about how are we honoring him in the midst of that pain? Um that doesn't mean that he loves for us to be in pain. But he is far more concerned with our sin than our suffering. And so the solution is not to numb the pain. To to take medications that just force us to stop thinking about it or to use drugs that would lift us out of the mood Uh changing the circumstances is not the solution. Like Stephen was telling us earlier, the story of the woman who was depressed because of her husband's adultery and then she decided, you know what, I'm gonna go out and commit adultery myself and ended up feeling better because she was living life the way she wanted to. Or just removing ourselves. You know what? Being in this job environment, this is making me depressed. I'm going to quit my job. I'm not saying that's always a wrong thing to do, but that's not the solution because you haven't gotten to your own heart Yet. The solution is always transforming the heart. What is going on in the heart that is causing me to respond in a sinful way in the midst of my depression? And how can I grow to have a heart that's more like Christ? That's what we're aiming for when we are overcoming depression. So to apply biblical truth most effectively we must draw out what is in the heart. We have to know what what is going on in there? What what is driving me to these emotions? What are the the circumstances surrounding one's sadness and how has the heart responded to them. Just uh that's more the surface level, what's what's going on, uh what what response has been coming out of me? Is it fear? Is it anger? Uh is it guilt? What what is it? Uh certainly how is God being viewed in the midst of depression? What aspect of his character is being forgotten or perhaps emphasized? Or de-emphasized. You know, sometimes in a midst of depression, someone emphasizes God's judgment, uh, God's wrath, and they're de-emphasizing or forgetting God's love and God's compassion. What is it about God that a person is not thinking clearly about? And then Third, what inclinations or re- and responses are present that need biblical correction? So again, every situation is different. Every person is different. So we need to understand what is going on in the heart. That needs to be addressed biblically. But the greatest thing a depressed person has is hope. Uh you you're not going to get very far without hope. Uh you can work with someone, you can encourage someone as a brother or sister in Christ or a family member. You can be, you know, trying to get them to fulfill their responsibilities or snap out of it. You know you could say all kinds of things. But if they don't have hope, uh if they don't have this this sense that, you know what, there's going to be an end to this, then that's going to Be very difficult for them to be motivated. And so what can we hope in? What what hope do we have to offer? Well And I wish we had a whole lot more time to talk about the fact that we have hope because God is for us. God is for us. You know Romans 8, 31 to 35. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all, how will he not also with him freely give us all things? Again, it's not just about what God did for us in the past, though that's eternally significant. God is also for us in the present. Along with His Son, His greatest gift, He gives us freely all things now, today. Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God's the one who justifies. You know, we we can sometimes struggle with that guilt, like we were talking about, that overwhelming guilt and shame over our sin. But we have to recognize not even our we we can't even represent ourselves before God successfully because God's the one who justifies us. His standard of of of forgiveness and righteousness is such that we are cleansed and forgiven if we've trusted in Christ. And so whether it's somebody else who's accusing us of our sin or ourselves, we are going to fail to ultimately Bring God to that point of judgment because He's already decided to justify us and forgive us Who is the one who condemns Christ Jesus is who died is he who died yes, rather who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. Christ is actively today, right now in heaven, interceding for you and for me, no matter what. sin we engage in if we have trusted in Christ, He is our advocate, He is our intercessor, who will separate us from the love of Christ with tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword. There is nothing you can go through in y this life. There's no difficulty. There's no trial. There's no geographic place you can be on this planet or in this universe. Puts you in a position separated from God. Right? God is always with you. He's always present. He will never leave you or forsake you. Those who. s struggle with depression often feel like God is just far off, that He's he's far away, He can't hear me, He's not listening, He's not paying attention. And that is not true. God is for us. And God is with us. Isaiah 55, 8 and 9 For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts I don't know how you typically uh use that verse or w what circumstances you think about that verse in, but typically it's often uh in situations that we just don't understand, you know, some trial, some difficulty. Well, you know, God has his ways and you know I was really one to buy that new Ferrari, but I had to get this pinto, so you know God has his his thoughts are higher than mine, or you know, whatever it might be. But that's not the context. I intentionally left out verse seven, uh, which I would encourage you to look up. It's basically let the wicked man forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord and he will have compassion to him compassion on him and and to our God and he will What Isaiah is saying there in Isaiah 55 is that though we in our sense of justice and rightness, when a person has violated the law, when they have sinned, we think, you know what, they need to be condemned. They need to be judged. And in fact if I've sinned, I need to be judged. And and so if I've sinned, I have no right to appeal to God. He He has his wrath that is is due to me and there's Nothing that I can do to overcome that. I I'm not a good person if we are thinking rightly about ourselves But God says to us in that state, I'm not like you. My thoughts are not like your thoughts My ways are not like your ways. The more wicked you are, the more unrighteous you are, the more abundant is my grace and my mercy. We think, oh, I know God can for forgive my little sins, but you know, if I sin in a big way, God's going to be against me. God says, I'm not I'm not like you. My ways aren't your ways. My thoughts aren't your thoughts. I am abundant in my mercy, in my compassion. I will pardon you no matter what you've done. God is for us. Um let me just mention Lamentations 3, 31 to 33. For the Lord will not reject forever. For if he causes grief, then he will have compassion according to his abundant loving kindness, for he does not afflict willingly or grieve the sons of men The word willingly there literally translated would be from his heart. He does not afflict from his heart This is a point that demands much, much more explanation, but let me just put it shortly and if if you want to know more, you just need to get the book Gentle and Lowly by Dane Ortland. But the idea here is that when when God brings difficulty into life, when he allows uh trials and circumstances that are painful into our life. It's not something he does because that's um that's his his character that is just overflowing with, oh I just want to bring a bunch of affliction in their life. I just want to make life hard for people That's not the true core of his heart. He does it because he has a purpose for it, he has a design for it. But what is actually his heart in the sense of what flows out of his And so whatever difficulties we might be in Uh yes, God is in control of that. God has allowed that. God has even purposed it and decreed it, we could say. But that is not what defines who God is. His choice, his design to bring difficulty does not define God. What defines him is his compassion. and his loving kindness. It's been said that when God judges, he judges with precision. He meets sin in a precise way. But when God shows compassion and kindness and mercy and forgiveness and love, it is superabounding. There's no precision about it. It's just overflowing from him because that's That is what his character is. We have hope because God is for us. We also have hope because of his promises. First Corinthians ten thirteen can be used in a um in a way that is trite and lacks compassion. But what it tells us is that God is faithful in a in the way that He will never put us in a situation where our only option is to sin. You know, sometimes we use that in the sense of You know, God will never give you more than you can handle as if, you know, more power to you, you know, be well fed and be warm. But what this verse tells us is that God has provided for us everything that we need to endure a trial, to endure a difficulty. He's given us His spirit as believers. He's given us his word, his the the richness of his wisdom, and he's given us the people of God to surround us and support us and care for us and point us to the truth. And so there is no situation where our only option, our only possible response is to sin God promises to care for us and provide a way of escape. He promises in Revelation 21 that He will, in the end, give us the spring of water of life without cost. To those who thirst, to those who seek Him. We know in 1 Corinthians 15 that because of the resurrection, there is no fear in death. We will have victory over death itself, and therefore we can be steadfast and immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Because nothing that we do here on this earth is vain. There's so much hope. These are just a couple excerpts. There's so many passages we could we could look at to give hope to someone who is depressed and to encourage our own hearts. The next point there is a depressed person must cultivate biblical thinking. So that's along the lines of addressing what are the particular heart responses that are producing depression in them. Uh well whatever it is, they need to think God's way uh about those things. Uh Philippians 4 8, whatever's true, honorable, right, pure, lovely, whatever is of good repute, if there's any excellence, anything worthy of praise, dwell. on these things. We need to develop a right mindset about life. We need to think about and and continue to meditate on and and allow to ruminate in our minds the things that are true. The person who is struggling with depression is usually thinking about that which is false. They're they're uh running around in their mind the thoughts of hopelessness and despair. Uh it's not the things that are excellent and worthy of praise. And so there needs to be intentionality in dwelling on biblical patterns of thinking. Meditating on the gospel is essential. At the end of Hebrews 12, there, the last sentence, for consider him who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. uh these believers who are uh receiving this letter of Hebrews were suffering under persecution and they were in some cases struggling with uh what we might call depression, just that sense of hopelessness and and uh despair to the point where they were even thinking of turning away from the gospel. And the author here reminds them to look to Christ, to remember what Christ And how Christ Himself suffered on our behalf to free us from our guilt and shame and to cleanse us and to make us righteous. And so we can not grow weary and loose heart as we meditate on Christ and the gospel. And then as I mentioned, responsibilities must be carried out, even if it's difficult. Uh the struggle with depression is often just the the the lack of activity, just not doing things. But uh you know I m I read Philippians four eight a second ago. Philippians four nine says, the things you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things in the God of peace. Peace will be with you. So we're promised peace, and back in verses six and seven, as we bring our request to the Lord. But we're also promised peace, and in fact the God of peace himself, when we are active in responding to uh the truth and and applying biblical principles in our life. When we're we're putting words to action, we're exercising our faith and living out the life that God calls us to, we will experience the peace of God and the God of peace. And then the last major point there, the depressed person must understand their purpose for life in Christ. Again, one of the reasons for depression is we uh tend to respond to life out of our sense of what we want out of life. You know, I have my goals and my desires, my aspirations, uh and when things don't work out the way that I want them to, then I'm gonna struggle with depression. But when we adopt the purpose of life uh that Christ gives us, That is to to glorify him, to praise him, to serve him, to be pleasing to him, then it doesn't matter what circumstances are, just in that circumstance, in that trial, in that difficulty I know my purpose. It is to glorify God and to please him in this circumstance. It is, according to verses, Romans 8, 28 and 29. Yeah, Romans 8, 28 and 29. It is to be predestined to be conformed to the image of His Son, so that we so that He should be the firstborn among many brethren Uh our goal again is is not to feel better. Our goal is to glorify God, to become more like Christ. We we will all experience uh the difficulties of life and challenging situations. But in the midst of those challenges, uh we are to seek to glorify God with our response, to show that He is the one who Legitimately has the authority and rule over our lives, and we will submit to His providence and His purposes for us and seek to live a life of praise and glory. As believers we have the Spirit. As I mentioned, we have the Word and we have the people of God. I think the greatest reason that people struggle in an extended way with depression and that they they not just struggle with sadness but that leads to uh sin in their life is because they remove themselves from From uh utilizing the things that God has given. They uh stop reading the word, they stop exposing themselves to biblical truth. uh through corporate worship and small groups and fellowship. Uh they remove themselves from uh the people of God and so they are not consistently being encouraged, as it says in Hebrews, to stir one another up to love and good deeds. And so friends, I would just encourage you that If if you currently or in the future struggle, just remember that we are uh in this We are the body of Christ. We are to serve and love one another and to care for each other and minister to each other according to whatever needs that we have. And so don't ever feel like you need to be ashamed of your struggle. Don't ever feel like you're alone in your struggle. In fact, one of the books that I've enjoyed the most on depression is called If I'm a Christian, Why Am I Depressed? It's down there in your list by Robert Somerville. uh in there he between every chapter he has a testimony of people who struggle with depression various various forms different reasons And it's always an encouraging thing to see how God has worked in the lives of others and how we can minister to each other Well, we uh are at at the end of our time here. Um any pressing questions before I close in prayer? If you have uh anything that you want to talk to me or any of our counselors, trained counselors here at the church. Or just talk to your brothers and sisters in Christ. You know, I just encourage you to do that. To not suffer in silence, don't suffer alone. We're here to love one another and we want to do that as best we can. So I'll pray and we'll get ready for corporate worship. Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh this uh time, not just today, but this whole class. Uh I know that in so many ways we've just scratched the surface on Addressing specific issues that are common among us. Lord, we just acknowledge that in this world uh we would have no hope if it weren't for you. And so we thank you that uh we do have you. Uh we you don't just exist out there as some um uh source of hope that we have to try and and do a pilgrimage to and and benefit from, but you are here with us, in us. You care for us, you are for us, you love us, and you have provided us everything that we need to overcome whatever struggle with that we face in life. And Lord, I pray you would help us as a church to be a place where people know, both inside and outside the church, that they know that this is a place that is ruled by grace and love and compassion. This is a place where broken people are welcomed and ministered to and cared for. This is a place where we love one another without judgment, where we minister and help one another out of love for each other. uh where we seek to glorify you and how we live out the the one another's and the biblical principles of fellowship. Or we know that uh we have uh a lot to grow in in these things. And we pray that uh over the course of time that each one of us would uh grow in our own personal expression of those realities and that as a church we would grow corporately. So that as a body, a local body of Christ, we would glorify you more and more and be a brighter and brighter light to this world. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.