My heart just was so worshiping. I so enjoy singing those carols, those hymns, those praises with this congregation. It's a joy to be among those that you love and to just be singing and expressing your heart to God, isn't it? Doesn't it just fill your heart with joy to be able to do this together, what God has provided for us? It's just a wonderful thing. The holidays indeed are a time of great anticipation and joy for many people. As they look forward to it, all their plans that they have. I know for some it's a restful time off of work or back home from school, no more papers or tests. Yay, I know some of you are thinking that. Joyful time you get to share with family and friends, hopefully, loved ones. For some of you maybe a few exciting parties to go to. Don't get carried away now. This is the season to be jolly, but you know, show some temperance Brilliant Christmas lights all around, just the joy of of even if they didn't put it up for the right reason, at least we know the right reason. And then there are the mysterious little presents you might find under the tree that you start thinking about and rolling over in your mind, and it's just a fun, fun time of the year. Let's not forget the smooth eggnog. I see it's being sold now in in the stores. Lip lip smacking goodies to eat this time. Then there are all the little gadgets, the new gadgets that you hear around the house, and that's uh kind of interesting for a while anyways till they get to be a nuisance. Some of you maybe have planned for your sweetheart a special winter outing worthy of uh being placed on memory lane. This is a great time of the year, is it not? But you know, for many people, for many others, maybe for some of you, maybe even now, the holidays are not the most wonderful time of the year. Not at all. Rather, they are a painful yearly reminder of bad relationships that you have within your home. Or maybe with the extended family or among so-called friends. Do you know what I'm talking about? There is a dark side to the holidays, a tough time for many people. They can be a time of cold gestures. From colleagues at that office party where you thought maybe you're beginning to win over someone or make a friend and that's not The case could be a time of failed promises where you think that others had promised things for you and you had high expectations, but lo, they were crashed to earth with disappointment. They can be times where previous wrongs people have done to you or previous hurtful words are painfully recalled It could be a time when many dread even being among so-called loved ones because they don't seem to act all that loving at all. At least they don't seem to care about you. Of course, we all experience pain and hurt in the normal course of life. That is just how life is here in this world. Wherever two human beings get together and rub together, there are sparks that are bound to fly because we're all sinners and we're imperfect And though many may feel their situation is uniquely bad and has more sparks than others, the truth is every single person gets sinned against. We often talk about how we're all sinners, but we also need to know that we also get sinned against every one of us And ironically, it's those closest to you who are often the source of the greatest distress for your soul. Have you ever sacrificed for someone you love only to have your service and your sacrifice go unappreciated. Has there ever been a time in your life where you had some joyful experience and you shared it with someone, someone you expected to share that joy with you, but They didn't. They changed the subject. They didn't understand your mood and and it was lost right there. And what about your extended circle of friends and acquaintances? Do you know how it feels to have people judge your character unfairly? Someone you thought maybe was your friend. I was looking through an old pictorial directory of Hope Bible Church and seeing some old faces of people who left the church and we're judging various people in this congregation unfairly. And as I think about that, I think those are times of hurt for people. It's hard to deal with those that you thought were loyal and faithful friends and brothers and sisters in Christ, but who proved in time not to be. These are the kinds of experiences that really drain the energy of the soul. Do you know what I mean? They can even at times just stab at your heart. They can hurt so badly. And I know many of you experience such pain. I know because you tell me, because you share it with me, because you open up, and many times you do so with tears. Wives hurting deeply because they're unequally yoked in feeling that every single day. A son or daughter-in-law who's refused a relationship with you. Friends who don't write, don't call, don't visit, husbands or fathers who've left the home and neglected the family, the whole family. Wayward children who reject your counsel, that raw feeling as you watch others carelessly hurt someone you love and you can't do anything about it. The pain from a callous business client who ridicules you or manipulates you to take advantage of you and again you feel what can you do about it? A boss who won't compensate you fairly, but still demands much of your time, time away from your family and your church. Extended family members who shun you and your Christian convictions. Unbelievers that you have freely helped and Given care for and then get around their circle of friends and mock you and make fun of you and turn against you. The pain and problems that come with identity theft. Losing a loved one who you just don't know how you're going to live without. Even the hurt of watching a child who's lonely and without friends, and how can you help them with that? Brothers and sisters, often in the midst of these experiences, the questions naturally arise in our minds, why? Why? Why to me? Why now? And why to such a degree? We know the Lord is good, but we ask what good could possibly come from this? Well, the answer is the Lord is good, and he does have a plan. He has a plan that is good, but it's a hard, hard lesson sometimes to learn It is part of God's design to mature us, to help us to fellowship with Him and His hurt as He has been rejected in this world. It is also part of his plan to give every one of us an opportunity to overcome our hurts with his love And that's why I'm eager this morning, not to talk about Christmas per se, but to talk about your heart as you head into Christmas and the holidays and really beyond that. I want to bring you to a Bible passage that I think is a soothing bomb for your soul. It's just to help you in the midst of your hurt, or maybe with some of you you're thinking, I'm not hurting. Well, hang on. You never know what's coming around the corner in life. So open up your Bibles to Paul's letter to the Ephesians just for this one Sunday, Ephesians chapter 4. And I want to teach from a short but powerful passage here, Ephesians 4. And it's going to be actually verses 31 through chapter 5 and verse 2. Ephesians 4, verse 31, Through chapter 5, verse 2. Please follow along and open your hearts up as we read this. Paul writes: Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor And slander be put away from you, along with all malice. And be kind to one another, tender-hearted Forgiving each other just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children. And walk in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. Now we're diving into this passage and we need to understand something about this since we're just going into this text in the middle of this letter here. I want you to understand that behind this brief passage is the assumption that hurt happens. Hurt in life happens. That each of us is going to experience wrongs done against us. Can't be helped. Cannot be helped. This is assumed. Everyone gets hurt. You need to know that as you approach the passage. And here Paul teaches that there is a right way and a wrong way to deal with the wrongs that were done against you. There is a right response and a wrong response to the hurt that you feel from others when they wrong you. There is a reaction to meanness and to hate and to injustice and to neglect and those painful comments that does not follow Christ's example. It does not demonstrate the love of Christ. And therefore it does not benefit others, nor does it benefit you, nor does it in any way delight God or glorify Him. It is a response, unfortunately, that many of us have to the hurts that we deal with. Yes, we do. But thankfully, there's a godly response That will not only imitate the Lord Jesus Christ and glorify God, but will bring you hope and peace and joy right in the midst of your pain. And who doesn't want hope and peace and joy at the Christmas season? Now, as I said, we're just diving into this one passage in the middle of a New Testament letter, so I want just quickly to set the context for you, and you can read more around this on your own time. This exhortation here by the Apostle Paul is set in the context of Ephesians chapter 4. The passage really starts at verse 17, if you look back there, and runs all the way to chapter 5, verse 2, where we read to Here in the second half of chapter 4 in Ephesians to the beginning of chapter 5, Paul is setting a very sharp contrast. A contrast between the old life that we used to have before we came to Christ and the new life that we now have in Christ by faith. Just notice with me back at verse 17 through 24. There he's urging them. First in verses 17 to 19, lay off The old unbelieving life and the practices that go with it, its wrong way of thinking, the mindset that was wrong back there. Just let go of that. Don't think that way anymore And then in verse 20, where the contrast comes, live the new life. You now have this new life, so live it. There's a renewed way of thinking for you, a new way of thinking. And I think verse 24 particularly reminds all believers that we are a new creation. We're created anew in Christ Jesus. We have a new nature. It is a nature in verse 24 described as that of righteousness and holiness of the truth. And so this really is an exciting truth. It's an optimistic truth. We're being reminded of a reality about us that can bring us a lot of joy and happiness. We have a new life. It is a power-filled reality for us. And he's saying based on the reality of this new life that we presently possess in Christ, Paul wants to now give us Some exhortations. He wants to push us in that direction more. He wants to urge us to live that way even more. You have the power to do it because you have a new nature and you have the power of the Spirit in you. So he just wants to exhort you in that direction that you would discover that life more, that you would live that life more, you see? And he begins those exhortations in verse twenty-five. Look at it He's urging those who have the new life in Christ. Now keep in mind, if you don't have the new life in Christ, then none of this really can you live. You cannot experience this. You have to say no to your old life and you have to receive a new life from Christ. You have to beg Him for mercy for new life. This is for those who have new life He urges them there in verse 25, lay off all falsehood, every kind of falsehood that there is, exaggerations and lies and cheating, all of that, and then speak what Speak truth to one another. We're members of the same body. We must speak honestly and truthfully to each other. That's verse 25. He continues the urging. He says, put aside sinful and prolonged, uncontrolled anger. It gives The devil an opportunity in your life, and he manipulates that. That's in verses 26 and 27. And then he says, if you have a tendency to steal, to take things for yourself Get rid of that. Start to learn to work hard with your hands and be generous to others. It'll be a blessing to other people and a joy to you. That's verse 28. Discard all unwholesome speech. You might think that's just cuss words. No, it's not. It's any word that does not edify other people around you, that doesn't see the need and give the grace of God in that situation We need to have only edifying words so we don't grieve the Spirit of God, verses 29 and 30. So our passage Coming at the end of all of these exhortations here in verse thirty one through chapter five, verse two, it acts like a climax to the section He's going up to the highest attribute he wants us to have. He's building up to love, which is the greatest attribute. It is that attribute which best expresses the new life in Christ. It is that attribute which really drives forward everything else he's exhorted in the passage. It is an attribute that in the greater context here of chapter 4 is essential for building up the body of Christ, which is also his concern. It is an attribute that Jesus Christ so perfectly exemplified for us. And that is the attribute of kind, tender-hearted, forgiving what? Love. Love. The type of love which seeks not to get from other people, but to give. And here's the key: to give even in the midst of your what? Your hurt, your pain, your troubles. Isn't giving the spirit of Christmas? Here we're going to learn how to give in the midst of our hurt. Now let's be honest, this kind of giving is not very natural at all. It does require God to do a work on us. We must be recreated We have to receive a brand new life from Christ. And then as a believer, now awakened to that very life of God by the Holy Spirit in our lives, we still have to go through a process of humbling ourselves, not thinking about our own rights. not thinking about what we want. We have to yield our desires, the things that we want for our life. We have to yield them to God and say, not I, but Christ. Not me, but you. Not my will be done, but your will be done. And as we're in that process of sanctification and growth, and as we're humbling ourselves, God produces this kind of love in us in an increasing amount. So we're getting God's counseling today. We're sitting in God's counseling room. We're receiving from his word counsel, and this is God's counsel for us. Three things here. The wrong response to hurt, verse 31, the right responses to hurt, the beginning of verse 32, and then the power to overcome hurt with God's love. That's the last part of verse 32 into chapter 5. The wrong responses to hurt, the right responses to hurt, and the power to overcome hurt with love. This is God's counseling for us. Let's start with the wrong responses, sir. Verse 31. Look at it again. There's so much in one little verse here Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you along with all malice, Paul writes. These are the attitudes and the actions and the feelings that must be discarded, Paul says. Paul leaves no room for misunderstanding. You know what he's saying? And it's pretty clear. He uses the word all, pasa. So every All in this category. Every kind of bitterness, any form thereof, regardless of who has mistreated you, how they did it, how much it hurt, let it all go It actually must be ripped off the Christian as a dirty, tattered garment, unworthy of wearing, unworthy of you wearing because you have the new life, and it must be put away. That's really what the verb in verse 31 pictures. It's similar if you glance back to verse 25, where Paul told believers to lay aside falsehood. What does that mean? Lay it aside like dirty clothes. Don't just dump it in the in the hamper to be washed again. It's not useful to God. Throw it in the trash can and get rid of get rid of it entirely. That's really the image here of laying off You're to lay off the old clothes of the old person. They're not washable, they're permanently stained, they're permanently discolored, and furthermore, they're very stinky. They smell They're tattered. They can't be fixed. They can't be mended. So just throw them out. Get rid of them entirely. Let God work in your life to get rid of these attributes entirely. Now you know the fashion designers, they love to take their their latest fashions, their gorgeous fashions, and find some beautiful model and put it on that model, and then she just Struts out there on the runway and just parades their fashions for everybody. You know? But today we're going to do something that is utterly unthinkable, really. We're going to put some ugly, ugly, smelly clothes on on on some folks, and we're going to have them just walk out and display them for all of us. I really want you to sit up close. I want you to take a close look at all of these garments. I want you to be close enough to smell 'em when they come down the runway Because I'm convinced the closer you look at them and smell them and look at them, the more you realize I don't want any of that in my life. I don't want any of that covering me. I don't want anyone to think that way of me And you know, sometimes we're wearing clothes we don't even know we're wearing. So again, I ask you to open up your heart and listen here Hopefully you'll have a violent reaction against this. Alright. Six worthless pieces of clothing. They are listed in verse 31. Six worthless attributes. The first is, and Christians sometimes wear this, is bitterness. This word, Pakia, bitterness, it portrays an ill-tempered, irritable state of mind. Bitterness Keeps a person in a state of continuous hostility or resentment against others. A bitter person is not a sweet person. They're not kind. They're not enjoyable to be around You try to be around a bitter person and they only have negative, prickly things to say. You try to reconcile yourself to a bitter person, and they only have self-justifying comments or a cold shoulder Or even sometimes they lash out back at you with words. We used to call someone like this a sour puss, but these people are way beyond sour. They're they're so soured they've turned bitter. And now the person holds a grudge and foul feeling and they have a foul spirit about them Now many people deny being bitter. They're going to wake up in the morning and say, I'm a bitter person. But bitter they are, nonetheless. And you can tell, because they're not amiable people. Their complaints are regularly given about life, and they give them away. Their bitterness is revealed by their refusal to see good in each situation, by their complaining, by their constant inability to get along with other people. By their hard feeling towards someone else in particular, by their gossip about that person. Bitter people focus on the negative. What's wrong with that person? And boom, it comes out of their mouth. Ask their friends, and they will tell you, no, she does not purr like a kitten. She bites like a snake. Bitterness develops in the depths of the soul mainly, I think, from three ingredients. Selfish human pride mixed with personal hurt. And let the simmer for a period of time. And then you have bitterness. Pride, hurt, and time. You see, in our sinful way of thinking, we even as Christians think we deserve better in life. We really do. A better father or mother. A better son or daughter, a better friend, a better job, a better boss. That's what we think we deserve. We don't say it, but we think it in our minds and hearts. A better teacher, a better coach, even a better spouse. I deserve it. You know what that is? That's pride. That's selfish human pride. Colossians 3. 19 says, Husbands, love your wives and do not be embittered against them. How does bitterness develop in men in marriage? Well, it might go like this. A wife becomes overwhelmed with all of the pressures and demands of life. She wasn't anticipating all of this. She's discouraged with having to care for the children constantly. She starts to be less productive at home. She starts to let her looks go. She doesn't even smell that good anymore. She's not as cheerful as she used to be. She certainly is not a joy to take out on a date. So the husband begins to think, hey, I go to work. I work hard. Shouldn't I expect the house to be clean when I come back home? Shouldn't she keep up with the children's schooling better than she does? Why can't she exercise more? Why can't she be more fun? And rather than having a focus of caring love, the husband begins to feel trapped and neglected, and he gets embittered against her. And bitterness, sure enough, can ruin a marriage. Bitterness develops even in church people, among us, among Christians. Don't I deserve a better class for my child Why hasn't the pastor visited us this year? I'm here every Sunday morning. Why aren't others as faithful? Who's going to help me clean up this mess? I see many people walking by and not helping Sinful human pride, along with the neglect and hurt of other people, given time, sours and turns bitter. Really, there's more bitterness around than we would be willing to admit. And yet bitterness according to the Spirit of God working through Paul is an ugly, foul-smelling garment to wear, and we are to discard it. Now here come two more down the runway, side by side. Let's deal with them. Second and third. Wrath and anger. These two words are very similar in the Greek, but put side by side like this, Paul probably means to distinguish them slightly. The word wrath, thumas, refers to an emotional outburst of rage, whereas the word orge refers to that inner disposition of anger. They do overlap in meaning, but that may be the distinction here that he intends Paul lifts anger and wrath right after bitterness, I believe, because they are the ways that bitterness is usually expressed, right? How could one be bitter without showing it in some way, in some form of either Exceeding anger or anger and wrath that outbursts. Anger as a human and divine emotion is legitimate Sinful anger in humans, though, is far more common than righteous anger, and so that's why he's saying let all of it go. It's far more likely that we are going to get mad when our plans and desires and will get messed up by other people, then we would truly have a righteous anger that participates with God's anger for his will being violated on earth. So Paul could write, if you notice back in verse twenty-six, be angry and yet do not sin. Yet here referring to sinful anger that's aroused Because of our pride, or because of jealousy, or because of lust, and not having our lust fulfilled and hatred of other people, He commands us to completely tear it off, discard it, and let it go Let all of this kind of anger go. None of it are we allowed to keep on. There they go, back down the runway again. Number four comes on out. Negative attribute. Clamor. Crowgate means a loud noise, like crying out. Usually it was from distress, but in this context, in a negative sense, it means the cries of passion against others And so it can come to mean reproaching or scorning. Cutting someone down, we say. Clamor is external. It refers to the uncontrolled casting about of words that we do by someone who's insensitive to the feelings of others. They can handle it. Focused only on what they're trying to accomplish. Get out of my way. This is what I have to do. Clamor occurs very commonly in life. Maybe it occurred in your car on the way to church this morning. I don't know. Clamor is that quick mouthy reaction to something that went wrong. Clamor occurs when two sisters began sparring verbally. Yes? You know what I'm talking about? Speak to me. Yes. Clamor occurs when an impatient dad snaps at the kids for not doing as they were told. I've done that. Clamor occurs when a wife speaks angrily to her God-given head. It occurs when a man at a sports game yells at a ref in disgust. It occurs when a woman in a bank line scorns a teller for not doing what she wants. Anywhere in the business world, when people don't get what they want and they're not treated well, just comes out of their mouth. That's clamor And there is such a thing as electric clamor. Yes, there is. It's a new phenomenon, but it's ugly words pass through email. That's right. Clamor is the noisy gong and the clanging symbol Paul mentions in 1 Corinthians 13. Speaking knowledge. Oh, what knowledge you have, but no love. Who likes to point out the negative in each situation loud and clear for others? Clamorous people are not encouragers, they are gripers. Of course, clamor starts with an inner attitude, right? An attitude of anger or irritation or even discontentment. But then it quickly becomes broadcast via an uncontrolled tongue. This is James three. For every species of beasts and birds of reptiles and creatures of the sea is tamed and has been tamed by the human race, but no one can tame what The tongue. It is a restless evil and full of deadly poison. With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in the likeness of God. We come here and we praise God, we offer worship, and then we turn right around and snap at each other. Move out of the way. Someone spills something. Does something they shouldn't do. Someone forgets their duties and they get yelled at. That's clamor. Clamor is the wild moment in our tongue. That beast that emerges and refuses to be tamed. Oh, that God would give us a consistent holiness in our lives. The fifth ugly piece of clothing is slander. Literally, this word in Greek is blasphemia. Sound like something This is slanderous or injurious speech. In English, when we direct it at God, we call it blasphemy, but when it's directed at others, it should be called slander. Slander is ill-intentioned speech designed to damage the reputation of another person Slander of course originates in the heart, but then it wants to hurt another person, and so then it speaks It's slander. It's calculated. It returns hurt for hurt. Damage for damage. Blow for blow Slander is not like uncontrolled clamor. Instead, it's carefully designed to defame the reputation of others. It may be spoken very softly and sweetly, yet it's still slander. Slander comes in many forms. When church ladies gossip about another woman in their church, they are defaming her character. When men who are jealous of another man's successes make a joke about that person in public, that's slander. There are many forms of it. It's one thing to speak in love, truthfully, to try to find some way to help someone with a problem and solve that problem. It is quite another thing to cut them down through one. Comment. Sometimes certain people are easy targets for slander because they're doing something we don't like or they have a reputation of doing many things wrong, previous things. A child, listen parents, a child who characteristically does wrong and then is railed out out in public, you stupid child, you never do anything right. That's not true. That's slander. And you've done it publicly. A lazy teammate then's blamed for every game that is lost. Well, he had his part to contribute. But that's an exaggeration. It's slander. A criminal who commits one crime but is spoken of as far worse than what he actually did. That's slander. The devil, of course, is the chief slanderer. He's very good at it. In fact, you know the word devil means slander. That's what it means. He's very good at it. He makes his living that way. He blasphemes God and slanders believers. Revelation 12, 10, during the seven-year tribulation period, after Satan has been cast down to earth, it says, The accuser of our brethren has been thrown down, who accuses them before our God day and night. Man, his mouth never stops. So to be Christ-like and undevilish like, this garment the devil wears so well needs to go. Sixth and last, malice. And notice he puts the word all back in there. Do you see that? It's repeated there. No type of malice is acceptable. Malice, kakia means badness or ill will. It encompasses bad feelings of uh of every kind. Malice is that complete bad-heartedness toward other people, that look that we give people that comes from malice. It lies at the core of the soul. It's the root of the previously mentioned negative behaviors. Some people are so filled with malice we look at them and we say they are malicious. They become characterized that way. But hatred pops up in our lives far too often again, beloved. And Paul says all malice is to go. Paul wants to cover it all, no bad attitude toward others is permitted You think, like I do sometimes, I'm justified in that bad attitude towards another person? No, I am not. All malice is to go. Do you hear it? All of it is to go, he says. It's dirty clothing. It's awfully dirty clothing. And it does not befit those who have been made new in Christ Jesus to live the new life It's hard, I know, to take a careful look at these filthy rags and realize you might still be wearing some of them yourself Verse thirty says, we are not to grieve the Spirit of God with our sin. And that is why all of these wrong reactions to our hurt must go. We cannot excuse them. We cannot put a psychological label on them to say it it's normal and expected. We cannot do that. They all must go. There's no sympathy in that sense for these ill Attitudes that we have, they all have to go. We cannot justify them, and sometimes we do. We justify them with others so that when we have them, we feel good about when we had them as well. We cannot afford to take these lightly. They grieve the Spirit of God. They hurt our ministry to others. They do not glorify Christ. And remember, it is when you are hurt, when you are stabbed at, that you are most likely to hurt in return. It is when you are slandered you most want to slander back. It is when someone is angry with you that you most want to respond with sinful anger. But beloved God has a different wardrobe for a believer to wear. Let's look at this. This is much more beautiful. The beauty of the new person brought out by his actions. Second, the right responses to hurt. Starting at the end of verse 32 there. I'm sorry, the beginning of verse thirty-two. Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving each other. We'll just stop there. Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving each other. Just three simple responses to hurt, but how important these are. Put on the garment of kindness, Paul writes. Be kind. What's kindness? We all know what kindness is. We learned kindness in kindergarten. We know it, we just don't do it. Kindness means that regardless of how others treat you, you will show concern for his or her affair. Period. As much as your own That's kindness. You will be sensitive to their feelings. You will care for what they're going through. You'll take into account what they're experiencing before you open your mouth. You won't blurt into their presence and say things. You know who you're talking to. You know they have feelings and you you care for them and you're kind It means you'll speak with gentleness, not abruptness or disrespect. You may think in your heart you're loving, but if you don't speak kindly to people, they will not know you're loving. It means you'll search for ways to build communication bridges rather than blowing them up because you want nothing else to do with them. Often we say, forget me, I'm not going to talk to you anymore. That's not kindness. It's exactly the opposite of what Paul is saying. Forget I don't anymore in this conversation. I've done that. One who's filled with a kind attitude will not find any time or any room for clamor against his neighbor. Nor will he remain embittered, nor release wrath and anger, because kindness is sweet. It's not bitter. Kindness is soothing. Do you know something? It is soothing. To others. It also is very peaceful to your own soul. Did you know that? You know that. You ever been mad at yourself for being kind? I I I doubt that's happened too often. It feels good Kindness expresses patience and gentleness. Is it no wonder 1 Corinthians 13 again? Love is patient, love is kind. Right away. They go together. And kindness overcomes hurt. It puts the soul in the right spirit, straightens him out, reminds him of the love of God for his own soul, looks at the person in need and says. My situation doesn't matter all that much. I just want to be kind to you. He forgets about himself. He loses himself in Christ, and he's kind. When you are kind in return, the temptation to drag your attitude down has been effectively dealt with. You won't sink. You'll fly with wings. So be kind to one another. It's more than a command. It's a way to deal with hurt. It's a way to glorify God. Second Paul speaks of putting on a tender heart. Literally, tender heartedness means, are you ready for this? Healthy bowels. Healthy bowels. Sounds more like a dietary supplement, I know. But to the Greeks, the seat of emotion was not the heart, but down deeper, the bowel. And they expressed compassion from deep down and it welled up within them. And so this is a very, very affectionate term. This is not just a well I won't do him any harm. I know he hurt me, but it it is it is a a a supernatural feeling for those who've hurt you to care for them and see what their need is. There's feeling in it. It's deep down compassion. Tender-hearted people really care. And you can tell. They're not cold. They're not indifferent. They're not resentful. They don't listen to you pouring out your heart and go like, oh well that's nice, and walk away. They're warm, they're soft, they're easily moved to compassion, they want to help, even if they don't know how They want to give something, even if they don't know what to give. They just want to care. They just want to be compassionate. They just have that heart in them. They want to be reconciled with others. They don't like the friction. Because they care. Colossians 3, so as those who have been chosen by God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion. Kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. Do you see how that string of pearls goes together? They all go together. Bearing with one another. And forgiving each other. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you. Yes, the complaint is legitimate, but forgive. And beyond all these things, put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity, which again is Paul's concern. Well, that leads us to the third clothing for the new man, and that's forgiveness. Forgiveness is such an important concept in the Christian faith. It's expressed by a number of words in the Greek language. In Matthew 6 in the Lord's Prayer. And in Matthew eighteen, our scripture reading there, the parable, the verb used there is Amy, and it pictures something that is bound up tightly, and all of a sudden it is it is unloosed and it is released and then it is let go. It's free. Afiami. Forgive. Don't hold on to it. Don't bind it strong so you can use it as ammunition against someone else. Don't cling to it. You don't know what you did to me. Let it all unravel. Let it go. Push it away. And forgive. Freely. The word here has more to do with freely giving. Just spontaneously from a heart of love, freely giving back, releasing, letting go, loving, giving a gift. Don't misunderstand, forgiveness does not pretend that a wrong was not really done. Ah, it was not that I wasn't really hurt. No, that's not forgiveness. Forgiveness can only come when there was a real hurt, when there was a real wrong, when there was an obligation that wasn't met But forgiveness wants to move beyond that, wants to heal, not to retaliate. One who is forgiving will drive out any remaining bitterness and malice from his or her soul, drive it out, and be fully forgiving. By God's power working on the inner man, Paul knew that bitter people could turn as sweet as pie. Angry people could have affection for those who hurt them. And people full of malice could learn to let go and to truly forgive. Forgiveness is so hard for many people, really for all of us, depending on who it is. Let me just ask you as you're reading this word. Forgive each other as you're reading this and you read Paul saying this. Do you think that Paul knew what deep hurt and pain was all about? Do you think this man who wrote that understood what it meant to have to forgive others who wronged him? Absolutely. And this is not God in flesh. This is Paul, chief sinner of all. In 2 Corinthians 11, verses 24 and following, he gives a short rundown of his hurt. How he was treated as a first century preacher, preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Why would he ever be treated poorly for that? Five times I received from the Jews thirty-nine lasses What's that 195 stripes on his back? For what? For telling people Christ came to die for your sins and to give you new life. Repent, believe, receive eternal life. He was whipped. He bled. People did that to him. That's his life. Five times. Five different locations. Five different places. Five groups of people. All whipping him. And he goes on, three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. That was in Galatia. Dragged them out of the city, left them for dead. Imagine someone throwing stones at you, totally rejecting you, dragging you out of the city, leaving you for dead. They thought he was dead. He woke up, got up, came back in the city. Malice? Bitterness? No. Why? Because he knew what this was all about. He knew about this love. Later he wrote in the same passage, I have been in labor and hardship through many sleepless nights, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure. Why did the churches take better care of them? Apart from such external things, there is the daily pressure upon me of concern for all the churches. Paul knew hurt. Near the end of his life. What a blessed life. What a wonderful heart this apostle had for people. The end of his life after he was so faithful and he served so well. During his last trial in Rome, right before his head would be chopped off in execution, after serving the church so faithfully, so lovingly, bearing their burdens Often preaching and teaching for free, not even asking for money. He writes in 2 Timothy 4:16, his last letter in the last chapter. He says, at my first defense, no one supported me, but all deserted me. Can you imagine? Everyone deserted Paul. Sounds like Christ, doesn't it? Well, knowing human nature, that's expected, but the next words he writes there are not expected. May it not be counted against them. Wow. Here it is. He's abandoned. And he says, May it not be counted against him. Is that forgiveness? Is that letting go? That's sweetness. Do you see that? That's beautiful. That's beautiful clothing. Brothers and sisters, we need that so much. They hadn't even come yet to ask Paul for forgiveness for deserting him in his very hour of need. And he was already wishing them mercy and not justice. Paul experienced much more hurt than we will ever likely feel. Ever. But he knew life did not stop with verse 31. The replacement clothing of verse 32 was essential. to the Christian life, to put on, to leave on, to wear well. And Paul wore this clothing well. Yes, but How can I learn to forgive and love like that? Well that's third, the power to overcome hurt with love. That's the last part of verse 32 in the chapter 5, verse 2. Look at it again, because this is so important. And I don't want you to miss this because it's such a blessing Two very practical lessons here about how to learn to love like this. Don't miss this. This is so important. Just as God in Christ also has forgiven who? You Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children and walk in love just as Christ also loved you. And gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. Two practical lessons here. Don't miss it. First, forgiveness and tenderheartedness and kindness is best learned, listen, by being forgiven yourself. You learn to love by being loved yourself and by knowing that you have been loved. Love for other people is learned. It is learned through first being forgiven and sensing forgiveness and mercy and grace in your own life. To know your loved of God. Forgive as God in Christ forgave you, he writes. The second lesson is this. Focus all of your life on imitating Jesus Christ. Make it your ambition to become like Christ. Put all of your other ambitions to the side. One should be preeminent in your life. I want to be more like Jesus Christ. I want to pursue Him and model Him and pattern my life after Him I want my focus to be on how he lives. I want to learn from him. And you'll learn to love. Those two lessons. The example of Christ starts in verse 32 with those words, just as. You forgive each other, Paul writes, just as Just as what? Just as God in Christ forgave you. And verse 1 and 2 just continues it. Therefore be imitators of God. And walk in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us The quality of forgiveness develops in us only after experiencing the transforming forgiveness of God and then imitating the great heart of Jesus Christ. These two blessed secrets are revealed right in these words. Listen, Christmas is a time not simply to reflect on the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, but all that that means, his life, his death. His resurrection and victory. When he entered into the world, what was he coming to do to save us and to demonstrate the love of God? His entire mission was about love. He pointed the way to God. He died for us. He rose again for us. Love is learned by focusing on Christ. 1 John 4. 19 says, we love. Why do we love? He says, we love because Christ what? First loved us. That's why we love. Why is there any love in this building? Why is there any love in your heart? Why is there any love among Christians? Because God first loved us. That's why First, you must believe in the love of God, the love that He has for you. You cannot doubt that. You cannot doubt God's precious, saving love for your heart. You must know that He's there for you and He loves you, He gave Himself for you. And then 1 John 3:16 says, We know love by this that He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. We follow his example of love. Do you see that? We taste and experience all of the grace of God in our hearts. We understand how much we have offended him. We understand how much we need mercy. We taste that, we sense that, we know our forgiveness, and then we turn to Christ and we learn in following His example how to love. That's what it's about. That's how bitter people and people filled with malice and anger and all of that have all of that just evaporate in the blaze of God's love. And Paul and John wisely understood that the way to prompt love out of believers is to remind them of the debt that they owe to God. Which is now fully pardoned, and the wonderful, glorious example of Jesus Christ. You know, in order to respond to hurt well, we have to remember how much hurt we've caused God through our wretched sins. And I want you to think on this. You know, God could have gone his own way. Forget you. I had enough of you. He could have just cast us all away from him. He could have just cast us all into hell. And he would be perfectly right in doing that. There'd be nothing wrong or evil in God at all to take all of us, scoop us up, and throw us into hell. He doesn't owe us anything. We have broken his commandments, we've violated his laws, we've lived our own way. We don't deserve anything from God. Nothing. We don't even deserve the lives we have now. We don't deserve the health we have. We don't deserve the country we in. We deserve nothing. Nothing. And yet in our pride and our minds we think we do. But God sent his beloved son for us as an offering, as a sacrifice to God, which was a fragrant aroma to God. He was very pleased with that sacrifice. That baby born in Bethlehem, so meek and mild, was but a body that was given to the Son of God in flesh to grow up and to be slaughtered and killed on a cross, bloody sacrifice. Scourged, spat upon, killed. Body for that purpose. For who? For his sins? He didn't do anything wrong. He didn't even have to suffer that way. That's simply for us and for our sins. Do you understand that? Or are you one of the people that still thinks that God owes you something Do you understand who you are in the sight of God? Apart from Christ? Do you understand how he looks at you? That you are completely unacceptable to God. There's nothing in your life apart from Christ that He likes or wants to save or bring to Himself. There's nothing redeemable in you. There's nothing pleasing to God in our lives. Nothing. He doesn't need us. He doesn't like us. Do you understand that about you? I don't think we do as much as we should. We'd be filled with more gratefulness to God that He has loved us. Sent such a wonderful Savior. Just like that parable in Matthew 18, we have to ask ourselves: what debt does anybody in this world owe you? That is greater than the debt you owe God. Did someone insult you recently? How many times did you take God's name in vain? Or insult him by carrying his name as a Christian with you and living in a way that displeases him? Did someone rob you, cheat you, manipulate you? How many times have you robbed God by holding back your offerings and your gifts of your service to God? How many times? Has someone been unfaithful to you? Disloyal? How many times have you been up and down with God, saying you'll do something and not doing it? Saying, committing yourself to God, you'll do this, but didn't do it. Has some friend ignored you recently? That's hard How many days did you ignore God failed to spend time with him? Though he offered you his glorious presence and you failed him. Did someone strike you or bruise you or hurt you? Wasn't it our sins that led Christ to the cross to be smitten of God? Yes, you and I have pain, and the hurt in life is real, and the wrongs are still going to come our way. Each hurt is given to us as an opportunity with supernatural power from God to overcome the hurt with the love of Jesus Christ in our hearts. Forgiven and forgiving. Loved and loving. That's what it's about. Each unfair treatment of you is your center stage to show the kindness of Jesus Christ and the forgiveness of God controls you. Not bitterness, not malice, not anger, not clam. Not wrath, not slander. And that's why he says, so let us walk in love. Walk in love. Hold Bible church, walk in love. Imitate Christ. Be aware humbly of all that God has given you. That's the only way to celebrate Christmas in my book. That's it. Walk in love. Love others. Give a gift to somebody that you know will not give one back to you. Christ taught that Love. Say a prayer for someone who's caused you the most hurt this year. Pray for them. Pray God will bless them. Pray God will lead them to repentance and bless them. Pray for them with a good heart. Love them. Return a blessing to the next person who slanders you. Let go of your bitterness, people. Some of you have bitterness in your heart. Let go of it. Don't hang on to it. Let it go. It's not helping you, it's not helping anybody. Let it go. Just let it go. Forgive. You and I have no right to have malice in our hearts to others. Forgive. Forgive as you are forgiven. There is a God in heaven, and He's mindful of your needs. He knows who you are. He knows what you need. And he loves you. And he cares about you. He'll never drop you. He'll never forget about you. You don't have to worry about you. He takes care of all of the ewes in here. He loves us. Don't worry about it. Love Christ, focus on Christ, and love other people fervently from your heart, 1 Peter tells us. Care for others. Let the Spirit of God work mightily in your heart to demonstrate this kind of love to each other. Amen. Oh God, we pray first by confessing again as we look at this how happy we are with our progress in sanctification until we really take a close look at what your love is. How much we think we don't need to hear a message like this, and it's nothing but pride that brings those thoughts into our mind. We pray that you would continue to humble each of us, Lord, that you continue to teach us the truth, that we would have your true love in us. Where we think of the needs of others, where we do not give them what we want to give them, but what they need. We don't give to be seen as a giver, we give to help. We have tender heart towards those who hurt. We have patience with those who are impatient with us. We love where others have not loved us because we stand in your sunlight and we know we're loved from above. God help us to live this way. Help Hope Bible Church to live this way. Daily, in our homes, in our marriages, from parent to child, and child to parent and siblings. To co-workers, to bosses, among brethren and the sisters in this church. Help us to love. As Christ love to walk in love, for we ask it in the mighty name of our loving Savior. Amen