Let's open with a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for this beautiful day that you have blessed us with. We thank you for the gift of salvation for causing us to be born again. We thank you, O Lord, for Rescuing us from darkness and transferring us into the kingdom of your Son where we have redemption of our sins. We thank you for your faithfulness, your love, your grace, your mercy, your kindness. We thank you, O Lord, For your Son, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that our time together will be glorifying and edifying to one another. I pray that you would uh teach us from your word what you have to do. to say about um addictions. And we're so thankful that your word touches on all the struggles that we encounter in our lives. And It just reminds us of how much you love us and how much you care for us and that we do not have to worry because we belong to you and you will and have always been provided for us. And I ask these in the blessed name of your son, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen So uh this morning we're going to talk about the biblical approach. To addiction. And basically that's what God has to say concerning addictions. And He has a lot to say. Um Over the years the disease concept has um controlled how the world sees views addiction. And so today we want to kind of look with new eyes. We want to We want to look at this from a biblical standpoint, what God says. Psalms 119-130 says, the unfolding of your words gives light. It imparts understanding to the simple. And so for for w what that means is that God will shed light on On this topic, and we will look at this topic through the lens of Scripture, which is truth. Okay. So, um last week we talked about, you know, the disease concept. We talked about Um twelve step programs. I try to give you kind of a a view from the world's point of view. Um And uh my own uh struggle with uh addiction. And uh try to, you know, weave that in and I'll Weave some in today as well. But on a different side. Um so Let's look at the biblical definition of addiction. I know most times we don't think that the Bible may speak about addictions. Right? You will not find the word addiction in the Bible. You won't find the word alcoholic or addict in the Bible. Nor will you read about sex addicts, food addicts, gambling addicts. You won't see those words in the Bible And and so if you go to the Bible looking for that, you may come away thinking that the Bible or God does not have anything to say about your particular struggle. The Bible has its own way of discussing addictions if you know how it speaks of them. The Bible talks about idolaters and drunkards. Okay? The biblical view of drunkenness Is a prototype for all addictions. It is always called sin And it's never called a disease or mental disorder or illness. It is always called sin. In Scripture. The disease concept identifies addictive behavior as compulsive rather than a conscious choice. And I know when I was addicted, I did not think at that I was making a conscious choice. I thought my choices were the what I was choosing was driven by My cravings for drugs. Okay. So the Bible teaches that sin is a matter of individual choice. It begins with discerning good from evil and then refusing the evil. Evil and choosing the good. So Ed Welch in his book Addiction, a banquet in the grave, gives a real technical, real precise definition of addiction. He says addiction is bondage to the rule. of a substance, activity or state of mind, which then becomes the center of life Defending itself from the truth so that even bad consequences don't bring repentance and leading to further estrangement From God. And I have to say, that is what I experienced in my addiction. Right? I was in bondage to the rule Of the drug. Addiction at its core is the sin of idolatry If you understand anything about the sin of idolatry, addiction at its core is that sin. Adolatry captures both the in-control and out-of-control experiences. Of addiction. Now there are two major characteristics of idolatry. One is idolatry is about desire. The purpose of idolatry is to manipulate the idol for your own benefit Not to be ruled by the idols. Addicts do not want to be ruled by gambling, sex, drugs. alcohol. That that was never my issue. That was never my desire to be ruled by that. Addicts want these substances I wanted to drug, I wanted any any addiction, the addict does want these substances of act or activities like uh gambling, anything of that nature. What they want is a good feeling, maybe a better self image, sense of power, or whatever their hearts desire. I think for me is uh to be uh a part of, if you will, a better self-image. Okay. Um uh it just kind of it allowed me to Like blend in with everybody. Right? So I I I and and and that was really, really great for me. Okay. So that's what it was. It wasn't about being ruled by the drug. It was it was a desire for something else. So addicts desire something in creation, okay, more than they desire the Creator. The true nature of all addictions is that the addict chooses to go outside the boundaries of the kingdom of God and look for blessings in the land of idols. I had no idea I was doing that. Okay? Idolatry involves anything we worship. The lust for pleasure, respect, power, or control. I did have the lust for pleasure. I did have the lust for power or control. When I look back at how I live, I lusted after those things. I really, really did want those things. The problem for addicts appears to be the worship of alcohol, drugs, food, shopping, whatever your addiction is. That's what it appears to be. on the surface, right? But these are only symptoms of what is happening. The problem lies within It is the false worship of the idols of our hearts. And those were the things like the pleasure. the the the need to be accepted, self-image. Those were the true idols of our of of of the heart of uh addictions. The second major characteristic of idolatry is voluntary slavery. Sin is more than making conscious choices. Sin victimizes and controls us. Sin captures and overtakes us. Addiction is voluntary slavery. Addicts make choices. I made choices. There it they uh they are in control. I was in control of when I made those choices They they are committed to managing their way of life. Yet over time they become enslaved and out of control In the beginning, I was what many would say, which is alive. Many would say a functioning addict Right? I I I I I couldn't maintain control. I didn't use every day. I didn't do some of the things that um that I did later on in my addiction. So so so I y you know, that comes with deception as well. I'm doing fine and I'm able to get high and function very well. But interesting enough, I always kept the job. Right So we make choices, we're in control, they're committed to managing their way of life, yet over time we become enslaved and out of control. Rather than master. Mastering the idols, the addict becomes enslaved by them and he begins to look like them. Okay. Psalms fifteen kind of blew me away when I w when I came to this. 158 he says The psalmist is talking about idols, and he says, those who make them idols become like them. So do all who trust them. Right? And so that really rung uh rings home with me. Idols of the addict's heart begins to dominate them because there is a powerful quiet presence behind every idol, and that is Satan. When we set our affections on created objects, we demonstrate an affinity for Satan Ephesians 6 says, For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, or alcohol, or drugs, or food, or whatever your addiction is. But against the r but against the rules, against the authorities, against those forces. Psalm fifteen? Excuse me? Yeah, Psalms one fifteen-eight. Yeah, sorry. So uh against the powers of darkness of the world and against the spiritual forces of evil in heavenly places. So as I said, the Bible has much to say about addictions. Um I told you the story how one guy told me that, you know, addiction was idolatry and I remember another guy uh told me that You know, uh the Bible says you are a uh drunkard, right? Said God says you are a drunkard. And I remember um I told this guy I said, Well you go tell God To tell me something that that I don't know. I already know I'm a drunkard. But what God don't know, and I told him this, I said, what what your God doesn't know is I can't stop And I always remembered that. Right. Uh this is for the time when I was so angry. with God. So biblical examples. God has much to say in His Word about addictions Um problem i if if you would open your Bibles to Proverbs twenty-three And look at verses 29 through 35. This this this really speaks to um addiction. So, okay, I'll read. Well, this proverbs paints a picture of the person whose life has come under the control of alcohol or addiction. Okay? It describes and I mean it describes guys the captivating appeal, the irrationality, the irresistible cravings, and the fact that even with all these negative consequences, a addict will still not will n will still not stop using. Okay. So Um I'll read it, verse twenty-nine. Who is woe Who has sorrow? Who has strife? Who has complaining? Who has wounds without cause who has redness redness of eyes, those who tarry long over wine Those who tarry long over their their uh drugs, those who tarry long over their shopping addiction, whatever it may be, those who tarry long over wine, nine, those who go to try to mix wine. Do not look at wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down smoothly. In the end, it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder. Your eyes will see strange things, and your heart utter perverse things You will be like the one who lies down in the midst of the sea, like one who listens, who lies on the top of a mass. They struck me, you will say, but I was not hurt. They beat me, but I did not feel it. When shall I awake? I must have another drink. That, brothers and sisters was picture perfect of my life in addiction. So let's look at that. As I said, it describes the captivating appeal, the irresistible cravings, uh it pictures of life who's who's a person uh who is controlled by addiction He is marked by woe, sorrow, contentions, complaints Wounds, red eyes. This all describes the cry of grief or despair It speaks about intense hardship, distress, and hopelessness that comes with addiction. It is an exclamation of pain or or anxiety, sadness, remorse, strife, always arguing, always quarreling Always in disputes and fights. Complaint, foolish talk, empty talk. None of my speech made sense. That's in verse 29. Look at verse 30. He wastes most of his time. Verse 30 is talking about, he wastes most of his time either looking for a drink or a drug. Or lingering over it when he finds it. Every day I knew I was gonna use drugs And every day I knew I was gonna find drugs somewhere if I didn't have drugs. And it would be such a rush just to go and look and find it and get back to my apartment. I would put the cocaine down on the table and I would just sit there and watch it and be thankful as though I'm worshiping over this. My life now is gonna be alright for a little while And this is what it what verse uh 30 is saying. Lingering over it when he finds it. Let's look at verse 31. Verse 31 says, Do not look at wine when it's red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down slowly. Verse 31, that means he he's saying He lives in a fantasy by glorifying the properties of drink or drugs or whatever that may be. I glorified it Okay? It was it was I glorified it Verse 32, it says, In the end it bites like a serpent and stings like an addict. He comes, and and here he's talking about, he comes off this time of drinking or or using drugs with the feeling that he's been bitten by a snake. I mean i i if if if you can just kinda kinda picture that Right. You you've been hit with something, right? You y you don't feel right, you you know, uh is something. Uh let's look at verse 33. Verse 33 says, your eyes will see strange things And your heart will utter perverse same things, uh strange things. Here we find the attic Hallucinating and says things he doesn't mean. Right An addict like what I was using always heard strange things I heard people talking when there was no one else in the room but me. Okay? So there's a lot of hallucination going on with addiction. Okay. Let's look at verses thirty-four and thirty-five 34 says, You will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea, like one who lies on the top of a mast. You will say, They struck me. You will say, but I was not hurt. They beat me, but I did not feel it. When shall I When shall I awake? I must have another drink. These verses Talk about becoming numb and foolish in your addiction It's talking about craving for more. Okay? And no matter what I went through, and I've been beat up toward the end of my addiction where I go anywhere to get drugs. to feed my addiction. It it doesn't it didn't matter. Right? And I would still The next day, having been beat up, would start the process all over again And I would say in my mind that it's gonna be better this time. Right? I'm not going over there where I bought drugs from this these people and I wind up going back. again. Even having been beat up. So that is that this this proverbs really speaks to um addictions. though it's talking about wine, but this is how the Bible speaks about uh addiction. You just have to drunkard is like I said a prototype for um addiction Some other uh biblical examples, you remember Noah and Lot and Elab and Nabel and and and and uh in in it all portray the moral foolishness. Proverbs thirty-one, four, and five, rulers Or admonish to not drink lest they pervert justice and forget God's ways Isaiah talked about drinking parties as contributing to the fact factor in the iz Israelites' downfall. In fact, many priests and prophets were so frequently intoxicated that they could not even fulfill their God-given responsibilities. So you see in scripture, scripture is always speaking against drunkenness. Why? Because it's a sin. It's It's it's idolatry. But it also talks about um drunkenness or addiction to to To describe how it affects us and how it's so much against God. Paul listed reverley and drunkenness with sins such as lewdness. Lust, strife, sexual immorality, uh, slander, extortion, and envy. He contract he contrasted these practices with putting on the Lord Jesus Christ and he even warned believers not to associate with professing Christians who persisted in such behaviors Okay? We see that in Romans thirteen. So Paul also warned that drinking alcoholic beverages can um contribute to the downfall of younger and weaker believers. Romans 14 And Peter included drunkenness with the kinds of sins listed by Paul, pointing out that heavy drinking Is a part of a lifestyle of unbelief which dissipates people's health and character. Okay, so before we get into the dynamics of the heart, um if there are any questions or comments uh thus far. Um go ahead and we'll we'll try to address those. Okay, so no no questions? Mike, I have a question. It's million here. Karen. I'm Hey, how you doing? So you did something so profound, which was what you had told that gentleman who told you about God and then your response was Well, let me tell you what what you need to tell the Lord, which is I can't stop. I I can't And I'm just wondering uh down the road in your conversation you'll speak more about how you came out of it, what you learned about that Okay. I know if I might be through God, but I just I'd be interested in hearing the story. You know. Okay. Okay. Toward toward uh toward the end I'll I'll I'll I'll share a little bit more uh uh about that. Any other comments or questions? Okay, so let's look at the dynamics of the heart. And you know, we d we've been talking all through this semester of classes about uh the dynamics of the heart. What we believe the con the cognitive, uh our affections and our volitions or our commitments. Our affections means our desires. So addicts begins addiction or addicts begins with idolatry. Right? And so addicts Belief was in in created things. Right? And and and not God. Okay. Even though I thought I was saved, right, I knew some things about God Right. I had no idea that this is what was happening to me where I was, you know, this was idolatry. And so my belief was not in God, okay Idolatry results in hostility towards God. So I was always angry at the God I knew. Right? And so it was it would blame him. Right And I prayed a lot. I I I prayed a lot during my addiction. Now when I say during my addiction, I want you to understand that There was a time when I was using drugs where I wasn't addicted to drugs. Okay But I'm talking about the time when I wake up in the morning and I knew that I was going to use drugs that day. I talk about the times when I will wake up in the morning and I didn't want to use drugs But I knew I was gonna use drugs. I knew I wasn't gonna make it through the day. So It results in hostility toward God. So so so that was m my willful decision i i in a sense that there is no God I I'm th I'm angry with God. Right. Um The hostility towards God results in elevating my personal desires, right? What were my personal desires, you know? self-acceptance, you know, it self-image, power, control, those types of things. So so so that's what though those were the idols of my heart. That's what I was, you know, after. Those were my personal desires that I use drugs for. Okay. The personal desires became a law that I lived by. Okay? And that was my, that was, you know, I became very selfish, but I lived to be, to have a certain image. power and control. It wasn't anything godly that I was living for or desired. It was all about might. Okay? Um And so that that law, that's what I believed, that's cognitive. And then the idols, I sought idols. to fulfill my personal desires. My personal desires were that and I sought drugs to fulfill that Okay. So that's kind of the this weird dynamic of the heart that was going on. Yes, uh Saison. Affections or desires. Yes. So that those were my you know, desires and those were my affections. So I made decisions to fulfill those desires. And as I went on, I became enslaved by them. Okay? Because remember, remember what I said last week. I told my wife that I don't care about anything as long as we set enough money aside For drugs. You can do whatever you want to with the money. I don't care. But as long as we have money set aside for drugs. Okay? So Let's take a look at the biblical process of change. Now, um Before I get to that, I wanna I want to just share something. Um and it's if you go to Romans 7. Right. Romans seven start with verse uh 15. So when I was in recovery, I think I shared this, you know, I was saved while I was in recovery. But I still was very, very immature, even though I was going to church and, you know Um the deception is is that a lot of churches open their doors to twelve step programs. So you begin to think that there's association with the true God of the Bible, right? And and and and then there's the use of the word language of God in the 12 step programs. So nevertheless, I I was saved, but I was very, very, very immature. Okay But I guess I had been in recovery some ten years, maybe, right? And remember I told you I spoke from at Meetings and conventions from New Jersey all the way down to South Carolina. So I remember um Reading the Bible in my apartment. And I always had this this this this thing about just the disease conflict. Or I always used to say, you know, there's just something is wrong with me. I can't just put my hand on Why I did the things that I did. You know? And and with all the recovery I had and all the speaking I was doing that was always this this thought in the back of my mind, you know, as how I could give up so much. Right? The churches I was in wasn't, you know, they was liberal charismatic churches, uh you know, man centered. Um but I'm not you know blaming that on them anything, right? But anyway, I was reading the Bible And I was reading Romans. So let and and this just when I read this It just opened up so much for me. Paul says in verse 15, For I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Now, if I do what I don't want, I agree with the law. That is, it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it. But sin that dwells within me. Now, the 12-step program tells me that it is a disease that I do Why I do what I did. So I'm reading this and I says, wait a minute Verse 17 says, It is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want to do. I don't want to use. But the evil I do, now one is what I keep on doing. Now if I do what I do not want It is no longer I who do it, and Paul tells me again, but it is sin that dwells within me. Mike, you don't have some disease. It is the sin that dwells in you. And verse 24 was the killer. He says, Wretched man, which is I remember how I felt all the time. Wretched Man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? There was nobody that could deliver me. From the body of death. And that word, deliver me, struck home with me because now I'm about ten years clean. And I'm wondering have I actually been delivered? Right? But things are really good and I don't know where that thought came from, but I even begin to question Am I really delivered because there are people in 12-step programs who have a fear to leave because the fear of relapsing? If they leave the program, they are so afraid that they will relapse. So it's about recovery and not transformation in those programs. So I says, Paul says, Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? And he gives me the answer. He says, Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself serve the law with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. And Paul tells me there is Therefore, now, Mike, no condemnation for those who in Christ Jesus. It blew me away, guys. That I I felt free. Right? He says, for the law of the spirit of life has set you free. In Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death I didn't even know I was free. Right? My problem was always sin. And my answer to that was always. Christ. And this is what addicts do not know. It wasn't a higher power, it wasn't the God of my understanding, it was Jesus Christ. Now I knew I stayed in the program for some years longer. Because I stayed there like 20 years. And from that point on, things got really, really difficult for me to share in the rooms about The God of my understanding. And you can't share about Christ in in those rooms. Okay So I I just wanted to to to bring that up and and share that because that was really uh a turning point, you know, for me. Right? To have a now I got a really full understanding. Because this is what this word says, you know So, um, let's look at the uh the biblical or the Bible process of change. So I guess you can do this in a lot of different ways, right? And so what I tried to come up with was a process of change with the understanding of my experience and how we can do this from a biblical standpoint, right? If if we were to encounter an addict um in the body of Christ Uh I I will have to say that it is very, very important to understand their story, right? That the story is not just using drugs. There's a lot of hopelessness, despair, loneliness, guilt, and shame that will have to be dealt with So, the change process starts, it proceeds, and ends with Christ. We look to Christ We look to Jesus in a way from ourselves. Okay, so it is always about Christ. We must always be pointing the addict to Christ. The process of change for an addict would involve Formal biblical counseling, and the church led discipleship. Addicts Who wants to stop using needs to feel or know that they belong in the body of Christ. This is the the 12-step programs. are so good at this. Okay? The twelve step programs are so good at welcoming uh others in and the idea is and then it is true we all suffer from the same thing. We all went through the same thing. And so there's the um There's the the the sort of the feeling of that these people understand me. Okay. Now that's because everybody were addicts. Now let me say to you, church, you don't have to be an addict to help an addict. If you understand those things I told you about before, you listen to the story. You understand that this person is experiencing shame, guilt, and hopelessness at a deep level. And we have the Word of God, and God speaks to each one of those things. What an addict needs to know is that when you say I understand, it's not so much I understand that you use drugs is more of a I understand the emotional pain that you're in and that is very, very important in the process of change for um addicts. It it doesn't matter about drugs. I'm I'm saying drugs because that's that's what I use. Okay. So formal biblical counseling and I say that because Coming off drugs, like I was just saying, with you know, the hopelessness, that has to be dealt with, right? There could probably be uh body going through uh withdrawals or something like that. Well medical attention might need to be uh done as well. Um but addiction is really, really deep. There's some deep-seated stuff going on with an addict. So it would involve formal training and church-led discipleship. And biblical counseling is a church endeavor. It it is not just sending people to biblical counseling. and then the church has no involvement. So, men's ministry, women's ministry, uh accountability, all those things would need to be involved in the process of change for an attic. The church needs to be welcoming and loving just the way you are towards someone who um uh is is is In this transformation process. Okay? And, you know, small groups, all those things will help in the discipleship. It's very, very important to get those involved quickly, right? So they can feel uh if it's nothing but um being a greeter or something like that. Um and I remember when I first started going to the meeting, making coffee for the meeting was a big, big deal Setting up the room was a big big deal. Why? Because now I feel I feel at home I can I can I can do something, you know, people trust me to have the coffee made to have that may sound really, really small, but this is a big deal to have people Trust you to do something and you get it done. Okay. So responsibility That would involve, so we have to take the addict has to take responsibility for his actions, for his behavior. Okay. That in that would include confession, repentance forsaking sin, all that requires uh omitting responsibility. Okay? Is is is is not your wife It's not your growing up. It's not none of that. Some of that may, but no, no. You made these choices. And I have to take responsibility. For all that I created, all that I did, all the harm that I did. And I need to confess that And turn from that and forsake the sin. And that's where we need one another to come in and walk side by side with these people. Okay. The next one is relationship. Change is intimately related to the person and work of Jesus Christ in the addict's life. and their involvement in the church. So here we want to work on renewing of the addict's mind by the word of God. You we we you pour and pour and pour the word of God into the attic. through uh scripture memorization, reading the scriptures, um, just pouring the word in him because he has to be purged of everything with the word of God. Okay I was there for 20 years in those rooms. I knew the book back and forth. Okay? And a lot of that has to had to be purged out of me. Okay. What I said uh changes it yeah, we renewing the the addict's mind by the word of God. You build God honoring relationships with other Christians by practicing the one another uh commands. Uh restructuring. Addicts lives have to be restructured. Addictive behaviors are embedded in the life of an addict. Change must involve strategic moves that are restructured the addict life. to help in a in avoiding temptation and developing you do you develop a a um a relapse prevention plan. You know addicts do the same thing every day. Right? I got up, I always kept a job, I went to work, came home, I used drugs. It didn't matter it didn't matter. I was gonna do those things. You know. Right? When I got into recovery, you know, I became I am Mike and I'm an addict. I'm Mike and I'm an addict. A Mike and I'm an addict That's who I am. Right? You say that for twenty years, you believe that you are Mike An addict. Sometimes I'll throw I'm a recovering addict. Yeah. You know, to make me feel good. You know. So so so you you can lose who you are in those rooms. I'm a addict. I have an incurable disease. I can never leave. Okay. So um restructuring of um their lives and um This would involve, like I say, uh um developing a plan. This would be with the counseling and and and the church and getting people involved in their life. Okay, if you are not a person that can give a lot of time to a recovering addict Right? You gotta be real careful with that. Okay. An addict will call you at two o'clock in the morning and say, I feel like using drugs. Okay. And if you say, call me an hour Or y you you're gonna have to talk to 'em. You you're gonna have to talk to him. You're gonna have to pray with him, you're gonna have to do something with him. Right? And and and as these things work out, you know, that will go away. He will he will become stronger and stronger. You know, I used to call people and say I'm about to use and I told you last week they were there in thirty minutes Just to sit with me so I don't use. Right? Remaining Change require a careful and strategic plan for the addict to remain faithful over time. Okay. And so this is just kind of ensuring, you know, that he remains faithful to to Christ, to the church. and um his obedience and things like that. So when you get formal counseling involved, we can create these these these plans. And um there's no time limit, right? Uh with this Um if I had to stay off the top of my mind in in in formal uh counseling, it would probably be about two years depending on how how deep the um uh the struggles is and what they were dealing with. Um so that I think that that that brings us us us to an end and uh Um if you have any uh questions, um let's go ahead and shoot. We got about We got about fifteen minutes left? Something like that. So if you have any questions, uh go ahead. Yes, gay. Um explain more. You were saying how as an addict you can lose yourself in the room because you're just constantly helping control that you're having. I mean when someone is seeking to minister to someone who has been enslaved for something. What how how can they help combat that? What are the kinds of truths they can uh cultivate in their mind and help them to renew their mind So I think um to combat that um an addict needs to know first and foremost who he is in Christ, right? The the process of change is always the gospel Okay? I it must be the gospel. First and foremost. The addict needs to know about the cross. Okay? And where he fits in with the cross. Okay. And so I I I I I believe Dave is one of the things that that they need to know is who they are in Christ and where they fit in, if you will, in God's plan. They need to understand what true grace and mercy is, and how Christ has given that true grace and mercy to them. Okay? And so when I read Romans, right, and he said, There's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus you know, I need a further understanding of that, right? And that just opened it up for me. Okay. And so um that can start begin to break the chains of who the world says you are, an addict, right? And who Christ says you are Okay. I I I don't know if that kinda answers your question. Yes, sir. Um so I went through some of your things as you but I wanted to know uh what was your breaking point to like you know And want to fight to do better for yourself. Like what what was that point where you're like, okay, I know that this is actually detrimental and it's totally not where God wants it to be. So how big? Okay. So I don't know if you guys uh heard the question first. Gabe asked me, um How do you speak to an addict or how you combat the identity? You know, identity that you're an addict, you always will be an addict. and and how do you speak to that? And so I was saying that, you know, we must give the addict the gospel and point out who an addict is in Christ. Okay. Now, if through we ful come to understand that these people That these people. That they're not saved, obviously we want to ensure that we sh give the gospel. You don't stop ministering because they're not saved. You continue to give the gospel. And I will continue to point out that it is about God. You continue to give the gospel because you you have a hurting person in front of you. Okay? And God still speaks to, and he will know that God speaks to the loneliness and despair and these types of things. Um so what was my turning point? Is that what you were saying? What what brought me to that place? You know, um I don't exactly know other than those things I share was that I was just in a place I was at a kitchen table in Laurel Marlon in my apartment. Okay And I had gotten a DWI, right? And Look, I got a DWI at a service station across the street from my apartment Getting gas, and the police pulled up. I was hallucinating and talking. He comes over. You're drunk Right? I got DWI. Right? And so I got court audited to go to AA meetings. So I I think man it was just total emotionally bankrupt. That's that's what brought me to my knees. I didn't think I would could go anymore And I was really afraid that I was gonna kill myself. Yeah. So just to follow up. I hear from the world I guess, I don't know how much of this is true. They'll say you you can only help anything. Addict who's ready to help himself. How much of that is true or is that I So the question is you can only help an addict who's ready to help himself, right? Um I don't hold to that. Okay. I used to. I don't hold to that. Right? I think when you speak to an addict and you speak to his heart and you understand, you know, what's really going on on the inside and and and and and like I keep saying there's a lot of shame and guilt and despair that's going on inside when you begin to speak to that and you begin to give him then we have the greatest and the most powerful message ever and you begin to sprinkle that in and and he gonna w something is gonna change. So I don't think you have to wait. What is the weight? Right? What is what is that that weight? I don't know. You know? I don't know. I know that I started in Mobile using drugs. I used drugs in New Orleans. I came all the way up here, right And I was a smart addict. I had two pounds of marijuana in the U-Haul because I knew I was going to a place I didn't know, right? And I got clean up here. Now I had been praying all the while to stop using, but something happened here in Law Maryland. And so maybe it was just God's plan Okay, so I think that I don't hold to that, uh, Dory, that addict. There is there is The uh and that's with anything, that's with any personal struggle that those who struggling have to participate in the change process. Okay. Any other questions? Any questions from uh Karen I think has a question. Talked about Milligan or uh yeah, yeah, Kara Milligan, I'm sorry. Can I brief I I just want to say thank you. for the brilliance, for the transparency, for the humility, for the righteousness in you, Mike Mooney. You are You are a beautiful man who um just grateful for this talk this morning and Um, I just want to thank you. It has encouraged me and inspired me by the truth and your love for the Lord Jesus and I I praise God for what He has done in your life. You're a true example of the power of Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Thank you so much. Thank you. Praise God. Yes. He he deserves the glory and praise. Any other uh questions or comments? I have a question. I have a question. I came. Well, I agree with Karen. I'm I'm totally thankful for sharing this life story and bringing it to life you know, bringing Scripture in giving life for you. So that is very beautiful. Um I have a question about the topics. And is um you know, like uh when f a person goes into addiction, they also have they're they're like they have anger and they have also anxiety. and fear. So how does that, you know, relate? Um yeah, how does that relate? I mean, is there something specific about it? So those will need to be addressed and they will come forth the anxiety, the anger The depression. I think I said last week, you know, I was depressed and was uh prescribe Prozac for a period of time. I think I probably took it about a year or something like that, uh or maybe a little bit more. And that was that was when I first started uh uh getting getting clean. And and it was it was kind of funny because uh there was no medical doctor that told me I needed to take Prozac. Right. I I I went to I went to a psychologist. My sponsor in the program said, I think you're depressed, so I go to a psychologist They do the uh what is it gabe? They just kinda description, right? There's no medical test and I got Prozac. So that that helped with my uh I guess my um uh depression right but I was fearful of taking Prozac. Because I didn't want to become addicted to something else Okay. So uh those things will need to be addressed as well because the addict stopping using you're gonna you're gonna feel those levels of anxiety and depression and things of that nature is going to come forth. Remember the drugs would mask that Okay, the drugs would would or whatever that addiction is, it would mask my depression, it would mask my anxiety, it would It would it would mask my anger until I come down off the drugs and I start having all this emotional upheaval. in so many different ways. I was a real angry guy, right? But I was very depressed, anxiety. And a whole lot of stuff. Right? And I was angry at God a lot. Okay. So those things will need to be uh addressed. I don't I don't know if that that answers your question. But I think the great thing to know is that God in his word Can address each of those um emotions when you stop using drugs And so the form that's where the formal biblical counselor will come in in the process of change so that that that that the counselor is able to help uh in those areas w when they come about. And the church as well. Any other questions? Uh brother Mike, first of all thank you for you know this this is uh really really A blessing. Um question what were uh you know, temptation is gonna come. Yeah. What were the things that you used uh Um I mean how did God you know work for you to get through the temptation uh when they first started coming? after you know getting off of drugs and things like that. What what is God uh for the news Right. So this is I I think uh Carson, what what's important for the church is when one we we we need to know about addiction. Okay, and temptations will come, and we need to prepare for that. Who's gonna be available? Right? Who's gonna be available? We also know that change is comes through the power of the Holy Spirit, not us. But we have to make ourselves available to the addict, right? And that is we have to make sure and he has to participate in putting himself in certain uh situations that can cause him temptation. Right? And so I was m I remember I was working in Baltimore and um Uh and I was living in Laurel. And so I think it was North Avenue or something like that. Anyway, when I left work, I would have to pass by about four or five liquor stores. Right? And so I had to find a different way home. Okay? I had to find a different way home because I could never make it past those liquor stores. So I had to find a different way home. So we have to kind of help plan, you know, understand what what are the triggers, if you will, and and there are some. you know, and data addict has and help him uh avoid those those types of things. He's going to want to use and it's gonna take some time to get over those cravings to use. And that's where we have to have let's say for a guy, you need about five or six guys this person can call. Okay. That this person can call at any time. Okay At any time, you need about five or six people that go that's willing to walk side by side with this guy, you know, especially early on. So I I you know so those are some of the things because and we understand that there will be temptations. There's no no doubt about it. You know? And he could very well relapse. He could very well use. Right? And we still have to be there and encourage him or her back. Okay, because the guilt will just be just that much greater if they use again under this care They're gonna be shameful, but we have to say. It's just like just like Christ did with us. There's no difference. Anything anybody else? Okay. So I want to thank you um for uh I have talked about addiction so much, right, and this has taken me back. I was just about to say, you you guys may laugh at this. In the meetings though you you you you talk and and you say uh at the end of your share and you'll say, Thanks for letting me share, right? I was just about to say, thanks for letting me But uh it's those kinds of things. Uh you know, um but I I am a firm believer and and and and I just wanna say that um I am talking, sharing the gospel with some men who are still in the program who have thirty plus years, right? And uh most of the relationships I had I I I I still have But I'm just trying to feed them the gospel little by little, you know uh to so that they can get over this fear of leaving. And I'm presenting my life to them as well You know, but there is a fear that if they leave they will use again. And so, um, these are men who say they're Christians Right? But uh they have not understood the power that's found in God's word, his Holy Spirit, and most of all um uh his son. So uh I'm at the point now I'm asking real hard questions, you know, you know, to them And so uh I I I hope so. So if there's not any more questions, um I'll pray and Um weekend. Lord, thank you so much for your word. Ah, your word is so powerful. and uh so relevant to all that we go through. All that uh we come upon and I pray God that um we cherish your word we obey it And uh we use it to help those who uh struggle in um different types of addictions emotionally uh uh or what have you. Um uh w we are your people and we still struggle. But you have given us your word and um your word is truth and So Lord, I I I thank you, and I pray that you would now prepare our hearts to worship you in spirit and in truth. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.