And the point of that statement was to say that the Bible speaks to our anxieties. What we're trying to accomplish today is to give kind of the the main if you will most important ideas and understanding of what causes anxiety and fear, what are the driving factors in most cases Uh or if someone is in the extreme end, even if there's no physiological thing that can be identified, but they're just on the extreme end of their of their experience, they're really unable to function, they may need some uh some medication just to help then maybe you ramp it up, you know, and you ex uh increase your volume and intensity. Because it's loving and you want to protect your kids and and so that's that's a good kind of fear. Uh we see that more exemplified in the Old Testament with the prophets, like with Isaiah in Isaiah six as he stood before the Lord uh in that vision and he realized, Oh my goodness, you know, I'm I'm coming apart because of the holiness of God. I want you to turn to Matthew chapter 6 if you have your Bible. I I can't decide I don't know what to do. That is a mind that's divided by beliefs, desires, priorities, and commitments. You know, we see that here in Matthew 6, 25 to 34. That's one way that we know we've risen to a sinful level of anxiety. Uh yeah, I just want to put myself in a best position, you know, to to be able to do more as I get older to have more energy and strength and pr productivity Uh and then fifthly, uh physiologically, where we're harming our bodies. Uh and I think that's a wrong way to think. He chose his most favorite to be the most protected, you know, Rachel and and her kids and uh I don't know we could say his least favorite, but the ones he was a little less concerned about, you know, d out in front. It's gotta be someone who's more eloquent, somebody who's more capable. Uh, I want you to go there and tear down the idol. And uh Peter is recognized as one of his followers and so you know a servant girl comes to him, You're one of his followers, aren't you? So out of that fear, he out of his dad anxiety, he ends up denying the Lord. Uh there are troubling situations, there are fearful situations. Uh th I think there are uh Hannah uh I'm another name, Martha. Or at least to help them feel a measure of comfort is what? You know, you go to their room and you sleep on the floor. Uh wha what is he seeking to accomplish not only in the world but in my life? And that therefore they they are anxious because they don't think God has the power to to do what he has promised. What am I actually thinking? What about affection? I'm anxious and fearful because I don't know if those things are going to happen. But simply to give you a paradigm, a way of thinking about what a person is going through when they have anxiety and to examine their heart. that all of a sudden all of your anxieties will go away. My life needs to be oriented around the things of God. Secondly, God is concerned about the things we are concerned about. But I can be I can keep being anxious about it. And if we do, we will experience peace. Wherever there's actions that you've taken to try and control your life and not trust in the Lord, uh wherever there's unbelief, doubt, or idolatry, just repent of those things. And he's written uh I don't know if it's a follow-up or if it's a revision, but um the title escapes me. And so we just thank you for your ongoing, sustaining mercy in our lives. It says anxiety is the mind and body's reaction to stressful, dangerous, or unfamiliar situations. It's nothing wrong with that. Are you resting in His care, in His provision, uh in His sovereignty? Uh because the world follows the disease model of psychological issues. Right, it's not something that just came up out of the air uh because of uh uh modern technology and pollution and so we experience things today that So I'm going to do this at night, right? by God's grace, eventually repents of that. Philippians chapter four, you know, verses five to nine. We should meditate on our identity in Christ. to make sure that we're not complicating our situation by being unhealthy in those ways. If they are um resistant or dismissive to scripture passages, for an example, um you're trying to encourage somebody, and not so much that you're trying to um rapid fire scripture at them, but they become How do I grow? When we think about anxiety and fear, um people have all kinds of different experiences of those things. appropriateness to have con cares and concerns. And in between those two extremes is a whole variety of experiences of anxiety and and fear. Uh every person's gonna be different. uh the Association of Certified Biblical Counselors, he made the statement that if the Bible is not about our anxieties, I don't know what the Bible is about. One of the most repeated commands in Scripture is do not be afraid, and various forms of that. uh true, legitimate, identifiable, physiological, biological things that can happen in a person's body that manifest themselves or that d uh create symptoms that mimic anxiety and Whatever you benefit from, whatever concerns you have of the rest of the uh of the lesson today, uh go back uh to the recording uh to recapture some of those um disclaimers. Your cameras, it's always great to see your faces. you know, go away from here s uh thinking or telling others Gabe doesn't believe in medications. Uh there are good and appropriate and right and even necessary types of fear. Let me just highlight a couple of the key things that that make this a helpful definition for the kind of fear that we need to be seeking to overcome in our lives today. Uh it can be an actual uh real danger in their lives, but many times it's it's really just a perception. That this fear prevents us from properly loving God and others. or motivation as as they're uh interacting with someone they're afraid of or or perhaps fearful of of uh the loss of their reputation of others so maybe they if they have a fear of man, they're wanting to please others because they're they're perceiving that other people might uh this sense of yes reverence in who he is because he is the sovereign God of the universe and and we ought to revere him we ought to to know that uh he is worthy of our obedience but there's also uh an appropriate sense of, you know what, this is uh a righteous holy God and I I don't want to get on his dad's side, right? We know that uh even though it may start in the mind in terms of what one is thinking, the physical body reacts to what is going on in the mind. Uh when you're a new driver, I don't know if you remember when you learned to drive, but there's this nervousness of here I am in this two to four ton vehicle, I could really do some damage and I need to stay hyper alert. But uh it can also become debilitating and and cause a problem. Well, what are you going to be living for? Can't really decide and so because it can't decide, it just kinda goes back and forth and back and forth, and you almost kinda feel anxious to thinking about that. Love God and others. in the care of God for our lives. Help me in this situation, you know, w whatever else that you say, that that's trusting in the Lord. uh at his birthday and he apologized to his guests, it was a big party, because he said I used to be able to bend dimes No, smaller. You know, I'm gonna explode and um have have even more problems. That have no end. Ross? So if that doesn't look for the word F literally means in Greek nothing. uh anxiety. uh didn't before. Uh he's like, I I don't want to go back there because I killed an Egyptian, I I left, uh I don't want to go. Mommy, mommy, daddy, daddy, you know. In scripture, in history, people I know today, God's been faithful, but you know what? in life. wrongly think that. is is so secure that it can be said of you that you have been glorified, as Paul says in Romans 8 29 and 30. And so if you're not secure in your relationship with God, if you're not secure in in your eternal destiny, that can give rise to not just questions about your salvation, but other Or maybe it's a spouse that you're having difficulty with, or maybe even a child, a grown child who So in the same way, the it's not that these are truths that we just need to work through and okay now my anxieties are gone. physical life in one way or another. But we just need to remember this this truth that there's nothing we can do ultimately to extend our life. T bones you and now you're with the Lord. my life. Tell him about the things that concern us because he's concerned about those things as well Which surpasses all comprehension will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. And work toward God's peace regardless of whether or not our circumstances change. You know, all the way back to verse six, be anxious for nothing. not just his peace, if we move forward in obedience. That which is true and right and just and pure and lovely and so on. Should have started with verse eleven, but this is really the third point out of these verses here. Be trusted. I feel like God is against me right now. But in the same way that a child may not always feel that when their parents orient their life in ways that the child doesn't particularly care for, we can trust that God is for us. Uh yourself or others uh that are ungodly, that are uh inconsistent uh with what is true And we can do that freely because we know that when we confess our sin, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. unity with God, we will be free from sin, and so will all those around us. need to just take steps forward in faith, trusting that God will empower us to live in obedience to Him So we do need to be taking care of our bodies however we can, to the best that we can uh done this in two weeks, but uh Lord, we just thank you that you are trustworthy, that you are faithful, that you are sovereign, that uh we can look to you as our Heavenly Father, we can And know the peace that you promised. That's an excellent recommendation. seems to stem from an improper view of God in one's life. While they might say that's their theological c uh understanding, that that's not their functional commitment, that they're not actually living as if that's true. functionally allowing that to influence me. uh working through perhaps different angles of of what it is that they're not believing uh or how that's being manifested in their life. You know, one week uh session lesson like this, obviously we can't cover everything that needs to be covered and Uh and and then what are the primary biblical truths. fear. lift them up to a particular uh state of mind that would enable them to then deal with their anxieties in a biblical way. So I do believe that there can be a place for a medical treatment of anxiety and fear, but in most cases uh it is usually not necessary. Very difficult subject. But help us to think rightly and in a way that is honoring to you so that you would be glorified as we overcome these struggles with anxiety and fear. uh to the chat if you uh want to grab those. uh more study in these areas. Fear in their uh training as uh a powerful and often habitual focus on a perceived danger or loss that prevents us from properly loving God. and others. First of all, uh the word perceived, you have that underlined there in the notes, that that's critical. it, it feels far from normal, it can be completely debilitating. And a person can experience a variety of of uh physiological things. that come to bear. But the the passage here in Matthew 6 uh kind of presents to us what is actually going on in the heart when uh someone is experiencing In heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, where thieves do not break in and steal, and where for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also Actually I should have started in verse nineteen. as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. and and worried. I know I'm supposed to do this, but what about this? In light of that fact, he says, don't be worried about the things of this life. So we'll we'll come back to that when we look at the heart of anxiety in more detail. uh that produces the experience of anxiety. normal and appropriate anxiety from sinful anxiety. The cares and concerns that we have rise to the point of being sinful when, first of all, uh we are not trusting in the Lord. and relationships uh that our anxieties are are holding us back from doing the things that we're called to do. the length of your life. That's impossible. that our anxiety has risen to the point of sinfulness. situation uh or they're just worried about you know maybe losing their job or you know a whole host of different things but they're just constantly thinking about it, rehashing it, rehearsing it, playing it out in their mind, daydreaming uh and and ha just having these circular thoughts that the the examples here you don't have control over. Um I I think it's possible for a person to be just i in a in a situation of life where the pressures are significant and it's not that they themselves are consumed, but it's just the pressures of life and they start to experience these things, that may not be a simple situation. far into well any anywhere into uh dealing uh biblically but just want to see if there's any comments or questions at this point. uh physiological issues uh which are not anxiety disorders but just other things that that produce symptoms of anxiety. holding your breath and and you're feeling your nerves tingle. Typically people do tend to think I have and I've heard people say I have an anxiety disorder, which is basically means I I lack I don't have responsibility. Uh I'm not responsible for my anxiety. The text, uh, if you read it, uh, doesn't say that they ate of the fruit and all of a sudden they became fearful people in the past have never never experienced. uh and Eve, uh where uh as soon as they fell, as soon as they sinned against God, and uh uh they realized that God was around and they were going to be confronted with their sin. that uh later turn out to be uh unnecessary, you might even say irrational, but from his standpoint they were completely irrational, right? And of course Moses, he was basically Pharaoh's son, adopted son in if in a sense. will do to him. uh rise uh rising influence and and what he perceived to be people uh wanting to make David king. uh over Baal and uh and so there was this great victory for the Lord. And that causes him to to be afraid and run uh from uh from the land and and avoid uh what he perceives to be his coming death. think I maybe what I need to do is divorce her to to end this relationship right here uh because I d I don't know that I want to deal with the consequences So what we have on this page is really just a long list of diagnostic questions. In the heart that is giving rise to the experience and the struggle of fear and anxiety They were younger once. Not not that every problem goes away, but that that that is the defining issue in terms of the the most significant uh solution. Uh and and addressing those biblically is I think the most significant um issue to address uh when someone is struggling with fear and anxiety. of God. But that at least for the moment or in that situation they are misperceiving God. For God to love is askew. depending on his reflexes. Well, we could also ask other questions, uh, because of our heart engages with uh ourselves and others as we've seen. Utterly convinced that you are a child of God, uh that you have been justified, that you uh have the the certainty of of your glorification uh one another. you, to harm you, to bring trouble, bring trouble into your life. a a successful project at work, my desiring to be looked upon well by others, and therefore It's more important for me to control my situation than to trust in the Lord and give him control exhaustive, but I do think this is pr perhaps the most significant uh truth that that a person can work through in their heart and mind. uh y you're not looking at a list like this. Foolish in how we live our life, uh, but we ought not to be driven by this idea that I must control the length of my life. I'm not going to read the whole passage. And just be going through a green light, you know, at fifteen miles an hour because you're super careful and some fool, drunkard, comes and And so we just need to have that recognition in us that, yes, I'm to be wise, but I I cannot control Right? was clothed, uh clothed himself like one of these. than he does about plants and animals. Because he is our Heavenly Father, and He views us as His children, because we are. uh that uh come together. You see the beauty of God's creation. trouble us with regard to this life. Look at your life and examine what are the things that are pure, uh true, honorable, right, pure, lovely, good, repute, anything that's excellent. You you can't read into the white space between verse six and verse seven that once we bring our concerns before the Lord that now all of our situations change. uh meditate and and and force yourself to think about um truths and realities that fall under those categories. Well I do just want to turn to one last passage for today at Psalm chapter fifty six. If I trust God, no one can do anything to me that will ultimately bring harm to me. in this area and confess them before the Lord and and know that we will have his forgiveness. So we can move forward taking put putting one foot in front of the other and accomplishing tasks that are before us in the strength of Christ. uh in prayer, taking our concerns, talking to Him rather than allowing them to consume our minds in in circular thinking. Because God has made sleep to be one of the primary ways that that our body kind of rejuvenates from the challenges of each day Run into your arms. with anxiety and fear. I I I read a book in college called Blame It on the Brain by Edward Welsh. I don't know if that's in your notes anywhere if you like that book or not, but I thought it was really good. uh Gary real quick. paradigm. Maybe it's not the proper word. functioning like they don't believe that. conversations uh or at least on their part multiple acts of of walking by faith to work out that truth or really work it in to their to their soul. make a person incapable of functioning, where they literally cannot get out of bed because they are so fearful and anxious about uh their life that they cannot function. Um so uh there's uh again a lot that could be said on any particular in any particular situation with any particular person, especially when you get into the specific things that someone is anxious or fearful about. For today we're just going to give the broad brush strokes, and again we have the list of resources for any of you who might want to pursue that further. I uh listened to a really helpful podcast this week. And uh and there is sufficient help for that. is largely uh in not only ineffective, but it's it's inappropriate. this earth to sustain the plants and the trees, uh your your creation that you have made and even sustains us by providing water on this earth that uh that sustains our bodies that we drink. our discussion. might have a a faulty uh perception of them. danger that that exists other times, many times, it's just a perceived danger or loss. that being in God's presence created in him. When what we're talking about today is the kind of fear that prevents us from properly loving God That part is really what defines it because you know if you see if your if your child is playing in the road, you know, maybe you live on a cul-de-sac and so they they do do that often, and then you see this car coming down the street, your neighbor and loving others. I you I'm using it because I think it it uh presents it in a way that that uh if you experience anxiety you would likely say that that actually reflects well what I experience. uneasiness, distress, or dread you feel before a significant event. in their muscles, they can have stomach cramps, uh, they can have high blood pressure, uh, they can struggle to sleep. We're actually going to start in verse 20, verse 20. Has this idea of a divided mind. We know that our anxiety has risen to the point of sinfulness. You can be concerned about that. uh because of how we feel. our emotions and so we just avoid, we we step back. Decades ago, uh there was a gentleman who was the strongest man in the world. uh I'm I'm having an upset stomach, you know, ulcers, migraines, headaches. that uh your cares and concerns have risen beyond what is appropriate. Uh r on the one hand recognize that scripture says, be anxious for nothing, therefore it's a sin to be anxious, versus kind of a appropriate beliefs that that we're operating out of. actively choose to be anxious like hey there's a situation I want to be anxious about that right people don't choose anxiety like that comes to Gideon and he says, Gideon, I want you to tear down the idol in your town. Look I I'm the last prophet left. of this situation. And then Peter in Luke twenty two, you know, this is when he's in the courtyard as Jesus is being tried illegally Um I was thinking as I was working through this, were any women ever anxious? initial experience of I don't know what to do, I don't know what's gonna happen. What do you believe about God? with his nature. Uh as as we just kind of talk through these questions, just keep that in mind that uh understanding uh a person's uh thoughts and beliefs about God What is going on in a person's heart with regard to their thoughts about God's faithfulness? That God is faithful. Me. They're going to be off in these various areas. other areas as well. What do you believe about your resources and abilities? Or again, do you think that you're just by yourself? My goal is to be a 4. So that's cognition. So again, what do you believe about yourself in these different areas? What do my fears and anxieties reveal about what I value? gone away. thinking about and embracing and holding on to every moment of every day. degree or another. Right? I get that from ver both verses nineteen and twenty and also verse thirty-three where where Jesus again makes the point I read it earlier of not storing up our treasures on earth, but rather storing them up in heaven, and then in verse thirty-three So in other words, my life, the the choices that I make today, the things that I am concerned about little importance to God. The fact that he is near to us should have a calming effect on our lives. be made known to God. to go to him in prayer and to take these concerns to the Lord. for our minds. Fifty six. Ah, sorry, verse nine. Because he's for me, right? Some kind of exercise. By exercising, making sure that we're putting good things into our body, that we're allowing our body to rest But I hope this is helpful at least in in setting a framework. And help them to work through their fears and anxieties so that they can live freely in Christ. me but it's the only chair in the room and people are like, no sit down like no thanks. actually sitting in the chair. ways to to others. Uh perhaps others will join us in the next few minutes, but uh it's always good to see faces and uh and and see your smiles uh that perception of an actual danger will move you to l rightly love your children to say, hey everybody get out of the road and if they're not listening uneasiness all the way to dread that you might feel before a significant event. But the question is, why do we feel anxious in those situations and moments? purpose of living, where your heart is gonna is gonna find its home. Like I know this is what God wants me to do, and I know this is what God wants me to think, but but here's the things that I'm really concerned about. Uh we can't we can't uh go to work. you have risen to the point of a sinful level of anxiety. Am I sinning in this situation in my heart? And Jacob is thinking, oh my goodness, he's going to come, he's going to kill me, he's going to kill my family. Uh she threatens Elijah and Elijah hears about it and he just takes off. thinking about what that means in his culture, he was afraid. And we m remember we said when we talked about the heart that the most important factor of what's going on in the heart is your relationship with God anxiety and fear. You know, just being with mom or dad just solves everything. bringing about salvation or you know accomplishing his purposes? God in this situation. and goals. If you have that mentality, which many students do, or at least some do, that produces all kinds of anxiety in the heart. you feel like has made it their goal in life to hurt you. And Jesus makes this point so clearly. The conclusion of it all, he says, but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. He is upholding all things by the word of his power. And yet your heavenly father. And to consider how they might relate perhaps your particular struggle and what truths they teach there There will come a day when all things will be wiped away, all tears will be wiped away, that is, when there will be nothing to fear because we will live in perfect Um and uh and then I'll let you go. wants more information on how to discern between um you know the things that are sin issues and physical issues and all that kind of stuff dismissive of I know this, I know what the Bible says. Well, I I think um uh that's that's not a very uncommon situation. Um and for them there's no I just need to read this verse and I'll you know I'll be done with it. Uh you know, l uh concerns about work, concerns about health that are just normal, you know, because of the the fallenness of our world, the difficulties we face at various levels, uh and so there's there's just that normalcy and approach. On the whole, again, as a broad brush statement, that our world's um uh approach of medicating anxiety Predominantly, uh our biology is not the reason or the explanation or the source of our anxieties. And we'll see what Scripture has to say about what is the source of our anxieties. that we need just in the air for our own sustenance. Well, uh before we move further, let me pray and uh and we will then dive into the notes. And despise the other. I have it there in your notes, is the emotional and physiological experience that results from a divided mind. They're trying to control situations. With things. But, you know, think about the variety of of other things here and and and whether or not they all come together. And you know, fundamentally I think it comes down to it's okay it's okay to feel nervous, um to to have a measure of anxiety, to recognize the significance of a situation, um, you know, in a sense to have that experience where you're the the predominant understanding of the experience of anxiety is if it's if it's risen to a certain level, then it means that you have it an anxiety disorder, that it's effectively a a disease. But there's as we'll see in a in a couple moments, uh it there are thoughts that are going on in our heart. Uh but uh it is something that they do by virtue of what's going on in the heart. Let's hide. Jacob in Genesis 32, this is when he's going back, when he's you know left Laban. some of the men. more outside of Orthodox Christianity, but there might be someone who's been influenced in that way. Or do you think that he's more of a reactor, a responder? That can give rise to those anxieties and fears. you know, what we eat, our sleep patterns, how we take care of our bodies, those kinds of things. When Jesus says man shall not live on bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God, he's not denying the fact that we need bread to always be embracing that God will never leave us or forsake us. No, it's when we have brought our concerns to the Lord, He promises peace that transcends our circumstances. So we ought not to be looking for and aiming for the resolution as we would perceive it of our circumstances before we can experience peace. Focus on those kinds of things. In God, whose word I praise, in God I have put my trust, I shall not be afraid. answer any questions or hear any other comments. Amen. But uh often the kind of sinful and debilitating fear that a person experiences is really a perceived fear So that's a a secular definition I think is helpful because it it portrays what the experience of anxiety is. Anxiety. So this is a guy that you almost think, man, this guy's gonna live forever. Or you think about Elijah, who this is right after he had uh been on Mount Carmel, where he had defeated the prophets of Baal, where I guess you could say God defeated them. It it seems like the universal solution to a a frightened child to help them not be frightened sorry, when it attributes to God at uh characteristics that are inconsistent with his nature I haven't experienced the faithfulness of God they might say to themselves and be willing to admit. If God loved me, I would be having uh more prosperity and success. What do you believe about other people's capabilities? What should be of greatest priority in my life, not exclusive priority, but greatest priority should be God's kingdom, should be eternity Uh thanks to technology, and you can see the globe, you can see the satellite view of the Earth. Look at verses 3 and 4. But the truth is that God is for us. To helping them get to a point where they're willing to receive that truth into their heart and make it a reality of their So anxiety and fear is an issue that is addressed in a variety of ways in Scripture. Problem that is bringing about anxious thoughts that are troublesome and even debilitating. That we are so overly concerned about the things of this life, the temporal matters, that uh we're just not trusting in the goodness of God, in the provision of God. A second way we know that we have become sinful in our anxiety is if we're not fulfilling current responsibilities. Or prevents us from engaging in relationships, uh coming together with friends, that that we avoid people or we avoid situations, we avoid our responsibilities. At his, I think it was his ninety-fifth birthday, uh he bent uh a nickel Rather than again trusting in the Lord and thinking about the things He would point us to He sent a massive gift to his brother to try and appease what he felt to be his anger. Moses in Exodus chapter 4, God comes to him in the burning bush and gives him this massive commission. You move into the New Testament, just a couple examples here, and you see Joseph, right, the husband of Mary, betrothed husband of Mary. So that you can think through those and and talk through those. Um but uh uh w wasn't intending to you know s do a horse whole sermon on any each of these passages anyway. I'm here. Should be the things that God calls me to do in His Word. His his point is to say, don't you know how much God cares about you? Uh he he his presence with us should calm us and free us from the anxieties and fears that You know, we ought not to think, well, God knows everything. There are those underlying concerns in our hearts. Part of helping ourselves is getting out that, if I could say it, anxious energy or nervous energy Um what what does that say about uh are are you actually living by faith? having a conversation uh in what what it what does it look like if if you're uh you know struggling in this particular way, if you're anxious about this particular thing. Jesus then goes on to describe why we shouldn't be anxious. Yeah, I guess you kind of addressed it, but the issue of uh sinning in regards to anxiety implement force of the anxious for nothing. This is how you're not trusting in the Lord. Bad pastor. Uh to act in a way that reflects the truth, then I have to come to a point of recognition that okay, I don't actually believe that. So in most cases, I would say anxiety does not need to be medicated. Uh because I I want to make sure I don't do anything wrong. It helps us understand what's going on in the heart and in the mind. Obviously the choice he's pointing us to make is eternity, right? But if you are taking that to the Lord, and you say, Lord, I I'm really nervous about what I don't know what's going to happen, Lord, but I trust you, you know. I have the reference of Luke 12, 25, but Jesus even refers to it here in Matthew 6. So if you are living your life in such a way where you are seeking to control things that you have absolutely no control over, like I mean a g a guy who's so incredibly fit like that, you know, it there's nothing that he could do to extend his life. And so he operated uh in terms of making David his enemy because of his anxiety over David's From these first three passages, then their experience of anxiety will be significantly decreased, if not entirely. What are my fears and anxieties telling me about my priorities? That cannot be my goal. So growing in our understanding of God's care for us as our Heavenly Father is so important. Notice at least in my Bible the heading is supplication for deliverance and grateful trust in the Lord Listen, as a believer, I know that some struggle with this idea that God is for us. But it doesn't really explain why we feel anxious. We'll stop there. Attributes to God that are inconsistent with his actual nature, as Lu Priolo says This person is wanting their goal in life is to bring difficulty into my life and therefore I get anxious when I'm around this person or you know maybe it's a co-worker. So what what are your anxieties revealing about what you believe about other people? If you know this truth in your mind, and you know you read the passage, and maybe you pray and and you know you thank the Lord for who he is. A number of different passages. Lastly, just some practical steps for change. And then you can talk about practical ways of of incorporating that truth in one's heart and mind on a daily basis so that over the course of time there But if you're thinking of I gotta live longer, I gotta live longer, I can't die early. Is there a point at which you say no it's okay to be anxious about that? What do you believe about his power? of his kindness, of his goodness, the various attributes of God, and just ask, what am I believing about I mean we we've been going through fall. And then verse uh twenty-eight And why are you worried about clothing? But Jesus makes the point that compared to you, those things are very of very little We should not be so concerned with money. God knows what we're going through. We are to practice loving God and others rather than being self-focused. How would you encourage someone who are being open scripture but is not necessarily We're just spending hours and hours mulling it over our minds. Let me read that again. I mean there certainly are s uh Christian circles, denominations, the uh theological circles that deny that God is powerful enough. Remember, affection relates to our desires, our priorities, our our values. So you can look back at those choices and say, what do those choices reveal about what they're actually committed to? And then the third truth I would draw out of here, that is really Jesus' most significant point in this passage, is that God cares more about me than the creation he meticulously cares for. So the first definition that you have in the notes there is about fear. Okay? He's just acknowledging that there's something even more significant than that, the Word of God. God out of his character, he's just chosen. He has interest in them. Now jump down to verse twenty-four. They might affirm the truth that Scripture teaches. Do you know your position as an adopted child of God, as as being in Christ, as having died with Christ and risen with Christ and seated with Christ in the heavenly places? I'm just like 20 feet away. Well and the a obvious answer is none of us. I was really wrestling with how to state this principle, but you know, verse eight, he tells us what to think about God knows the number of days for you, and there is nothing that you can do to change that You can't control how long you live. No. Right? So it's not simply about what you're thinking about, it's also how are you living? Yeah hey Gary. And so when we seek to control things like that, now that's obviously an extreme example in terms of seeking to control the length of your life, but many times that's not what people are trying to do. So before we get there, let's talk about the heart of anxiety. Having more of a worldly definition that has more to do with, if God loved me, everything would be working out. Alright, do you believe that God is actually in control of all things? Their particular struggle is whether or not they're saved. He's given us his spirit, he's given us the word. Help me in my explanation to uh to weigh that uh sensitivity appropriately according to your word. So uh I mean I think this list here it largely uh uh addresses that. You know, some people might say, you know what, I know God is faithful. So, that's very significant. Does a person recognize that their goal ought to be to glorify God or or is their goal in their heart that's that they're operating out of, my goal is to be maybe successful in a particular endeavor. And then lastly and there's we could have a whole conversation about this. Uh what do the what do you you, the person b uh uh stru struggling with anxiety, what what do you believe about his love? I'm going through this situation and I'm not feeling the love of God. How would you go about doing that? So Matthew chapter 6, and we're not going to start in verse 25 where you might think we would start. Well let's walk through I don't we definitely don't have time to look through all of these biblical examples, but I I do think it's helpful to point out that anxiety is something that uh is normal and common in humanity. What what am I believing in these different areas? But at the end of verse five he says, the Lord is near. Verse 8 reminds us that God knows our struggle. But there's there's more we can say about that. Uh, you know that kids can be frightened of all kinds of things, especially the dark, you know, uh being in front of strangers, you know, meeting a new stranger, they can be frightened of all kinds of things. But those are all really important areas to investigate and draw out what is going on in the heart. But actually let me let me let me qualify that because what I here's what I don't mean by this. He says, what can man do to me? It's not to say that they have a wrong theology of God in terms of what they can espouse or what they can tell you You could add in a list of questions with regard to circumstances as well, and I think with these you can probably come up with your own questions about circumstances. Uh again, am I desiring to to get an A in this class or in this on this exam, or am I desiring to have Do I believe that it's more important for me to accomplish this goal than it is to please God, for example? But uh you know God exerts control and he cares about his creation. We'll come back to the rest of the passage later on. Uh the word, the uh the Greek word worried uh or it could be translated anxious And so he's operating out of fear because he's concerned not only what people will think of him, but what people will And well, you know what happened after that. And I honestly think that not that it's the only thing to talk about, but it is definitely the most significant thing to talk about when a person is struggling with They can make you anxious because you're not secure in in Christ. Uh we can hold your hand, as it were, in the midst of our struggles. They're they're depending on that truth. Now there's a couple of key elements to this definition. And then it's it's help it helpfully recognizes that sometimes it's good. You cannot serve God and well. And you're doing it not for the sake of quality of life, I just want to be healthy. They became fearful when they anticipated, oh, God's around. What is another person thinking about God? As you look at your life and and your values and priorities, what am I weighing more heavily than others? So this this is this is the solution we need to be pursuing. Hopefully you're familiar with it. Thank you. I need to be perhaps thinking about uh how God has manifested Himself in these Are you going to be liv living for this earth, the things of this w earth, the the the pleasures, the wealth, the the security in the things of this earth? And what about that? That's the the beliefs, the the convictions, uh what I'm thinking about God, myself, and others. You can even feel nervous about that. Yeah, so that I appreciate the question. What is my experience revealing about what I actually value? And uh and so there are times when uh there may be an appropriate uh need for medication of some kind or another. I feel like God is punishing me right now, that He does not have my best interests and at heart in this situation Because of the variety, we we have to be somewhat broad brush strokes in what we talk about today. I have a mix here of both biblical and, if you will, secular definitions. Or you think about Saul. You know, those of you who have children, uh, whether they're young or old, you know, those who are older Fear is sinful when it attributes to God characteristics that are inconsistent Yeah, yeah. Uh so it's helpful to keep in in mind the the different aspects that it's a whole body experience. And those are obviously unproductive ways of of thinking and spending your time being consumed by things. No, not at all. So again, this is this is not a new issue. 0 student and therefore I'm anxious with every test because I know I I I'm either going to make it or break it. That's one principle that needs to be teased out and and and worked through in someone's heart and mind And we see that in Romans 8. It's just it's something that comes upon me. You know, in most cases. Right? Look at all the prophets they've killed. When Christians are afraid, it is almost certainly because they have a misperception It may not necessarily be that we're afraid to die in a particular situation, but it might be related to our health or to our safety. Just looking at the time of year and I'm dying inside. I was hoping to at least make some comments about some of these, but we don't have time for that. Lord, I pray that you would uh by your spirit uh give them the truth in their heart And so by asking questions like what we work through, uh just helping them to recognize that that they're they're they're not living it. Uh th that's kind of the the fundamental idea of anxiety and worry No. Now the reason this is helpful in understanding anxiety is because it's in that very context, it's it's in making that point. That is to say, that we're just constantly thinking about what we're anxious about. And what about the other? Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. There's desires and priorities and commitments that give rise to these thoughts. But you see, I mean this is just a sampling, right? You might even say he has a vested interest in them, in the outcome of those situations. I have falsely communicated how to think about the Psalms. Where's that phrase? I know you can't see the people who are in the room right now. Maybe not immediately, but in time. But when, or sorry, when I am afraid, okay, that's what we're talking about. I think what we can draw from this is that God's presence We have to move forward in obedience. There is, again, that physiological experience and troubles that come when we struggle for over a long period of time with anxiety. I know it's a very broad, broad category, so I do that for the options of the scope I have to make sure that I organize my life so that everything happens the way it's supposed to be. They were fearful. Uh when they're frightened at night because of the dark, you know, they'll either come to you and sleep in your bed and they can sleep soundly. What do you believe about his purposes? Um and to see that just because he is who he is doesn't mean that my difficulties will go away. We we mentioned a little bit, you know, in light of the the first definition of fear, that there's an appropriate level that r really is distinguished between that which prevents us from loving God and others versus that which helps us. We can't take care of our families. He says in verse 27, and who of you, by being worried, anxious, can add a single hour to his life? We'll just fly through this. And then on the opposite end of the spectrum is those overwhelming anxieties that Now anxiety is th this is a secular definition from anxiety. So we fundamentally we're if we're not trusting the Lord for the outcome But where you realize, man, I am physiologically responding to the anxieties in my life, the fears in my life If you're not, you can certainly read it on your own. You know, go back to bed. But if God so clothed the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will he not much more clothe you, though you of little faith? And uh and perhaps they might come to that point where they realize, okay, well I I can agree with that, that my actions are not reflecting this truth. The the last disclaimer I want to make for this morning is that um I understand that there are some Is God sovereign or is he not sovereign? Do you think that you have to just figure this out on your own? He already knows these struggles. We're starting to see the leaves uh come. He makes this point in verse twenty six Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor rape, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Verse 6. We have all the evidence in the world, in scripture, to tell us that. Alrighty. Let's start by just uh understanding what we're talking about when we talk about fear and anxiety. He's 95, look how strong he is. A fourth way we know is that our thoughts are unproductive or consumed And Guinea's like, Well, the last thing I want to do is have other people see me do it. He cares for the birds. Uh it was actually quite an old one, but I just listened to it this week again, uh, where one of the uh speakers, Heath Lambert, who was the former executive director of So I I made this encouragement earlier, but uh if you know if you're online, uh we'd love to see your faces if if it's uh you're in a a position where it would be appropriate for you to turn on your Or is this just a a situation that's a difficult situation that I can trust the Lord in? And when they're not, when they're oriented around the things of this life, that's when we will struggle with anxiety. In Christ's name I pray. We won't we won't go through it, but that's clearly the point that Jesus is making. What does a person believe about God? You just cannot control the length of your life And so we just need to uh allow ourselves to grow in our understanding of God's care for us. Okay, I just I just I just care about humans more than others. He's like, what are people gonna think of me? Because I don't know. And just being, you know, a couple feet from them enables them to sleep soundly. There's going to be ways in which they are being inconsistent and actually attributing The next main idea to draw out is this life is more is about more than this life. Don't have your mind divided between different things, different concerns, where you're just not settled in your heart. So there's an appropriate level of anxiety that uh that helps us in s in many situations. No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and Let me just say that. And so he's anxious and fearful of this idea of going back to rescue the people. What do you believe about other people? You know, sometimes we we portray in our minds that people are much more powerful than they actually are, that they are actually able to control things that they don't have the ability to control. W what are those desires that that are in my heart? You are so faithful in causing the rain to fall on the righteous and the unrighteous. Lord help us today as we talk about what for some is a a very uh personal The the notes are more thorough than than usual and there is a list of uh recommended resources at the end of the notes for you to consider if you want more. So the the the perception is is critical. There's this sense of I can't firmly plant my feet in one loyalty. Um so w what let's just walk through each of these. Uh we we don't want others to see us this way or we find that other people uh are being around other people exacerbates Is he even capable of stepping into this situation and I'm the last one. Uh the the the second you feel anxiety, normally you've been feeling anxiety, so you've already made some choices. And that will settle your mind as you continually We focus on what is true and we live in obedience to it. If God is for us, who can be against us? Uh we need to develop an unceasing prayer life just constantly going before the Lord. And that's appropriate because it it m should move us, if if we're experiencing it rightly, if we're thinking rightly, should move us to to obey and honor the Lord. Uh there's nothing wrong with those experiences. And one might think that by virtue of that, you know, that must be what God cares about most. Verse nine, the second half. A mind that is is kind of working back and forth between two different loyalties and can't Have those butterflies in your stomach, and in a sense have a a measure of anxiety about that. And that you have to work this out on your own? Again, there's there's a whole lot more uh that could be said uh in any particular person's life on in in terms of what does Scripture have to say about anxiety and fear. At the at the end of verse five, there's kind of a series of commands in verses four to five and six. All right, any other comments? Humanity, because of the fall, have always uh been fearful and anxious about all kinds of things. You see the diagram there that we've worked through in understanding how the heart functions. And you know he uh whether or not he's able to work for my good is When he tells us to pray, the implication is God wants to hear from us. We won't read the whole psalm, but it is a a psalm that is worthy Again, I know this has been just huge simplification or summary of truth. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? The l the the Lord protected him and and cared for him. Do you do you assume the worst about others' motivations? Um you know, it's like as parents when we tell our kids He says, You have taken account of my wanderings, put my tears in your bottle. So let me just pray, if if you do have comments or questions, I'll stay here for a few minutes. Yeah, no, it's not in my notes, but it is a good book. So again we have the notes that are posted to the Hope Book Group. We're just gonna look at it for a little bit here, and then we'll come back to it later on and spend a lot more time. What is Jesus doing here? Ross for those of you online. Um but that's again lacking uh r first of all any evidence. Uh it's something that is done to me. They were anxious about interacting with God. Scripture teaches He's faithful. God's not faithful to me. Or do they believe that somehow God lacks power? Why? They obviously they can be kind of shaky, they can be c uh kinda nervous in in their He was fearful of losing his authority, of losing his his rule They might be able to tell you, yes, I know this is what the Bible says. So now look at verse 25. Now you can, if you have a diagnosis that you receive, or if you're anticipating a difficult situation. We don't do the things that God has called us to do. The context of that promise is in the context of the love of money. You know, wherever in your own heart is you recognize that there are thoughts about God. How do you go further beyond taking it from that head knowledge But that's what Scripture is portraying here and in other places, but I think most helpfully here in terms of what is actually going on in the heart. Uh he was so strong that he could you know lift a car, at least you know, one one side of it. Excuse me. In most cases. Uh and so in many cases it's okay to have that And therefore when we take advantage of all of those things, we do have the ability to endure and overcome these challenges. And then finally with volition, with the choices that I make. We ha we have no control over our our life. Um I don't remember when this gentleman lived, but uh uh Where you start experiencing these things, it's possible, I'm not saying that if you experience these things, you must be sinning in your anxiety. Uh the question is, what do you do about it? And so if our heart is set on eternity, therefore So it's okay to to be nervous and anxious, you know, in in in things, but still trust in the Lord. I don't know what I'm gonna do. We can we must reflect on the faithfulness of God and caring for his creation. These are just ones that I thought, uh, these are easy ones to to draw out of Scripture. Martha oh yeah, Martha. So that then once I come to the answers I can know how to address them from scripture. He cares for the critters. He says the things which you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things. Eat healthy food, get appropriate sleep, and engage in Sometimes even in that moment of of hyper awareness we we almost uh get blind to some aspects of of things uh that that cause problems. So what Jesus is saying here very plainly and simply is: listen, you've got to choose where your loyalties are going to lie. And then finally again in in the more extreme situations uh where we just become incapable of functioning. And then third, what do my fears and anxieties tell me about my priorities similar to values? Now we're not to be cavalier, uh we're not to be uh Um and that's written as a command in Paul's language. In the same way, I think that if if we are strong in our relationship with God, Because God will never leave us or forsake us. God can be trusted. The word mirror there is not in the Hebrew, it's the tr uh translators believe it's implied. And He cares. Yeah. You know, in our world uh where um And then when Jezebel hears about this victory and how her prophets have been killed This this is what it what uh the experience of living in a fallen corrupt world. Is is he actually doing anything at all? What what do their anxieties reveal That doesn't help them. The reason he cares about us so much is because Um and again th there's no there's no magic bullet. And that kind of a reaction to a perceived danger is right. Usually, if a person is really battling with anxiety, Again, so those were all real experiences that people have. Observe how the lilies of the field grow. He already knows my needs, so I don't need to tell him. It hints at it in terms of circumstances, refers to stressful, dangerous, or unfamiliar situations, it refers to significant events, those kinds of things. You have to work through in your own heart, or if you're ministering to someone, you have to to talk with them and and draw out what is going on specifically. That God is working out his purposes. Amen. It's it's not actually addressing the issues. It's uh my wife Rachel and and Ross Levin Now let's just take a moment then is in concluding our introduction to to identify what distinguishes Don't allow the concerns, the difficulties, the uncertainties of this life to cause you to be anxious. Uh that's definitely when you know that Do they really believe that in this situation or in their life And then verse 7 we can draw out the principle that God's peace, God's promised peace, is not based on our circumstances. Uh Lord, we've just I I just feel like we've flown so quickly, even too quickly, through these things. And so um we have to then examine the heart. What are they gonna think of us? And the more that I do that, the more comfort I will receive. Don't you know how much more important you are to God than even his creation? So there you have it. Um I again I do think there's a place for it, but we just need to be very careful because Ross was asking how do you And so he he becomes very, very worried and anxious, and he starts to take actions And what is God up to anyway? Those are really important questions. What I think is important? Again, this is not intended to be exhaustive by any stretch. And then he says in verse six, be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication. We can find comfort and peace. Um but I thought that'd be helpful for anybody who's uh He's saying, listen, you can't be divided between eternity and this earth. Yeah, I guess there is, because there's just a natural response. Again, yes, we live wisely, we we we take appropriate steps. He's adopted us into His family So it it's not like, well, I I just need to pray about this and then my anxieties will be over. This I know that God is for me. In fact, he also said the Bible is about our anxieties. And Faith Biblical Counseling Ministries, this is actually where uh the church where Pastor Mora uh went uh last month. Anybody want to guess? He's been faithful to Israel. And so they're constantly asking Jesus into their heart, or they're asking God to save them because they just don't know if they're saved. Is there a desire of something that I want to obtain and I'm just afraid that I won't be able to do it? You know, we we've coming from California, we've loved the the transition uh of of colors. How would you go about encouraging someone to have the proper view of God if Uh positively stated that that is a common situation. So again, there's some really helpful things in there. I hear God. This is not necessarily a definition of fear broadly because A third way we know is when we seek to control the uncontrollable. Uh some of this you don't necessarily have control over, in fact But first of all, we need to remember at all times that there is nothing we can do to extend our lives. God promises that. So we don't need to be afraid of the judgment of God. And so that's where I think we have to turn to Scripture because Scripture actually provides the answer for that. Is it gonna find its home here on earth or is it gonna find its home I don't remember what the God of uh w which God it was, but And No, you know, I don't I don't know the guy and you know, two more. And so related to that, what do you believe about your identity? Sorry. We have to acknowledge the temporal natures of our fears, right? Um if if I'm not willing to sit in it, if I'm not willing to So if you've just joined us while I've been talking, I've been giving some disclaimers, and so uh I would encourage you, uh whatever you uh So when we think about how do you distinguish between a godly fear and an ungodly fear, You know, that's one of the reasons why a person can't sleep, is because they're they're constantly thinking about this test that's coming up, or an interview, or a situation. Why? A certain level of anxiety helps us stay alert and aware, but for those who uh those suffering from an anxiety disorder, as they would conceive So maybe their understanding of what it means Philippians chapter 4. Here's here's what I'm tempted to think about, the things of this earth. Um because it is something that we do. He's incredibly afraid and anxious. You know, do you what do you believe about other people's motivations? Or the the fear that we know we ought to have, the fear of the Lord. Well that's He's on his way back to the promised land, and he hears that his brother Esau is coming with, you know, uh I think it was like five hundred of his men. So Matthew 26, sorry, Matthew 6, 25 to 34. What don't you see? The book of Psalms is not a book of chapters, they're each individual Psalms. It's good to stay alert. But this that the the physiological symptoms may be a sign. But the question is what do you do with that? Uh in fact uh I'll mention her uh in a in a later situation. But you know, you could be the best driver in the world. Are you acting out on the basis of I know we're five minutes over. No, there's there's just a I need to cultivate this way of thinking about God in my heart and in my life. The idea of, you know, you can't add a single hour to your life. It's not something that I do. What are they gonna think of her? Fourth, God directs us to that which must win the battle. Now, again, I want I want to be clear. Uh and he is uh incredibly fearful. So they might be inconsistent in in some of their theology, so they might be confused about God's power. No, it's this is what I need to be Well, verse 11 says, In God I put my trust, I shall not be afraid. And usually those divisions will have an earthly, some of those will be earthly and some will be heavenly Within days, he was hit by a car as he was crossing the street and he died. So my life needs to be oriented around eternal purposes. He is for us. Um Uh there is everything from the normal cares and concerns of life Sometimes it's a legitimate And he acknowledges this reality that you have to choose one or the other in terms of your prominent For this very reason I say to you, do not be worried, or you could say anxious, about your life. So working to control the uncontrollable, that's a sign Um I can't tell you in any given situation this is what's going on in your heart. Do they really believe that God is faithful to his promises? That might be giving rise to their anxiety. Now he says in verse 26. In fact, in Hebrews 13, you have it there in the notes, the reference. Uh it's not that it's not so much that the the fear is always made up and invented in your mind. And so he was anxious. Again, you you just gotta ask these questions. There's no I would just encourage you to look at these passages Are are you actually living as if this is true? This is just uh somewhat obvious perhaps. We're gonna have to talk to him. So what are some specific areas? People can feel that way. And then what do you believe about God's sovereignty? We're to take our mind off of ourselves and our concerns and learn to live that sacrificial life of caring for others So What do you believe about your purpose? It's his purpose and intention to make it beautiful. Okay, let me just pause there. But if one looks at Ed Welch, you could find other books he's written along those lines. I mean there's all kinds of physiological problems uh and and manifestations of anxiety that I was trying to think of biblical examples and He's been faithful to, you know, this person, that person. What they want is that constant reminder by your actual presence, right? No, he is concerned about the things that we are concerned about. Uh Uh I definitely recommend it as well. And again you can delve into other areas as well. He is intentionally, purposefully, actively making creation beautiful. We have to change our life and uh live by faith, even if Alright, so Matthew chapter 6, verse 20, Jesus says this: but store up for yourselves treasures There there are Moses, I want you to go back and talk to Pharaoh and have him let my people go free. You gotta work through these things on your own? The the other component is the last phrase there where it says We we know that And he uh uh in a sense argues with God saying, God, there's gotta be somebody else. So what do you believe about yourself? What do the choices I've made in light of my fear and anxiety reveal about my true commitment? He's going to provide for us. We we can look to God, we can trust God because we know that his love for us is such that he is for us, not against us. And so we can trust Him. And again that that's that's a helpful recognition that there's different levels of anxiety that a person might feel. Had nothing to do with with his health. They were afraid of the consequences of their actions. How do you respond? Am I truly committed to serving the Lord, or am I more committed to appeasing my fears? They do not toil, nor do they spin. You don't see people, you don't see buildings, except for the Great Wall of China. God can He finds out she's pregnant, and he knows he's not the father. You have those resources. Uh Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. It's the sense of You know, I mentioned at the very beginning that we've survived thus far my son learning to drive. Or Uh and so So I don't know if that specifically answers your question, but I think it gave me an opportunity to say a couple things. And so he knows the Pharaoh, he knows the situation there. What am I afraid of losing I mean there might be Christians who Now, we might not always feel that in light of our circumstances. Lord, if there are any here who are struggling, Um because again the issue is not just I'm aware of that truth being taught in the Bible. There's no, hey, I just need to say this and they'll get it. So just three questions here. Well make sure this is clear. What can mere man do to me? So it's it's not that people Like does he have a purpose for things? And so it is right for us He was fearful for his life, for his property, for his family. Why can I trust him? We can be honest about our struggle and our failures Are you trusting in the Lord? There are things we can control for the s out of the sake of uh of wisdom and and wise living for the sake of health. When I am afraid, what will I do? And so in in a And if and if I ha don't have the control that that I need or want, then But is that really the operation of their heart? And so that fear was driving him just Be with their parents, right? It's an an anticipation of what they think could happen or what they think might be in someone's uh heart And if I break it, life is over. Some struggle thinking. We've talked briefly about that. There are cases where it may be necessary, either where there is a clear identifiable He's going to care for us. Now everything's fixed. Maybe it prevents us from going to work. So to look at what does the scripture say about this? Uh you have a quote there from Luke Rello which I think is really helpful. And over the course of time, Lord willing, the anxieties will will die away. So this is worthy of much study. Just acknowledge that that's true. I think it was might have been posted again. He he divided up his family Again, they might say, I know God has love, I know God has shown his love in all these different ways, but I just don't know that he loves God. Everything would be good. Are you assuming that people are motivated in such a way as to hurt And if they truly have embraced these truths But hopefully you're already there in Matthew chapter six. The first part, anxiety, is the mind and body's reaction. Yes, it's something that we feel Or you think about Gideon. Uh or, you know, when they're in a situation they hide behind you. What do you believe about your spiritual condition? Uh Okay, is This is not intended to be exhaustive, but I think these are some key areas Or do you recognize that that God has just placed around each one of us as believers? We have to preserve creation. Um Very closely related to that, their intentions. Do not fear, do not be afraid, fear not, you know, all of those kinds of things. I know we really haven't gotten He he tells the Lord, God, you know These are diagnostic questions to really think through We can anticipate and desire and expect. And then verse nine, we see the principle that God promises himself So But how do you Do you know who you are in Christ? Instead, he says, verse eight, be settled on these kinds of things. Are they not in your book? Are are you going to the Lord? And uh he's just incredibly fearful of being identified with this guy who he knows is about to get crucified. And and notice it's not just that You might think uh this is unnecessary, but I I think it's helpful just to set the context for our Um and then in the next sentence it identifies kind of a a spectrum from There's there's no evidence that there's a disease of anxiety aside from identifiable uh Now everything's put together the way we think it ought to be put together. I don't know. Um and so that takes conversation. Uh he could bend quarters with his fingers. What what desires do I have that I'm fearful or anxious about? That these things will not be with us forever. So we can look at the very first example, Adam, right? Or are you going to be living for eternity? So And so If if we have been struggling to the degree that we've been holding back our responsibilities, we Just there's there's this conversation around those issues that uh it's probably multiple conversations. Which is which is so massive. So much more to say about that. Or they might be thinking wrongly about his love. It's not as though Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory I will put my trust in you. So there are instances but you know uh scripture really highlights uh org, but I think it's actually a helpful definition. Uh but No, God cares far more about people. Psalm What can man do to me? So anxiety biblically Well, we're definitely gonna have to fly through this next section. With thanksgiving, let your requests For those who are uh who have time to stick around, be glad to As our Heavenly Father, because He loves us, He longs to hear us too. And do they understand what that faithfulness means? I think those would tend to be You know, you can use illustrations. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves Uh or, you know, as was sometimes the case for us So that would be my short answer. Uh does he have a specific purpose for this situation? Uh the the specific instance there in Judges six is when the angel of the Lord Do you know who you are in Christ? You can look it up later, but the context of the promise that we offer. And if you practice these things, the God of peace will be with you. So uh I I think helping someone to recognize that what We thank you for the rain that once again you have sent to sustain Uh or if you're talking to somebody else, ministering to somebody else, they've already made some choices. I just want to draw out some key ideas and you have them listed there. You have to make a choice. God proved to be the true God. Is that really what they're operating out of? What do I believe is more or less important? Yes, Rachel. We can't move. So now let's talk about addressing the heart. Are you not worth much more? I mean you you zoom out I pray these things in Jesus' name. They're trying to control other people. Do you are are you Yeah If I have God on my side Uh forgive me if we should have You know, s some people really struggle with anxiety because You have And so um And Because so much of anxiety and fear is related to our It's only disappointing how quickly the leaves fall. Are you going to be setting your investments, your These principles can be found in other passages as well. You know, I could say this chair, I I believe this chair will hold You know that Notice he says, and the peace of God I leave I hope you know, he's thinking that. I need to be asking God for him to work in We can't leave the house. Uh I strongly believe that Uh fear is sinful when it appears Therefore we can have the peace of God. There's this sense of fear uh Notice So they're saying they believe that, but they're So uh don't don't So But I think what what we're So, you know, usually So how do I change? It's am I focused Uh they define So again Again, this this can't be Uh