So let's uh just work through these introductory thoughts as we get started here. Uh but it also could be other more serious things. But a lot of times people don't do that, right? That's identifying when someone has has actually gone to a doctor or a psychiatrist or psychologist and they've worked through the different diagnostic methods and they've officially diagnosed the person. Uh they've been saying throughout this year, 2020, that because of COVID, because of the isolation, the numbers of you know mental health problems, especially depression, have been increasing dramatically But the fact that they're addicted is a rather objective reality. Uh but he says you know when he walks to his mailbox, he's like a a 90-year-old man. Uh what's the point? So these are all just common uh things that come alongside depression. This is not a clinical diagnosis or of any kind, but just uh situations where uh people went through uh an experience where they they were uh Uh i if if I can do this obviously he knew the Lord did it, but i if I can go through this experience and I'm still being threatened by the queen, what's the point of living? How blessed is man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. He was depressed over the guilt of of of what he he knew that he had done. And therefore there can be gladness in joy because of the forgiveness found in the Lord. Like the slain who lie in the grave, you remember me no more, and they are cut off from your hand. So you see there uh this section on what what we call the medical model. uh not just unhelpful but even damaging. And it was the first time that the field of psychiatry had language and criteria by which to diagnose people's supposed mental illnesses. The individual must be experiencing five or more symptoms during the same two-week period, and at least one of the symptoms should either be depressed mood or loss of interest or pleasure. Uh fatigue or loss of energy nearly every day, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt nearly every day. Uh with regard to what is the objective criteria that that uh those in the medical field, psychiatry and and doctors, try to use. You talk to the doc, they they ask you some questions and say, Okay, yeah, I think you're depressed here, let me give you your medication or let me, you know, encourage you to do this or that. And so uh because the primary way that the world uh addresses depression is through medicine, through giving antidepressants, uh I thought it would be helpful that instead of me telling you uh they're writing the letters to each other. And you do this and it it'll be better. Accomplish the things you want to do, and that you get attached to things and you lose things and all that stuff. Well, I got modern medicine for you. And this one you're talking about, we have the solution. This is well studied, trust me. So these aren't people saying, hey, medications are bad, you know, go to the Bible. And so the problem is not that you have a brain disorder, the problem is you're human. So here's here's an interesting uh clip on there's no such thing as an antidepressant. But the studies only tell you about the short-term. And when I say that I don't mean they take the same medication at the same dosage for that long. You have to keep increasing the dosage and then you uh uh arrive at the maximum dosage for that medication because you had to get up there for it to keep working. A lot of times things come on the market and then the next year they're not there because they found something really wrong with it. You know, th you may not r know what what's gonna happen. They're so oppressed, not only emotionally, but physiologically, that that they cannot function. uh enjoying the perspective of others and what's going on in other people's lives. He's reflecting here that the fact that the guilt of his sin, because he was keeping it silent, he wasn't confessing it, he wasn't repenting of it Hey, all of you who have never sinned before, rejoice! This is the first psalm in book two of the Psalms, and it starts out with that familiar phrase, As the deer pants for the water brooks, so my soul pants for you, O God. uh that there's a delay in understanding the kind of the truth of the reality of things versus how it works out in in life. Oh I guess it's got to get off my medication and stop taking it. because you have chemical imbalances or circuit disorders or hormonal something or other that we know is there that we haven't found unfortunately by a n by a uh the uh food and drug administration that's devoted to your interests and it has this bill which actually happen to have a free sample with me that has been adopted uh but has not been proven or demonstrated uh in any way. uh of course being successful which would be tr is tragic. film. So instruct us, teach us, help us to have open our hearts and minds, uh, and prepare us even for corporate worship as we lift our Uh one's experience of depression isn't really just caused by some other malady. and growing and we we actually didn't cover as many issues as I was expecting that we would when this class started, but that's probably because we spent so much time and all the introductory stuff, which is know, you you're you're living your life and uh you know, y it's just a normal life. uh caused by some medical problem. what are called major depressive episodes, but it's more prevalent because of the of the problem of self diagnosis. Uh maybe they they overcome it you know over time as they work through the issues or talk to friends and family or life circumstances change and they're lifted up in their mood. uh similar related symptoms. Uh Ed Welts in his book uh Depression is Stubborn Darkness, he has a chapter on listening to depression and what is the experience of depression. Like I was walking through a field of dead flowers and found one beautiful rose, but when I bent down to smell it, it I fell in an invisible hole. There's there's common what we could call side effects or experiences or symptoms that come alongside depression that are common um They're staying home more. Uh that he had the battle of the prophets, if you will, of the two altars and and God showed himself to be the true God by uh sending fire to consume uh the uh the soaked altar that Elijah had put together. You killed my prophets, I'm gonna get you. And said, It is enough, it is enough now, Lord. Where he thinks actually death is the right way forward. Well, because he's out in the wilderness, there's nothing to eat, uh there's nothing to drink, and so the Lord sends uh um angels to care for him and provide So he he takes these things and he travels them more, and then in verse 9 it says, Then he came there to a cave and lodged there. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him, and he said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? But no no doubt his lack of food and his lack of drinking has uh exacerbated his his struggle emotionally And how much more can our prayers be effective? And despair. of this property not in monetary terms, but in terms of the the relationship that it has with with God. thinking about a uh medical diagnosis that he was depressed. And then he says in verse 5, I acknowledge my sin to you and my iniquity I did not hide. uh in at least in poetic terms. of my enemies. In the corner. And my life has drawn near to Sheol. You can find words to voice that sorrow in Scripture. I wanted to have something from the New Testament uh in in this section. Uh he's afflicted. There's been a challenging response. uh who have great faith, like Elijah, experience. uh think about their experience and what might be going on and what's going to help them from the perspective of what the world says and so it's helpful for us to understand that. She came to Jesus, you know, believing that if she should if she could just touch the hem of his garment, she would be healed. from the physicians, and he says in verse twenty six that she had endured much at the hands of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was not helped at all, but rather had grown worse. on. in its understanding of the of the physical body and and knowledge of how how it works not just in terms of the bones and the muscles but even chemically uh and so we can identify problems that that you couldn't really see with your eyes but The symptoms must also not be the result of substance abuse or another medical condition. What fits into that? or impairment. Uh a full quarter of psychiatrists admit that more than half the time they do not use the DSM criteria when they make a diagnosis of depression. And I want you to note as as we watch these that where these folks are from, right? Uh and so there's there's a bit of hesitancy to you know to put people up and say, Hey, listen to this guy. if they found that people in the academic world were kind of universally understanding these things and all on the same page and it's just the the practitioners who are on a different page and and and think kind of in an old school way. could point you to a number of other uh written resources and studies and whatnot that that affirm all of this. But we know it's there, but it's just around the corner and we'll find it. but he hasn't found him, but that's another story. And I'll just give it to you because it's indicated for your depression. with a major reduction of the effect or dependence or severe withdrawal symptoms. antidepressant. Two to three months. two or three or four studies over eight weeks on human subjects, you know, well defined according to the DSM, excuse me, then um the F is that's sufficient. Extraordinary about it. from from business to get re-elected. again is the reality that short-term studies uh are used to get products out in the marketplace, uh medications, but people take these for years, five, ten, fifteen, twenty years. the way we sometimes think that they work. Their doctors were saying to them, that can't happen. audience. Th at the end there's the link to the YouTube channel as a whole if you want to watch. S something along those lines. Hopelessness and despair. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. voices together and hear your word preached. And next week we're gonna talk about depression. Uh this is not something that uh you know is like, oh yeah, there are some people who struggle with this, but you know, most of us are fine. Uh there are challenging issues involved here and so we need good discernment um and uh careful thinking. approach and then next week we'll spend the r the entire time looking at what Scripture has to say and how we can really have hope in the midst of challenging times. uh later this week where um I'm going to be seeking feedback uh for the next time that we offer a class like this uh to see what additional issues you might be interested in learning about and uh critically important. In this point, I'm just acknowledging right up front that sometimes, and it's not terribly common, it's not most times, but sometimes uh physiological problem that is. Well where did this come from? Uh it's probably well over ten percent of the population that has struggled with depression at one point or another. What they what they mean is to some degree they're just persistently sad. um you know, do hang out with friends and and go to restaurants and you know just live life normally. Sad, dark uh thought. uh overwhelmed by their circumstances. Uh well look at well if you have your Bible, uh ver 1 Kings chapter 19 it says in verse 1, Now Ahab uh told Jezebel, Ahab was the king, his wife Jezebel, all that Elijah had done, and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword. Well, of course, he's so depressed and he's so afraid that he's as far away as he can be from his assignment from the Lord. For the sons of Israel have forsaken your covenant, torn down your altars, and killed your prophets with a sword, and I alone am left, and they seek my life to take it away. Property somewhere else, or if you want, I'll just give you the money for it. The Lord forbid me that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers. What is going on? property just showing their wickedness once again. to that by depression. And he stops eating food. and his reflection on the forgiveness that he received from God even in light of his sin. work in this heat. of my sin. Of joy and thanksgiving, a multitude keeping festival. The righteous one, I am seeking to obey you, and yet I'm feeling he uses the phrase stricken all day long in verse 14. He was as a beast he was useless in in the Lord's hands as a as an instrument. and grew through that experience. your ways. Altogether, you have removed lover and friend far from me. It should be normal in the in many ways. uh depression. talk and converse and you know, kinda w what what is that like? Uh oh I think the interviewer was was asking them about their different demeanor. Objective. You know, bloodletting and more recently in the last uh hundred c couple hundred years was uh a common treatment for all kinds of things because it seemed to help some people. Some improvement in someone's life. Of what are the sources of people's problems and how can we help alleviate and solve people's problems? And what it did was it took this this field that was really just a quack field full of all kinds of theories and everybody, you know, having different language and different explanations. someone's life. is the same from one person to the next that makes these determinations. And I and just recognize how much subjectivity is in this. during the same two week period. any of these experiences should be caused for us to come alongside a person and minister to them. There was a study showing with I think it was a a group of teachers over uh an extended period of time that over eighty-seven percent of them at some point in the uh in their uh during the study had experienced these these things. uh are are going to be different. good mood, bad mood. It's even worse among primary care physicians, my part of the profession. Um they they don't even use often their own criteria. medications. And she acknowledged that most in the academic field that they spoke to were on the same page, but some were. are are there and sometimes they are helpful. will help us think through these things. sad and you're upset is not because you're a human being, because you live in a world and you have to grow up and kids. your short term mood, it'll never do it long term. disorder. Other endocrine conditions. get a doctor to sit and listen to them. either the same effectiveness or better. effectiveness. uh to study this important issue of depression and later on to participate in corporate worship. That we desperately need your help and your strength and your wisdom for life. have some measure of experience with at one point or another. If I can put it this way, objective thinking about depression, look trying to look at not just kind of what is depression as as we have these introductory thoughts. Um uh you know, they they need a supplement, uh multivitamin or even just a specific vitamin that they need supplemented. um probably over forty, fifty people. And so we need to understand both what the world says and what Scripture has to say. And and so it's it's complicated because you can talk to someone who says they're depressed and you talk to somebody else who says they're depressed and they're really saying two different things or they're meaning two different things by it. as clear cut as some other issues might be, like addiction for example, where uh the the the thing that's a person's addicted to might be different but uh disorder uh category. despair and hopelessness. If what I feel were equally distributed to the whole human family, there would not be one cheerful face. But this person is saying, No, no, no. might be so sad that they're trying to feed their sadness and make themselves happy so they eat more uh and they gain weight. They sense the physical pain more than normal. uh just how the the soul and the body are intertwined. Verse 3, and he was afraid and arose and ran for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah. And left his servant there. And so we can consider that uh you know whether or not we would say that he's depressed, he's having this experience where the circumstances have weighed down on him to the point And the Lord comes to him and says, What are you doing? of Samaria. Now, for a real estate developer, this is a legitimate conversation. Your divinely given property in the promised land. And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and ate no food. The guilt of his sin was oppressing him to the point where he was having physiological response. gone. look at to see kind of what this experience of depression is like is Psalm 42. night. These are common words and experiences. with the their wickedness. where uh the the psalmist, I think it's Asaph, uh he's looking at the success of the r of the wicked, how they're wealthy, how they're happy, they're they have the things that they want in life, they're successful, they're getting away. On here, how how is this the case? But there's no turn. Psalm 88, O Lord, the God of my salvation, I have cried out by day and in the night before you. My eye has wasted away because of affliction. Will you perform wonders for the dead? But I, O Lord, have cried out to you for help, and in the morning my prayer comes before you. Or whether it's because of my own sin or the circumstances of life, we can get in in a position where we are just so sullen and vexed and oppressed in our mood and our attitude that we we can't see clearly and we lose hope. uh emotionally to the point where he even needed to to go on vacation and get away from the ministry just to try and recuper recuperate physically. He himself struggled with depression at times and and wrote that book as a result. said, he's like, I have no idea what that's like. So that's that's the reality that that we're wanting to discuss and see what Scripture has to say, especially next week. They had no idea what the solution was, and so they they actually made her problem worse. with a blood test you can discern and then take medicine and and all of that is wonderful. The first version of what's called the DSN, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Dis of Mental Disorders, came out in its first edition. concept of the medical model uh that there is something wrong with you, there is there is a a disease, there is a a malfunctioning in in you, in your body or in some way, that that we can uh call a disease or we can call an illness and therefore we will treat it on that basis. to where if you don't meet that threshold, then you don't have that illness. demonstrative uh uh testing, uh medical testing, blood testing, uh anything that that Uh it's it's really done by a a panel that votes on it. and the the doctor, the psychiatrist or psychologist to determine what qualifies, for example, as other important areas of functioning. We just just gotta acknowledge that reality. Well let me just walk through quickly. Most of the day, nearly every day. nearly every day. They don't factor in those things. You know what, you just lost your spouse. This is the psychiatric equivalent of omitting the rapid strep test screen on a sore throat. uh what I know to be true about this and what uh others uh confirm and and you know no one's ever said to me, no that's not true True. UCLA, they're from Stanford, they're from uh other mainstream, mainline um universities. resources, of course I listed some at the end of the notes. In in what is said, both in the videos and anything that I say about medications, I do not at all in the slightest want to communicate any kind of a stigma if anyone uses medications. medications either to get on or off of them. the adverse effects you tolerated in the beginning because of the excitement of being in a study, or whatever you were paid to be in a study because you were a professional subject, then all of that begins to wear off. You know, be there and float around the synapses, you might have a short-term boost mood, but that will not last long. Because no elevation of mood lasts for long. And drugs begin to lose effectiveness. They say that regular in the uh product label. Big news. for something we call the Panic Disorders Institute. I don't know anything about antidepressant side effects. was that you couldn't stop it. Um within three or four days he attempted suicide. is that uh placebos and other forms of therapy have been shown to have been proven to have Let's pray. In fact I was watching a video on on that channel of a panel of psychiatrists in London in England, I should say, and I I think I heard them say that about a quarter of people in England are on medication. We'll pick up where we left off, uh not with the videos, but with the next section on the heart of depression and talking about biblical solutions next week as its own s insufficiency and inability to uh properly and and effectively uh respond to this uh malady and the the struggle that people face um at different points in life with passion and power, and that your spirit would take that word and plant it deep in us. We're going to spend some time looking at how the world handles depression in terms of how they think about it, how they seek to address it cut definition of a depression. In fact that really that's the starting point. on earth. doing uh their occupation. food and water to strengthen his body, by the way, it's just again another reality there that uh he's having this physical experience that around him and that leads him to make decisions uh of disobedience and turning away from what the Lord has called him to do. He says the same thing one more time, uh and then the Lord commissions him and he goes out again. Uh in the book of James it says in chapter five that Elijah was man just like us. Well, uh another example would be Ahab himself, the king of the northern tribes of Israel. Down generation to generation. Goes to his house, sullen and vexed because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him, for he said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. We've seen Ahab, who is as an unbeliever, who wickedly wants something that he can't have, and he responds, upon me. And so whether his thoughts were, I can't believe I I've done this, you know, what am I going to do? My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. and ignorant. He hasn't gone down to that level. That's the point here. So again, I say all that to tell you that those who struggle with depression should not be looked down upon as people who uh who don't have great faith, people who who must not be Christians because you're depressed. in the same way, let's use the same language to identify the problems that people have. uh a a panel of experts of top psychiatrists who get together and they vote on what things should be. But uh let's walk through what the DSM says about depression specifically. While on one hand, wanting to say, hey, this is the science, this is what the medical professionals and the experts say, on the other hand, it's entirely subjective. medical science is. That's just how they practice, that's how they think, that's that's how they work. If you want to make any changes or if you want to consider making any changes, you have to do that under the supervision and under consultation with the doctor. It became psychoanalysis, it became it became dream analysis, and then later it became these, you know, CDG, 12 sessions, with a manual. wrong with me rather than I'm sad because my resources are overwhelmed. Then now I realize it's a typical withdrawal suicide. So these medications again are not as effective. And so they're they're not effective and they also have significant problems. even other physical things like uh just staying in bed all day and lack of energy, lack of clarity of thought, you know, all of the different symptoms that come with depression. The next point there is that official statistics indicate that less than seven percent of the U. It's common in our own lives and it's common in the lives of others, and so it's important for us to think carefully about these things because the world certainly has a lot to say about it. concept. Low energy, just in general, you kind of feel slow, walking slow. The Israel the Jezreelite had a vineyard which was in Jezreel beside the palace of Ahab King Sullen, vexed. This is the only psalm in the Psalter where expressions of depression and sorrow are voiced. I am overcome. itself, uh, because of the hardship that they were having. Just weeping. True. I imagine if that woman had lived today, that she would go to a doctor, they would probably dun do some tests, examine her and figure out the problem and solve it within a short period. To receive a diagnosis of depression, these symptoms must cause the individual clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. excuse me, of two weeks. But that uh as as often happens both in the in the Christian world as far as seminaries and churches or in the academic world in terms of the the academic instructors versus the practitioners, doctors Uh I I don't want to communicate because I don't think it's true that if you use medications you're in sin or there's something wrong with you or you should be ashamed. By the regulators and the industry and the clinicians, most of them, that this is the way business goes. And when it came time to take them off the drug, they wouldn't even they wouldn't go off. All right, well I'm I'm looking at the clock here and we're we're out of time. Um but you know the thing that it was really important to note is that um uh s what studies have shown you won't hear that kind of thing on the advertising commercials, right? We know that there are those in our church who are in this position. And so where there's no life circumstance that explains one's experience of depression, it's important to talk to a doctor and get a full medical checkup. To discern if that's the case. Common words that are used to describe depression are darkness, numbness, worthlessness. uh common they they attend depression uh that results from hopelessness and despair. Give me your vineyard that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is c close beside my house, and I will give you a better vineyard than than it in its place. So so far we've seen Elijah, a man who is full of faith, a man who loves the Lord, who has served the Lord, and yet because of difficult experiences he he becomes depressed, he loses hope, he he becomes despaired. We don't know what the exact experience is. Now we know why that's the case because they had no clue what they were doing. without a specific plan or a suicide attempt or specific plan for committing suicide. And so a lot of these can can uh come to play into many of our experiences at various points. Lord, I pray that you would help each one of us to really seek to understand how we can use your word well to minister to those who are struggling. And i if you think about that, you know, I I would just venture to guess, I I can't give you any science behind this, but I would just venture to guess it's over ten percent of the population. early sixties. He has completely forgotten the power of God that he witnessed. Now Ahab should have been knocked to his senses. Psalm 32 is one of the psalms of David that is the result of his sin with Bathsheba. that the sin produced in him. Perplexed but not despairing, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed. Always carrying about in the body the dying of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our body. There's another passage that just came to my mind, I don't remember the reference of it, but where he actually says we despaired even of life Again, depression, the experience of hopelessness and despair, is really uh it ought to be an expected experience in this world. Well, sorry, you don't meet that diagnosis, so can't give you this medication or I can't prescribe this talk therapy or whatever it might be. So even though the criteria is there and it's intended to be used especially for insurance billing purposes, often it's not used. And they don't objectively use this data. Oh COVID time warp. That's America. So it's uh it's a very, again, subjective and uh um difficult reality that these medications don't actually work. Lord, as we transition now to corporate worship, would you prepare our hearts? And then we'll kind of round out our time for today, just understanding uh a little bit of uh a more biblical approach. But just because we the statistics say it's less than 7% is probably a lot more, just people not uh uh actually going to uh a doctor or a psychologist or psychiatrist. Uh physical pain often comes alongside depression and uh whether it's uh uh an existing actual physical problem that just feels more painful because their their mood is suppressed and so they I'm going to read this whole psalm because in it we find the language of someone who is utterly and completely despairing. This is not an experience to be ashamed of. And we become despairing. And we're talking about what we, you know, the the Johns Hopkins type medicine. I don't have the money. It's been existence for over 40 years, and there's not been a single uh study, a single demonstration of that reality. I prescribed uh it was Paxel to a patient and then just giving him samples and he couldn't afford it. You don't want to make any changes if if you or someone else is on medications without being under the care of a doctor But uh but the m the medication field is or the that therapy is the primary predominant uh The next point's kind of overlapping with that. But that caused him to become depressed in mind and body I remember hearing a a discussion between John Piper and John MacArthur's number of years ago, and I don't remember why it came up. But as we think about that in the medical field, we also have to think about the field of psychology and psychiatry and understand that the same is not true of that field. But all of that is completely subjective in the sense that there is no objective um It's usually just some having panic attacks and the physical part is ignored. But but it's a serious reality. There's no universal understanding or definition of depression. Suppressed mood that is kind of keeping them down. There are those who oversleep, who just again stay in bed all day long because they just don't see the purpose of getting up. But those are things to be aware of. So he has this incredible experience. You're the king of Israel. Through my groaning all day long. But the the clear indication is that this is a person who is completely debilitated in their sorrow. Though it's been around a lot less uh in terms of amount of time uh for the last hundred, hundred and fifty years, it has not improved in its objectivity. And I posted that and what happened was amazing. And they went to their doctors and the doctor would say, that can't happen. Not just with people having panic attacks from the SSRIs, people with every conceivable type of side effect. That's when I realized that there's a very profound withdrawal from these drugs. and uh to grow in our understanding of this issue. While they say to me all day long, Where is your God? Darkness. They would talk to someone. But there are short term mood boosters. In other words, only seventeen percent of the people were actually helped by the medication. Looking at what does the world have to say? Well, where's the bar there? So uh one thing to note for um uh for sure, none of these individuals are believers, at least there's no indication that they are. Congress works with the drug industry and works with the FDA together to essentially keep most of us in the dark. He wants this little tract of land, and because he can't have what he wants, at least in any legitimate way, he can't have it legitimately, he becomes depressed And he goes on from there to to reflect the the the forgiveness that he received lifted him up and enabled him then to have joy in the Lord. Those w some really high number. Again, Ahab's the king. He says in verse 21, when my heart was embittered and I was pierced within, then I was senseless. The last passage I have there listed uh is in Second Corinthians. Any particular questions about any of that before we move on to the next point here? Well verse 5 says, But Disabel his wife came to him and said to him, How is it that your spirit is so sullen and that you are not eating food? Uh he uses that phrase as with the fever heat of summer. Uh I I put the reference there of Mark chapter five verses uh twenty five to twenty nine. A slowing down of thought or and a reduction of physical movement observable by others, not merely subjective feelings of restlessness or being slowed down. Because if you think about these things, you know, depending on what's going on in your life, uh depending on if let's say if you're a teacher, if it's the first day of school, the last day of school, right before Christmas break, right after Christmas break, I mean you're gonna feel different. And these these video clips are not from that uh documentary, but they are from the same people uh who uh who put that together. The most, the majority. I was like a beast before you. You have removed my acquaintances far from me. He's experiencing hardship but it's not amping him out and taking him out of the game. In the past, someone who felt sad or depressed or agitated or couldn't sleep wouldn't just deal with it. We'll get to kind of the medical uh perspective, the world's perspective on on how m um uh what we will call the medical model of depression. I I I don't know why I feel like this. It's it's a depressing thought. Uh I lack meaning and purpose in my life, so I'm just going to stay in bed. Okay, well let's let's now turn to scripture and just look at some examples that we can identify as uh experiences of depression. And so the psalmist just writes about this experience. Again in Psalm seventy-three, and I'm just, you know, I've picked out just some particular ones, but there's many of these psalms that reflect this. I'm experiencing sorrow and the death of my soul, and the wicked are getting away with their wickedness and enjoying life. Now we're in the the fifth edition of that manual and it's been significantly expanded and changed over the years. Um everybody has different words, but there's a lot of commonality in the way that people describe this experience of depression. My vitality was drained away as with the fever heat of summer. He had um a massive weight on his shoulders in the ministry. When you lose a job, when you start a job, your emotions change based on the circumstances of life. I thought it'd be helpful for you to hear from a variety of experts uh who who talk about these things And I was flooded with patients having the worst panic attacks of their lives after they've been prescribed Prozac or Paxilazo, drugs that were indicated for panic disorder from the FDA. You know, he was unhappy, but it wasn't much. Heavenly Father, I thank you for uh this time that we've had together to wrestle with these things, to grow in our uh our understanding of even what the world acknowledges. So naturally from that is isolation. That's the experience he felt just in the normal uh course of his life. Well, it's going to be different depending on the person. He's a family practitioner or primary care. They don't have any pains. Well why is it five and not six or not four or or three or eight? And I'll follow you. And we have the words of life through Christ. Life is hard and sometimes it weighs us down in these significant ways. It's the cure of the souls. And we offer a similar, a symmetrical discourse to your discourse of I got a chemical imbalance. It's been hard. So we had a first class place. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die. Uh scripture teaches us and tells us, communicates that uh this is something that people uh who are unbelievers experience for sure because of their sin, but it's also people The other thing that's important to say is please, please, please, if you happen to be on medication or you know someone who's on medication, don't take this information and say They they just have this experience of depression and they self diagnose uh and they, you know, try to work through it on their own. Um but he doesn't have any y when you look at him you wouldn't think he has any physical problems. What on earth do you have to be depressed over? Alright, one more, one more psalm. Your burning anger has passed over me. I mean there might be some who in their personal engagement and trying to minister to someone or or should say treat someone, they would have the sense to say It's really important that you uh seek the proper professional care when working with So in other words, we we've sort of technicized the exchange, the healing wounds. So that's kind of the layout for these last two weeks of the class. And the moment that that is taken away from you, or that you give it away, now you have lost that inheritance, which is your literal divine right. There's no change in mood. Time's passing faster. I don't have the time. In Christ's name. Uh it's hard to concentrate when you're when you're hopeless and in despair. Again, Samaria is part of the northern tribes uh territory. Uh and it's important to to to get checked out, to say is there something going on in my body that could be an ex the explanation for this unexpected, uh unexplainable experience. It's just a a series of uh uh experiences that you know we'll talk a little bit more about uh that are different for different people Then then it's a matter of talking and asking questions and trying to understand, okay, what is going on in your life? As you read the Psalms, there's all often those questions of God, where are you? Will the departed spirits rise and praise you? So with that in mind, let me start the first video and uh and we'll go from there. In fact, one study even showed that when you account for the placebo, the medication, at best could have a 17% If if if my if my own personal experience was shared, if I could kind of piece it out, there wouldn't be a cheerful play on this entire earth. Well, we now know that's just junk science. Marked d markedly diminished interest in or pleasure in all or almost all activities most of the day, nearly every day. See, we've cured all these terrible afflictions and illnesses that, you know, devastated humanity all these millennia. That placebo effect, whatever it is, begins to wear off. Now the FDA says that. And so these people would come in on SSRIs, Prozac was the first one He goes to bed. This is a real experience in a fallen world where our bro bodies are broken, and where we are sinners, and other people are sinners. Well, what what the world does in the field of psychology and psychiatry is it adopts this Of course you're feeling this way. People would always try to reach out and talk to someone. And that was the beginning of it. Uh th this experience of n again not getting what he wants, just like, oh what what's the point of life? Again, there's this sense of despair and and that God has totally forgotten him. Probably eighty percent of all studies. Uh but they're able more or less to live life. Well, consider Psalm thirty-two. But I wanna for sure say that a couple of things. You'll come back to see me in a couple of weeks. We were at Good Samaritan Hospital downtown, and we had a loose affiliation among different specialists. So my goal is not to leave us depressed, but to move beyond that. But definitely, you know, we'll do something like this again in the future and want to know what what issues are helpful, what issues you would find helpful that we address. Uh and sometimes those are as simple as uh some kind of vitamin deficiency where You know, a person could feel sad and be like, well, you know, other people are happy and you know, that's good. Will this man who was full of faith experience this loss of hope Martin Lloyd Jones in particular wrote a book called Spiritual Depression, which has been widely used as a resource to encourage those who struggle because Uh but you you have a range and then everything in between there. So when someone says, you know, I'm really depressed, it's important to ask what other kinds of things they're experiencing along with that. And this really became a source of of depression uh for him I have called upon you every day, O Lord. Uh that is dangerous. And so that's why short-term studies are not good, because most people stay on the drug a long time About one-third of those who take medications for any length of time have uh lifelong adverse effects. I think it's true to say that the vast majority of people who would acknowledge that they are depressed, that they would just say that of themselves, whether or not they've been f formally diagnosed. Now, again, remember, just days prior, Elijah has seen the power of God sending fire to consume the altar. They're healthy. Uh this is not something that's exclusive to unbelievers. Depression is not experienced in the same way universally. No, because no such person exists. I am reckoned among those who go down to the pit. So the whole point in all of this is to say that the way the world thinks about depression is a very subjective way. We thank you for your grace that has sustained us through another week and uh woken us up this morning and energized us to be able to come together. He has significant resources. Well, I didn't prescribe it right away. Uh and I I believe it's about one in five here in the United States. So in uh first Kings chapter nineteen uh is the story of Elijah, and in chapter eighteen, you may recall, is when Elijah was on the Mount uh Carmel and This is written by the sons of Korah, so it's not by David. Because you know most often when people are depressed, both believers and unbelievers, they Where's the line? Uh and so we want to be grateful when they are helpful. Then you would you would have all their studies. They're not targeted. Uh and so again you have to be under the care of a doctor. Um and so it's always important to get to get checked out Instead of being those who used to be the worship leaders going ahead of the crowd of uh uh worshiping and rejoicing and giving praise and thanks to God, now they're they're off by themselves in in despair, off So because of that belief, you think I'm sad because there's really something So we want to acknowledge that reality. When shall I come and appear before God? Not knowing why he was weeping. That's that's exactly how it works. It's therapy through letters. And I treat people just like you and I notice incredible results when I do it These results are based on short-term studies. So it's there's no we need more if only we had longer studies. Take my life, for I am not better than my father's Yeah, you're right, that was that was really unfair of me to ask that. Amen. And then he says, Why are you in despair, O my soul? And probably for some people if you increase the amount of serotonin in your brain that's getting Um and so it it's a very uh very dangerous place to go. Remember, that was the ca that was caused by Jezebel, who uh who had threatened him and Ahab But again, here's an an unbeliever who, because he's not getting what he wants in life, he responds with depression. Friends, the reason I've gone through all of this is to make it clear to you that no matter what your experience, personal experience is of depression. Not to say that we should just uh cope with it, but we shouldn't be surprised when it happens. I don't remember when it was. And we'll find it. Whether or not they're on medication, they're struggling with depression and sorrow and grief. It's something that's real and common and normal and to be expected in this fallen world. Studies have been shown to to say that uh We have research scientists in white coats that are working in state of the art labs. There is no long term booster of mood that doesn't come So this one this video talks about side effects. And this was where people don't get really good physical exams for their panic disorders So are you talking about the early mid nineties? That's what a lot of people mean by depress. So this was a victorious moment. I would rather die than continue with life. You're way out of your territory. Problem is that's not how things work in Israel. They're well fed. So it's it's a complicated issue that requires careful thinking uh and listening. It's been perplexing. And by God's grace, because of the scientific and technological improvements over the last couple hundred years, the field of medicine has improved in its ability to identify what's going on. Well, I posted that on my website. He receives this death threat from, admittedly, the most powerful woman in the nation. There's a whole lot more videos. Uh but that's how someone articulated the emotional turmoil they were experiencing. I don't know if you can see me online, but just kind of shuffling his feet because he's just so slow when he's under the weight of of his experience. And one of the problems that that that that creates is when it's entirely subjective, again from the world's perspective, if you don't meet that criteria, then you don't get the help Um that never happens for me, I know, but um it's going by fast today. And so it's not, it is completely different than the medical field. You won't he typically you won't hear that from the doctors. Again, everybody has different ways of expressing it, of explaining it. Of course that's exactly what we're experiencing now with with the virus. He turns his face away. He starts out in a wonderful way, how blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Kind of said it like that. It's completely subjective. So um I know this may raise some questions in your mind if if you haven't heard these kinds of things before. So thankfully you have in your notes the links to the additional videos. You have made me an object of loathing to them. It was it was completely trial and error. They're really a shot in the dark from a medical perspective. For day and night your hand was heavy I missed out on something. Then it became a clearinghouse for more and more of these side effects. Uh sometimes there can be a loss of appetite, just a lack of desire to eat, uh, and which that can result in weight loss uh for some people or other people We'll see how it goes The FDA says these are short-term studies. Ahab, of course, is a wicked king. Well we won't go through the rest of the story because it's sad tale. And uh this one is definitely the the worst by far. The last point in this introductory section there is that some well-known Christians who struggled with depression include Charles Spurgeon, Martin Lloyd Jones, John Piper, and many others. Whatever their state be is, wha however long they've been having symptoms or this experience, we we want to come alongside people and minister to them no matter whether or not they meet a certain criteria. That's that's not what their goal is. And so we thank you for that and pray that next week we would uh be well equipped to use those words to bring encouragement and comfort. Uh there's often poor concentration, uh kind of a lack of ability to really think clearly, focus on tacit hand, uh to whether it's reading a book or Uh you can probably do that, put put that in a search if you want to find the reference. Among primary care doctors, two-thirds admit they don't use the criteria half the time. Uh these medications are powerful. And we kept telling you we'll find it. They can be the cause of even more depression or suicide attempts or First thing we want to say and acknowledge is that depression is a common symptom of physiological problems and it's a common side effect of medications. Uh there's a constant, ongoing experience that they're having of of sadness, uh low mood, um and perhaps other Or it's not anything really identifiable. Of course here we we know what it's like to go out in the in the humidity where you just feel oppressed and even the strong those who are strong is like, Oh man, this just weighs me down, makes me feel weak. I said, I will confess my transgression to the Lord, and you forgave the guilt. There's no uplifting end. It's really up to both the individual, the patient, the client. Alright, any uh before I move on from there, any particular questions or comments about any of that? And uh so I just want you to know that I recognize that and uh today is going to be a little bit more of uh Well, it's possible that there's actually some actual physical problem that's going on and a medical medical checkup is important to He's just narrowly focused on all of the problems that he is seeing. But if you do meet or exceed that threshold, then you do have this illness. So this one talks about um uh kind of how antidepressants are supposed to work and the fact that they don't actually do what we often think they do. And that's why the FDA does not ask for long term studies to approve a drug. It's more of a symptom of another problem in someone's life. If you have a Bible, you can turn there to Psalm thirty-two I think we can rightly say uh again without Will your loving kindness be declared in the grave? Your terrors destroy me. You have a hard life. And it made me curious about the drug And why was he depressed? And and John Piper was saying how, you know, there's been times where he'd just be sitting on his porch steps We have uh two weeks left, uh, and today we He had a lot of trials that he uh went through and that that just brought him down. They have very different personalities if you if you've heard them pray or or heard them When it says clinically significant distress You're changing words. You're not having any particular tragedies, you're not having any uh life dominating difficulties, but you're just overwhelmed with sadness and discouragement and hopelessness and Uh and again it's different for everyone In Christ's name we pray. And so Naboth says in verse 3 He's not talking about when when he refers to the righteous ones and those who are upright in heart, he's not saying He couldn't think clearly about the things of the Lord. You know, that's just ridiculous. None. It's pretty common. I have spread out my hands to you He says the truth is not only are the criteria flawed, but most of the time physicians simply don't use them when they diagnose depression. I mean and you talk to anybody who's been on medications, I I've heard from a number of of uh folks uh in this situation where Those who are righteous, those who are upright, are those who, when they sin, they repent. And we we obviously benefit from that immensely. All of the criteria itself, though the way that this book, the DSM, is put together is literally You're you're not clinically depressed. There's no such thing as an antidepressant because even though a drug can boost Uh Paul as he's talking about his ministry and um the challenges that he has faced, he says in verse eight, We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed. I don't remember if it was this year or last year. No, it's because your brain is disordered Would you strengthen Pastor Leek to proclaim your word? But if he prayed and he could cause the rain to stop and the rain to start Now listen to this. He's perplexed. The thyroid, the heart But the reason they were showing up was they couldn't even It's not always and exclusively and only a spiritual issue in someone's life. They're able to go to work. Hey, you give me this property, it's right next to mine, it's going to allow me to do the things that I want to do, and I'll give you a better property But then verse three he goes back to what his experience was after his sin. I was talking to a a friend who um who's struggled with a kind of depression, I'll put it that way, for years, and he says that when he walks, he's I don't know, in his He turns to the wall so that you know he doesn't have to look at anybody. The medical model. I'll just mention this quickly Like I I just I can't I I I can't understand it, but I'm just I can't stop the tears flowing. Um but notice where these folks are from. Ever. So in the meantime, the people that showed up to my office had been prescribed it from somewhere else. Um this is a a common issue S. I mean this was literally a mountaintop experience. And and you know whether it was uh well we know that he was a man after God's own heart. But uh but again, John Piper, a man of great faith, a man mightily used to the Lord, has struggled at various points with depression and many, many others. And so since then, since 1952, obviously now we're here, what, 70, 68 years later, whatever the math would be So again, these are eight criteria which of which you have to have at least five of them for a period Now this is a complicated issue because the word depression is used to describe a wide range of experiences and emotional conditions. I've called you to be the prophets of the northern tribes. And he's like, what is going on, God? He says in verse 9, I will say to God, my rock, why have you forgotten me? I have become like a man without strength, forsaken among the dead. It's been confusing. Well we know that that's just been the history of medicine for thousands of years. Um it just hasn't worked itself out in the mainstream yet uh because you know people have been practicing a certain way for so long that they This is business as usual. They'd already tried. Believers struggle with depression as well. So Elijah, you know, a man who is full of faith, a man who the Lord used in miraculous ways. O Lord, why do you reject my soul? Charles Spurgeon experienced significant population has been diagnosed as having But they just have this kind of We know that on the internet there's all kinds of whacks who are just saying all kinds of things. They're just acknowledging the reality that uh uh he didn't cite it specifically, but uh the whole theory of medical and ba chemical imbalances And boy, there was nothing there was nothing about this guy that was suicidal They are non-functional. Or those who just can't sleep. Um and uh if if that's of interest to you you can keep watching. Lord, prepare us, even as we talk about these things, to think clearly, to think well. He was depressed because of his sin. And so it's completely subjective. We've never seen that. And we see that in 1 Kings chapter 21. The Bible is true to life. But m uh Mark gives us a little insight uh into her uh seeking help from Okay. And so let's work through that and help each other through that. But it's exceptional As simple as that. He chose a wicked wife. We don't know why this uh they're writing about despair. So, first of all, I want you to pay attention not only to those words, but to the criteria that's listed there In other words, diagnosing strep without using the test that would confirm it. I don't have the proper education. People were having all kinds of reactions to SSRI antidepressants. There's no side effects. So that's really the primary way the world deals with it. So uh we just have to understand that. So again, he's he's running, he's hiding. Some still affirm the importance of medications and whatnot. And we keep acting as if it's there and we know it. You know, things like reduced activities, people just not engaging in the kinds of things they used to do, they're not uh practicing their hobbies, they're they're not going out with friends He has significant property. Well, another psalm we could I am shut up and cannot go out. My acquaintances Or in the previous paragraph, you must be experiencing five or more symptoms And then it became psychotherapy. I don't have the luck. So there's no such thing as an Before the internet was Others who had the medication, you know, w could be discounted as a potential placebo effect. And so he says, The Lord forbid me that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers. No. What are you doing? They have surrounded me like water all day long. They were just guessing at what could be happening and so they were taking her money gladly and just trying all these different things and they had no idea what was going There's a spectrum that ranges from persistent sadness to debilitating My tears have been my food day and Number one Ahab spoke to Nabah. But in it he talks about his experience These things I remember and I pour out my soul within me, for I used to go along with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of God with the voice I won't read the whole passage, but that's the the the woman who had the uh the hemorrhage that was constantly bleeding and uh They're able to So the Queen of Israel, uh the northern tribes, sends a message to Elijah saying, You're a dead man. He was weighed down that the strength and the energy of this man who was known for his strength as a warrior was There was a clear reticence on his part to acknowledge, to repent. There's things he can't understand. The DSM V outlines the following criterion to make the diagnosis of depression. Uh and if And why is it two weeks and not three weeks or six weeks or one week? In Israel, your tribe, your family is given a plot of land, and that becomes your inheritance that you pass. You see some of the symptoms that I was talking about earlier exemplified right there. You have put me in the lowest pit, in dark places in the depths, your wrath has rested upon me, and you have afflicted me with all your life. Diminished ability to think or concentrate or indecisiveness nearly every day. But uh this is just to give some objective information uh that uh that I think Always. It's always been done that way. Uh I'm a really old school about medicines. And then you know there's something else happened later down the road when I prescribed Amen. Well then you have the opposite, the the other end of the spectrum where someone literally can't get out of bed, where they're stuck in bed because Verse 4. He was groaning all day long. But then the rest of the psalm talks about how he changed his perspective as he came into the house of the Lord and heard the truth and He uses words there that describe again the different levels that someone might experience. Uh and so there's all just all kinds of things, uh matters of life that factor into these things. I'm going to be putting out a survey And so when you think about that, that's more than one in ten people. Uh again, each person responds differently. There's no definition from the world's perspective that everybody's like, yep, this is depression. They just feel aches and pains in their bodies because of You begin to be uncomfortable. Well, if only you had legislators that were that didn't depend on on grants Lord, this day is your day, and so we just want to start out dedicating it to you and uh acknowledging our dependence on you. So he went down to the southern tribe. It's darkness and despair from start to finish. Let my prayer come before you. But before we get there, kind of like with with what Mike did with addiction, I want to spend uh some time today. That field has dramatically changed over the last 200 years. Uh there's just been all kinds of treatments that have just been utterly You're just grieving. So what I want to do now is you see in your notes, I have a series of videos that they're all relatively short that I want to work through. In fact I talked to the uh director of the documentary one time and I was asking her, you know, based on who they had, the experts, uh Um and so he's acknowledging there that uh we just don't have any proof of that. Uh so it's a reality and uh it's something just to be aware of to grow in our understanding because Now having said all of that And so even though the things that we're going to hear through these videos are pretty well understood, and I can So there's really no true antidepressant. And that's probably why most drug studies last six to twelve weeks So it's it's good to be aware of. Uh Why have you become disturbed within me? Why aren't you coming to my aid? We don't have long-term studies He he couldn't care less about the things of the Lord. Your faithfulness in Abaddon? They're not aimed at addressing a specific issue that's identifiable And so these are this is just a couple quotes out of that book. This doesn't exist. So Ahab, you know, the king of uh Israel What should we call this? Uh but we we showed a video on a Saturday called Medicating Normals, a documentary on uh on psychotropic They would do it by letters in the old days. When the samples ran out So it's not always a very serious problem. So when we think about that statistic That's why uh depression has increased so much this year, because you're isolated, so you're you're not engaging with others, you're not uh And You know, they're so bothered by their thoughts that they struggle to fall asleep. Naboth gets murdered and they steal his It acknowledges the reality that sometimes, whether it's because of the sin of another person Uh the the the field of medicine um over the last two hundred years And so again, this is a common issue And so what the the DSM does is it provides thresholds of someone's experience So he's It's always been there. I I'm That's okay. They're from But by God's grace, He has strengthened them That's too complicated, too difficult to acknowledge. And so he says in verse 10, I have been very zealous for the Lord, the God of hosts. Okay, so now we've got to switch over to another medication and a combination of medications. No, this is such a common issue that we all Why are you depressed? Why do you hide your face from me? So again, he's acknowledging that in the difficulties that they face, uh there's Um, and so it's just important to listen, and again, we'll talk more about that later. What are you doing way over here? And that gives them the ability then to treat it the way that they deem best. So can you talk about that with me and you show That would, of course, fall under the major depressive He acknowledges he was he he wasn't uh thinking clearly, he was senseless. God, why is this happening? And uh you would think, wow, you know, Elijah must be on the top of the world. So now the king is telling one of his peasants In uh 1952 But the the DSM is what the world uses to try and understand and diagnose what is going on in It just asks for short term studies. Because there were so few anxiety websites, I had quite an odd Again, when somebody says I depressed, I'm depressed, uh that doesn't automatically give you all the information you Whereas from the biblical perspective And you know, care for them along those lines. It's not scientific the way What should the criteria be? Uh depressed mood I don't have wisdom. They were coming to me, they were coming here from all over the country. Of course there's talk therapy, there's there's other forms of therapy, electroconvulsive therapy, um I'm chastened every morning. We have no way of testing the b the chemicals in the brain. Uh And you can read on the passage if you want later on, but uh Incline your ear to my cry, for my soul has had enough troubles. It's a very subjective. Well, we're out of time. Significant weight loss when not dieting or weight gain or decrease or increase in appetite That is the prophets of Baal. So what he's highlighting there It is one of his Psalms of repentance. Listen to this quote from Charles Hodges from his book Nothing like that. That's why you have to be under the care of a doctor and I just want to emphasize that again. I mean w why be the king of Israel if you can't get what you want? Their tears are constantly flowing and that feeds them. They have encompassed me. And his response to that is: what's the point? I was The world uh proposes solutions and they propose ideas of what causes it. Will your wonders be made known in the darkness and your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? Why are you allowing these people to be effective in their persecution? But okay, my subjective feelings versus their subjective feelings? And we have all these pills regulated. In fact But what is different today is that we make you think that the reason you're It could be very simple. In in in in ancient Rome we have And you're just thinking Psalm seventy-three is the Psalm And it it provided a kind of a unifying source of let's all talk about the same thing. So don't take this information as medical advice. We offer He says, When I kept silent about my sin, my body wasted. I all of that is subjective Uh and those aren't always knowable. I don't prescribe anything the first year it comes on the market. Or another person said, I am now the most miserable man living. In 1 Kings 21, verse 1, it says, Now it came about after these things that Naboth He wanted to keep it secret until Nathan came to him Why do I go mourning because of the oppression? We knew that he loved the Lord, that he delighted in the Lord. This is really, really important. Okay? Now I think it's eight weeks they might ask for if you give a Because after two or three months I know it sounds like a conspiracy, but it's just business as usual. Well the the next thing I noticed I was afflicted and about to die from my youth on. I'm sorry we we couldn't get through more If you like, I will give you the price of it in money. But there would be others that wouldn't wouldn't necessarily ask those questions of what's going on in life. I don't know what my values are. He says at the end in verse 11, be glad in the Lord and rejoice. You know, you come, you Naboth is a righteous man. And so he's trying to understand what is going on. You know, you think about our church, that's You know, if you just let out enough blood, uh maybe there will be some Uh th th again we live in a broken world and these things Uh but Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying, So may the And that because Uh he he quotes one person who said, I felt It has not improved at all in its understanding Nor is there kind of a biblical clear It has become, to put it uh succinctly, much more obviously. It could be That's what fits into that diagnosis. You know we we think we do but we don't. And I would tell them Recurrent thoughts of death, recurrent suicidal ideas. And one of the significant problems with the way the world thinks of it is And so it's again it's not as So we say, I got a chemical imbalance. He must be so encouraged. And now we have all these side effects, so we need other medications for that. Now the Queen sends him a death threat and what happens? And so I'd be glad to talk to you more, point you to additional It is not. And MacArthur looked at him. Again, just a an incredibly So of course He knows the truth. It's completely a theory. And I don't know how to raise my But he's not despairing. I suffer your terrors. There's nothing. Some of you were here And He knows the value of the world. Probably not the most gracious thing he ever had. The pressures of life I can hardly That just isn't Well