I'm going to uh open with a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for causing us to be born again. It is by your hand that you have rescued us from darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of your Son. Where we have found redemptions from our sin. Lord, I thank you for today the sun that's shining and I thank you for how you care for us and provide for us. And so, Lord, I pray for our time this morning, that it be edifying to one another and glorifying to you. This is a topic on uh overcoming addictions, Lord, and I pray that we're able to see or learn today. uh the world's definition and next week uh what you have to say about addictions. Open our hearts so that we may understand this this sin in a way that we will be able to help others and and draw others to you uh uh through our help to them in Christ. And so Lord, I pray for our time together. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So this morning, um, well first of all, hello everyone. And uh I hope you've had a a wonderful week amidst all the uh chatter and the noise out there. Uh I hope that you have been praying that the Lord causes us to remember what our message is. Our message I you know we have one message, that's the gospel. And uh I hope that you are reminded of that. And um And that is uh what we concentrate on as the church. This morning of the or the next two weeks, this this Sunday and next Sunday We will talk about overcoming addictions. So today's class will be basically Centered on the world's view of addiction. Okay And then next week we'll we'll hear from the Lord what he has to say about addictions. Um This is a topic that is um I don't know if I should say dear to me But it is one that I have lived. Um this is probably the first time that I have ever taught on Addictions. So what you will get from me, especially this morning, is my personal experience With addiction, and my personal experience in recovery from addiction Um and then as I said, next week you will hear about what the Lord said and and uh my experience with that. So um I will share with you kind of my testimony as we go through uh and what I know uh by living it um being a part of what we know as twelve step recovery programs. Um What they teach, um, what I gain from it, the whole nine yards. So today we're just gonna really look at that side of overcoming addictions. how the world views uh addiction and what the world offers those who have become addicted either to alcohol, drugs, food. sex or what have you. Okay? So, um by way of introduction, um This week uh is it was it was a bit of a a little struggle with with with this topic Right, because I this is probably the first time I'll get as personal about my addiction or my When I was addicted, put it like that. Um but s but uh I think it's something that We should know about and understand. Addiction is something that can happen to anyone at any time. So understand that You may have you you you you may you you may have had experience with it either with a family member or even yourself. And so um Just understand that it is something that any one of us can fall to addiction. And I don't mean just drugs and alcohol. I mean, anything from gambling to food, um, you will be surprised at um the things that we can become addicted to and really not know it. So let me let me begin And we're going to begin with defining what addiction is. The American Medical Association The American Society of Addictive Medicine, the American Psychiatric Association And the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the fifth edition, which is the latest edition. All define addiction as a chronic medical disease that is manifested by compulsive behaviors despite harmful consequences. So that's the gamut of how the medical or psychiatric psychological society defines Addiction. It is a chronic it is a chronic medical disease. So remember that. It is d it's a disease defined what the world says. The two oldest and prominent twelve step programs In the World defines addiction as Alcoholic Anonymous, which was founded in nineteen thirty-five. Says this the explanation that seems to make the most that seem that that makes sense to most AA members Is alcoholism is an illness, a progressive illness, which can never be cured, but which, like some other diseases Can be arrested. Narcotics Anonymous, which was founded in 1953, says this: our experience with addiction Is that we accept that it is a disease over which we are powerless We are fully confident that our use of the word disease is describing our condition is appropriate. Those two organizations really focus on substance abuse. But then there are what we call behavioral addictions. And these are non-substance abuse addictions, also defines addiction as a sickness exhibited by compulsive behavior. that causes them harm. Some of your common behavior addictions are pornography addiction Gambling addiction, food addiction, shopping, and the internet. And there are many more. So I've just gave you some common ones. So in summary, all addictions are defined as a disease manifested by compulsive behavior. There are effects of addictions. The psychological effects Can be things like cravings, where you crave the drug of your choice. There can be mood swings, depression, anxiety, hallucinations, paranoia. There are also physical effects from addictions, in particular, you know, substance abuse type Such as hepatitis, kidney, and liver disease, stroke, brain damage And some of the social effects. So social effects can be like the loss or breakup of family and friends, financial ruin, or unemployment, or crime. My story goes like this. Um, the last time I had a drug was February the second, nineteen ninety. So that was the last time I stopped using drugs I first picked up a drug when I was about 15 or 16 years old, and it was alcohol. So from about fifteen to sixteen years old, I use some form of a m mood altering substance until I was thirty-five. Okay In the beginning, you don't become automatically addicted. Over a period of time. I cannot say to you when that time hit I was probably in my mid-20s, kinda um, I guess around twenty-two, twenty-three, some somewhere in in in that area. Um I became what I would say a full-blown addict. And what is that? That is a person whose life is controlled by drugs. I use some form, as I said, a mood altering substance every day. Okay. Um And from that point on, I was functional for a while, and and and I and I think this is part of the deception. of addiction is I always maintained a job, a good job. So I had enough money to support my addiction The addicts that I hung around were what rope war soups and ties to work. Uh I remember this guy told me he was a anesthesiologist. And I thought to myself, I remember when I was clean, when I got clean, I had to uh get a um I think it was a colonostrophe, right? And they said the anesthesiologies is gonna put you under And my mind went back to this guy I remember I used to use drug with who said he was a anesthesiologist and I'm like Oh my goodness. Right. And so those are the kind of people that I hung around basically. Um I even ventured into uh selling drugs for a while. So, um what was its effect on me? I grew up in a Christian home. I attended uh Reform Presbyterian church. When I got to college, as I said, uh I I probably had my first I had my first juggling in my teens, and once I got to College it began to escalate from there. What was the effects of my drug use? Two marriages, two failed marriages As it says here, the social effects. Both wives left me because of my drug use. It it didn't matter about the marriage. I told my second wife, I don't care about the money as long as you As long as we set enough aside for my for me to buy drugs And i it didn't matter about anything else. And that's how I lived. Um most of my a a lot of my drug use for down south. I moved here to Maryland And I moved here because I thought I would get away from the environment In New Orleans for drug use. I'm an addict. I can find drugs anywhere. And it didn't take me two weeks before I found where drugs were in Maryland Um I have been to um treatment Thirty day treatment. I have gone to um outpatient treatment I have sought help from psychiatrists and psychologists. I have gone through the whole gamut. Of trying to fix myself, if you will. Um It is a vicious addiction is vicious. It affects the whole family. Toward the end um was probably the worst of it. I wrote here on on your sheet where it says Let me get to it. It says there is a daily descent into a life of darkness that an addict suffers. It is a life comprised of loneliness, fear, guilt, hopelessness, and shame. And that is the life of an addict. We see mostly what addicts do What we want from an addict is to stop using. That that's what that's what we want. And rightly so. Addicts want to stop using. But there is a darkness that addicts live in That a lot of people don't know and understand. I grew up in a home where we celebrated Christmas and it was a wonderful time. Addiction took that away from me. If that was ever a time I missed my family the most It was Christmas. Christmas was like the loneliest time for me. And the only thing that I could do was to use drugs so that I could not think about um Not being with my family. So there's a lot of shame, there's a lot of guilt. People would say, Mike, you just gotta stop using. But what they didn't understand was I know but I can't I don't know how to stop. Even though it was tearing everything around me apart Every day I would wake up, or most days I would wake up and I would say, I'm not going to use today And before the end of the day I would I would be using drugs. What I understood was the the hopelessness I never believed That I would get clean. I resided to knowing that I was going to die an addict one day. And I would contemplate in my mind that this is how it's going to be, Mike. No matter what. I don't know if you I would say I don't know if I'm going to hell or I'm going to heaven. But I know I'm gonna die an attic. Um But it didn't happen that way, obviously. So one day on February the twelfth 1990, I asked the Lord to help me. Now mind you, I had asked the Lord to help me a thousand times. But God is sovereign and He has a plan. And I found myself on Main Street in Laurel in an AA meeting. I went to that meeting And um I had gotten a DWI and they court ordered me to AA meetings, so I was already gone. But anyway, uh that's when my recovery Started for me. As I said, I was married twice, and uh my addiction killed both of those marriages. My addiction All my friends left. They told me, Mike, we can't watch you kill yourself. It is too much for us. The last person but she never left me was my mom And she would send me money and I would use it for drugs. In other words, I would manipulate people in my family to give me money. I never forget that I went to my grandfather's house late at night, and I knocked on his door, and he came. And I told him so many lies of what I needed. And he gave me a bunch of money. And I wouldn't use drugs. I did that to an aunt as well. It is all I knew. I had to feed my addiction And it's those things that cause the shame and the guilt. They just pile up and pile up and pile up and pile up. On you. And so inside I was really dying. But anyway, I went to my first meeting. And that in turn was uh how I was introduced to well, this wasn't the first time I was introduced to twelve step programs. As I said, I went to a treatment center that was introduced to twelve step program. I went to um psychiatrists, psychologists and things like that. But I I think I I I I I had gotten to a point of what we call in Um in um Narcotics Anonymous or uh i or twelve step programs, they say an addict has to hit his bottom And so I believe that was my bottom. Either I was going to commit suicide Or something else was gonna have to happen. Um so I went to my first meeting And that in turn introduced me to what twelve step programs are really all about. Now I wasn't a person that just went to meetings, okay? I spent Um twenty years in twelve step recovery Okay? As I said, I wasn't just a person that went to meetings. I was heavily involved Um I spoke at conventions from New York all the way down to South Carolina carrying the message of Narcotics Anonymous. I spoke all over Maryland and in the DC area I became widely known in a sense, and people would call me and ask me to bring the message of recovery to either convention or a group. And so I was really involved in N 12 Step. I held office on a regional level here in Maryland. And on the group level. So I said, I know what I'm talking about when it comes to 12-step recovery. So, back to our handout. The most widely treatments sought for addictions have been through 12-step recovery programs. Alcoholic Anonymous is the original 12-step. step program and its model have become the most widely used approach to treat various forms of addictions and compulsions. So what's a 12-step program? A 12-step program uses 12 guiding principles that outlines a course of action for recovery for people who suffers from addictions, compulsions, and behavioral problems I listed some of the you know most widely known programs. Uh you have Narcotics Anonymous Of which I was uh heavily involved in. You have OA, which is Overeater's Anonymous You have gamblers anonymous, sex addict anonymous, workaholics anonymous. You even have emotional, emotion anonymous It it is it is it is like it is hundreds of these groups around and this is this is the world's approach to addictions. There are even Christian-based recovery programs, and what they do is they modify the twelve steps that that was modeled by AA. All these programs have twelve steps that are modeled by AA, which is Alcoholics Anonymous And they replace these uh uh or modify these steps with scripture. Celebrate recovery. I I'm not sure if many of you have heard of Celebrate Recovery. And it's a ministry that was born out of Saddleback Church in California. California in nineteen ninety one. And this program is being used in over thirty-five thousand churches nationwide. Most or most of all your twelve-step programs meet at places like churches, um, a lot of churches. um wherever they can find a place to that would allow them meeting room and these programs are anonymous as they say You don't hear about them in the news. You don't read about them. There we When I was there we we didn't endorse any candidate. Everything was self supporting through our own contributions. Okay. So you you you will never see Narcotics Anonymous AA or anything like that on the news. Um if you spoke about your addiction and public, right? You do not mention whether you was a part of Narcotics Anonymous, AA or any of these autonomous groups. That is part of their traditions, and you do not break those traditions. Okay? So that's why you don't hear about them They are self-supporting. These two groups are worldwide. There was a worldwide convention in Baltimore that I attended. Addicts from all over the world, and when I say all over the world, I mean all over the world attends these groups. So it's widely known. And why do people attend or go there? Because It works. Okay? And when I say it works, I'm speaking from a worldly point of view. People stop using drugs. I stopped using drugs following this 12-step program of Narcotics Anonymous. And my life got better. Okay? Now, the main tenants of recovery consisted of What we call a what's known as the disease concept, the higher power concept, and fellowship. Those are the main tenets. Okay? The disease concept. From our definitions I gave earlier The disease concept is the theory that addiction identifies addictive behavior as compulsive behavior, as compulsive rather than a choice. The disease concept removes any responsibility from the of from the addict for his for his behavior. The disease model maintains that addicts literally cannot help themselves, cannot cannot help using drugs and have no choice over consumption. And it really appears to be that way Right. I couldn't understand why I couldn't stop. And so when I come to the twelve step program and they told me, Mike, you have a disease. It is a disease that is incurable. And so that validated for me all the stuff that I did wasn't really my fault. Because I had a disease. Okay? And so first and foremost they teach you, and we saw it from the medical community That addiction is a disease. Now, where it comes from, they can't tell you. Right But you must have a disease because you of the things that you do. And really, we don't know what it is. And you buy into that. Okay? So you kind of see what's beginning to happen. Addiction is also what taught in 12-step programs. Is an incurable disease that can only be arrested and managed. Therefore Once an addict, you will always be an addict. So in essence, I have an incurable disease that can only be arrested. So according To these 12-step programs, we will be addicts for the rest of our lives. Then there's the higher power or the God of your understanding concept. Now, while the use of the word God is not forbidden in these programs, the word God is often spoken in terms of The God of your understanding. The concept of a higher power is not necessarily interpreted As God or any other religious deity. A higher power is defined as a power greater than you And can be anyone or anything you choose it to be. So everyone in 12-step programs. creates their own God. That that's basically what's happening. The deception is We think we begin to think because of the word God that it has some attachment attachment to religion. Or God Himself. Okay, if if if I'm making any sense. Okay, every man knows that God exists Right? Every man knows that God exists. We we don't have to prove to man that God's existence. Because every man knows. So the deception is, excuse me, that this is a good thing spiritually This is where I began to have a little tension, not a whole much, because I latched onto the word God. So I'm taking God from the God I learned in the Presbyterian church, but I'm missing the God of your understanding. So I'm creating And most people create their own gods. Okay? My God can be Ross My God can be a tree or a doorknob. It's whatever I believe works for me. It is a power greater than me. And that is the God that I trust. That is the God that I create. These are not religious programs. So the idea of a higher power helps with the disease concept. Okay, and I and I'll we'll look at the steps, some of the steps and and you'll see what I'm saying. Then there is the fellowship. The fellowship provides mutual support and acceptance Members are bound together by a struggle against a common problem. Only addicts can understand and help other addicts. When you walk into a meeting of any of these 12-step programs, there's a feeling of you're at home. You are among people who understand you. You are among people who tell your story of using drugs, the horrors and what they go through of using drugs. These are people that understood me Everyone outside did not understand what was I going through. But once I began to W once I started going to meeting, I was surrounded by people who had the same struggle that I had. You could tell your story and I could fit into your story. They understood the loneliness that I was going through. They understood the shame. They understood the guilt. They understood everything that was going on on the inside of me. They understood how my wife could leave me. They understood everything. And this is this is what I was looking for. A place of understanding, a place That I know people that I could identify with. So the fellowship of these programs is very, very, very strong. Do you think the community of Christ is strong. These fellowships are strong. And as I said, the idea you begin to believe that the only people that can help you in your addiction is another. Okay? And believe it or not, you know, I believed it, and this is what I saw. This is the this was my experience. I mean, if if if I felt like using, especially early on, I would call someone who was a part of the program. And man, they would be there in 30 minutes or 20 minutes. If I felt like using or I was going through something, I could call up someone in that program, one, two o'clock in the morning, and they were there. And I did the same thing for other people. They were there. Right? And I remember early on people would drive from DC and they would ask me, you know, I would talk to them on the phone, they say, Mike, how you doing? I say I feel like using drugs. And within 30 minutes, I had knocks on my door, five or six guys there and said, We're gonna sit with you, and you're not gonna use today. One day at a time. The fellowship was very, very strong. And I bought into the idea that these people, only addicts can understand and help me. Okay? So that's that's that's that's how strong it is. And then you are seeing that your life is getting better. I begin to go home for Christmas I began to, you know, celebrate years of recovery. Okay? Life got better. I got better. This whole community, and it was all because of this whole community around me. So the fellowship is very, very tight, very, very important. And I will say that it works. Okay? I will say it works. Now, does it work according to God's standards? That's a whole different, that's a whole different thing. Okay? Now There is a deception, but you don't know this until you grow in Christ. So that that was my experience. I don't I don't I didn't catch the deception until uh l much later. I got clean in nineteen ninety. I started going to church at United uh United Methodist Church I got saved in that church in 91, but I stayed with Narcotics Anonymous what 20 years. Once I start going to church, and the more I start going to church, I start kind of tapering away Okay. Um by the time I started coming to hope I kind of had like one arm in it. Okay? And the reason was it was the relationships that were built in the fellowship. I was sponsoring people, nine guys. The sponsor is just, you can kind of relate it to um someone who disciples others. And so the message within me was changing. But I was somewhat afraid to leave Actually before then my good wife really showed showed me something and this is the key about the fellowship. Uh y you know my wife Linda. So Linda had a book, uh recovery book, and she was Reading it, and she goes, I want to show you something in this book. Now I'm a guy who been there twenty years and who studied this book and the books who spoke in conventions in New York and New Jersey and DC and Baltimore and Virginia North Carolina all the way to South Carolina. I'm well known. I've studied this book, and she shows me in this book, she says, and I I'm gonna paraphrase, it says We understand that our members may seek a faith of their own to understand God. So basically the fellowship is saying that We understand that our members will begin to, you know, revert back or go back to the religion of their choice when they were growing up or something to that fact. They they understand that. But when it comes to addiction, we are the only one In other words, that can help you. And she showed me that. And I said, wow. Let me read this again. And she says that's cult language. She's saying, Mike That the God you know, the God of the Bible, cannot is is not powerful enough. to help you in w or help addicts or help you in your addiction with your addiction They saying that they don't mind that you go to church, but help with your addiction God can't help you. He's not powerful enough. He's not loving enough. He's none of that. He cannot help you with your addiction. And she says, they are telling you you cannot leave them. They have told you that you're a disease, you have a disease, and it's incurable, and the only people that can help you is an addict. And that blew me away So you see the deception. That they basically says, for me to stay clean, I must stay in that program. Had it not been from growing in Christ, I probably would be there today. And it's because of the word of God that I'm out Right? And what happened to me was that my message changed. I could no longer stay in a program that would not allow me to talk about Jesus Christ And they forbid you talk about Jesus Christ. You cannot talk about your religion because then you will be breaking the traditions. To say that you are promoting your religion, we believe in what we call the God of your understanding. You couldn't even if you said Jesus Christ was my higher power, and I tried this, people would pull you up after the meeting and say you're breaking traditions. When you say Jesus Christ is your high power. But I would say because I knew the literature, that the literature says that my higher power can be anyone or anything I choose him to be and I choose Jesus Christ. And they said, No, you're breaking tradition. So it became a time where I had to leave. And I was afraid to leave, guys. I was afraid to leave because of the fellowship. I was afraid to leave because the only people that I had ever talked with and understood about addiction were in these programs. I was afraid to leave because who was I gonna call about anything? It wasn't just about addiction, it was about anything. I had really strong relationships in these programs, and that's what they do. But my message had changed. My message have become now the gospel and not a message of recovery. And so It took me a couple of years to finally break completely away. And what I did was I called people Who I had strong relationships with, those guys I sponsored, and I told them that I was leaving the meetings. I wasn't ever coming back. Right. And most of them understood because they had spared the progression that I was moving away You know, uh my message even if I spoke, it wasn't the same. And I told 'em I say my message has changed. I I can't talk to you about a higher power. I can't talk to you about a God of your understanding. I can't talk to you about that because that's no longer my message. Right? I love you enough and you've helped me enough for you for me for you to know the real reasons why I'm leaving Some people were okay and we still have relationships, but some people were not One guy says, I hope you don't relapse. Right? You'll be back. Those types of things. And so that ended my time with uh Narcotics Anonymous Um so it's it's it's it i it was real scary to leave, okay? Because like I said, I didn't know would I have the level of relationship and communication. Communication with men that I've had for twenty years outside. So there are Christians who choose to stay Right? But what I understand is this most people stay because of fear. They are afraid that if they leave, they will relapse and use again. So in essence, these 12-step programs do not bring about change in your heart. It's only behavior modification at best. As long as you stay in that program, you go through the 12 steps. Over and over again, you won't use. And there is a great deception, as I said before, about these 12 steps. I'm going to read off a couple of steps I highlighted Excuse me. And you can kind of hear the deception. Step three says in the twelve-step program, it says made a decision to turn our will and our lives over to the care of God up as we understand him. Right? So what does that What does that make you think about? Is that I give my life to God. Right? And and and that's what it's saying. It is kind of re reminiscence in me giving my life to Christ. But I'm giving my life to a God I created to a God of my understanding. We don't have the same God in in these programs. You got a God, I got it it's whatever whatever I choose my God to be. So I I want to turn my will and my life over to the care of God as we or as you understand Him. Here is step five that says, admitted to God, to ourselves, and to another human being the exact nature of our wrongs. What does that sound like? Confession and repentance. Right? These are the steps That we go through, we write these out, they have a step study guide, all of that. I got my steps at home that I've written out. So this is a this is this is confession. We are mended to ourselves, to another human being, the exact nature of our wrongs I would get with my sponsor and we would go over these steps. He would write out all his sins, if you will, admit them to me. And we will work through them. Step six says, We're We're entirely ready to have God remove all these defects of character Defects of character. I have a disease, my character is is drug says, you know, I have a defect in my character is why, you know, I do what I do. So this is saying that all my defects of character that I listed out, the God of my understanding is going to take those away from me. Because in the seventh step, I humbly ask him to remove our shortcomings That's what the step says. So now God, of my understanding, will remove all of my shortcomings. And step eleven says, sought through prayer and meditation to improve our conscious contact with God through prayer and meditation. As we understand him, we only pray for his knowledge and his will for us to carry that out. These are powerful steps. So you pray to the God of your understanding for to improve your conscious contact with Him You only praise for his knowledge and his will and his strength for you to carry his will out These are powerful steps. And this is what people in these programs go through. Do you see the do you see the the the deception there? Okay? So I think my wife was probably right. It was a cult. Right? And I didn't even know it. And I have friends who are fearful to leave because of the fear that they will go back to that life. Celebrate recovery, not too much different. All they've done is taken these 12 steps from AA and NA and replaced them with scripture. That's it. They use the model of recovery and not transformation. The Bible speaks about transformation and not recovery. Okay? And they use those. Um I have a a article here on a critique of Um celebrate recovery. It says, although celebrate recovery rejects AA views of alcoholism as a disease, So your Christian base will call it sin. The title nevertheless promotes AA concepts. That are in contradiction to the Bible's teachings. So when Christian base twelve step programs and you really gotta be careful with these, they take the model of AA, a worldly model, and those steps I just written out, they use scripture replace those Okay, but they're using a model that's worldly So why why do we need to use a model from a worldly organization? We we have the Word of God. Right? We we we don't need a twelve step model. If we're truly biblical, we're not going after recovery. We're going at a transforming one's heart. Okay, why do these these um Christian base, if you will, why do we have 'em? Because they believe they work and they wanna try to keep it within a framework. uh Bible but it is not so. So sin is not something which a believer is in recovery about Right? Sin is confessed by the sinner and forgiven by God. We don't need recovery from sin. We need forgiveness. From sin. Okay. So when you think about these twelve twelve step Christian based um programs you really have to be you know careful about that That they're just taking a worldly concept, a worldly way of recovery, and replacing with Scripture and they are really doing a bum up job in interpreting scripture. It's it's to fit the twelve step Model program. So um it's about 10. We got about 15 minutes And so if you guys have um any questions about what I've shared about my own life, uh what that was like, uh boy, I'm really opening myself up. Um uh or the program and I want you to understand most of all that even though I was involved in a program geared towards substance abuse People who deal with uh addictions suffer the same things or in the same types of programs because they are all modeled by use the same model uh as AA started. Okay, so if you you you you have any questions uh uh Go ahead and I'll see if you know, I can answer or Gabe can answer. Someone Mike, there is a question in the chat. It says, would you say that a person can experience paranoia after stopping a medication like an antidepressant? Um I didn't have that experience, right? Uh I probably believe that you can. Um one of the things about those uh is it you do have these uh physical effects or psychological effects after you use. Okay. I experienced things like smell I experienced uh it was it was it was really crazy. Um, you know, my thoughts, you know, so uh um I did experience those things When as I was getting clean. Uh and and those kind of things would conjure up cravings to use. Okay? Um so I I remember I love football, but I always smoke marijuana when I watch football. And when I got clean, it took me a while to be comfortable with watching football without using drugs I used to eat pizza and drink beer and smoke marijuana. I don't eat pizza anymore. You know, even though my my son and his wife always want to you know, offer pizza. I don't want pizza. But But there are things I I I think to to to kinda answer that question that you you can have hallucinations, you know, afterwards. Okay? And coming off of drugs, you have to be very careful because of the withdrawals and things like that you go through, and therefore you you you you know you need some uh medical help with that, if you will. The closest thing I took was for my depression and that was during Prozac time. So I was um Water Prozact. Any other questions? Yeah. When you first and fellowship is really important there in AA or NA. So when you first left and then you were engaged with the church, did you immediately begin a lot of fellowship or did you feel like a uh thinking feeling you like enjoy only again or right. So the question was when I left AA or NA and I began to uh and leaving the fellowship, the strong fellowship of the 12-step program, you know, how what was what was my emotions like? What was I feeling? Did I engage in church fellowship? Not in the very beginning. It took me a while. Wow. What I did, Ross, was I did go. Okay, I I went to the men's ministry, but I would be quiet, right? And I didn't say much and it just took time for me. And I think you're making a very important point is We must, as far as the church community, for those addic uh addicted to drugs or alcohol or whatever, coming out of that, it is very important for to get involved, to get involved in ministries, to replace that fellowship with the fellowship of Christ, in the community of Christ. This is is is very important because Addicts need that fellowship. They need to know they would need a place where they believe that they can belong. Okay, but not only that, they need a place where they are not going to be Judged or condemned. They have enough of that on themselves already, right And so it's important on how to know to interact with them. But it it is very important that um uh I got good fellowship and it took a little while. I think the thing for me was opening up. You know, o opening up. By the time I got to Hope, I was, you know, kinda, you know, a a person that was willing to open up a that, you know, but I still have my uh apprehensions about hope. Right. Because it was like it's a lot of Bible teaching here. You know, and and uh you know, I I wasn't used to it Right and and and so um uh but it was it was a lot of love here Okay, and and it was love at on the churches, but here's the thing. Some of the churches that I attended endorsed NA and AA. Most of our meetings were in churches. I s if anybody know where a Jewish synagogue in Laurel next to Laurel Bellsville Hospital. hospital. I started that meeting there. That I started that meeting there in mid nineties. And they still call me to come speak at the meeting Anytime they want to do uh meeting anniversary. And I keep telling 'em, I I don't do that anymore. Any any other questions? Yes. Knowing that the AA or the narcotics anonymous is a secular organization or is a secular organization Did God use that still in your life? Would you tell would you say that to someone that God still used that time? You were involved there in your life. So the question is, even though NA was a secular organization Would I say that God used that during that time in my life? Okay. And I would say yes. Now I'm very careful about that. Okay. It should be encouraged in each one of us. Whether we have addictions or we know family members have addictions, we'll hear your testimony. I'll see God's hand, you know, keeping in mind his sovereignty Over our lives. That He had, we did so much in your life in preparation for not just this thing Yes. So so yes, I believe God used that secular program as part of his plan in my life. I have a friend. We use when I was down south we use almost every day together. He got saved, he heard the gospel, he trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ for you know repenting of his sins. He never ever walked into a NA or AA meeting. It was it was that for that person that was God's plan and and mine's mines were different. Yes. I would just say that um it's hard to reach my experience it's hard to reach someone who thinks you're the AA that says their God in this different God than yours. And so to break through that that That's where I see the danger in that organization. Yes. Just if you have the truth. Just standing on the truth and help them through their addictions with the truth. Yes. So the comment is from Becky is that is hard to break through through a person who's already in those um um programs Who have a taste and believe in the God of their understanding. And it is difficult. It is difficult. I'm in that place right now where I am trying to talk to to men who are still there and trying to show them the difference Between the God of your understanding and the God of the Bible, and these are men who are professing to be Christians. And so it is very difficult. And what they're looking at is, I have results here, right? I have results here. And Mike, you is here too. Right? And so m my my my thing is right now is eternity, you know. And has your God of your understanding brought about lasting change? Take the plunge. Don't go for six months. They're they're afraid to do that. But that is that is a difficult part when when when they any any other questions? Any questions on the chat? I can't read that. Yes. Somebody wrote what some wisdom believers can use when ministering to someone addicted to drugs. Some wisdom believers can use when witnessing to someone addicted to drugs. I think the the the first thing is to understand where they are. And so the gospel, right? If they're an unbeliever, they need to hear the gospel in an evangelistic way. Okay? We have to understand that that that these people suffer from a lot of guilt, shame, hopelessness. They're at their bottom And we need to know that we understand that. We know about that, and we have a God that can meet you at that place of suffering. That our God can meet you at that place of suffering. So I think the wisdom that we bring for those, and if that person is a believer who is suffering in addiction, we have to remind them of who God is. Because remember the the the the the heart dynamic is, you know, what your belief is about God. We have to we have to we we have to bring those people back to let them know, even through scripture, and we're going to look at that next week, how God is there. He will meet you at that place. God does and has a lot to say about addiction. Yeah, I'm amazed. You ought to be amazed at what God knows. He knows everything. But I didn't I did not realize that God knows about addiction and he knows how to minister to his people who who have fallen into this sin who thinks they have a disease. Any other questions? Um here that they uh they're like like any type of model like uh From the scriptures. We're going to talk about that next week, but to answer your question, is there a model To help people with addictions in the church? In the church? Yes. Yes. We we we we we we have a model. The church, right? A community of believers. We have our God knows what's wrong with us. I love this quote, and he knows how to fix us. God can address through his word and through his people everything that I went through as an addict. And he has all that I need To keep me clean. Got one time for maybe one, two more questions. Yes. Are you saying i is that the model we should bring? Yeah, I mean that's what I'm thinking. I'm thinking if someone's caught up in what they consider to be an addiction, isn't it the very best thing we can do and say, I understand what you've been taught and what you think but the real truth is that it's sin and the model that he was Elijah was referring to would be to bring them um to repent or to to cause them to see Yes. Uh uh uh you know, it's y you always gonna bring that. It it is how you bring the gospel to that person. Okay? H here's a perfect example. I must have had about almost ten years clean. And this guy, Cornell, he came to me, and Cornell, well, I lashed on to Cornell. He matter of fact got me going to church. Going back to church. And then he had left. And he came back. And I never forget this. At that meeting in in Laurel, at the synagogue, after the meeting. He came up. He came to the meeting. He said, Mike And I'll forget this. He said, Mike, addiction is idolatry. I said, Cornel, I don't want to hear that. No, Mike, addiction is idolatry. You don't have a disease. Now, he's bringing the truth. It's how he brought the truth. It's how he brought the truth. And I think the the the deal is how do I bring the truth to a person Like like Becky was saying, who's really caught up into the guard of the understanding is how do I bring that truth? And and I think that's that's important because I'm believing here. And for you to just say it's idolatry, you gotta give me some proof. You gotta, you know, do you even understand what I'm involved with and what I'm in and da da da da da. And so it's Is you bring that truth but it's how you bring that truth. But so do you think if he devolved you that that truth on the paper plays his hand in So I think I would have listened and I think by listening he would have had an opportunity to give me God in even more ways. I I I I think that's that's that's what I did. And so my approach has been because I'm there and I've been there and I understand the the the the thoughts and the belief Right? It's it's it's strategic. You know, sometime I think about how how Christ and the woman at the well, right He he had a he he he knew what he was about to do. He went to share the gospel with this woman. Right? And And at least this is how I see it. And he didn't go to her and start Talking about she had five wives husbands. Right? He got her to admit that I already know that. And he gave her the gospel, continuously to give her the gospel. I know these people and what they believe that the God of the understanding is wrong. I need to bring them the God of the Bible. Bible and show them that the God of the Bible is way more is real than the God of our understanding. And I have a good position because I was there. But yes, uh and I don't want to say that that's not the truth, but it is the truth, but it's how you bring the truth, at least to this community. Any other questions? That's it. Thank you, Lord, for our time together. I pray that uh you have um used me and to to to open uh hearts and just give more information about what the word says about addiction. And and Lord um I pray that um we gle glean from this and and and gain some knowledge from this and it also um just uh confirms that um uh you are our God and you are our God who knows what's wrong with us and he knows how to fix us And we just thank you that you know about addictions and you have much to say about addictions. Now prepare our hearts To worship you in spirit and in truth, in Jesus' name I pray, Amen