Alright, we've been working on Romans 19. Who wants to give it a try? Or I might have to call on somebody Psalm nineteen. Anybody Glenn, Psalm nineteen, seven and eight, and if you want to do nine, you can. Alright, let's see if I can do it. Uh the law of the Lord It's perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wine so simple. Precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing in the heart. Commandments of the Lord are sure are pure. Enlightening the eyes. Good. The fear of the Lord. Fear of the Lord is Oh what is the fear of the Lord? It's not dirty. It is clean, thank you. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are are And righteous all together. Well done. Well done. Great, great job. Um and again, just a reminder why we are meditating on that particular song, right? It it is giving us the hope and assurance of the power of God's word. Right? Did you hear all those action verbs in there? Right? Restores the soul, enlightens the eyes, rejoices the heart. That's God's word at work. That's why we study it. Alright, we're gonna see more of that today. So good. Alright, you can open your Bibles to First Thessalonians. We're in the last chapter. Chapter 5. Hard to believe we're already through this book. And just a reminder, the next two weeks I will be out. So as we we start 2 Thessalonians, the book of 2 Thessalonians, Carrie Kane will give you that uh introduction of some of the themes of 2 Thessalonians. You're going to see some repeated themes that we have in 1 Thessalonians, which is not uncommon. Um and then he'll cover the next uh couple weeks. So uh exciting to continue this this work in Paul's address to the Thessalonians. Okay? And then as a reminder, we have these major themes going into 1 Thessalonians. And we are now at the very end, chapter 5. Um I d I do want to make a note that I changed that used to say in that blue bubble at the the bottom there, the final prayer, I changed that to final Benediction. And we'll talk more about that. It's a sweet, sweet benediction. So we'll cover that at the very end. Okay. All right, so if you are in your Bibles 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, we ended last week, do you remember? Um Paul was was talking about an eschatological issue, right? An end times issue. And what was the issue? Do you remember? Was it they were calling each other names? Hey, he's pre-mill, he's omil, he's pretrib, he's No, that wasn't the issue. What was the issue? That's right. Alright, so if you didn't hear her, what the issue was they were so concerned, they knew Christ was coming, they were so concerned about those who had already died They're going to miss out on the return of Jesus Christ. Okay, that was the issue that he was trying to address. And let me refresh your memory with a commentary that I read last week. Um this was the issue. People who fall asleep dead before the second coming would remain in their graves and not take part in the event. Alright, so that was the issue This would suggest that either they had not heard of the resurrection of the dead, which is not very likely since the resurrection of Jesus was part of the primitive gospel, or they had not understood properly what they had been taught. The latter is most likely and most dangerous. There would be no hope for those who die. So you can imagine if they believe that the dead were going to miss out Um that would be very discouraging for your loved ones that were not going to partake. So clearly there were there was a misunderstanding of really the fundamental aspect of who we are as human beings. So I'll call that the doctrine of man, the study of man, anthropology. Right? That's what we call that. And so what does the Bible say about our makeup? We know that we are made in the image of God, right? We are different than than all other creation. Um, but here's my question for you. How many parts to the human being? I get a three? Okay, so it depends, it's relative. That's dangerous. Okay, okay. So these are the the the main views out there. Trichotomy, so three parts body, soul, spirit. A dichotomy, two parts, body and soul and spirit would would be considered one. Heart, soul, spirit is one So you have a a material body and an immaterial. And then um there's a view that those are those are you they can't be divided. They're they're one. That's where you get the monism from. Okay? And so what we're seeing here potentially is maybe they had a view that when that person died, their whole being w was was gone. Right? So what I've done in this class, and I've tried to be transparent up front, is to give you a glimpse, and we can only do it at a high level of what some of the other views are, but then tell you exactly what we teach here at Hope Bible Church. All right. If you have disagreements or questions, we can always talk about that after class. My intent is is not to turn this into an exhaustive survey, but to make you aware of some of those other views but also make you aware of what we teach here at Whole Bible Church. Okay? So um I have a condensed this is a condensed um Grudom Systematic Theology. I got this from Rob Thompson. It is a great resource because I can take it on an airplane, you know, if I had to versus the big clunky systematic theology. So Matt, you might like a a resource like that in the SOP program. All right, let me read some of his commentary from his systematic theology. Trichotomy, dichotomy, monism. How many parts are there to man? Everyone agrees that we have physical bodies. Most people, both Christians and non-Christians, sense that they also have an immaterial part, a soul, that will live on after their bodies die. But here the agreement ends, like we just heard in the class. Some people believe that in addition to body and soul we have a third part, a spirit. that most directly relates to God. The view that man is made of three parts, body, soul, and spirit, is called trichotomy, tri, right, for three Though this has been a common view in popular evangelical Bible teaching, there are few and any scholarly defenses of it today. What does this view teach? According to many trichotomists, man's soul includes his intellect, his emotions, and his will. Kind of like this graph depicts here. They maintain that all people have such a soul and that the different elements of the soul can either serve God or be yielded to sin. They argue that man's spirit is a higher faculty that comes alive when a person becomes a Christian Right? Does that make sense? So you have a spirit, but it doesn't come alive until you actually become a Christian. If Christ is in you, If Christ is in you, although your bodies are dead because of sin, your spirits are alive because of the righteous. This is Romans 8. 10. So that's the reference that they have. The spirit of a person then would be the part of that most directly worship and praise to God. So it's a special part that now can communicate directly to God, the spirit. That's the view. Another view is called dichotomy. This view teaches that spirit is not a separate part of man, but simply another form for soul, and that both terms are used interchangeably in Scripture to talk about the immaterial part of man. The part that lives on after the bodies die. Therefore, man is made up of two parts: body and soul spirit. Those who hold this view often agree that Scripture uses the word spirit more frequently than referring to our relationship to God, but such usage they say blah blah blah blah. Alright, um and then the last one, the view that man is only one element and that his body is the person is called monism or monism. Alright, so that's everything's combined together. They they would not be separated. Before asking whether Scripture views soul and spirit as distinct parts of man, we must at the outset make it clear that there is a strong emphasis in Scripture on the overall unity of man as created by God. When God made man, he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being. Genesis 2. 7 Here, Adam is a unified person with body and soul living and acting together. This original harmonious and unified state of man will occur again When Christ returns and we are fully redeemed in our bodies, as well as our souls, to live with him forever. Moreover, we are to grow in holiness and love for God in every aspect of our lives, in our bodies, as well as in our spirits and souls. We are to cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit and make holiness perfect in the fear of God. Alright, so that's an overview. So look for example, um in our pat in our um um chapter here, verse twenty-three. Because we see this, it says, Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you entirely, and may your spirit and soul and body pre be preserved complete. So Paul uses those three terms. But here's what I would tell you. What he's getting after in this particular verse is the unity of the body. He's saying when Christ comes again, we saw this in the previous chapters What he is hoping is happening through our sanctification is that our complete body, our complete persons are being presented to God in holiness. And he's talking about body and spirit. So we at Hope Bible Church would affirm to a dichotomy, right? A physical and a spiritual. And when we see these terms interchange like this, soul, spirit, heart, mind, it's simply trying to get after the completeness, right? You gotta understand the context What he's saying here, when we go to meet the Lord in glorification, when he returns, we will be complete in body and spirit and soul, our full being, if you will. Alright, hold on one second. Okay? So let me read from what we teach, our our doctrinal statement. Man is a two-part being having both a material part and an immaterial part, soul or spirit. The spirit, soul, heart, mind, and conscience of man are not separate parts of man, but are different aspects of the one immaterial part of man. So what we would say is, let's say before the Lord returns, I suddenly die. We would believe that my, as a Christian, my spirit would go to heaven. My spirit would be with the Lord immediately. Okay? When the Lord returns My body, I will now get a new body, will be reunited with my spirit, and now I am I am one person again in glory with God. That's how that would work Okay? Does that make sense and any questions? Glenn? My my question is, what was dead that was made alive? What was dead that was made alive? So I was dead in my sin and semi breath. And God made me alive. What was dead is made alive. Sure. I was able to think I had will. Yeah. They weren't inoperable. Yeah. But there was something that was inoperable that we Yeah, great question. And I I don't want to make this too exhaustive. Um again, this is important doctrine, really. Where Paul's trying to explain to them why they should have hope. Right? And so we need to understand how we are made up from God. So we were made with mind, will, affections. You know, that's true. Being made in the image of God, that's what that means. Okay However, because of the fall, our total depravity means every aspect of a human has now been disp distorted by sin. That's what that means. The total depravity. The total part means all of us, our mind, will, affections, how we reason, has all been distorted. And we are now in bondage to sin. So we have a heart. Think of it as a heart of stone We are unable to seek after God. We are unable to do good. We see that in Romans. Right? Something has to change And so when we are regenerated by the Holy Spirit, He's regenerating our heart. So think of our heart now turning from stone to this malleable soft tissue, if you will that now desires to please God. It's not perfect. It's not perfect. Right? That's what sanctification is moving us more and more towards. you know that state of glory, but now we we've uh our disposition has changed. From being over here and being bondage to sin, now we are bondservants of the Lord Jesus Christ. Right? And now our our heart desires to please him, to obey him. We're now able to understand the scriptures. Our eyes are now open. So that's the distinction I'll give you one follow-on, then we've got to move on. No, I I No you're good. This is an important topic. So if I study I I I completely agree with the dichotomy sort of Yeah. Material there's different attributes of that which are I have blood, I have skin, I have the parts. The same can be said about the immaterial. There's there's the thinking part, there's you know there's these different parts that maybe that's set up, and that's kind of where Pastor Allen has this great chart that he shows in the parenting class. And sometimes I show it. And it's just these concentric rings. And it really getting at the complexity of what you're talking about. When we think of soul, spirit, heart, mind It's this very complex integration of all kinds of different things. Glenn, to your point. Yeah, yeah And so, uh, but we would say, we would teach here that that's the two parts. There's the body, the physical, but then this very complex thing called the spirit, soul, mind, heart. The importance of that is that is that when we die and we're in heaven with the Lord. Yes. Yes. Yeah. So that's a good point. All those things we just mentioned, all those circles we will have in heaven. That's our spirit going to heaven, right? Um however in heaven we will be outside of the presence of sin. That's the beauty of it. Alright? We will no longer be under the power of sin. So again, I just wanted to show you that this was one of the issues that Paul was addressing, and they didn't have an understanding of this issue because they felt those who died would would never be able to see the Lord again. Right? They would never be able to witness this this return of the Lord. And so understanding this doctrine of you know how human beings are made up and again I just wanted to show you some of the views, uh the prominent views, and then what we teach here at Hole Bible Church is a dichotomy, two parts. Okay? Does that aspect make sense You may not agree with it, but does that make sense? Alright. Alright, so he he addresses this issue of what's going to happen to the debt. Alright, he reminds them that they're going to be okay. In fact, when the Lord returns, they're the first fruits. They're the first ones that are going to experience that union with the Lord. Their bodies being reunited with their s with their spirit in front of the Lord. Alright, that's what's happening there. However, a very natural um follow-on question, and that's where we pick up in chapter five, is when is this going to happen? That's we all think that, right? When is this going to happen? So that's what we're addressing here as we pick up in chapter five. All right, we'll go back to our cool um eschatological graph, and again, this is very much from a a um I'll call it a dispensational pre-trib, pre-mill type of view, right? Which is what we would teach here at Hope Bible Church. And again, though, we talked about some of those major aspects. Number one, we're all united on the fact of what? Jesus is coming again Right. And then there's some major views. Primarily the the big debate is what happens with the millennium. Um means that um There's a belief that the millennium is actually happening right now, the beginning of the church age, but it's happening up in heaven. A post-mill is that you have this church age And then a thousand years where the gospel is becoming so powerful it is just changing everything. Society, politics, everything's getting better, and then the Lord returns. Not many hold that view. Just look around today. That's not happening. And then the pre-mill, as we've discussed, is that Jesus is going to return his second coming before that thousand-year reign. And then there's questions about, well, is there going to be tribulation or not before that? So those are some of the major debates that happen. Again, I want you to focus on Jesus is coming again And we'll get to this at the end, but we covered it last week. Look at me at the uh end of chapter four. I'll read verse seventeen. Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. to meet with the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be with the Lord. So that's what I want you to take away from this, right? Jesus is coming again, and we will always be with the Lord. Right? That's the hope that we have. Alright, but He's going to address this issue of timing. And so we want to talk about that. So we're in chapter 5. Let me read the beginning of that. Now, as to the times and the epochs Or seasons, brethren, you have no need of anything to be written to you, for you yourselves know full well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. So we have to do a little preparation here, and this was a a big one for me to solidify my thought on some of my eschatology, if you will. So let's go over to Daniel. Understanding uh end times um is very much you have to look at all of Scripture. And obviously going back to some of the important prophecies is really critical if we're going to do that correctly. And again, it goes back to your hermeneutic You know, what are your principles, the art and science of studying God's Word will have a huge impact on how you interpret God's word and especially prophecy. Um let me share this, you know, all of us are to be like the Bereans Um, you know, I'm gonna hold that thought. Remind me when we come back um talking about um Christian conduct and make sure I don't miss this point about a brother sharing something with me. All right, so hold me accountable. We'll come back to that All right, we're in Daniel chapter nine. Daniel chapter nine. And he starts um So Daniel, you know this about Daniel, he was a student of God's word. And in most all of the prophets You gotta remember they weren't just, you know, they hear something from the Lord and then they blurt it out. They were students of the Word. They understand the Word. They understood the covenants that God made with their forefathers They understood some of the promises up to that point. Now obviously they didn't have the whole canon like we do today, all right, but they had certainly elements of scripture that they studied Look at chapter 9, verse 1. In the first year of Darius, the son of Axerces, of Median descent, who was made king over the kingdom of the Chaldeans. In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, observed in the books the number of the years which was revealed as the word of the Lord to Jeremiah the prophet for the completion of the desolation of Jerusalem, namely seventy years. So here we see what is Daniel observing. No, uh I'm not trying to trick you. What's he observing? What's he looking at? Jeremiah. The scripture. Jeremiah. Right? He's reading scripture and he's inquiring about um For the completion of the desolation of Jerusalem. So he specifically wanted to know, Lord, what's going on with Jerusalem? And to find out, what did he do? He went back to Scripture. He went back to Jeremiah. who was a prophet before Daniel. Right? So Jeremiah was was kind of in this transition uh before and after the exile of Israel. Actually Judah to the south specifically And so when you see Jeremiah in Lamentations, Jeremiah actually witnesses the destruction of Jerusalem. That's his lament, that's his weeping. That's where you get his mercies are new every morning. is when he's watching the destruction of Jerusalem. So Daniel obviously and you know the history of of Daniel, right? He was he was trained um in the Babylonian Empire. He was um you know, for all accounts, um, you know, a high academic I'll call him, right? He was a smart dude. And so he wa he searched the scriptures diligently. And so what he he finds out here is this is the time the period uh that they would be in exile in Babylon, right? It was prophesied that it would happen for 70 years. And that's what happened. 70 years in exile Alright. Um so I won't read uh the rest of of nine. He is he is grieving. He is praying for the sins that his country has committed. And he's including himself in that. It's a very humble man, but he's praying on behalf of the nation, um, on behalf of the the idol worship, the sins that they have committed. And let's pick up in verse nineteen O Lord, hear, O Lord, forgive, O Lord, listen and take action. For thine own sake, O my God, do not delay. Because thy city and thy people are called by thy name. So a lament. He's crying out to the Lord on behalf of the people. Now let's pick it up in verse 20. Now, while I was speaking and praying and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel and presenting my supplication before the Lord my God on behalf of the holy mountain of my God, while I was still speaking in prayer Then the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision previously, came to me in my extreme weariness about the time of the evening offering. And he gave me instruction and talked with me and said, Oh Daniel, I have now come forth to give you insight with understanding. At the beginning of your supplications the command was issued, and I have come to tell you, for you are highly esteemed. So give heed to the message and gain understanding of the vision. So Daniel specifically um wasn't so was was kind of a unique prophet in the sense that it wasn't a lot of thus saith the Lord, right? He saw a lot of visions and dreams and was able to interpret those. Picking up in verse 24, here's the key. Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people and your holy city to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin to make atonement for iniquity, to bring an everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy place. So let me stop there and ask you the question, who are the times for? Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people and your holy city to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make atonement for iniquity. Who is this for? Israel. The seventy weeks are for Israel So, if you believe in a a literal interpretation of Israel going forward, this has implications If this is spiritualized, and that's not being critical, I'm just showing you that's a different view. Now this doesn't hold as much weight or clarity in my mind. It gives a different perspective All right, so if you hold to Paul talking about Israel in the future, right, in Romans what is it, nine through eleven, right, a specific plan for specific Israel, we see that the seventy weeks is for Israel to finish out the judgment. Okay? So keep that in mind. So if we look at this chart And again, I'm giving you the HBC view here, so I want to be transparent with that. Seventy weeks it talks about. The rest of chapter nine explains these weeks And I won't go into detail. I just want to give you a quick overview of the 60 now and this seven weeks is actually a term that means seven um seven units. So it's really seventy times seven. So 490 years is the the timeline here. Okay? The beginning of that timeline, which is pretty exciting, actually happened when Nehemiah was given the authority to go back and rebuild the the walls of Jerusalem. All right? Um did a sermon on that last summer which was which was pretty exciting. But that would be the timeline of these seventy weeks. Many scholars, commentators that those are like-minded would agree that 69 weeks happened when Jesus died on the cross. Alright, that was 69 weeks. The last week, as you'll see it in chapter 9 there of Daniel, explains what many would call the tribulation period. Alright, the seven-year period of tribulation. and um you know the Antichrist that will come on the scene and all that has to happen, right? Lots of prophecy and signs that would have to happen. Now, what that means is there's basically this big gap, you see the parentheses there, around the church age. We got to 69 weeks and then it was paused. Until the end comes. And that's the big debate, right? So when Paul's talking about the end is coming, right, 69 weeks have already passed So there was probably in his mind a thought that he was going to be there when the Lord was going to return. Okay? Obviously that didn't happen, and here we are today, 2,000 years later But um so that's how we would interpret um those sixty-nine weeks were in the church age and why, you know, Jesus could return at any time. Now, the the big debate with the tribulation is if you believe in the tribulation and that we will be caught up as a church before the tribulation, there are no other signs or wonders that need to happen before that takes place. If you believe that Christ will return after the tribulation and the church will go through that, we have many signs that will take place. We see that in Daniel 9. I'll tell you this guys, at the end of the day the pre-Tribers get it wrong, we get it wrong. Right? We're gonna be with the Lord. We'll go through it all with you guys. But I want to show you the difference of that and how that's interpreted. Alright, so we are in this gap age and then you have the one week. Okay Alright, so that was a little primer on Daniel, and when we talk about the the 70 weeks, that's what we get there. Okay? Now, what we see though is in Chapter five, so let's go back to chapter five, now on verse two. For you yourselves know full well that the day of the Lord will come just like a thief in the night. What is this term, the day of the Lord? That was part of your homework was to do a little research on that. Anybody do that? Glenn did. Give me give me just a couple characteristics of the day of the Lord Um there's uh verses that talk about sort of destruction and and and And a lot of uh madness. And then there are some other verses that talk about um salvation and and joy. So there's some verses that talk about the day of the Lord. There is some one of the questions I had for you and and um for myself and a thought was is the day of the and this is the thought that's out there. Is the day of the Lord one particular day that we all experience together in time or is that day of the Lord a um a different day for each of us. Whether it was for the day of the Lord me when we become a believer, would the day of the Lord be when we die? Things like that. So Yeah, good questions. Um the the latter part if it was a an experience individually um I think that'd be hard to get our arms around what that might look like and define, right? Yeah, so I don't know. But we we have to go to scripture. Now I'm gonna read um from a commentary. It's J Mac. He has a pre-trip, pre-mill view. Alright, so I'm just I'm telling you that up front. But as he studied, like you did, all the the occurrences of the Lord Uh the day of the Lord, what characterizes that fundamentally? That's what we want to get our arms around. What does Scripture say in totality about the day of the Lord? Thanks. The biblical phrase the day of the Lord stands as a key term in understanding God's revelation about the future. The New Testament writers use the day of the Lord rested on their understanding of the Old Testament prophets. A survey of the Old Testament indicates that the prophets used it when speaking of both near historical events, like Carrie just said, and far future eschatological events involving God's wrath, as a couple of you mentioned. The New Testament writers oh uh yeah the New Testament writers picked up on the eschatological use and applied the day of the Lord both to the judgment that will climax the tribulation period and to the judgment that will usher in the new earth. The specific phrase, the day of the Lord, or a close variant, appears 19 times in the Old Testament And I can give you those references after if you want. It appears four uncontested times in the New Testament. Ever since the fall of man in Genesis 3, mankind has been re been in rebellion against its Creator. But a time is coming when God will judge the entire world with calamitous wrath to prepare for the establishment of the kingdom. The day of man will give way to the day of the Lord. The final day of the Lord is the time of ultimate divine wrath against sinners for their rebellion against God. Alright? So what what Jamak would be saying here is that the day of the Lord would be um his second coming here before the millennium And remember, we we saw in Daniel that the purpose of these seventy weeks is is judgment. It's judgment on Israel. And the finality of it, the day of the Lord, the finality of it would be when he returns. And then there would be a second, as we go through the millennium, people will be saved, there will be unsaved people, at the end of that another day of the Lord, another final day of judgment before the new heaven and the new earth Alright. So when we talk in Thessalonians uh chapter four, being caught up, right, if you're a preacher at pre mill, you would um you would take that to mean, you know the tribulation, being caught up as a church. But then in chapter five, he's actually talking about the day of the Lord, this event where he comes back So again a a pretruber would say that's the end of the tribulation. Right? Does that make sense from a timing perspective? So we have to be careful, especially when you read Revelation, make sure you understand the timing of the event that's happening Alright, that's how you have to understand prophecy. Alright, so he talks about the day of the Lord, like we just talked about. Second thing he talks about there is how will it come Come just like a thief in the night. What what does that mean? Okay, unexpectedly, without warning, a surprise. That's what he's getting after here. Verse 3. While they are saying, peace and safety, then destruction will come upon them suddenly like birth pangs upon a woman with child. and they shall not escape. But you, brethren, are not in darkness that the day should overtake you like a thief. For you are all sons of light, the sons of day. We are not the night nor of darkness So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us be alert and sober. For those who sleep do their sleeping at night, and those who get drunk get drunk at night But since we are of the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet the hope of salvation. Alright. So w bottom line, he's saying You are a new creature in Christ. Like we were talking earlier, right? When you were in bondage, your eyes were closed. It's going to come upon an unbeliever like a thief in the night. It is going to be a surprise and it's going to be too late Alright? But but you as a believer, you're a new creature. You are of the light. You are of the day. You can see, you can understand. It will not be a surprise for you. You may not know the exact time, but it's not going to catch you off guard. Right? That's what he's saying here. That's the hope, that's the assurance you have. Don't be scared. Right? You're not going to miss it You're not going to miss it. You're going to you're going to know it. Because you are a new creature in Christ. Yeah, great question. What are we supposed to be doing? Paul addresses that next Okay? How should we be acting if we now know this about ourselves? That that Jesus will come like a thief in the night, for them it's going to be total surprise Right? For us, we don't know the day or time, but it won't be a surprise because our assurance is already in heaven. Now, with that in mind, great question, Dawn. How should we be acting? What should we be doing with this knowledge? Let's keep going. What does it say? I want to make sure I get my reference here. Alright, verse 6. What does it say? So then Let us not sleep as others do, but let us be alert and sober. Alright? We are to be on the alert and sober-minded. What does that mean to be sober-minded? All right, turn over to Ephesians for me. Let's start in Ephesians 5. Let's start in verse 17. We were here before. So then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. Remember we talked about the will of the Lord, I think it was last week. Verse 18, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. So here's the contrast. Here's being sober-minded. And he uses drunkenness as a a contrast 'cause what happens when you are drunk? What are you controlled by? Alcohol. Right, you are now controlled by alcohol. What does it mean to be filled by the spirit then? To be controlled by the spirit. To be controlled by the spirit. Right? When you hear that phrase to be filled by the Spirit, it means to be controlled or yielding. Remember, we talked about the Spirit. Who is the Spirit? Our helper, our Parakletos. Right, our encourager, our intercessor, our exhorter, our admonisher, our implorer, right? Coming alongside. That's the Holy Spirit, the the permanent indwelling, and we are to be filled with the Spirit. Look though at uh you're in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30 And it says, do and do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. What does it mean to grieve? How do we grieve the Holy Spirit, Abby? To continue on living in sin. Right? To live in sin, to not read your Bible, to um become callous in your heart. To grieve means to make sorrowful Right? The Holy Spirit has emotions. You can make the Holy Spirit sorrowful because you are not yielding Okay? Um we'll talk later. We can also uh we are warned not to quench the Holy Spirit. So again to Dawn's question, how are we to act knowing that um the Lord can come at any time? But we will not be taken by surprise. Right? Surprise in the sense that they're out of time. We will not be out of time. Because we are new creatures in Christ. Yeah. I have great clarification, right? Don't be looking for anything. Focus on your conduct. That's what Paul's going to focus on here. And you're going to see late the later part of chapter 5 is all about your Christian conduct. Focus on obedience to Christ. That's the sign. That's what we are commanded to do. Don't be looking for signs. Okay? Focus on your Christian conduct. That's what we're going to be talking about. Right, really good question. I know this is maybe a hard concept, but let's see what Paul says. All right, in light of the day of the Lord, his returning, what is Paul's instruction? I owe to your point. What are we supposed to be doing? What are we supposed to be looking for? Let's see what Paul says. And sober minded. That's how he starts. And then he's going to get very specific. Right? And that's how we need to apply it to our lives. That's why it's so exciting. Alright, so we talk about sober-mindedness. This idea of being alert. Let's go back to Thessalonians chapter 5. Chapter seven uh Chapter eight but since we are of the day, let us be sober Right, being of the day, meaning we are new creatures in Christ, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet, the hope of salvation Is that uh a familiar passage to anybody? Where where do we find that? Ephesians five. Ephesians six if you want to turn there real quick. The armor of God, right? Ephesians 6 goes into this um long detail starting in verse 10. I'll read that real quick. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the full armor of God that you may be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places Therefore take up the full armor of God that you may be able to resist in the evil day and having done everything to stand firm Stand firm, therefore, having girded your loin with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace. In addition to all, taking up the shield of faith with which you will be able to extinguish all the flaming missiles of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Um we could do a couple series just on this these passages right here in the armor of God, but I don't know about in your Bible but in the Nazvi, you know, many of those references um Gird your loins with truth, uh having put on the breastplate of righteousness, are all in bold, meaning they are a reference to Old Testament prophecy. And I think every reference in my Bible points back to Isaiah. So Paul, I think, quotes most Isaiah when he goes back to the Old Testament. But again Paul, um an avid, avid student of Scripture, especially the Old Testament, bringing back Old Testament, you know, Scripture and prophecy Um but here he talks about putting on the armor of God. There is a recognition that this is a spiritual battle. And this came up at our conference this week and one of the quotes was um absolutely recognize their spiritual warfare, but don't dwell on it. Put your armor on it. Right? That's the action that we have and you can see all the the different references here. So Paul, you know, often used the military reference. you know, putting on the full armor of God. I have a note in my Bible. Um, you know, gird your loins, the breastplate of righteousness, shod your feet um with the gospel of peace, the shield of faith, the helmet of salvation Or you can think of many of those as defensive measures, things you do to defend yourself. And then the sword of the spirit and praying are offensive. You know, those are your weapons. But but what do we hear about youthful lusts? What are we to do? Are we to stand firm and fight? Flee. We are to flee our youthful lust. Right, we are to resist Satan. We do that with scripture. We do that with the sword of the spirit. That's what Jesus did, right? Coming out of the desert for 40 days. He quoted Deuteronomy. So we see this idea back to the question, how are what are we supposed to do now? The day of the Lord is coming. What should we be looking for? And what does Paul say? Be alert. Be sober-minded. Put on the full armor of God. And he's going to continue, though, with some very detailed indicatives. So we'll get into those in a second here. Okay? Alright, back to Thessalonians All right. Let me pick up in verse nine. Paul's gonna uh continue to encourage them. For God has not destined us for wrath but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Remember we talked about this term wrath a couple chapters ago. Many commentators believe this is not a reference to the tribulation that is coming, but rather eternal wrath Why? Because he says, salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. That's the contrast. For God has not denied us destin us for wrath, but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us that whether we are awake or asleep, we may live together with him. It's right, readdressing this issue. Those who are already dead, asleep, will enjoy the Lord forever. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another just as you also are doing. This is idea of excelling still more. You're doing exactly what you're supposed to be doing. Keep doing it. Keep encouraging the brothers and sisters. Okay? And now we get into he kind of concludes the final chapter with this segment 12 through 28 on um Christian conduct. Paul concludes by reminding them to stay focused on their Christian conduct. This would be the imperatives on your worksheet. You want a bunch of imperatives? You're gonna get a bunch. Alright? I'm gonna give you the the condensed version here, and we'll walk through those. And again, I great question, Don. I love it. How what are we supposed to be doing? We know the Lord is coming, it's imminent, could happen at any time. How should we what should we do? Should we run to the hills? Right? Should we go in the bunker underneath No, Paul says. Conduct yourself this way. Right? And this is what we're gonna go through. And we'll just run, skim through these and and pause at a couple places. So it starts with but we request you, brethren, that you appreciate those who diligently labor among you and have charge over you in the Lord and give you instruction. That you esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Who is he talking about here? Elders and Pastors Elders Okay? Um I feel a little bit weird asking this, but think when I ask this, think Pastor Gabe, Pastor Mike, Pastor Alan, Pastor Rob. How can you show them esteem? How can you show your pastors esteem? Carolyn. Easy to leave. Easy to leave. Okay. Good one. What else? Encourage. Encourage. You know, let me tell you guys, especially your senior pastor. Can carry a weight that you guys will never see by design. Alright, we there is a plurality of elders. When we're in an elder board, we all have an equal vote But because he is the senior pastor, he is often that that uh face to the world and even to a congregation. Naturally a lot of people will go to him first with problems and issues, right? He carries a weight that that many of us will never know. So you need to be praying for for Pastor Gate, encouraging him right in his sermons and what he's preaching. Um and don't be afraid to be like the Bereans, that's okay, that's our job. But don't underestimate the the weight that that some of these men carry because they they care passionately about you guys and this flock that they've been given responsibility for. Okay? So yes, don't um it's easy to critique and and I get that because they're visible. Uh that's part of leadership that comes with the role and responsibility, but we are commanded here to appreciate, to esteem your elders who have been called and will give an account one day. Okay? Excuse me. Okay. Um verse thirteen. Again, another uh imperative. Live in peace with one another. Right? Being at peace with one another is often in our control. We can control that. To be at peace with one another. Verse 14. And we urge you, brethren, admonish. So we're going to get into this section now where we're going to talk about a variance of group of people. And these are believers. Paul's letter is to the church. at Thessalonica. And we urge you, brethren, admonish the unruly, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, and be patient with all men. Have you seen those different types of people here at Hope Bible Church? Have you been in maybe different camps at different seasons of your life? Absolutely. So what does it mean to admonish? Um actually if you go up to back up to verse 12, I anyone have the ESV? Well how does the ESV uh read at the end? Admonish, right? So it what is that in in the Nazvi it says charge over you in the Lord and give you instruction. The ESV says admonish. So this idea of admonish is to give instruction, to exhort to come alongside. A warning. Right? It can be a warning. And who for who? The unruly. To be unruly is undisciplined or idle. Have we been in that position where we've been unruly or idle, backsliding? Right? Do we know people in the church that are in that condition? Yes. How are we to treat them? We are to admonish them. We're to come alongside them. And sometimes that means truth, but with love, with graciousness, but speaking the truth. Okay? It's an admonishment And that's okay. That's how we love our brothers and sisters in Christ. The next one, encourage, is to build up the faint-hearted, faint-hearted, timid, fearful, easily discouraged. Do you know people like that? Absolutely. How are we to act? We are to encourage them. You remember the verbs we talked about a couple chapters ago, to exhort, to encourage, to implore. That's the action that we're supposed to be taking. And in this particular case, recognizing the faint-hearted to encourage The next one, to help, to hold firmly, to devoted to the weak. This does not give you the premise of, you know, hey, a quick prayer. Right, this idea of help is this this long term devotion to help those who might be weak, weak in their faith, maybe immature in their faith, having gone through a cris a crisis a crisis Um we need to help them, hold firmly to them. And then to be patient, to persevere with all. How do you know who you're dealing with when you meet somebody on a Sunday morning and say, how's it going? They say, uh, it's going okay. How do how do you know which group they're in? How do you how do you know how to treat them? Do I need to be patient and just a good listener or do they need a bit of admonishment? How do you know? Discernment. It starts with first of all being a really good listener. Being a really good listener and truly praying for them. It takes discernment. And you get that discernment by being in the Word. Love that. If you didn't hear Glenn, it's an investment of time and energy into that person. Anyone who has come alongside someone who is easily discouraged Who is weak in their faith, it takes an investment. Is that a sanctifying event for you? Absolutely. And isn't that God's will for us? to be sanctified. His will, his desire, his purpose is for us to be more and more made into the image of Christ. So don't run from it. See it as an opportunity to grow. That's not how we think But that's what we are encouraged, commanded to do. Alright, verse fifteen. See that no one repays another with evil for evil, but always seek after that which is good for one another and for all men. So again, seeking that which is good for one another. All right, verse 16, rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. In everything give thanks, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. So we talked last week, all right, about where it clearly talks about the will of God, and we talked about four areas. Anyone remember what those were? God's will is your sanct uh salvation, right? Your sanctification, your submission, and you need another S saying thanks. Right, so we see that again. But this idea of rejoice always, pray without ceasing, in everything give thanks, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. Where have we seen that before? Philippians Philippians four, four through seven, right? Very similar language that Paul uses. These are all imperatives, guys. These are all commands, instructions for us to do what Don asks. Right? In in light, in view of the day of the Lord coming, it's going to happen. What should we be doing? We should be acting this way. This is what we need to be focusing on. Does that make sense? Okay. Alright, and then verse 19. We talked a little bit about this earlier. Do not quench the spirit. To quench is to extinguish. Suppress the work of the Holy Spirit. Again, how can we quench the Spirit? By sinning, by not obeying. When the Holy Spirit is convincing us of something, to to to step out in faith, to go up to that brother, you know you're going to get an earful. But you feel the Holy Spirit leading you to invest in them, right? To to disobey that, you're quenching the Spirit. Does it mean that you lose the Holy Spirit Everyone says no. We know God's truth. When you are born again, you have the permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit. You never lose that. But the decision we make every day is to be filled, yield, or control to the Spirit, or to quench or greed the Holy Spirit. That's what's happening throughout the day. We are told not to quench the spirit. Alright, let's keep going. Do not despise prophetic utterances, but examine everything carefully. Hold fast to that which is good. Abstain from every form of evil. So this idea of prophetic utterances, again I'm reading from a commentary from John MacArthur. This word can refer to a spoken revelation from God, but most often refers to the written word of Scripture. Alright, so Paul very likely is talking about the written word of Scripture here. Do not despise the written word. Do not despise the reading of it. And what are we to do with it? He tells us examine it, to examine this, to analyze, tear apart, test with fire. That's what that means. Everything carefully. Who did that in the Bible? The Bereans, right? We always talk about be like the Bereans. This is what they were doing. They were excited to receive Paul. They wanted to hear the word and they wanted to align it. They wanted to test it against the scripture that they had We need to be the same way. We need to examine it carefully. And then what do we do with it? We hold fast to that which is good. When we are dealing with an issue or we need to make a decision and it aligns with Scripture, we are to hold fast. Take possession, seize it. That's what that means. The reverse of that, the contrast, if it doesn't align, we are to abstain or push away every form of evil. And this is where we talk about fleeing the lusts of the flesh. Right? If we see something that is not aligning, we have a temptation, we are to flee from it. 2 Timothy 2. 22. Flee the lust of the flesh. Okay? Alright, and then Paul finally concludes 1 Thessalonians at the very end here with what I will call a benediction. I initially had it written as a prayer. Some speaker at the conference made this distinction to say a benediction is not a prayer but a proclamation. It's a blessing or a good word from the Lord. Slight play on words maybe. You can absolutely pray through a benediction. That's okay. But I think um the comment was why does everyone have their eyes open when you give the benediction Um and it was probably Sinclair F Ferguson with some of his Scottish wit that you know retorted, but he came back to say it it's not really a prayer, it's a proclamation, right? Um so when Pastor Mike gives the benediction, I want all your eyes open on T. But but listen to these words Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you entirely. We remember God's will, his desire for you is sanctification. We know that's a synergistic work. Yes, it includes you making decisions every day, but who is that work in you? God, the Holy Spirit. The permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Now may the God of peace, these are indicatives, these are truths. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you entirely And may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete. Again, Paul's trying to talk about that unification of body and spirit, right, at that time of glorification. without blame at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, that defining moment, the day of the Lord, where there will be judgment. Faithful is he who calls you, and he also will bring it to pass. That's a promise. From God, that if you were called, if you are saved, He will bring all of this to pass. Your sanctification Brethren, pray for us, greet all the brethren with a holy kiss. I adjure you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the brethren. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Alright, so we will conclude here. Your homework is to read chapter 1 of 2 Thessalonians. Again, Carrie's going to give you kind of an intro to 2 Thessalonians. I want to share with you though real quick, 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 Verse 3, let no one in any way deceive you, for it will not come unless the apostasy comes first and the man of lawlessness is revealed the son of destruction. So back to Don's point, Paul still is going to address this issue of here are some of the things that are going to happen. Now, if we go through the tribulation, right, if the pretribers are wrong, we will go through the tribulation. These are some of the things that we will see before the day of the Lord happens Okay? So if it turns out we're wrong and we go through that, we will see signs. If it turns out we get raptured, we're not going to see any of that. And the instruction from Paul is focus on your conduct Focus on your behavior. Be alert. Stay sober. Do everything listed on this chart. And we can do that. Why? Because we have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. That's the difference. Alright. A lot we covered today. A lot of good stuff. Let me pray.