So uh again, uh I hope you've looked at uh uh 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Um He talks about end times, he's gonna talk about some things, but let's kind of review where these people where these people are because we f we forget, I forget. They're under heavy persecution and um he's writing this letter to remind them um Uh a and he told them before, uh, we're not destined for the day of wrath. He told him that in in uh First Thessalonians one, uh uh what is it, uh five nine, he says, uh Yeah. God is not destined us for wrath, but for obtaining uh salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Uh I believe he said it in chapter one. Um Uh Yeah. Uh the wait for his son, uh we're the wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, that is Jesus who rescues us from the wrath of to come. He's looking at something future. And these people are in persecution, so of course they're thinking we're in the day of the Lord. And as we look at this letter, uh people were telling them that Uh so that that's kind of the big picture. Um we have all yeah, I I just want to address this just briefly. Um you know, uh those of us who interpret uh eschatology end times, that's all eschatos means and um uh end time events, uh uh uh there are the different camps, uh Christopher alluded to this, dispensationalism and I am I am a ca I I I don't like labels because now you gotta define the label. And MacArthur once said that he was a leaky dispensationalist and I thought Okay, what does that mean, right? So now we gotta define what is the space dispensational is what the l you know we are in the c this church we we would be labeled dispensationalists because we are um Premillennialist means we believe that Christ will come before the millennium. Uh there are millennials who don't believe in that. If you believe that Christ will come before and there is a millennial reign, you are gonna be labeled by other people dispensationalist Just so you know. Um but he and I just want to point out one thing and then we'll get into the text because other I I the The the way I set this up today is primarily I'm gonna try and interpret everything that's in Second Thessalonians with other texts. We're gonna be reading a lot of Bible. And I think if we read it we'll kinda see uh the explanations are there, but you have to kinda slow down and look at some of the the key phrases in there But what I want to say about dispensationalists, we knew I knew somebody from a previous church we're at we're in a small group. He visited this church a couple times Man, I don't remember who was preaching, but our preacher got up there and he goes, and so I saw him after the service and he goes, I didn't know you guys were Calvinist. And I said, Well, you mean yeah, we believe in in predestination and in uh your chosen m 'Cause he thought we were dispensationalists. And there's this camp that goes, Well you're dispensationalist. That means you're not a cow, you know what I'm saying? You see what I'm saying with these labels Well we believe literally. It says and there he says we'll look at that to uh uh s um Chosen is in this text today, is it not? We're chosen from the foundation of the world. Beginning uh uh uh verse thirteen Uh God has chosen you from the beginning for salvation. Uh you see what it happens with labels though? You we y y you have to be careful. We could and and I do this all the time with with words. I say, you know what, sometimes I don't like to talk about shirts 'cause there's so much baggage with church. I said, think of it as God we're God's assembly. That's really what Ecclesia means. But you know, once we put that church thing on there then there's all this other things that uh I I w I did a baptism class. And somebody in the baptism class was going, Well well will he be cleansed? I'm going I'm thinking, Yeah, if he's dirty You know. I said if you're not saved, that water is not gonna do you any good at all. What the pastor says is not gonna work. You are you are given a public But you see all the baggage that comes with baptism and especially from different denominations. So that's all prelude, so I just said that, uh, but if anything, uh we The main thing is the Word of God. We read it literally. Glenn and I were talking about that. When it means literally, if we use assimiles, so-and-so is light Well, obviously he's using an example, but he's talking about something is like something about Something that's literal. He just said there you he can't describe it any other way. If we use, you know, different uh uh metaphors and things like that. We're talking about it's a metaphor for something that is literal. And that's where the the difficulty comes. We le we read it literally Grammatically. We use the tools of grammar. This is hermeneutics, exegesis. I mean how else are you gonna read it if you start making up things? you can go astray. Uh and uh we we we read it historically and that's the real difficult thing with Bible study on a scholarly level to real that's a lot of work. Word studies and historical studies are a lot of work because okay, it these this message was written to an original audience And th l let's not forget that. We we zoom too fast to applying it to ourselves for today. But we have f first you gotta we have to kind of stay there for a minute what was the original audience. And and sometimes that help us uh well, it helps dramatically with the interpretation. And and those things take time and it's it's a lot of work. But having said that, uh let's start to get into the text here. So, Second Testament, well why don't we read it? Somebody wanna volunteer to read it seventeen verses. Somebody's gonna volunteer If not, read half of it and somebody can pick up the second half. Second Thessalonians chapter two. Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken. In mind or alarm, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come Let no one deceive you in any way, for that day will not come unless the rebellion comes first, and the ma'am of lawlessness is revealed. the Song of Destruction, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God proclaiming himself to be that. Do you not remember? Do you not remember that when I was still with you? I told you these things And you know that what is restraining him now so that he may be revealed in his time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way. And then the lawless one will be Whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing but the appearance of his coming The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan, with all power and false eyes and wonders, and with all wicked deception for those who are perishing. Because they refuse to love the truth and so be saved. Therefore, God sends them to a strong delusion So that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who did not believe the truth, but have pleasure in unrighteousness But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved through sanctification by the Spirit and believe. And the truth. To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. So then, brothers, stand firm And hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our letter. Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God are from Father who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace, comfort your hearts and establish them in every good word and heart. Thank you. Uh w just one note, um, because we get we could get lost in the weeds. Um Uh but verse three, uh three and four. Uh let no one in any way deceive you, uh, for it will not come unless the apostasy comes first at the day of the Lord, right? and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself above every so called God or object of worship so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, displaying himself as being God Just a big picture because I know it we get lost. This is a timing thing that n no other scripture is given. He gives that Paul's given something here and this story of eschatology and he's telling 'em the day of the Lord and he's giving 'em a marker right here. So if you If you don't remember anything else, just remember in 2 Thessalonians 2, there's a marker for the day of the Lord. So having said that, let's jump in. Verse uh one and two. Now I used New American Standard. We had a little discussion about this before. Um It's a translation that you know that I went through when I went through school and w you know, we kinda memorized Uh I we had people uh our college that I went to kind of uh recommended this. But we had professors at the college that went were like new King James because he says, you know, it's what I went through all my life he goes These are the way the verses I rem uh memorized it. Gabe changed uh to ESV because he said, This is what I went through when I went to seminary. I know this version So there they're New King James, ESV, uh New American Standard, uh they're all good translations So, now we request you, brethren, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and are gathering together to Him that you be quickly shaken from your composure. Or be disturbed either by a spirit or a message or a letter as this from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come So Paul he's um he's transitioning from a prayer in in chapter uh one And he's saying, look, we request, we beseech, we beg. Okay? It it's it's uh it's it's kind of a it's not just we don't just ask. He's using a specific word here uh you know it has it has some um exhortation, some some personality to it, that they won't be shaken or concerned about the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, a gathering together to him. Again, remember they're in persecution. So of course, you know, uh uh the other main thing I want to say is don't forget, Paul is writing this letter and he's comforting these people. He says, be comforted. It th we can sometimes look at it academically and just make it, oh, it's an eschatology, blah blah blah, we know this or we know that These people are in the midst of it. He's trying to comfort 'em with these promises. Uh w we can make I I I can fall into it. We can make an intellectual. Um don't get lost in that. Uh So the w uh the word coming is Greek parousia and it kinda has a s theological bent because you again a Greek they have three words for coming and for come they have uh I saw vines had like thirty-seven different forms of it, right? So but Perousia has a theological benefit that is used for Christ's returning to Earth or having his presence on earth. It's uh the parousia. Uh and you you'll hear this in theological circ circles. But the reason I really want to point this out is because the Antichrist, the man of lawlessness Right? Now the counterfeit of Christ is coming, perousia to the earth, and and uh uh and he is the essence of Satan's really. This is in two nine Look the con it's always look at the contrast, right? He's we uh we're gonna use throw some terms out. Antichrist. He's he's not the real thing But he poses himself as being the real thing, right? Uh it's confusing sometimes we talk about types. Christ is an anti-type. Any type? That sounds negative He's not a type, right? He is the Christ. When you think of it that way it makes sense, right? But the Antichrist uh i is he wants to be worshipped Uh we're gonna point that out. It that's his goal. He wants control. He's gonna control everything, but ultimately Satan wants the worship the that's due to God The emphasis here is placed on gathering together to him, right? Uh in First Thessalonians Paul told the church that they wouldn't uh uh they would be caught up with Christ in the air Right? The Chris looked at that, First Thessalonians four sixteen and seventeen. They were not destined to experience the wrath of the day of the Lord. Um really and and uh not having the wrath with the uh first Thessalonians one ten and five nine but that whole section is he he's war he's telling 'em about that Uh you're not gonna be uh we're not we're children of the light, not of the darkness, we're not gonna experience a wrath The church was shaken and fearful, look, because the false l uh leaders and and uh were teachers and they had received a message from God Okay, i he says in that that verse, either by a spirit, right, a message, uh somebody could have been preaching it, a sermon message. Um Or a letter. Somebody obviously had written a letter. And I have down here 317. If you look at the end of that, 317, Paul says, look Because I Paul write this greeting with my own hand, and this is a distinguishing mark in every letter. This is the way I write So the he's right he says, look at the way I write. Now I don't want to go down a long path with this or speculation, you know, he's losing his sight with writing big letters But nonetheless, you know, you you can tell somebody's uh something was distinctive. He goes, This is the way I write, this is an authentic letter We always gonna have I mean that that creeps into the church. We that's why we need to be grounded in the Word, because it creeps into our church and and every church. There's all kinds of doctrines and demons, you know, it just has to be a little bit off. That's all Satan wants to do. Let's get you a little bit off target here I'll take you down the path later, you know. But just stray away from the truth. And look, uh think about it. Uh again, put yourself in their place. a lot of the I don't know what the literacy was, but they certainly didn't have access to these scrolls. They were red and uh you know, these are precious. Even though Greek The one thing about it, we have more discrepancies in Greek than Hebrew, but there was also a lot more copies. So, you know, that that was a good thing too. Uh but So they're gonna get it. They they uh somebody can come in and look like an authentic uh preacher and and let's face it, there are some charismatic authors, always uh have been and always will be. Um So I I break off. What what is the the day of the Lord? Well, I'm gonna read these passages. Um And so this is Isaiah on this first one. Wail for the day of the Lord is near. It will come as a destruction from the Almighty. Therefore all hands will fall limp, and every man's heart will melt. They will be terrified. Pains and anguish will take hold of them. They will rise like a woman in labor. They will look at one another in astonishment. Their faces aflame. Behold, the day of the Lord is coming, cruel and uh cruel with fury and burning anger, to make the land des a desolation. And he will exterminate its sinners from it. Key verse there. What's the goal there? God is putting this out as punishment. He's gonna the the the key there is the reason it's happening is because there's sinners in it For the stars of heaven and their constellations will not flash forth their light. The sun will uh will be dark when it rises rises, and the moon will uh not shed its light. Thus I will punish the world for its evil and the wicked for their iniquity. I will also put an end to the arrogance of the proud and abase the hardiness uh of the root of the ruthless. Again, just read it literally. You know why the this is the day of the Lord This is not and and here's the thing, we w w uh when we're in persecution and and uh we see this around the world, uh uh uh if you read any of the post uh on uh uh hope and life uh that are posted about Christian persecution. Uh you see what's the it can seem like the day of the Lord, but persecution and the day of the Lord are two different things. Who was who was throwing this out, all this persecution? Who's who's the instigator of this in in the verse I verses I just read? Who's who's putting out all this rap? Who? Yeah. It's coming from God. This is the wrath of God. You see you we're gonna have to separate that and you'll see this as we move forward. Because in Revelation you kinda have both, don't you? You have Satan unleashed And really look at that as sin, uh this more, as sin comes to its fruition, I would say, to its its its height, its completion But simultaneously, who's who's darkening the sky? Is Satan doing that? No. You got both going on. We'll look at why in a minute. So here's another one. This is Zephaniah. Near is the great day of the Lord, near and coming very quickly. Listen, uh, the day of the Lord. It is in uh uh in it the warrior cries out bitterly A day of wrath is that day, a day of trouble and distress, a day of destruction and desolation, a day of darkness and gloom A day of clouds and thick darkness, a day of trumpets and battle cries, against the fortified cities and the high corner towers. I will bring distress on men so that they will walk like the blind, because they have sinned against the Lord. Again It's clear, it's right there. Why? He's torn because of sin. He's trying to convict them. And their blood will be poured out like dust, and their flesh like dumb Neither their silver nor their gold will be able to deliver them on the day of the Lord's wrath And on the earth will be devoured, uh excuse me, all on the earth will be devoured in fire of his jealousy, for he will make a complete end, indeed a terrifying one Again, this is the day of the Lord. This is initiated by God. So I have here uh Esc uh the Eschatolog Eschatolog well I wrote it Eschatol Eschat Eschatological Day of the Lord. I'll get it And it doesn't really say the day of the Lord here, but but listen to this because I I think you'll see this is the gist of of what it is. The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues, I'm bringing you in, he's had a series of plagues that God has put down on him did not repent of the works of their hands, so as to worship demons, so as not to worship demons and the aisles of gold and of silver and of brass and of stone and of wood, which can neither see, nor hear, nor walk They did not repent of their murders, nor their sorceries, nor of their immorality, nor of their thefts. He's bringing all this on here and what did the people not do? Repent. Repent. He's he's and you can see he's not saying it but you can see the gist of God. Okay? You and they and you you'll see it here that they they cry out, they know where this is coming from Uh so the second one here. Men were scorched with fierce heat, and they blasphemed the name of God who has the power over these plagues. So they know who's doing it and they're mad at him, right? And they did not repent so as to give him glory. Then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast And his kingdom became darkened, and they gnawed their tongues because of the pain. And they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pain and their sword, and they did not repent of their deeds. So you can see you have simultaneously here, uh, in verse ten, the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast in his kingdom. So this again the beast he uses this is the Antichrist. You can see simultaneously got things going on. Both are happening at the same time. But if if you don't get anything and you read in Revelation, a lot of people are going to be saved in the tribulation We are blessed. We get saved in this this period, in the grace period. But uh but a lot of people are going to be saved And God is pouring out this and you can see they didn't repent. You can see what he's striving for. He wants people to come to God. He gets to worship Eternal damnation. And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever. They have no rest day and night, those who worship the beast in his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name. You know, again, it this is bad. Persecution's bad. It's horrible But it's not eternal damnation. That is at a new level And we just I think I like what R. C. Sol Sproll said. He goes, you know, if you saw anybody in hell, uh in the tr in, you know, lake of fire, whatever you want to call it, he goes Ye after about five minutes you probably say, you know, maybe we should let him out. Yeah, I think we just don't understand. It's Think about it on so many levels. Pain, whatever, but it's separation from all life. God is life. There's no life in in uh separ apart from him. And that's really what sin is, separation from God, right? It's all things against Sign of the day of the Lord. Let no one and this is uh I what I tried to do with all this text because I have a lot of text in here, I italicized the one of them uh uh the other text. And I I just um left uh the Thessalonian test in the same help me if nobody else. Let no one in any way deceive you, for it will not come unless the apostasy comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction who opposes and exalts himself above every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, displaying himself as being God Do you remember that while I was still with you, I was telling you these things? Uh so the Thessalonians were fearful, the day of the Lord, they are in persecution, these um uh persuasive people and uh false letters had come to 'em and uh um They didn't know. They they were they were being deceived. The Thessalonians were fearful, falling, uh prey to the deception of false teachers. The word uh uh deceived is stronger than uh word is defi it's defined, it's it's uh deceived completely, enticed, delude. Um almost you could say can you use the word carried away The word or message or the the letter uh contradicted Paul what Paul had taught uh in the first letter, right, and what he had spoken to. Paul reminds the church that he had taught them uh the coming of the day of the Lord, right? Oh it was it he told 'em about this. He told 'em about the rapture, they're not gonna be destined for for wrath. Um But again, you know, uh w well we are forgetful, unforgettable. Which is why we need to be in the word. Um uh You know, and it's uh you know, I do some counseling and I do uh but I really do uh uh jail ministry, which is really kind of a counseling And um you can see uh some of these guys are saved and and but you know, as you walk in sin, uh y you can even start to question your salvation Y you know, you y you're saved, but y you may not feel like it. If you uh and uh I think we've all been to highs and lows, mountain tops and valleys, so w we kind of know that experience Um we may not get to the point where we don't think we're safe, but you kinda like sometimes, you know, God what are you doing here? I you or you you just feel that you don't feel that distance. It's uh uh that perseverance that you have to rely. I know this. I'll feel it. Yeah. I'm not feeling it right now, but I know this is true And you know, it's the it's easy to forget. Man of lawlessness, Antichrist, Daniel speaks of four kingdoms that rule over Israel in the Middle East from the uh fourth and final kingdom will emerge, uh Littlehorn of the Antichrist. Um, I don't know how familiar you are with this, but it uh, you know, he talks about four kingdoms and uh We dispensationalists, if you want to label it, we we look at is Babylon. Uh Neo-Persia, which kind of took over Babylon, Greece, and Rome. Seems to be the kingdoms uh that were there, and he describes them at all with all this imagery. And one thing about all these kingdoms is not like he said, Well what about the other parts of the earth? What in China? You know, what's going on down in South America with the Incas or whatever But all these kingdoms have one thing in common when you think about these powers. They all had different realms, you know. Rome was kind of west, you know, uh Babylon, obviously east. Uh Greece West, but you know they went very far east. But they all have one thing in common. They all occupied and controlled Israel Israel is God's focus. He's talking to Daniel. He's an Israelite. He's praying for his nation. And this is God's nation. This is his representative people But they all occupied Israel uh during that time. That's key, 'cause you can see there if you you have a map, you have a look at some of the kingdoms Uh every one of them encompasses Israel, some may go more a lot more west and uh but uh That's the key here. After this I kept looking in the night vision and behold a fourth beast, dreadful and terrifying and extremely strong And it had large iron teeth. It devoured and crushed and trampled down the remainder with its feet. Uh and it was different from all the other beasts that was before it. It had ten horns While I was contemplating uh the horns, behold, another horn, a little horn, uh, came up among them. Three of the first horns were pulled out by its roots before it And behold, the horn possess eyes, uh, like the eyes of a man, and mouth uttering great boasts. So he's spoken in here on one horn And then here in verse twenty-one, I kept looking, the horn was waging war with the saints and overpowering them. Verse 23. Thus he says, the fourth beast will be a fourth kingdom. So the angel is interpreting for it. He's telling him what these things symbolize. And he told him earlier, he identifies in Daniel what some of the kingdoms are. He tells them directly it's Greece, Medo, Persia So Akepla uh he said the fourth beast is uh will be a fourth kingdom on the earth which will be different from all the other kingdoms. And will devour the whole earth and tread it down and crush it Uh we take that literally. The whole earth. None of these kingdoms took the whole earth. They had they uh you know, might say they ruled all the whole world, but that world, that center empire, you know, was was the known empire to the audience, but we take that literally. This one will encompass the whole earth. He will speak out uh against the most high, wear down the saints of the highest one. Uh and he will intend to make alterations to time in law and they will be given uh into his hand for a time times and a half You're gonna see these numbers come up and you'll see 'em again. You have to look progressively. It's times, times and a half, three and a half years. They'll say forty-two months. He says forty-two months And uh anyway, it says forty-two months, three and a half years. Sometimes he'll use number of days, but it's three and a half years Okay, and and uh this period uh Christopher started to tell you about uh we'll look at it a little bit about uh Daniel chapter nine But it's it's we says he goes seventy weeks is what we uh uh translate it as. But it's really seventy sevens That's the Hebrew, that's the literal reading of it. So it's seventy sevens of what? Uh it can't be weeks. Uh it it just doesn't work. Uh years works uh works out with the timetable with these things. But it's 77, so and you know, again how you interpret it, it's not uh weeks necessarily Then after 62 weeks, and here is uh I didn't read you this. Uh this is Daniel 8, 24, 25, his power will be mighty but not by his own power. And he will destroy to an extor extraordinary degree And prosper and perform his will, and he will destroy mighty men and holy peoples. And through his shrewdness He will cause deceit to succeed by his influence, and he will magnify himself in his heart, and he will destroy many while they are at ease He will even oppose the Prince of Princes, but he will be broken without human agency. So you can see a lot of that this illusion is is really going into what we're seeing here. is his own power. We're going to talk about this in chapter 2. He doesn't do it by his own power. He has another power. We're going to talk about this in Thessalonians. It's in here. Through his shrewdness he will succeed in influence. Um We're going to see uh that uh the Antichrist, uh, when he first comes, he doesn't come as a vicious lion, he comes as a peacemaker Um he will magnify himself. Um even when people are at ease, uh he's gonna make peace Uh people are gonna we're gonna see in Daniel nine he makes a covenant and he will even oppose the prince of princes. Who's that? Huh? Yeah. The the Messiah, the anointed one, the Christ. Uh uh yep. Then after 62 weeks, this is Daniel 9. This is that s if if you hear it, you use you know they'll label it the 70 weeks Then after sixty-two weeks or sixty-two sevens, the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing. And the people of the Prince who is to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. So who's uh anointed one that's gonna be cut off? Jesus. Yeah. Just make it sure we're tracking here. That's just the answer for everything. Uh well it really is. Well it is. I mean wha wha what do they say? Uh uh uh y you hear uh theologians say everything uh bef uh uh the old uh all the Old Testament points to the cross. Everything after the cross points back to it. The cross and the resurrection. It's is I mean, because really, what's happening here? We're being redeemed. We're in a fallen world. Without Christ, uh w we're gonna be s we are separated from God until we're saved. We're enemies of God Yeah, it yeah, it's the same theme. The gospel's simple, isn't it? Really is Uh so now when I went off that tangent, what did I read you? Uh and it's uh so um Let me start at the beginning. Then after sixty-two weeks the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing. And the people of the prince, who is to come, will destroy the city and the sanctuary. And its end will come with a flood. Even to the end there will be war, desolations, are determined. And he will make a firm covenant with many For one week. But in the middle of the week he will put a stop to sacrifices and grain offerings and on the wing of abomination will come one who makes desolate even until a complete destruction. One that is decreed is poured out on the one who makes desolate. There's gonna be a covenant. See, and this is where we interpret it as the the uh Messiah's cut off, Jesus comes Right? Uh the uh Israel by and large rejects him. Right? Paul becomes a uh apostle to the Gentiles. There are there's always a remnant. Uh but uh there's gonna be another covenant and uh We believe that's the Antichrist. He's going to come in peace. He's going to make a covenant. He's going to bring peace. The man of lawlessness will make peace and bring order to the world. He will make a covenant with Israel before he is revealed. I look and behold, a white horse, with one who sat on it. uh the one he sat on it had a bow and a crown was given to him and he went out conquering to conquer Okay, he's on a white horse. This is Revelation uh chapter six. This is the beginning uh of the uh opening uh of the uh tribulation. Uh God's starting to pour out his wrath. And this one on a white horse he has a bow, but he has there's no arrows here. And uh a lot of the uh uh interpreters uh see this as what he's gonna do, he's gonna conquer. He's gonna he's gonna make peace with the world He's gonna bring the world together. We're s where uh y you know, it's funny. Um I'm not going down that path. Not gonna make it I'm not gonna, you know, uh But I can't help it. I can't help it. I look at what uh Trump is not the Antichrist, but if you look at what he did with the peace in the Middle East He really didn't get the P. What he did was he went and he's got the air of world was the one who put pressure on Hamas, not him It was and he didn't have you know, he didn't say, Oh Israel's gonna crush you. He did. But the air world came to him and I believe what they told uh Hamas was, Look, this is the best deal you're gonna get, take it. And if you go back even before that, look at what he did when he went to Qatar and he had that summit with all those Arab nations. And he even spoke there and said, Look, this this war that's going on He goes, you know, 'cause they ha already had that accord. He said this war going on, this this this this is just they were over there on the economic summit really If you look at what Trump took with him, he took a lot of business people. And and the Arabs are are starting to move away. They don't want to become just dependent on oil. If you look they're into business, they're into uh uh AI, they're invested in a lot of this stuff. They want to become less dependent on oil. Trump went over there, he built relationships with these guys And basically what he's telling them is, if you have war, we're not gonna be able to do business. And they're it's the same thing. And I think that's what's gonna happen with this with the ultimate antichrist. There's going to be wars and rumors of wars and he's going to make peace and things, you know, people are going to prosper And then he's in the middle of the week, he's gonna turn on him, and you're gonna you're gonna find out exactly who he is. So look at this, Zechariah. Zechariah kind of a contemporary of Daniel Alright, Zechariah is writing, he and Haggai are exhorting the Israelites to continue to build the uh temple. They got the altar built and if you remember a little bit about your Ezra Nehemiah, they ran into all that opposition and and they stopped building So this is early on, and Zechariah is uh exhorting them. But look at what he says. Um this is Zechariah 11. 7 So this is much later. Zechariah had a long ministry. I pastured the flock, did them to slaughter, hence the afflicted of the flock. And I took for my s uh for myself two staffs. One I called favor, the other I called union So I pastured the flock. Now he this will help us identify who this person is. This is Zechariah 11, 12. If it is good in your sight, give me my wages, but if not if uh but if not, never mind. So they weighed out thirty shekels of silver as my wages Who's the pastor of this one? You you recognize that that thirty betrayal. Yeah, of of who Of Jesus. Right? We quote that, right? We see that. So who's this shepherd? This is the good shepherd, right? He said there's going to be two shepherds, two staffs. Look at the second one This is Zechariah. This is later in the same chapter. This is verses 15 through 17. The Lord said to me, Take again for yourself the equipment of a foolish shepherd. For behold, I am going to raise up a shepherd in the land who will not care for the perishing. Seek the scattered, heal the broken, or sustain uh uh excuse me, sustain the one standing. But will devour the flesh of the fat and tear off their hoofs Woe to the workless shepherd who leads the flock. A sword will be on his arm and his right eye, and his arm will be totally weathered, and his right eye will be blind. You can see that what they're gonna do is this is this the second shepherd They're gonna they're going to make a covenant. They're going to to embrace the false shepherd. They they cut off the Messiah And Zechariah is telling them, uh this is where five thirty, maybe later BC, he's telling 'em, you're gonna reject the first Messiah. You're gonna give him thirty pieces of silver. That's what that's what you're gonna value it for But the the false shepherd you're gonna and he's gonna he's gonna devour you. So it kinda goes hand in glove with uh you know uh Daniel nine twenty six uh twenty-six twenty-seven, uh the seventy weeks. So back to uh second second Thessalonians, wet my whistle here And you know what restrains him now, so that in his time he will be revealed. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work Only he who now restrains him will do so until he is taken out of the way. Then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will slay with the breath of his mouth and bring to an end by the appearance of his coming. So again, you can kind of see a time frame here Well you can see a time frame here. The mystery of all this is going to be revealed, right? Uh he said earlier he's gonna stand up, he's he's gonna take his place in the in the temple. Uh that's when the lawless one is revealed. He's gonna be he's gonna be killed here. So there are many propositions uh if you read uh who this restrainer is. Uh some think it's the church. The church is gonna r is restraining evil when the church gets taken out of the way The nation Israel has been put forth, uh, the preaching of the gospel, human government. But none of these can control. Somebody look up on for reading this Luke 4. 6. No human government or system can hold back power of Satan. God is the only power superior to Satan and his domain. For God is the one who allowed Satan to rule in his domain. And when I read when I wrote that I thought, you know, it kind of speaks on both sides. Satan has a domain that God has allowed it And it is ultimately God's command, is it not? Somebody has Luke four six? And said to him, To you I will give all this authority and their glory, for it has been delivered to me, and I give it to whom I will. It's been delivered to me. We forget that. We we read that sometimes. We go over it quickly. God has giv he's uh who's the God of this world of Satan, right? God gave him that. Um Uh there's a purpose behind all this. I think it's those uh things I wrote in Revelation. All that wrath came down and they did not repent They knew it was from God. They cursed God. We saw that. God is the one who restrains uh so that the man of lawlessness will be revealed in his time. That's the other thing. God orchestrates the time and the seasons according to his plan Galatians we are told uh uh God sent his son according to his time. Galatians uh four four But when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. It's God's time. It's perfect, right? He has a plan. Our difficulty a lot of times with prophecy and and the will of God and the sovereignty of God is We should seek what is what we can from his plan, but sometimes we try to go too far. We don't know his his plan. We know the big picture The biggest part, uh, the fallacies I see with end time prophecy is you'll see people uh and they'll put one aspect and you'll he you even hear these guys. I hear sometimes on Christian radio about these these prophecy seminars and they're most of the time they're trying to make it too specific. That's the biggest it's a big picture We know what the end is. Think about that really of just for a second. We know. We take it for granted. Think about the people who don't know They're they're you know death scares them. They don't know where they're going. They don't know the end of the story. We know the end of the story And sometimes we see things bad bad happening, we're reminded God's in control. Because sometimes you look around and you go, man, God's He's controlling this. He's allowing it, right? Satan is his enemy. We're going to look at this. Herbert explains the mystery of lawlessness. Herbert explains the mystery of lawlessness by first reminding the reader boosterion, the Greek word for mystery is not something that can be discovered uh but it is not revealed until God makes it known. Um Apocalypso revelation. God revealed it. We didn't know. In Ephesians, right? The church was a mystery. God didn't reveal that in the Old Testament. It's not like we could have figured it now. When he uses Musterion it or in we translate mystery N nobody knew. God revealed it. Compon and i there are several in in the New Testament you look at. God you can't i the the old testament, the Israelites did not see this coming. He didn't reveal it. Uh let's see The lawlessness spoken of here is not merely a disorder or violation of law, but rather a definite aim of the devil to overthrow the law of God to establish his own rule. And that again that's that's where this is going. That's the two wars. Antichrist once Satan wants to displace God. I'm gonna take my seat on the throne of God, right? That's what he said. Uh Isaiah 14 The phrase, only uh he who now restrains him will do so until he is taken out of the way, uh reveals that the power restraining and uh uh the appearing of the lawless one is a person, right? He who now restrains it. This is the work of the Holy Spirit, uh, and and this is borne out in Scripture The Holy Spirit uh battles evil, right? The the Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever, because he is also flesh. Nevertheless, his days shall be uh one hundred and twenty years. So life spirit won't strive with man. Excuse me. Uh in John sixteen, the Holy Spirit is said to be the one uh who can fix uh man's conscience, right? And he, when he comes, this is Jesus in the upper room telling about the Holy Spirit, uh, will convict the world concerning sin, righteousness, and judgment The phrase taken out of the way, uh the Holy Spirit is not gonna leave the earth, right? Uh he cannot leave the world. He is he is omnipresent, right? He's God He's he's present everywhere. The act of taken out of the way can be seen in Romans 1, uh where Paul writes to the people who worship uh uh creator uh creation rather than the creator uh will be given over to their own desires right you you remember that all says I will turn you over because they w worshiped uh uh creatures rather than a creator, I will give them over. I will turn them over. Right? He says it three times Um they lusted after women lusted after women, man after man, because I will give them over. They had a debase mind They uh thought they were wise and became fools. I will give them over. They can see where where God, uh, the Holy Spirit is uh w where is the conscience and all coming f from? And uh I refer to uh the Holy Spirit convicts our conscience of sin and basic morality. Are you guys familiar with Romans 2, 14? For when the Gentiles he's talking about those who are uh he's talking about the Jews, you know, you think you got the law, but you know, do you fulfill the law? No, you don't, that's what he's trying to tell 'em Uh, because uh those who are without the law, sometimes they even practice the law, right? Uh for when Gentiles who do not have the law do instinctively the things of the law uh these not having the law are a law to themselves, in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience Okay, bearing witness and their thoughts, alternately accusing or defending them. Yeah. Aga it's God's spirit. Uh we think we we think we're more autonomous than we are We're we're really uh instruments, right? We're instruments for God or Sat or the world and Satan really. There is no neutral territory there When the Holy Spirit removes the restraint of evil, then the lawless uh one will be revealed, whom the Lord will slay with the breath of his mouth. uh and bring an end to appearance uh to bring to an end by the appearance of his coming. Right, so this is kind of the fruition of of all this. Um right? With God uh the man of lawlessness when he appears on the stage Okay, we we think this is a three and a half uh the latter part of the tribulation, seven years of tribulation, three and a half, the man of lawlessness comes on the stage And in Revelation 19, 19 through 20. And I saw the beast, the king of the earth, and the armies assembled, to make war against him. who sat on a horse and against his army, and the beast was seized, and with him the false prophet perform who performed the signs in the presence by which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who worship his image. These two were thrown into the lake of fire, which burns with brimstone. This is the culmination and this is what he's talking about hi uh here. The uh uh The Lord will slay him with the breath of his mouth. Okay? This is the return. This is the final battle. This is the conclusion. Christ comes back to take over the world, right? Uh we believe when he's handed the scroll in in Revelation four and five Uh a lot of people call it the title deed to the earth as he unrolls it. He's taking back the earth. He's judging sin. Sin through the Antichrist, he's gonna allow it to come to its full fruition through the lawless one, the Antichrist, the beast. Okay? And God is gonna uh have it come to its fruition and He's gonna judge the earth, take it back. He is and you see it in the level But while he's doing that, there is a gospel. The gospel goes out in the whole world during the or during the tribulation He's pouring this out so people will repent. How are we doing? Six might make it. Ooh, run out of time. Uh so that lawless order will be revealed That is the one whose coming is in accord with the activity of Satan, with all power and signs and false wonders and with all deception and wickedness of those who perished because they did not receive the love or the truth so as to be saved. So this man of lawlessness is empowered by Satan And we we look at that a little bit in Daniel. He said he won't do this. This little horn won't do this with his own power. Revelation And revelation is progressive, is it not? He keeps giving us more and more and more information until Uh if you start at the beginning until you reach the end, it gives us more revelation. Here's the uh specific revelation of this power And the dragon stood on the sand of the seashore. Then I saw the beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads And on his horns were ten diadems, and on his head were blast in his name. And the beast which I saw was like a leopard Where do we hear this? And his feet were like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. This is the imagery Daniel used And the dragon gave him his power. This guy is energized by Satan. R. C. S or R. C. Spohl. MacArthur goes into a long thing and reads a lot about some uh extra biblical books and a lot a lot of these guys were you know, uh they weren't believers but they were talking about Hitler. And it's amazing. If you if you g if you look in his website, you look at the Antichrist you'll see some of this. He's done a lot of research for you. You don't have to do it yourself. Uh it but it's amazing how Satan and his and his is is generals and really they say there was a another general or a man who's really the power behind even uh Hitler. He's the one who turned him on to all this they were seeking demonic stuff with full fledged. And a lot of people think that, you know, you could see, especially when Hitler spoke, they said he did not speak like that uh when he wasn't speaking to his audience. He said when he spoke to those crowds, they said it was like he was energized. That to say This Antichrist is going to be totally energized and we'll read about this. He's going to have powers, right? And the beast which I saw was like a lever of redette, and the dragon gave him his power and his throne and great authority. I saw one of his heads as if it had been slain His uh fatal wound was healed and the whole earth was amazed and followed him. And followed after him Um either blur after the beast, excuse me. Um they worship the dragon Because he gave authority to the beast and they worship the beast, saying, Who is like the beast and who is able to wage war with him? They were given him a mouth speaking arrogant word, blasphemies, the authority to act uh for forty-two months Three and a half years was given to him. And he opened his mouth and blasphemies against God, to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle. That is those who dwell in heaven. It was also given to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them. The authority of every tribe and people and tongue and nation was given to him. All who dwell on the earth will worship him. Everyone whose name is not seen written in the on the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb, who has been slain So again, Wayne's Book of Life, everyone because you'll see sometimes there's a like a discrepancy. You say, uh their name was blotted out of the book of life And there's kind of that discussion, well can you lose your salvation? What were these people? You know, the best you know, there's really no total consensus on this, but it seems like Book of Life, everybody's names written in the Book of Life who lives. Uh But the Lamb's book of life is the chosen. And you'll see that uh well you see it in Revelation here. He talks about the Lamb's book of life. You see I I think it's in uh chapter twenty if memory serves me well. The nose not written in the Lamb's book of life. Uh I think we'll look at that if we get time D but do you see the uh uh a cord and and you know, he had a mouth like a l he had a mouth like a lion, his uh he was a bear. S imagery that Daniel used. The man of lawlessness, the beast and the false prophet of Revelation uh thirteen, eleven through fifteen, team up to deceive uh the world in order that the beast uh would be worshipped uh by those who is not written in the Lamb's Book of Life Again, there's a false prophet, we don't have time to get into it. They team up together, right? And you we saw they were both thrown into the lake of fire Deception applies to those who perish, who did not receive the love of the truth as to be saved. Okay? It again, we we know the truth, we love the truth, we believe it Uh that's a gift, right? That's grace. Those are not saved, uh, they always do it. Um Uh Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the light. No one comes to the Father but through me. So God's word is truth. Jesus is truth, right? We know that This is the judgment. The light is coming to the world. Men love darkness rather than light, for their deeds were evil. For everyone who does evil hates the light and does not come to the light for the fear that his deeds will be exposed. But he who practices the truth comes to the light so that his deeds may be manifest as having been wrought in God. And there's a contrast there. We love the truth Sometimes it's hard, uh uh, but we know to face the truth is is for our benefit. For this reason God will send upon them a diluting influence so that they will uh believe what is false in order that they uh may be judged who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in wickedness And I got about one minute left. So the deception is we saw that. It's gonna come with the with the Antichrist, with the false prophet There's already diluting, right? The the spirit of lawlessness is already in the world, right? First We know that. We see it. They're there there are heretics uh uh uh become. We have to be grounded in the truth. And he finishes um Yeah, he talks about it. He goes, you were chosen, verse 13, uh from the beginning for salvation. Right? We're sanctified by the Spirit. And Faith in truth. We have faith in truth. That's the gift. We can intellectually, we can see non-believers that come so close People that can tell you the gospel, oh yeah, I know Jesus died, buried, or you know, I've seen people recite that. Uh but then you look at 'em and you you listen to 'em and you're like Well you believe that you say you believe that, but you don't believe this, you know. We believe the Bible because the grace of God. The only reason I believe. God open my eyes Verse seventeen, I'll finish with this. Comfort and strengthen your hearts in every good work and work. And that's that's what he's he reminding them. You're not in the day of the Lord. You're doing well, you're being persecuted. You have love for one another. Don't be swayed Okay? I know it's hard. But don't be swayed. Hold on to the truth. That's all we have