So good morning everyone. Obviously I'm not Christer. I'm Christopher. I'm younger, I'm fatter, and I'm not as good looking. Or excuse me, I'm older, I'm fatter than my school. See, I lied to you. Um I'm Randall Hartman. Um My wife Joni and I have been members here for about a year now. Uh we've been followers of the Lord for our all our adult lives. Um we're really thankful to be a part of of Hope Bible Church. It's just been really great. Um I've actually in the current group of uh SLP uh students, so uh uh able to actually apply a a lot of what we're learning. So uh uh really tickled to be able to share with you on first Corinthians eleven. Before we do that, um remember we have our homework every week. Uh we all still work on Philippians two three? I have to admit I haven't fully memorized it. I actually had to write it down for myself, so I Well I'll go ahead and read it uh again and just uh imagine Pastor Christopher will have uh something new for us next week as we move into a new section of first Corinthians. But uh do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. And we're actually going to uh have a little application of that uh for ourselves here later today. Um also be sure to get your weekly handout from Diane. Uh really find that useful as I prepare for for the class the following week to go through and answer the questions on uh indicatives, what it says about uh God and and us uh imperatives, uh the character of God. Those are really great things to do to prepare to come in for the class. So I want to encourage you to do that. Um here's our uh uh outline. We had a different set of uh verses last week. I think uh Pastor Gay maybe mentioned some of those about snow on the uh on the online service Um so we're diving in. We're just shifted the schedule out. I think Pastor Christopher's gonna have to figure out how he's gonna fit this all in toward the end, but we're going into Second Corinthians two, so he's got some wiggle room there. Uh just a reminder that um The Corinthian church has asked some questions, and so Paul is answering their questions. Here's the uh five major divisions that we've been going through. We completed last time uh the section on chapters eight to ten, issues related to food and liberty and uh the underlying point of not being associated with idolatry. And so now we're going to start into four chapters on correcting disorderly worship services. So that's what we're going to do today And let's take a look at the outline for the chapter. You'll recall that verse 1 goes more with with chapter 10. So we're going to go through verses, start at verse 2, and there's really two sections here The first section has to do with head coverings and worship, chapter uh verses two to sixteen. Uh the second section in verses seventeen to thirty-four is abuse of the Lord's supper Um so uh we're gonna go right ahead and tackle um the first section. I've laid out kind of how I I think we ought to approach it here. It's really important for this section to understand uh the it what the issue really is and what the context of it is because that'll obviously the context is quite different from ours and so it'll be important to understand how that affects uh what Paul has written We'll try to then identify the principles from Scripture that are underlying what he says and then apply it, so we'll see how it's applied to the Corinthian church and also to ourselves. So what I'd like to do before we dive in here is just read this passage, the first section for us. I'm reading from Legacy Standard Bible, which I think is very close to the New American Standard So verses 2 to 16. Now I praise you because you remember me in everything and hold firmly to the traditions just as I deliver them to you. But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is head of a woman, and God is the head of Christ. Every man who has something on his head while praying or prophesying changes head. But every woman who has her head uncovered while praying or prophesying shames her head, for she is one and the same as the woman whose head is shaved. For if a woman does not cover her head, let her also have her hair cut short But if it's disgraceful for a woman to have her hair cut short or her head shaved, let her cover her head. For a man ought not to have his head covered, since he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of man. For man does not originate from woman, but woman from man. For indeed man was not created for the woman's sake, but woman for the man's sake. Therefore the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head because of the angels. Nevertheless, in the Lord neither is woman independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. For as the woman originates from the man, so also the man has his birth through the woman. But all things originate from God. Judge for yourselves. Is it proper for a woman to pray with her head uncovered Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him, but if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given to her for a covering But if one is inclined to be contentious, we have no other practice, nor have the churches of God. So there's an awful lot that we could cover in here. I'm going to try to focus in on uh on on what the the main point is And so that if we look at the slide here, thinking about verses four and five, Paul lays out for us when and where uh is he talking about this issue occurring and what is it. So The first point of when and where is we see this in worship services. He's not talking about uh outside the church, he's not talking about marriage relationships Um he's talking about when they're together in worship, when they're praying and prophesying. He mentions uh in verse two uh when they that you hold firmly to the traditions, which would include both the word that he's taught them as well as uh the practices. So uh they're th he's talking about their gatherings together in the church. And then the second point is uh what is he talking about? So he's talking about head coverings while they're participating in worship. You know when I started studying this I thought I was going to be talking about uh roles of men and women and roles in the church and all that kind of stuff. But if you look at verses four and five, he talks about a man who's praying and prophesying. And then the woman is also praying and prophesying. So the distinction here is not what they're doing but how they're at tired while they're doing it. So it seems to me that the takeaway on this is that the issue here is about women wearing head coverings in church Now, I don't want to minimize or poo-poo what we teach about male and female relationships and about leadership in the church. Um we uh just saw last week the update of what we teach and so the I would send you to those sections uh in that document. Uh it was a really good document. Now the update in fact the the marked up version was really helpful I thought too see the changes. So uh I'm I'm not at all contradicting anything that we say in there, but just pointing out that with what Paul's covering right here, he's focusing very narrowly on what uh on the head covering issue. So um let me give you a little family anecdote and you probably can relate to this, but I grew up in a a family where um many of my aunts and uncles and even grandparents belonged to a brethren type church out in uh central southwest south southern Pennsylvania. And many of my aunts would wear this little veil, this little white head covering. You've probably seen that too with Mennonites or with Amish people. So um that Uh I'm sure that's something that uh in their context they took from uh a verse like this. Obviously here at Hope we don't practice this. So the question is then why is this an issue for court. And this is where the the commentary that uh Christopher gave me that he's been using was very helpful. His point was uh the the commentary made the point that you are what you wear in their culture Corinthian chur culture looked a scance at a respectable woman going out in public without a head covering. And why was that? Well lacking a head covering in their situation was tantamount to having a shaved head, and we saw that in Paul's uh wording, and any of those implied marital infidelity or even prostitution So this was a really serious uh mess message that they were sending that they were not um faithful to their husband that they were available, uh that they had loose morals. Um so the verse five refers to shaming her head by not wearing a head covering In Corinthian culture, according to the commentary, this refers to shaming her husband in public by removing the symbol of her chastity and his protection of her. She's uh in in implying that she's not under his headship, not under his protection, and uh and not devoted completely to him. So it communicates loose morals. So with that background, then how do we take verses four and five where Paul's laid out the problem and apply that to the rest of the understanding of the rest of the chapter. So I think we as I mentioned at the outset, we want to identify the principles at play here. We want to see how they were applied and And then look at how we can apply them. And I think there are two principles here that can guide us in in what we're looking at. The first is that God has ordained headship roles, and we'll we're gonna unpack these here in a moment. The second principle principle will be that we should honor God ordained headship roles when we gather in church. So let's look at the first one. Um and It it comes from verses three and verses seven to twelve. Um and Garland again made a point in the commentary that the message of this is everyone has a head. and headship roles are rooted in God's design. So let's read verse 3 again there to start. Let's go back to this And this explains, will explain to us why does Paul insert this here before he gets into the issue. So verse 3, but I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man The man is a head of a woman, and God is the head of Christ. So he's saying here that there's a head for everybody, even in the Godhead, and we could We should start there. So God is the head of Christ. The the point of the headship here is not that this is about whether Christ is lower than God, whether he's not that he's not fully and truly God. He is equal with God. in essence, in deity, in power, and all his attributes. The the headship that's taught in the Bible within the Trinity is about role And I'm giving you some scriptures there you might want to check out at a later time. I don't know if uh Christopher posts these or not, but we can find a way to Um so within the Trinity, as we know, there is a distinction in Rolls. The Father sends the Son. There are many verses that talk about the Father sending the Son, the Son saying I was sent by the Father Also, the Son obeys the Father. Jesus said, My will is to do the will of Him who sent me. And then the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son. He is sent by both of them So again, all three persons of the Trinity are completely, equally, totally God, without distinction, but they have different roles and different functions. And that's where headship comes in here So the takeaway here is that uh by saying God is the head of Christ, what we really can understand is that headship begins with God. It's present in the Trinity, and that's the pattern then for when we see headship in other places. So the second point is uh that that Paul makes is Christ is the head of every man. Um of course he's a Christ that says for all people, eventually every knee will bow, whether voluntarily or not voluntary voluntarily. But here he's talking to the church. So I took this to folks to focus on his headship over the body of Christ. Um As we learned last week in Chapter ten, as Christians, as believers, we're united to Christ. So we're we're united with him. with knight with us. The church is Christ's spiritual body, as we know, and he is its head. Again a number of verses there. Um so the nature of the headship here is one of authority. Obviously God is above is created being humans. And that's what this is laying out. So it's move it's transitioning down to the human level and to the church specifically Again the point being that headship is ordained by God. And then the third point is that Paul makes is man is the head of a woman. Uh we there's a enough fair key passages in Ephesians and Colossians about that relationship. Again, I would I would take you back to uh what we teach on uh on mankind and male-female relationships. Um but uh let's go ahead and read verses twelve to see specifically what Paul says here. He he lays out uh a pattern of headship that's patterned after the Trinity um but with differences in in our uh in our expression of that. So let's read verses 7 to 12 and then we'll talk about it. For a man, and so on all of these you'll see four, four, four, four. Four is like the word therefore So what he's really doing here is he's giving the reasons for the statement he made in verses four and five. So for, uh because therefore a man ought not to have his head covered, since he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of man. Again, because therefore man does not originate from woman, but woman from man. For indeed man was not created for the woman's sake, but woman for the man's sake Therefore the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head because of the angels. Nevertheless, in the Lord neither is woman independent of man, nor is man independent of woman For as the woman originates from the man, so also the man has his birth through the woman, and all things originate from God. So those last two verses, eleven and twelve, what we see here is the same principle of equality of essence and worth that we saw in the Trinity. Man and woman are equal in equality and worth and essence and in their relationship before God. So we It's not that this headship is about any kind of lesser, greater situation. It's it's the same kind of headship that we see in the Trinity of roles and then he gives a number of reasons that are grounded uh in in creation primarily. Man is the image and glory of God, woman is the glory of man. Man was created from the ground with you go back to Genesis. You can see that versus female created from the rib of the man, and female was created as a helper for man, so obviously the man needed a helper Uh so that's why it was done that way. And I won't begin to give you a definitive answer for uh what it means that it's a witness the angels or because of the angels, but I think the point here is that even the angels see what we do and it whether or not we're honoring the uh the the headship goals that God has given us. So God has given us here, Paul Paul uh through the Holy Spirit has given us a number of God's reasons for why this headship role exists, but the takeaway again is that all these headship relationships are ordained by God. We are and there there are other places in scripture where the it talks about the angels, you know in uh in First Peter it talks about Paul's extolling our salvation And then he says this is things on which to which the angels ought to look. So there it's clear that we have a special relationship um with God as our creator and our redeemer that is different than than what theirs is I think here without there's there's lots of theories without lighting on one. I think the key is that because of the angels, it's like obviously they see what's going on as a witness here So, how does this first principle then apply to head coverings in the church? Reminder here again that uh God is uh everyone is ahead, God is ahead of Christ, Christ over the church And then within the church, man, man is the head of the woman. And I think the way the principle applies is our second principle, and that is, is that when we gather in church, we are to honor the God-ordained headship that he has set up. The um the commentary again had a uh had a statement here that the point was with the way you present yourself in church, don't send the wrong message. Um and we got two some points under this that I'll I'll go through in the next couple slides in more detail So the first thing Paul does is he decries the shameful practices that dishonor God ordained headship. So it would be shameful for a man to pray or prophesy with his head covered. That's in verses four and seven. And then he also says it's shameful for a woman to pray or prophesy without her head covered. Now It appears that he's critiquing both, and and indeed he is, but we'll see throughout this chapter that ultimately he doesn't give any instruction to the men. So it may be a hypothetical saying if a man were to do this it would be shameful. But in this case, because he does give instructions to the women, it appears that that's what was actually going on. So why is it shameful for a woman to pray or prophesy without her head covered. And this is where Paul kind of ties it together with the with the culture by raising a rhetorical question And this uh we'll we'll go through this here, but uh in verses thirteen to fifteen, let's just look at that and then we'll we'll talk about it. So thirteen says, Judge for yourselves, is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair it's a dishonor to him, but if a woman has long hair it's a glory to her, for her hair is given to her for a covering So the rhetorical question, as we've seen Paul use in other chapters, expects the answer no, and it's not proper. And the reason was is that again with the tying together of the cultural understanding we talked about And the message being sent by lack of head covering was that it was disgraceful and dishonoring to her head, her husband And then he makes one more argument based upon the testimony of nature. Not that all women have long hair, but that genetically, you know, as you get older we find that men have less hair and women women tend to have longer and more hair. So the the takeaway from from all of this is that Paul has made the case from God's design and the and he's given the reasons for it that uh from uh creation from nature it is not proper for a woman in their context to participate in the worship service without her head covered I said we had a lot to cover here, so thank you for bearing with me. Yes, sir. Go ahead. I agree. And um I I think that's not making a big picture statement that Women should always have long hair and men should always have short hair, which is not the case. In fact we'll see I think in a minute why uh we'll we'll get really pointed as to what Because the the the issue for them again is not whether or not a woman has long hair in and of itself from a style perspective. It's about the message. So let's look at that. The applications for the Corinthian Church. So here Paul gives a command, and we read it earlier But Paul kind of interjects it in here uh before he went through the reason. So let's go back and look at verse six one more time. Um He says for If a woman does not cover her head, let her also have her hair cut short. So he's saying in our in that culture, not covering your head is basically the same as having your having short hair as a woman He says, but if it is disgraceful for a woman to have her hair cut short or her head shaved, let her cover her head. There's the command, let her cover her head. I think the if there is uh is really saying since since it is disgraceful for a a woman to have her hair cut short or her head shaped. We say um things like um Uh I I thought I thought of a a common example where we talk that way where we say if something then whatever and we really mean since or because is kind of a given. And he's made the case here in the context that uh given the Corinthian context that it is indeed shameful as we saw earlier for a woman uh to uh to not have her head covered, she in essence sends that message uh insulting and disgracing the headship of her husband. So the the application for them is not about the length of hair, but it's about the message that is being sent By failing to wear this head covering in their culture in this public gathering of men and women together. Does that make sense? So the message also, he's actually quite interesting at the end, uh is also um submit to God's authority on this. Look at verse sixteen. But if one is inclined to be contentious We have no other practice nor have the churches of God. So I think he's he's kind of basically saying here, if you want to argue about it, you're out of line. So that's I hope an accurate understanding of how this applies in Corinth and what Paul the the point Paul was trying to make, what the Holy Spirit was trying to make through him So how do we apply that for ourselves? What goes back to my principles is I think the the principle, the big thing here is that God has ordained headship roles. We should honor those headship roles when we gather in our churches. So Joni's not praying or prophesying today, so I didn't have to go get a head covered on this kid. But seriously though Put on your thinking caps. How would you apply this in our 21st century church if we should honor our heads by how we present ourselves? Um Any ideas on how that might come in in the twenty-first century? I have some that I'll give you. It took me a while to think about 'em, but uh I just wanted to See what you think. Kirk, is that a intended fun? Put on your thinking cap and we're talking about naturally for you. Thank you very much, Kirk. Any ideas? Okay, so that goes back to that that's partly why we have the leadership structure we have. Although there are there are the specific verses that talk about specifically being men, but it it's Is consistent with that principle. Well just thinking about when we uh when we talk about church discipline and it's because people are coming to church and but they're per participating in an open kind of a sin that's unrepentant. And And that would be a really bad witness to other people if they do about it. That we tolerated lack of repentance. Yeah. Kirk. This one's kind of um a direct or indirect application, but It says the head of a wife is her husband. So in s indirectly, I I can't try to exercise control over Marie. She she has her head at the home and it's not me. So even within the walls of the church, there's There's limited type of headship for me. I'm not her her husband. Right. So there's exclusivity of who's her head and who your head over Well let me put up some other ones that again I'm not gonna say these are absolute, but they're just trying to think through what he was doing. And um what this what this says. So one one possibility is wearing a wedding ring. A wedding ring shows that you're attached to somebody. You know the idea of the head back then was saying I'm not attached or I'm not um I'm not under the authority of it. And again, I'm not saying these are Absolutes, but I'm just saying there's one idea perhaps. When you wear a wedding wedding ring, you say I am not available. I am committed to one person. I'm under their headship Modest attire. Modest attire shows again that how we conduct ourselves is as, you know, in the church we're brothers and sisters. We're not any kind of other relationship. And and this goes with, you know, the idea of avoiding what we used to joke when we were younger, unseemly familiarities. Which is kind of a code word for flirting or, you know public displays inappropriate public displays of affection with other than your spouse or whatever. Um and even in the Christopher suggested this one to me so I'll lay this one on him. Uh but how you talk about your spouse Do you talk um in a disrespectful running down way or do you just talk in a in a in a an honoring way? So this is again um thrown into the deep end of the pool here. Um but I think I think it's important just for us to takeaway that headship is defined by God And we follow God's lead on what He's taught us and uh we try to take the principles related to that and apply them in our day in a way that honors God as our head, Christ as the head of the church And our uh respective heads for each other. As Americans, I think we don't understand this aspect of how we honor that or or display that it's just I think so the culture is it's fun much more prevalent you can probably find in any other culture clearer examples of how to honor that kind of and I just think that's American We we rinse that out or want that out and what we uh rebellious anti-authority stance. Um and that can, by osmosis, creep into our attitudes Um, even though we know better, even though we know God's truth, it it you know if you swim in the water you're gonna get wet. And uh it's it's we we here, we live here. So um that's why it's always important to having our minds adjusted and changed and reoriented and re-anchored back in in God's Word I I guess those that would feel that female leadership is fine within a within a church. They probably read this and say, yeah, there there are some cultural things in here. And even the structure within a church, it's okay for women to lead nowadays in in our egalitarian culture in the US. Yeah, and and that's why I think it was a I I tried to make the point at the beginning that the issue really here is not about who leads in in the church. So again remember it in verses four and five, Paul says, man, don't cover your head when you're praying and prophesy Well he says to the woman, cover your head when you're praying and prophesying. So the issue here is not about what they're doing But how they're doing it. But that said, that's why I gave those other verses. There are clearer other verses that do speak to uh male leadership. And so that's those are probably the ones that are stronger that support that. Again, the the egalitarian culture was again rack that up as cultural as well. Uh but nevertheless I think if you go look at some of the even the reasons that Paul gave here for headship, he he grounded them in creation. He didn't ground them in Corinthian culture or Jewish culture or uh first century culture. He grounded them, he went all the way back to creation. So that's why I kept emphasizing It's God design for headships. Oh, I'm wondering imagine how I've addressed this within my own extended family. Um but when people say, Oh well that was just Paul's opinion or culture thing or but mostly they throw it back on Paula. Paula's talking and I you know, I bring up verses that say no this is When Paul says it's from Paul, Paul says I'm not the Lord. Doesn't say I'm not the Lord, therefore it's from the Lord. You know, but it's it's very hard to know how to respond It is, and it it um it requires accepting the As you know. All of this is God's inspired word to us. It does show how it's it's important for us to be sure we're interpreting it properly and and not jumping off the deep end one way and not dismissing it out of hand because it disagrees with the answer we want. the other way. And what that also may be evidence of is some of what Kirk said or Eric, right? Glenn. Glenn, Eric, I'm sorry. Glenn Glenn said about how we have a we have a our culture is to be rebellious. Um so There it it's a challenge and and this is obviously I think not the hugest issue as a as a major, major doctrine as far as some of the other things that we have and what we teach But it is in scripture. So let me take us on to the next section of this chapter Which is verses 17 to 34. This is quite timely as we're going to celebrate the Lord's Supper this morning in our service. Um and what he's doing here is he's calling out abuses and chastising them uh that they're practicing in the Lord's Supper. He re uh emphasizes what the right way to understand the Lord's Supper is. He commands them about how to observe it properly, and then we're going to talk about how to apply it. Again, another anecdote here, Joni and I belong to a church that uh practice what they call threefold communion. So we took in that church we took our Lord's Supper celebration as patterned after the Passover meal of the Last Supper So there was uh actual time where we went off and did foot washing. Again, men and men and women and women. Um we had what we called a a love feast where we had a little sandwich where it was like the meal that they shared at the last supper. And then we had the um actual communion with the with the elements themselves. So I think this some of the problems he's dealing with here is really their their love feast part of their their gathering. And um It's it's uh that that maybe helps give you a little understanding into the background there. And of course that's also gonna be relevant to us today because we're having a month feast essentially at one o'clock. after the service today. So it might still fly here as well. So let's start out by reading these verses, starting with verse seventeen. But in this giving this instruction, I do not praise you Because you come together not for the better but for the worse. Remember he praised them at the beginning for holding to the traditions, but here he says, I do not praise you. For in the first place when you come together as a church I hear that divisions exist among you, and in part I believe it, for there must be also be factions among you, so that those who are approved may become evident among you Therefore, when you meet together in the same place, it is not to eat the Lord's supper, for in your eating each one takes his own supper first, and one is hungry and another is drunk. For do you not have houses in which to eat and drink Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? In this I will not praise you. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was being betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks he broke and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way he took the cup also after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the death of the Lord until he comes. Therefore, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But a man must test himself, and in so doing he is to eat of the bread and drink of the cup, for he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not judge the body rightly For this reason, many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep. But if we judged ourselves rightly, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are disciplined by the Lord, so that we will not be condemned along with the world. So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, so that you will not come together for judgment. The remaining matters I will direct when I come. So Let's go through this. So I the first point again he calls out their behavior, booking in his his rebuke by this lack of praise The behavior is rooted in sinful divisions. We saw verses 18 and 19 there. He says, I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it If you go back to the very first chapter in the book, he talks about there being divisions within this church. The factions highlight what he calls those who are approved and by contrast those who are unapproved. Uh it's debatable about whether the approved means people who are doing the right thing or maybe those who see themselves as better than others In any event, it refers to this causing divisions, and if he is referring to the the proof, that's who he's chastising. Verses 20 and 21 talk about how inconsiderate and selfish and immoral their behavior is. Some have all they want while others are hungry. They're selfish, some rush to be first. They're immoral. Some of them come there to get drunk. Really a shameful situation. And the result of that is that their behavior shows disrespect both for the church and for the needy. for the church and that they're dishonoring their brothers and sisters. They are the church together. And he mentioned specifically the needy. He says you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing So it's really a a lousy situation in which uh they essentially turn this Lord's Supper celebration and particularly the love piece part of it into this kind of selfish all-you-to-eat beast where they're separating themselves based upon uh perhaps uh wealth or position uh versus those who are lowly and are needy uh as well as engaging in gluttony and drunkenness, uh some gorging themselves and using it as a chance to get free food while others go hungry. That's a really sad this situation And then if we need to look at uh verses 29 to 30 and 32 again, here's the consequences. He who eats and drinks Eats and drinks judgment to himself, if he does not judge the body rightly. For this reason many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep But if we judged ourselves rightly, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are disciplined by the Lord so that we would not be condemned along with the word. world. So you think about last week's chapter we talked about people being disqualified uh by by what they did here. The disqualification in essence could uh come to physical illness and even death at the Lord's Pulling you back from engaging in further sin. So after chastising them, calling out their horrible behavior He then goes back and reminds them of what the uh the Lord's Supper is all about. There are two purposes, as we saw in verses twenty-three to twenty-six. Jesus said twice, Do this in remembrance of me And he also said, as often as you do this, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. So those are the purposes of the supper. And I'm going to ask your help here as we we go to the next section. I'm I'm going to ask you to get your Bibles out and we'll actually we'll read these verses here because I think it's important for us to do. Um since we are observing the Lord's Supper today, I thought it would be good to say, well step back. The first thing he says is, do this in remembrance of me. What are we remembering When we proclaim the Lord's death to ourselves and to each other, what are we remembering? So the first thing that we remember from his death, what his death did, is that he paid the penalty of our sin Does someone have um Isaiah 53. 5 or 1 Peter 224? And others, if you don't have it, I'm going to ask you to maybe be prepared to read for us these other ones that would come to them. Okay. First Peter two twenty-four. And he himself bore our sins in his body on the cross, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness, for by his wounds you were healed. So he bore our sins in his body. But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquity, upon him was a chastisement that brought us peace. And with his words we are healed. So he penal paid the penalty by suffering that horrible death, he paid the penalty for our sin. That's one of the things we can remember as we think about the death of Christ and the Lord's Supper. And on all these, I'm going to also again refer you back to the what we teach. Pastor um Allen highlighted Some changes we made in the section on salvation where we took out the word atonement and we filled it in with some of these more specific things. The point of that being is that the word atonement It's only mentioned in the Old Testament. And the atonement was not nearly as effective as what Christ did. The atonement covered up sins, but it didn't take them away Uh the atonement was done only took care of past sins, not future sins. The atonement in the Old Testament had to be repeated again and again and again, whereas Christ's death for our sins is once for all. So that's why uh again I appreciate our elders so much anchoring what we teach and how we talk about it in the scriptures, the Old Testament atonement was a a shadow and a a temporary covering until we got to Christ's death and that we're talking about the many, many things beyond the Old Testament atonement that Christ death. I'd send you back to that, especially the marked up version where Pastor Allen has a nice section on explaining why that is. How about propitiation Propitiation means to turn away God's wrath and to actually uh change God's wrath against us to a position of favor toward us. So does someone have Romans 3, 25, 26? Um do God put put forth as a propitiation by his place to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he had passed over sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just an adjustment under one who has been. How about uh Hebrews two seventeen? Jody Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect so that he might become a merciful and faithful Again, there are a lot of other verses that talk about that But the key is propitiation. I used to take it as meaning atoning sacrifice. But again, based on atonement being Inadequate from the Old Testament is way more than that. How about freedom uh from sin and death? Uh Hebrews two fourteen to fifteen. That through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong saved slavery. So by by his death he defeated sin and death and Satan and in essence makes their power breaks their power, not in essence, in actuality breaks their power over us Justification. Romans 5, 18 to 19. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, but one act of righteousness leads to justification and light for all men. Whereas by one man's disobedience the man will made sinners, but by one man's obedience men will be made righteous. So this is contrasting how Adam brought sin and death upon all of us Whereas uh in Christ brought uh righteousness to us. Um in SLP we've we studied justification. It's really interesting that justification really has two aspects Again, I used to think of it as and it's it's not a bad acronym for saying, just as if I never sinned, but that's only half of it Uh yes, your the penalty for all your sin is paid for. So yes, you are just as if you never sinned. But we also get the benefit of ha and so our sins are imputed to Christ. Basically they take a it's like you went to the the credit card company and they They gave you a credit on your statement that took your sins away and put it on Jesus' account. But then what also happens is that Jesus has an account of perfect righteousness And we get that credited back onto our account. So we not just are forgiven and treated as if we've never sinned, but we're also Getting the benefit and the credit for having the lived the fully perfect righteous life that he lived. Amazing. many times understated. Because if we didn't have that then then okay then every sin I commit and every future sin I commit is on his account, but then I'm responsible for living that perfect life That I have now worked to present myself and earn God's favor. Rather than I have his favor already Because of Christ. I appreciate that so much, Glenn. That that that's a great way to way to think about. We still work because we love him, we want to please him, but we We um we get the benefit of all the all the all the work he did. That's given to us. We don't work to earn it or hope we can attain it. It's given to us. Let's look at reconciliation. 1 Peter 3. 18. I'm gonna I'm gonna let Diane speak, too. We don't often get to hear Diane speak. For Christ also suffered one The righteous of the unrighteous, and he may bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh but made alive and disappeared. Thank you. So by his death, he actually brings us to God, brings us into relationship with Him. I could have put a lot of other things up there, but you see, as we go into the Lord's Supper today, we we We can think about that Jesus paid the penalty of the sin that we were due. He turned God's wrath from us into favor toward us. He frees us from the power of sin and death so we don't have to keep living in subjection to that. He gives us this legal declaration from God that we are just, even though we're still sinners, we are now declared just And then we are reconciled. We are brought to God and all that involves what being uh Christ being our head. Uh he treats us as brothers, we are children of God, we are adopted into his family, we're heirs of all he has Well Randall, there there's a bonus that I just heard in the package there's a bonus that That even if God does judge you and you're disqualified, but if you're uh his, he may give bring sickness and death But that verse says you're made alive in the in the spirit. So even if you're put to death in the flesh, you uh you still inherit eternal life. is the most important thing. Right. But now we've translated translated into a life eternal. whether it's given up sooner than it should have been or or not. Thank you. So uh Paul then finally gets into what's the right way to observe the Lord's Supper. So the first thing he talks about is self-examination. He talks about why we uh shouldn't eat and drink unworthily, so we must test ourselves. Um so this really means that we need to engage in honest evaluation. I thought of Romans twelve, one to three, which is a very familiar verse, but um presenting ourselves uh spir as uh living sacrifices, which is our spiritual worship to God, uh we are our minds are transformed by his word, and then it goes on to say we should think soberly about ourselves, not higher more highly than we ought to think. So that's a that's one aspect of of self-examination is to look at who you really are and and how you've been living and to uh identify this essence identify where you've fallen short. And then the second part of that is is is necessary and goes right with it. It's an opportunity to confess that sin and receive Christ's forgiveness. 1 John 1, 6 to 9 makes that tension all clearer. We we say we haven't sinned, we're liars. If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us of all unrighteousness. And then the second part of this in verses 33 to 34 is is about sacrificial love. And this really um applies to our to our our dinner later today as well. When you come together to eat, wait for one another. If anyone's hungry, uh let him eat at home Um so in essence um we're to defer to one another again there's many verses. Romans twelve talks about uh deferring to one another as Christ uh set aside Israelites uh we're to have unity of the spirit and uh in Ephesians four one to three and then we are to love others as God loved us. So sacrificial love uh is also how we observe, rightly observe the word self, self-examination and sacrificial love. Again, I'd refer you back to what we teach Um the more more scripture, there's lots and lots of scripture. I had to kind of decide which ones to pull out here. Sure. So yeah, the qu the question is how does this apply, if at all, to someone who has could profess to be a believer but in actuality is not Um I think clearly from the fact that it's in this letter written to the church and he's presuming even that, you know, if you if you look at the at the The judgment that comes in verse 32, he's saying so that you won't be condemned. He's he's clearly talking to people who are not condemned, they are believers. So I think you're right that this This would not be a specific application to non-believers. There are lots of verses, but I think that the key thing to remember is that a non-believers problem is that they don't believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. They haven't confessed him as Lord, they haven't submitted to his lordship, they haven't confessed their sins and committed to walk and following him. And a verse that um kind of just says that right out I think is John three eighteen is And Jesus says, whoever is not believed is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. So their problem is that they need salvation. So whether or not they do something with taking the Lord's Supper that they shouldn't, that's not the issue. The issue is the problem in their heart. Does that make sense? So what would you suggest to parents who are responsible for their children who their children claim to be believers but obviously you can't tell can't be something's hard. So you are allowing them to partake of it. As a believing parent, would there be any um not judgment, but responsibility for allowing your children to partake or something when they're not allowed to? Would it be you're kind of keeping more condemnation on them if they're not believers or is that like a tactically thinking of like more on more on more question how do how do you as a believing parent deal with your a child, particularly if the child claims to be saved but doesn't show the fruits of salvation. It probably depends upon their age. I mean when they're younger you can control whether or not they take it. Right. Um it When they're older you can't ultimately control their behavior, so your obligation is to keep is to be witnessing to them, to be uh making them aware of the truth, but ultimately they're responsible to be accountable to the Word of God and to God's Holy Spirit prompting them to come to him. Kurt? Uh when we first came to Hold Bible Church twenty-five years ago, Pastor Allen was our small group leader, and he would address that question and he would usually air to the side of waiting and really seeing consistent fruit in a child's life. And that there there would be a time when it would be appropriate for them to start taking Today I think all does go back to just a heart attitude and you know, why are you doing what you're doing? And I guess that I could s I could say for myself why do I do what I do or looking at my children or you know, uh somebody else in the church. I think it's you know, but your belief system or why you're doing what you're doing. So it seems like everything comes back to that heart attitude. Right. If I can just jump in at another practical head measurement easy, is is the child interested in leaving? Um because that's another ordinance and kind of find those together, um maybe hold off on board supper until you're they're open and interested in doing believers' baptism as So I think time is together is pursuing confidence in the fact that they truly are saved. That that's probably the the biggest thing. Um and then depending how much we can control their actual behavior depends on So I'm gonna have to ask that we move on just for the sake of time. I apologize, but we'll make sure we stay within the right time frame. Um so the applications uh up on the screen we've kind of talked about these, but we're gonna have both the Lord's Supper and the Fellowship meal. So today for us when you go out there and it's uh twelve thirty Um we can um as we sit and as the music's playing, as the elements are being passed Contemplate some of the things we talked about, about the significance of the Lord's death. What is what can we remember from scripture that He did for us? And then examine ourselves. Examine uh whether we have sinned that we need to confess uh confess it and also receive the forgiveness that is ours in Christ that he purchased. Um let scripture transform us, let it convict us Um and then at our lunch today, show show love to your brothers and sisters. I know uh it's been suggested we sit with somebody we don't know, trying to reach out and be inclusive and um and and promote greater fellowship within the body. So that's another good practical thing. And I've I've seen with that with this church people waiting and deferring and letting others go first. I don't think we have a problem and certainly we're not going to be getting drunk. Well, I really appreciate your attention, your participation. Uh I hope uh I didn't Stir the pot too much or money the muddy the waters too much on on head coverings. Um just remember the homework again. I say look at Philippians two three because again I think That that does uh bring to bear all what we talked about here on the Lord's Supper. Um go ahead and read 1 Corinthians 12. Be sure you grab one of the worksheets from Diane if you haven't already um and fill that out. I again I encourage you doing that uh before you come in next week so you're uh kind of prepared uh to uh to hear the teaching next week So let me pray for us and then we will conclude and move on into the worship service