It's all good. Alright, so here we are. We are in 2 Corinthians 7. I can't believe it's the I can't believe it's the end of April already, but here we are. So we're going to be on 2 Corinthians 8. And we're gonna see we're changing subjects. Alright, so we went through one through seven, a lot of discussion, getting to that point of reconciliation. I don't want to quite leave that yet Right, because I feel like we started a conversation um last last class and I w I wanna maybe pull that thread a little bit more And I want to ask you again, do you need to be sorrowful for repentance? So let's have that discussion. And Bill, you can't You can't interject yet, but I know the SLP guys had a big conversation about this. So at some point I would love for you to interject on that conversation. So just a reminder, go to 2 Corinthians chapter 7. Verse ten. And it says, for the s for the sorrow that is according to the will For the sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance without regret, leading to salvation. But the sorrow of the world produces death So we talked about sorrow has to do with our expression or feelings, and we need to talk about this idea of feelings of guilt. Worldly sorrow, feelings driven by undesired consequences Does what? It leads to more sin, the anger, the fear, the guilt that we carry, versus a godly sorrow that leads to repentance, as we just read, and reconciliation The Greek word for sorrow, uh, to distress or grieve. Alright, so that's kind of the root of this idea of sorrow, but this distinction of godly sorrow Do you need, let me be more specific, do you need godly sorrow in order to have true repentance? Thoughts Right. Just from a logical standpoint, it says you that you godly grief reproduces a repentance that leads to salvation. But that does not infer that it is necessary. Just that if you have godly greed, that it will produce a repentance, a peace of salvation. Okay. That doesn't mean that at least uh repentance leading to salvation requires God from a logical standpoint. Okay. Did you all hear that? Okay. Agree? Disagree? Doug. You know, it is it's interesting in verse 10, it says, godly grief produces repentance that leads to salvation. And there's a part of me that goes, but our salvation is in Christ and it doesn't repent depend on how grieved I am, does it? It just depends on Christ's work on the cross. But then everybody would be saved, which is believed by some Christian sects and denominations that the salvation of Christ is for everybody, regardless of whether we've accepted it or not. And um that's not, I believe, what the Bible actually teaches Which is that all will be saved eventually, but that Christ has specifically died to save the remnant, the portion that God has set aside for that salvation. So there has to be some distinguishing marker characteristic, which I believe is. this horrible repentance that he's referring to here, which is that when we are confronted by the fact that we are sinners and we're living in a broken world, that it should work in our hearts, in our lives, in our minds, and the suffering a way that it drives us to want to receive the gift of salvation that Christ has offered us through. Okay, other thoughts Other than Glenn? I just wanted to add that my my thinking is that I I think gell the great is not necessary. I don't know if you can really grasp the the reality of the necessity of salvation unless you are green by the sin that it has to see so many people that that Salvation isn't real. I guess it's part of the the aspect of the parable of the he was who was forgiven from the dead. He was going to be Yeah. So are you changing your answer? Steve? I you know I think of David, you know, when he's confronted by Nathan, you know, he uh he he comes the it kind of comes to him all at once, you know, you're right, you know, I mean But the idea ultimately is you were psalm against you and you only, you know He's talking to God. The offense he saw his offense as as against God. Obviously, you know, he had wronged Uriah, all these there's a long list of people, but ultimately our offense when we sin is against God. And I think that's the thing a lot of times when people do wrong and it's revealed to them that or upset that they got caught or you know they want to patch things up with you know their wife and it's like oh I'm sorry I said the words you gotta forgive me and you know they want to see you know some some change. It's uh so there there's a lot going on there, but I think the the godly repentance is one that that says ultimately God I I I sinned against you. And um I I wanna first and foremost the asking for your performance. Yeah. Okay, Bill. Uh well I think one thing is that it is helpful to distinguish between repentance as like the initial repentance that you demonstrate in uh coming to faith uh at regeneration and the repentance that sort of characterizes sanctification as like an odd ongoing acts and in which of those two is you know w what is the relationship of those two kinds of repentance to sorrow Um I think you know here in Second Corinthians he's talking to people who he presumes are believers already. So he's he's calling them, you know, he's talking about their their sorrow leading to a repentance as a part of their ongoing sanctification. Um I I think, you know, if you if you look maybe at the example of Zacchaeus, which I brought up uh last week, I think There's an example of a guy who in his initial repentance didn't seem to experience sorrow in in that. So I'm I'm hesitant to say that sorrow is always required in the initial act of repentance, but at some point in your Christian life, you know, as God is bringing you into conformity with Christ, you will confront your sin and you will have sorrow over how you Okay. Interrupt somebody. No, go ahead. Okay. I mean the Psalm fifty-one, right? Um David is praying about mourning in his heart and the necessity of it. Joel 2, 12-13, turning you with all your heart and fasting with weeping and with mourning as Renan. Nehemiah 9. I sat down astonished and fell on my knees. Oh my god. With 22. He went out and wept bitterly over his sin. I mean a little bit of a nuanced one there Right, but James 4, 8, uh cleanse your hands, purify your hearts, lament, mourn, and weep what you're left. I mean it just keeps going and going and going. Uh uh the act of repentance is Inherently in the scriptures, an act of this is not good in Christ. And I will turn from it. And do what is good in Christ. And without that value assessment, without that value exchange assessment, should we ever have anything like that repentance whether it's initial or even the the benefit of the refreshing repentance that we get through uh sanctification yeah um in in our Yeah, so Scott, let me let me pull that thread. Let me go back and this is from the MacArthur commentary, so let me put that in context. I read it last week, but But I think along those lines, let me just read um a short portion of this. Godly sorrow refers to sorrow that is according to the will of God and produced by the Holy Spirit True repentance cannot occur apart from such a genuine sorrow over one's sin. So I'm not here to prescribe to you the right answer, but but let me say it this way. We have to be careful to say that we're talking about godly sorrow, so let's make sure we're defining that godly sorrow, and this is really a heart attitude issue. And I think You know, if you believe what I just read, it is it is an act of the Holy Spirit, right? How can we truly have godly sorrow without a regenerate heart, without the the act of the Holy Spirit? Which will then lead to repentance, um kind of like what you were saying, Scott. So I would be of the opinion if we're talking about godly sorrow Now, what we have to distinguish is we often think of sorrow and we associate that with what? Feelings. That's where we have to be careful about defining godly sorrow. Can it manifest itself in feelings? Absolutely. Right? I gave you the example of the husband I heard about committed adultery on his knees weeping in front of his wife Now, this guy might be just a very emotional guy. Maybe she's seen this story before, right? So it really is the context of the situation Maybe not. Maybe he was a very stoic guy and to see this this demonstration would be so out of the ordinary and it might be an indication of true repentance But you have to examine the fruit to really see if that is happening, if there's true godly sorrow. So I I don't if we define it that way, that godly sorrow is a an act of the Holy Spirit. I don't know how you could have true repentance without that happening. Lastly I'll say this. You know, I shared my testimony where I didn't feel this great sense of sorrow, but as I look back on on that experience, um I didn't feel this this emotional outburst is what I'm saying. Um I clearly this was the list from verse eleven Right, this is the fruit or characterization you will see in true repentance. I felt these things. I had this earnestness, this eagerness now to please God Right? I I didn't want to be that same person that I was. I wanted to change who I was. I can go down this list and I felt all of these things when when you know at my time of salvation At the time, though, as a brand new Christian, I don't think I could articulate any of this. Right? I just didn't have the knowledge to be able to articulate what was happening, what I was sensing in my body. So I I guess my my um not caution but but words of wisdom to you might be to to make sure we we put the feelings portion of it can be an aspect of sorrow for sure, but that's going to look different for everybody. Right? The fact that we can even have a godly sorrow I think is an act of the Holy Spirit The key though is what's happening in the heart. What are you seeing afterwards? You should see the evidence or the manifestation of that repentance And this is a great guide for me as I counsel people to see if they are truly repenting. And again, it's not we we got to be careful we're not judging people, but we can be examining them. Are we seeing these types of fruits um come out of of their statement of repentance. Does that make sense? Is that fair? Scott. Just no shirt. The the Zacchaeus thing was the other week and I did think about it this week and what I really appreciated about it is it doesn't allow us to sit in uh moribund the the morbidity of our of our sorrow, right? The the the refreshment of grief and repentance sentence can be almost or or absolutely I don't I'd have to think about it or simultaneous with the grief. Yeah. To see the wrong and to feel the joy and excitement of God. But I can turn I I don't have to go wrong and futile. I can go good and purposeful, right? So I I have to say I actually did really I appreciate your comment last week, Bill. I kind of thought about it all week and I thought, you know, I tend toward morbidity, I tend toward the morabund and to have somebody call me back and go, wait a minute Doesn't doesn't need to look like that. That's not some prescriptive pattern where you just sit in sackcloth and ashes for a week. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I appreciate that. That's a great way to say it. I think I think that's all I'm going for is that um you know in our if we focus on um sorrow in repentance to an excessive degree, we might end up saying like, oh, sorrow has to be the dominant emotion in conversion. And sometimes it's not the dominant emotion. You know, it's probably always present. You know, you already you always have sorrow over your sin, but like sometimes the dominant emotion in conversion is joy over like the treasure that you would just Yeah. I I'm really glad you you re-emphasize that because that is my testimony. That's exactly what happened Right, I I I probably sensed that sorrow, but I was so overjoyed with the joy of being a new creature in Christ. That was the predominant emotion that I had at the time It wasn't until through this journey of sanctification, like I said, that I truly understood the impact of my sin and in what have you. So I that's a great way to frame that. Um I'll get one more comment and then we'll we'll press on The only thing I would add to this, if we go back and look at the verse itself, the its main point seems to be distinguishing true repentance from fake repentance. Yes. And so the key is that true repentance will be accompanied by things that evidence repentance. Whereas worldly repentance is sorry I got caught. So it's not necessarily making intending to make a statement about what always accomplished Absolutely Randall. Yeah, great, great point. Um I thought it was a good discussion because again we often want to wrap the feelings portion in that and we have to make that distinction but to your point the main emphasis here is what is the fruit that you should see of true repentance. Let's move to chapter eight So we're going to see a new focus area. I'm going to call it Project Jerusalem. Right? Paul's got a new project that he's he's working on. It's not really new, we'll see. An effort to raise funds for the church in Jerusalem And what we're gonna see is the depiction here, we're gonna see that he's actually given um started this effort in Galatia too, but here really focused on Macedonia and Achaia where the the church in Corinth is and this is all to raise funds for the church in Jerusalem. Now how do we know? Let's go to chapter 8. How do we know he's talking about a new subject How does he start? Verse 1. Now. Now. We know this from studying Paul. Again and again we see this. This is his pattern when he's introducing um a different direction. I'm I want to say that versus a new topic. We know Paul is so masterful at at just weaving in his story. Right? So he kind of took a pause in one through seven to really emphasis emphasize, you know, defending the ministry and the reconciliation that happened But now he's going to bring up a topic that he brought up before, this idea of raising funds. And I want to challenge us as we go through chapters, we're going to see this in both uh chapters eight and nine so this week and next week's let's see if we can glean the purpose of raising funds for Jerusalem. We know Paul to be very strategic and intentional. What is the true motivation? Is this just a fundraising project? Right? That's what I want you to think about as we go through these two chapters, okay? Now, this is not the first time that Paul has given instruction to the Corinthians regarding collecting funds for the church. Do you remember where we saw that 1 Corinthians 16. Let's go over there. That was the very end of our our last uh time together or last quarter, chapter 16. How does he start chapter 16? Now. Right? So at that point, this is the sixth time that you see now. So we know this pattern of him introducing um a new topic or or coming back to a topic. Now concerning the collection for the saints as I directed the churches of Galatia So do you also. On the first day of every week, let each of uh let each one of you put aside and save as he may prosper. That no collections be made when I come, and when I arrive, whomever you may approve, I shall send them with letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem So what we talked about um last quarter is he gives some instructions on the collection that they are supposed to do. And and his idea is he's trying to motivate them to do this systematically so that when he comes It's not this urgent fundraising effort, right? That they're doing this already so that when he comes again, it's ready to go. That's the instructions, and it was sounds like it was very similar instructions that he gave in Galatia Um so in verse 2 we see what? Regularly. How do how do we know that? First day of the week. First day of the week. Universally, it was for each one of them. It wasn't for a certain sect or just the leadership, it was for all of them systematically putting aside or saving up. It was proportionate how as one prosper. If you have much, you should be giving more. If you have little, you give what you can. It's proportionate And then freely. It was not meant to be a compelling or a mandate. They were supposed to give of their of their heart's intent, whatever the Lord was putting on their heart. So I I just wanted to give that as context that he actually already gave them instruction and and Titus was the one who delivered this letter, 1 Corinthians. So so Titus was a participant in this Project Jerusalem effort. Okay? Alright, so let's pick up our story in chapter 8. This is from John MacArthur in what we're going to see initially in chapter 8, just an exemplary model of Christian giving. John MacArthur says, the richest, most detailed model of Christian giving in the New Testament. Not talking about the Corinthians, but rather who? The Macedonian churches. So let me read. Let's read 1 through 5 and then we'll pull that apart a little bit. Now, brethren, we wish to make known to you the grace of God which has been given in the churches of Macedonia. that in a great ordeal of affliction their abundance of joy and their deep poverty overflowed in the wealth of their liberality For I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability, they gave to their own accord, begging us with much entreaty for the favor of participation in the support of the saints. And this not as we had expected, but they first gave themselves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. So Paul begins by recognizing the generosity of who? The Macedonians They were motivated by the grace of God. It's important to note Macedonia was an impoverished area. They were ravished by previous wars. And the Roman Empire was just heavily taxing this region, this area. So they were in deep, deep poverty. And as we also know, they were under great persecution. We know as Paul went through that area, he went from city to city rather quickly. Why? Because he was being persecuted. So they were feeling that same level of persecution. That's the context that the Macedonians are under. And yet we see this incredible giving. In verse 2, in addition, they were under heavy persecution, like I just said. Yet despite their circumstances, their abundance, or that word means surplus of joy overflowed in the riches of their liberality. So this idea of liberality, their generosity or their sincerity They were rich in their generosity. The Macedonian believers were rich in their single-minded, selfless generosity of God and others. Under immense persecution, under immense poverty, just overflowed with generosity. That's the model that we have in the Macedonian church here. Paul highlights three aspects. Look at verse 3. Three aspects of their giving. For I testify that according to their ability. So this idea of according to their ability, giving is proportionate. God sets no amount, but expects us to give based on what we have. Right, there's lots we get lots of questions about, you know, should I tithe? Uh what is the church policy on tithing? No policy Right? And we see that pattern in the Old Testament, the tithe, the tax. And I've been told if you actually added all those up, it's more like 20%. Right? So, but in the New Testament, we see even from Jesus the idea of giving proportionally. You give as the Lord is leading on your heart. You give as you have, in proportion to what you have. According to your ability. But look what's next. For I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability. Giving is intended to be sacrificial. Yes, giving of what they had, but in proportion that is sacrificial. Alright, so yes, yes, we are to give proportionally. There's no mandate of a percentage, but it is meant to be sacrificial. Why why is that? Why do you think Invested in it in what you're doing. You're invested in it. Okay, good. Any other thoughts? Steve. Comes from a rolling heart. Yeah. I think this sacrifice shows that you're trusting God provide what you need. Amen. Yeah. Yep, yep, absolutely. You know, it's by our giving. Um God doesn't need our money, you know that. Um it is a form for us to worship God And jointly, like you said, to say to our holy God, our trust is first and foremost in you. You have given to me abundantly, and I'm giving back as a reminder. That this is all yours. I'm simply a steward of what you have been given or what you have given to me. But I I want you to be thinking about this um in your own lives, in your own giving. It's proportionate But it should be sacrificial as well. And what that looks like in each and every home, an individual, is is totally different. Right? That's between you and the Lord So according to their ability, beyond their ability, and as was mentioned, of their own accord, right? This was not a mandate, they were not compelled to give, they were freely given, of their own accord, voluntarily. not under compulsion, manipulation, or intimidation. And if you ever feel we as a church are are acting in that way, you need to call us out. Right? We are so careful not to do that, but if you ever get the feeling or perception that that's what's happening, you need to come talk to us because that is not the model that we see here in the New Testament church Verse 4, begging us with much entreaty for the favor of participation in the support of the saints. They are begging to be able to participate in Project Jerusalem. All right, they're poverty, they're persecuted, and yet they're begging, Paul, can we please participate in this ministry? Right, we want to help the brothers and sisters out. I think that is just extremely precious. They viewed giving to the church in Jerusalem a privilege and not an obligation That's how our our sacrificial giving should be viewed. It's a privilege. We get to worship our Lord through funds, through our talents, through our time. And verse 5, and this not as we had expected, but they first gave themselves to the Lord and to us. So Paul's simply saying We had an expectation of how much they would give in the context of of being impoverished and being persecuted, and they gave well above beyond that. What a testimony. Hong, did you have a question? No. Comment? They went well, well above their expectations. And I hope that's the testimony that we as a church can provide as well. Alright, that's the encouragement that Paul is trying to give the church at Corinth. But simply the testimony that they they provided now through their giving. Right? That's simply what he's trying to encourage them with them with. This is the New Testament model of getting. Not an obligatory tithe or tax, but a free will offering that is a sacrificial proportion. This is the hard attitude of how to worship in our giving. Okay? Alright, with that said, what delegation is sent to accomplish this task? And I'm going to be jumping around this chapter a little bit to kind of give the flow of this story So we got Project Jerusalem. Paul gives them the testimony of the Macedonians, but who is sent to actually make this collection? Who is his team, his emissary, if you will? Let's start in verse 6. And not a surprise, consequently we urged Titus that as he had previously made a be a beginning So he should also complete in you this gracious work as well. So as mentioned, and we'll come back to our character sketch of Timothy, or I'm sorry, Titus Just a a solid man of God, right? We talked about um he he was a partner. Paul often talked about him as a partner, not a subordinate, um, but a partner A trusted, trusted missionary, messenger, minister, right? And it's likely that it was Titus that started this instruction, as we saw back in 1 Corinthians. So he is being sent again to to finish this effort, to encourage the Corinthians to finish this effort. And we know we we have some evidence that it was 1 Corinthians letter. Look at verse 10 And I give my opinion in this matter, for this is to your advantage, who were the first who began a year ago not only to do this, but also to desire to do it. So here we have some clues that it was probably Titus that started this effort when he was first there a year ago. And so now the encouragement is let's finish the work. Paul is trying to set them up for success. Right, you started a work and not only did you start it you desired to do it. I gave you very clear instructions on how to do it and now I'm sending my team to collect Right, so Titus is the the chief emissary, if you will. And let's see Titus's heart attitude. Jump down to verses 16 and 17 But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness. We talked about that on this list. That earnestness, that eagerness, that desire to be involved. That's the character or trait that we see in Titus. But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus. For he not only accepted our appeal, but being himself very earnest, he has gone to you of his own accord Titus is doing this on his own accord. He is volunteering. He wants to be this leader that is going forward. Now You can only imagine. Um, I don't know, it doesn't say how much money is being collected, but uh, but I suspect it's a pretty sizable amount Right? And to have this responsibility now, to be collecting this money, that's a huge responsibility. And Titus wants it willingly Because he loves the Corinthians. He knows the testimony um that this will give to uh the Corinthian church Alright, we're going to see that there are two other men that are two other brothers that are also part of this team. Go up to verses 18 and 19 And we have sent along with him the brother, whose fame in the things of the gospel has spread through all the churches And not only this, but he has also been appointed by the churches to travel with us in this gracious work, which is being administered by us for the glory of the Lord Himself and to show our readiness. This brother, who is this brother by the way? Thank you. There's not a name, right? There's not a name We don't know. We don't know. And I'll come to that in a second. But we know this about him. He has been proven to be diligent. He is trustworthy. And and most likely is coming from the Macedonian region. As he's there in Macedonia, um they the churches there have probably appointed some of their own men who are well known Right, we get that indication that they are well known to be part of this group. So it's not just Titus, and there's wisdom in that, right? Having more than one person and having uh this diverse representation, if you will Alright, so we have Titus, we have another brother that's well known. Go down to verse 22. And we have sent with them our brother, whom we have often tested and found diligent in many things. but now even more diligent because of his great confidence in you. Who's that brother? We don't know. It doesn't say Again, has proven to be diligent and trustworthy. Look at verse 23. He kind of summarizes this team that he has put together. And for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker among you. As for our brethren, mentioning the two other brothers he's talking about, They are messengers of the churches, a glory to Christ. So again, this is where they're most likely from the Macedonia region. And he's sending these three as a an emissary team, if you will, to go make this collection. So we have to ask ourselves, why is he sending these three? Why these representatives? We have an answer in verse 20. Go back to verse 20. taking precaution that no one should discredit us in our administration of this generous gift, for we have regard for what is honorable, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. He wants to be, make sure that they are above reproach. Let me read this commentary because I think they summarized it really nicely. This is from Garland Money is a sensitive issue that frequently sparks suspicion. Paul therefore reminds them that this fund is a grace that is being ministered for the purpose of bringing glory to the Lord and to show good will. Then he explains that he is taking every precaution to be above reproach by having these well known representatives from Macedonia accompany Titus Paul makes clear that he does not intend for this project to line his own pockets. With someone appointed by other churches and not by Paul, there can be no doubts about his own honesty regarding what will happen to the funds Paul recognizes that the power of one's witness corresponds directly to one's reputation for integrity. He cannot allow the project to become shrouded in malicious rumors that all is not above board. He therefore takes steps to ensure that there be not the slightest hint of any impropriety We know Paul to be very strategic and intentional, don't we? So he has established this project, but he's very careful to plan and think ahead. We know that he's already being being criticized by some in Corinth. Right? His character is is being defrauded. So he's very careful to make sure that the collection of money, a very sensitive topic, that they all stay above reproach That makes sense okay. Um Pastor Green? Yes, please. It also says in uh first Corinthians 16 that uh at least one maybe Titus was actually uh Um approved of by the church and court themselves. He said, I will send to you whomever it is that you've chosen. Ah, lovely. So at least one of these three, possibly Titus, was requested by the Great Yeah, Jason, great, great point. Um in and I think that distinction of Paul is not designating all these men. These are men well known by the churches in Macedonia and most likely Corinth Which would do what? Would just add trust to to the situation. Um I can tell you as a church, let me frame it this way, in our bylaws we have this statement um talking about Things that as elders we have to be unanimous on. So right now in the bylaw there's only two statements that say we have to be unanimous. We all have to agree One of those is if we make any change to uh our doctrinal statement, what we teach. Right? So we just went through that that big exercise of changing. We went through an excruciating detail Alright, do you agree with that period there? Do you agree with that word there? I mean we went through line by line by line um and it was a great exercise to kind of work through some of that. Um but we made sure we were all in agreement with what is written there The other item that it talks about, now let me say this, even though it's not written down, we do strive for unity as often as we possibly can. There are often cases where We may not always agree a hundred percent, but it's a preference thing. And it's like I don't really care, right, which way this goes. I have a preference, but it's not something I'm gonna I'm gonna, you know, argue against if you will. And we have good discussion about what that looks like. The other item when it comes to finances, if if there's a decision That requires, I believe it's um that is the of an amount 25% of our budget. So a big budget item, we have to be unanimous on on that decision Now I will tell you how we operate. If there is anything related to money, we talk about it as a group. We just do to stay above reproach. You know, that might be, hey, we want to go buy some hymnal books Right? It it seems so minor, but I think this topic of money um can run away so quickly and to really stay above reproach that is one area because I'm a big fan of delegating to the staff. pastors, hey make decisions. You know you don't need to come to the elder board all the time to to make uh certain decisions. And since I'm the the board chairman I make sure we don't talk about that silly stuff. You guys make that decision. Do it But when it comes to money, we really try and make sure we talk about it so that everyone is above reproach. Does that make sense? Yeah. So I just I want to give you some of that insight. Um and it's really in the spirit of what we read here with um with Paul All right, any questions on that, comments? Yes, Kirk. I was just trying to envision the the actual physically carrying a lot of money on you for a thousand miles or whatever the distance is. Yeah. And how many maybe servants had to come along just for Security. Yeah. Kirk, that's a that is a great question and I don't know how they did it. I don't know the answer to that. Um I would have to research that. You know, it was a very dangerous area. It's not like they could wire the money to Jerusalem, right? Everything was safe. And like I said, they were probably carrying a lot of money Um so I don't know how they did that. I really don't. I think that's a really good point. But so Titus and its um two companions, they would not have they would have to not be wimps. Well I was just gonna say, you know, this this is an AI depiction of Titus, but maybe he was like And did they have guards, did they have an entourage? I I don't know. I don't know how they did that, but uh that's a really good point. So Yeah, yeah, good. All right. Let me go back to my my earlier question. Can we glean the purpose of raising funds for Jerusalem. We know Paul to be again very strategic and attention, but what is the true motivation We get a glimpse of that in the very last verse of this chapter. Let's read that. Verse 24. Therefore, openly before the churches, show them the proof of your love and of your reason for boasting about you. Right? We we get a sense of one of the purposes he wants the Corinthian testimony, he wants the churches to see that testimony from the Corinthian church. Right? Their demonstration of love. And what kind of love is that? Agape, right? This unconditional, sacrificial, you know, verb action type of love. So we really get a sense of what Paul is trying to set them up. Just like he started the chapter with what? The testimony of the Macedonian church. He wants that to be the same testimony of the Corinthian church Right? He wants the world to see the demonstration of their love through their giving. So we certainly know that that is one of the motivations To openly demonstrate to all the New Testament churches their love of God and their brothers and sisters, specifically in Jerusalem I don't think it's the only motivation, and we'll read or see more about that in chapter 9, but this is a huge one. He wants the Corinthian testimony to be known by the world, really. But what method did Paul use to motivate them? How did he encourage and implore them to finish the work they started Let's go back to verse 7. I missed a whole chunk in the middle of there that is important to understand how did Paul go about this. And it's really important to understand Paul's methods because they're applicable for us today. Remember we talked about um the methods that Paul uses when he addresses the churches and how we address our children, right? Sometimes we're encouraging, sometimes exhorting, imploring, admonishing. And Paul uses all those techniques. Verse 7, he really starts by trying to encourage them. But just as you abound in everything, in faith, in utterance, and knowledge, and in all earnestness, there's that word earnestness again, eagerness. And in the love, agape love, we inspired in you, see that you abound in this gracious work also So let me say this. We know that Paul had to address many, many issues in the Corinthian church, don't we? And yet, and yet they still had some of these virtues. Paul is not a manipulative person We know we we've read that he's defended himself, so he's not trying to use flattery here. He has seen these virtues abound in them. Faith They're sanctifying trust in the Lord. Utterance and this means sound doctrine. So they're teaching sound doctrine. Knowledge The application of that doctrine and love, the agape love. Paul was trying not to be manipulative. These were virtues Paul recognized in them And he encourages them what? To abound also in this effort. Project Jerusalem. You're abounding in all these other areas. I want you to finish strong and abound in this one as well, because it is a wonderful demonstration of the love that I just encouraged you with. Verse 8, I am not speaking this as a command, but as proving through the earnestness of others the sincerity of your love also. So again, the earnestness that um you have that the Macedonians had I want this to be a similar testimony for you verse 9 for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ That though he was rich yet for your sake he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. What's Paul talking about here? Okay. Um uh Elizabeth saying Jesus coming, dying on the cross. That's a big part of it. Go over to Philippians. You guys are all familiar with the passage. Paul's giving the gospel message once again. Philippians 2. And let me read 5 through 10. Let me read verse don't don't turn back. Let me read uh verse 9 again. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich Yet for our sake he became poor, that through his poverty, that you through his poverty might become rich Alright, let me read Philippians 2, starting in verse 5. Have this attitude in yourself, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, he's rich. did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant. He became poor. And being made in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore also God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth. So Paul is simply encouraging them with the gospel message once again. Jesus Christ is the ultimate example of sacrificial giving. Right, we talked about that proportionate that proportionate sacrifical sacrificial giving. Jesus Christ is the perfect example of that. What he did on the cross. That's where it all starts. Scott. I thought that you did this, right? But I think we like to let ourselves off the hook here a bit, right? There's two contrastes that Paul sets up. First, the contrast between Corinthians and Macedonian. Between all believers and their Christ. And the contrast of it is tough, right? It's it's extreme on one hand the extreme out of their poverty and their seal everything. And although he doesn't state it specifically, he's basically saying that's what it looks like when our law So out of their earnestness you find kind of the watermark that your your genuine love should be reaching and in case we humble that contrast if he goes to Christ he says all of it yeah all of it on the cross right like that is the example of genuine not stated but necessarily follows from that falling short of those standards. Yeah, that's a that's a perfect way to frame that Scott, so thank you. Yep, excellent. Alright, let me continue on at verse ten. And I give my opinion in this matter, for this is to your advantage, who were the first to begin a year ago, not only to do this, but also to desire to do it But now finish doing it also, that just as there was the readiness to desire it, so there may also be the completion of it by your ability. So again, encouraging them to finish strong For if the readiness is present, it is acceptable according to what a man has, not according to what he does not have. For this is not the ease of others and For this is not for the ease of others and for your affliction, but by way of equality. At this present time, your abundance being a supply for their want that their abundance also may come to a supply for your want, that there may be equality, as it is written, He who gathers much did not have too much, and he who gathered little had no lack So what is this idea of equality that Paul is talking about? Um is he saying boy I I'm I'm too prosperous and now he's talking about fairness if you will. We should all be equal distribution Is that socialism or communism or what do you want to call that? Let me just read again a commentary from John MacArthur and then we can have a little bit of a discussion on your thoughts on this This Greek word gives us the English word, which refers to a condition of equilibrium. Thus the term could also be translated balance or equilibrium. Some believers who have more than they need should help those who have far less than they need. This is not, however, a scheme of Paul's to redistribute wealth within the church, but rather to meet the basic needs. Does that make sense? Alright. So you know we all go through seasons of life and and when there are certain times of prosperity, you know, the church body, the universal church you know has opportunity to give to those who have less need and that season might change um and be reversed but it's not saying you have too much you got to redistribute so that everyone is equal. That's not what Paul is trying to say here Any thoughts, comments on that? Raymond. Well that also there's just a bunch of people in the Democrat Party. They're using that. You can't bring politics into my classroom. Yeah, so that's the point. We're that's not what we're trying to uh do or or what Paul's trying to say. Let me let me give you this example. I I don't know if it's I think it's fitting, but it it came to my mind as I read this uh specific um topic. Our short-term mission trip to Colombia last year. And so this was kind of the first one post-COVID. I think there was a lot of excitement, but we sent 10 people to Colombia uh for ten days I think it was. And um our church was so generous You know, this was kind of uh an out-of-cycle above and beyond the normal giving that we were requesting to be able to send this team to Columbia. And for 10 people, that's pretty expensive. Um and and we were just blown away by the generosity of this church, such that we were able to present to the moralysists um a sum of money that was well above what we needed as a team. I I want to say it was close to nine thousand dollars. That we were able to now give this church for his needs there for facility. Um they use their home for a lot of hosting church events, right? Because they didn't they don't have their own church building And so him being able to make some improvements and expand that area to facilitate weddings and barbecues and just fellowship. Um, I can't tell you what a blessing that was for us Um and Angela and Scott can certainly give their opinions. But to be your ambassadors, your emissaries, to give that gift from from Hope Bible Church, it wasn't from us, it was from you guys They were just blown away. They were so encouraged by your generosity. That's the testimony that you gave. You gave um proportionate and you gave sacrificially. It was above and beyond what you normally give. Lisa. Um kind of going back to the even when he's talking about the and even distributed the equality, yes. Um I think it's more of a um equal opportunity participation. And kind of going back farther to verse 7 where he's talking about an act of grace. And I just think, who is that act of grace? Mm-hmm. It's for the people who receive the gift and it's for the people who give the gift, I think. Um like as A full-time missionary that lives by the generosity of people giving to us the time. Um I can testify to both ends of that There is an enormous amount, this is what you were saying, there's an enormous amount of grace that you experience in giving and being part of the office forward. There's also an enormous amount of grace you experience. Yeah. And I think if you don't give or never on the receiving end up giving, you miss something that Not intended to be raised. Yeah. Lisa, I really love that that input and observation and how you frame that. Um the equality is the the quality of the opportunity to give and and the the beauty of the blessing for both uh the giver and the receiver. And I think that's the attitude we see in the Macedonians. They're begging. They want that opportunity to give. Right? Um and it's a wonderful blessing. So that's a great great input. Thank you. Other thoughts? Joni. So it I appreciate you bringing up the the idea that maybe this verse is used by people to say well this is why socialism is a is a good idea you know look the Bible uh talks about doing this I appreciate that that because it seems to me that it if you're not giving because you want to give, if it's not a heart attitude Which I think is what they're describing there. You see the need and you want to meet it because you're honoring the Lord, because it gives you joy to serve others, you know, for all those kinds of reasons It's so different than the idea of compulsory giving. Yes. Uh you know, this is this is the way you It everybody's gonna gonna live this way, it's gonna all be even, which takes away the a lot of incentive and idea making and things like that. And it it it includes generosity. Um so I just really appreciate that distinction because I think that I I've always struggled with the what do I say to people when they say this? Because it does seem sort of the same. Yeah. But the heart attitude is the big part, which is For sure. Yep, good. Doug. Okay, this is a half-baked idea. I just I'm just linking here and I don't know if this is a valid thing or not. Is it uh no surprise that the passage that talks about repentance just with the witness is now talking about maybe you guys need to repent It seems like Paul's expecting that he's got to call them to a give level of giving that they're not at Yeah. Am I reading too much? No, no, here's what I would say, Doug. I think you're onto something. There's there's this tension I'll call it where I I think you see this in Paul, especially with the Corinthians, this this balance of trying to encourage them But knowing that they are maybe not at the maturity level they should be. So how does he set them up for success to finish this race well? I I think you see a little bit of that tension. I don't think it's an admonishment per se, but it's it's you started this and you were eager to start it and we've had all these difficulties. I've had the severe letter We've come through that, and I just I really want to encourage you to finish the race strong. I I think you see some of that tension, but again, he's not trying to manipulate He truly is trying to encourage them, but we know in 1 Corinthians, right, he says you're not mature. You're not at the level you should be And so he's aware of that. And so I think that's why he's sending emissaries to encourage them, letters to encourage them. Um I don't know if that answers your question, but that's kind of how I see the the tension that's happening there. Yeah. Yes. Um I was just thinking, I know Paul's talking specifically about finances here. Yeah. But would you say that it's also appropriate to apply this to the giving of our time and talents as well. I I think that's the broader application for sure. For sure. Yeah You know, this specifically is talking about this collection though for Jerusalem. And again, I think part of it is um to have that, you know, like Lisa said, to receive that no-kidding financial tangible thing is an incredible testimony. I think that's true of time and talent as well. I really think. I'm not really capable to give in a certain way. But then if you consider the other things that you can give yourself, I think that's a So if you think, you know, Stephanie to your point, the broader application of what you can give, I I think that's how you can frame that for sure, right? Um yeah Claire. I just appreciate Paul's both meaning and need and getting them to do that, but also ministering to them and getting them to Giving them the opportunity to to experience the blessing of giving them. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Which is kind of what Lisa was talking about. So yeah, very good. Alright, let me do this because we're almost out of time. You guys didn't hold me accountable. What's your new memory verse? I had it last week and I forgot to share it. So real let's look real quick, 2 Corinthians 12 9. 2 Corinthians 12, 9. It's an easy one. And he has said to me, My grace is sufficient for you For power is perfected in weakness. Alright, so that's your memory verse. We'll start hitting that next week. So for your homework, read 2 Corinthians 9. It's going to be a continuation of this thing of Project Jerusalem. So we'll get some more uh some more data points on what's happening there and then work on your memory verse 2 Corinthians 12, 9. All right, good discussion today. Let me pray