We are on lesson four already covering Thessalonians chapter three. I I wanted to start with, again, the most important part of this class is that worksheet that you have in front of you Alright, so um I want to go back to your worksheet from last week and let me do this real quick. Do you have another handout? I apologize it's hard to read Let's see if I do. Alright, so I I thought this was a really good resource. Um at the very top of your your homework sheet, right, you're supposed to be capturing, you know, attributes of God's character Um and and this is a great list to kind of well what are some of those attributes? So you can look at that list to help you as you work through this. What you'll see here, number one, it's taken from uh systematic theology Wayne Grudham. Really, really good resource. Also the attributes of God, A. W. Pink, I highly recommend It's a short little book, sometimes a little bit difficult to read, but really um immersing yourself in the attributes of God is a great, great exercise for all of us. And what I'm trying to cultivate as we go through this process, as you read passages in Scripture, I want you to be thinking about how does this display a particular attribute of character of God? That's how we cultivate a really high view of God. Okay? I don't want you to be concerned about the colors. What the colors are communicating is what they call incommunicable and communicable. Communicable meaning these are attributes of God that He shares with His people. Alright? And sometimes these are debated. Whenever you start to put something in a dogmatic category, right, it gets debated. That's okay. I don't want you to worry so much about that. So for example, um on this he has a lot colored in orange, which would be communicable. So his omnipotence is orange. Well I questioned that a little bit. Right? Um you could argue holiness in the middle there, also in orange. Does he share some of his holiness with us? Are we commanded to be more holy? Absolutely So there's a case where he would argue, hey, I'm you know he's simply sharing some of that attribute. It's not exhaustive. Don't worry about the color scheme. I'm more concerned about you having a good holistic view um to be thinking about as you read passages, you know, you can start to pick some of it. So it's a resource for you. Does that make sense? Here's the last thing I would tell you about when we think about his attributes You can never forget, and and there's a word for it, I don't think it's complete. I think they call it simplicity, which which in my mind doesn't really capture it. You can't um These are not mutually exclusive. You can't read a passage and maybe it highlights his holiness But that doesn't exclude a hundred percent justice and righteous, right? You always have to take his attributes in totality. Does that make sense? Right? It's never one or the other Okay. Does that make sense? Good. So with that, um I I would love some feedback from last week, a sheet that you filled out. What does this passage say, and we were in chapter two about um his attributes or character? So Barbara, I might um and not you can put that wherever you want. That might be more of an indicative or a truth about God, right? That He He exhorts us, right? That's where that would go. That's good Okay, perfect. Perfect. Right? This this is a a a truth or a character about God that in his sovereignty And you could almost combine in his sovereignty what's the promise or the truth is he allows Satan to to thwart us sometimes for his goodwill, right? So you you kind of have a combo there. Does that make sense? Yeah. Good. Anyone else? Yes. Uh I can see that we're supposed to be constantly grateful and praying and then giving thanks for the saints who are in our lives. Yeah, excellent. Um Abby, I might put that in the application category, right? So because of his attributes, this is the application for all of us, but maybe you specifically in a certain way. So Again, I I'm just trying to let you guys understand the framework for so let me give you an example maybe of some things that I would have pulled out of that Um and and maybe this is evident throughout, but uh one of the attributes and and I think it's his chief attribute is his holiness And we talked a lot about chapter one, chapter two, really this this whole book is about um their sanctification And Paulus is what is he thanking them for? The evidence of their sanctification. And what is sanctification More like God? More like God. Being made more and more holy. Right? Being made into the image of Christ. So here's a case where God's holiness, we are we are to be striving towards that Right? So understanding that chief attribute of holiness and the fact that he is totally set apart from sin. You know, that's why we need a Savior And and yet now as believers we are growing more and more towards that holiness. Alright? So uh chief attribute, his holiness. An indicative or a promise that I really love. Go to chapter 2, verse 13. And we also thank God constantly for this, that when you received the Word of God, so they heard it, they received it, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the Word of men. but as what it really is, the Word of God, which is at work in you believers. So this promise, right? This indicative, this promise that the Word is doing its work. It's performing its work. That's just I get super jazz when I hear that, right? You can read God's word and you can have confidence it's going to do its work as you apply it Right, as you are being controlled by the Holy Spirit, filled by the Holy Spirit, it will perform its work. That's a wonderful, wonderful truth. So that would be an indicative or a truth from the passage. With that, the imperative or the the um command for us is to exhort, to encourage, to implore with the use of God's word, right? God's word underpins that, but we as believers are supposed to be acting that way towards others. To exhort us to what? To come alongside, to encourage, to build confidence and to implore this this strong charge, if you will. That's how we are to act as fa what does he describe it as, as fathers do to their children. Right? That's a loving act. But that would be um an imperative or a command for us to go and follow. And then lastly, the application, again, if the focus is on God's Word might be, hey, I I really need to have more structure in the way I read the Bible. You know, I really need to have a day a daily quiet time. And yes, if you're motivated to read the whole Bible in a year, that that's a wonderful, wonderful, you know, endeavor. I I would encourage you though is More importantly, um, and not that that's not important, but make sure you're spending time just really dwelling on God's Word And and like we're doing here, as I have you do with your homework, read the chapter, read it again, read it again, pray through it, meditate on it, if there are verses you want to memorize do that. Okay? Um so that's that's that do you understand the flow that I just took through that? That's what I'm I'm asking you to do as we go through this process. And if you stick with me for three quarters, man, you guys are gonna be you guys are gonna be experts by the time we get done with it. So um I I wanted to read a quick um excerpt from Um systematic theology. This is uh John MacArthur and and Mayhew. Um and are the Esparzas here today? No they're not. Okay, because Matt as far as going through the SOP and so they're they're deep into systematic theology. This is Grudham. We'll we'll cover this a little bit later, um, but um John MacArthur has a similar thick book on systematic theology. But I came across this, they were looking at uh bibliology, the study of the Bible, and came across this this passage that I thought was really powerful. In Scripture, the person of God and the Word of God are everywhere interrelated. True? In Scripture, the person of God and the Word of God are everywhere interrelated. So much so that whatever is true about the character of God is true about the nature of God's word. Right? They're absolutely linked. What a person thinks about God's word in reality reflects what a person thinks about God. And you could probably reverse that. So if you have a low view of God's word, guess what? You're going to have a low view of God. And vice versa. If you have a low view of God, if you bring him down to our level What's going to happen? You're going to have a low view of the power of Scripture. Alright, so I thought very, very profound in a reminder in why we cultivate a high view of God and cultivate a high view of Scripture. Um to uh our problem with the word of God usually is because of us. Because we have a high view of ourselves. We somehow we can interpret it correctly, so to speak. So we need to be mindful of the fact that we have to have this high view of But we also have to realize that we have need to have a role view of ourselves so if we don't understand something, we have to realize it's us. Yeah. No, that's perfect. And and you remember I started with with this idea of we we have to cultivate a really high view of God and a correct view of ourselves And by correct I mean who we were or are as sinners in bondage, but also who we are as children of God and the promises that go with it. That's what we're trying to cultivate. All right, good. Um the other part of your homework was to memorize Psalm nineteen, seven and eight. I'm gonna try because I told you I would give it a shot and you guys can hold me accountable and it's rusty, but I will give it a try. So if someone wants to be in their Bible and make sure they check it. You got it? Alright The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple The precepts of the Lord are right, restoring the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure Enlightening the eyes. Boom. Alright. So so again, I love Psalm 19. I love these verses. Why? It shows the word being active Do you hear that? It restores the soul. It enlightens the eyes. It's pure. It's sure. Boy, that's something solid to stand on. All right, anyone else want to give it a try? All right, next week you're on the tap. I'm gonna start with you guys. Excellent. All right, good job. So let's jump into our lesson. So just a little bit of reminder, kind of the major themes of uh First Thessalonians. And we've been working through this. We've seen it, right? Uh it started with this prayer of Thanksgiving And that really is kind of the theme you see through the first three chapters. Really Paul just so thankful, so encouraging for the the witness, the testimony of um the manifestation of their faith. Alright? And and we're seeing it in their works, their their labor of love, their steadfastness of hope, the work of faith And so we're going to see this transition though that happens at the end of chapter three. So we'll cover that in in what we will call the transition prayer. This is a typical format of Paul, you know, kind of reaffirming uh the truce, the indicatives that we talked about, and then we'll move into more of the imperatives and the application. Um so we're going to see that theme here when we go through Thessalonians. Okay? Alright, let me pause there. So go into your Bible and we'll pick up. We left off in chapter two, if you remember, Paul being thwarted by Satan. Alright. Chapter 3 is going to start with sending Timothy back. You know, this is where we get evidence of Timothy being sent back. So um in your in your Bibles verse 13 Uh, sorry. How about verse one? Alright, chapter 3, verse 1. Therefore, now whenever you see the therefore, you gotta go back. Right? What what was he talking about? He was talking about being thwarted. He wanted to go and and see what was going on with this church that he had a very limited time with, right? That he stood up. And and this was true of all the churches. That was his passion, that was his heart, to go back and figure out what was going on But when he was thwarted, therefore, because I was thwarted, when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone, and we sent Timothy, our brother and God's co-worker, in the gospel of Christ. to establish and exhort you in the faith that no one be moved by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we were destined for this. For when we were with you we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction So no doubt the Thessalonians knew because Paul was was basically pushed out of uh Thessalonica, right, because of the persecutions. So they were fully aware of of what was happening with the afflictions. And so Paul was concerned that they might be tempted by that. They might be discouraged that the persecutions are happening, not only to themselves but to Paul. And so when he was thwarted um and and could bear it no longer They sent Timothy to go figure out what was going on. You see in verse 1 there again, therefore, when we could bear it no longer. He wanted to inquire about their fate. He wanted to understand what was going on. And we saw from last week, what? That Satan was um a thwarter. He thwarted Paul. Here we see him as the tempter Now what is the difference? Does God tempt his children? Does he test his children? He sure does. What's the difference between Satan testing or tempting and God testing? Raymond. Tempting was to I guess to bring you down to try to destroy you and testing is to show include you but you are but what you need send no. Think of your growing and you did something wrong. Yeah, yeah. Raymond spot on. So when Satan tempts um us, it is the purpose is failure. He wants you to fail. Or he wants you to feel like a failure. When God puts us through various trials and temptations, or not temptations, trials and tribulations, it's to affirm our faith. Right? It's really to give us confidence. We know the path To glorification, that end state for us goes through suffering. We know that through many, many passages. That's just God's design, guys. Get used to it, right? That is the path. And why? Because it's for our sanctification, right? It's that grinding, that sharpening that is going to allow us to become more and more in the image of Christ. We need that Alright? So that's why we are to be thankful. Like James says and Paul says in Philippians, be thankful in all circumstances. Rejoice Alright, so understanding um those two is important. But because of that, they want to send Timothy and they get the encouraging words. But let's let's dive in a little bit on this idea of um, he says, when I could bear it no longer. You see that in verse 1 and verse 5 For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your faith for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you, and our labor would be in vain. So I want to talk a little bit about this idea of concern, worry, anxiousness, and I want to ask you the question, was Paul being anxious here? He commands us not to. So before you answer that, let's dig into this a little bit and see if we can get some some insights from the word. So this word anxious is worry, painful suspense, um disquieting thoughts. I I love that, right? We've all been there. Right. You know when you're in this this uh space of peace and quietness what that looks like versus being upset and disquieted. We know in Philippians 4. 6, we read, be anxious for nothing. Matthew 6. 25, we are told not to be anxious. Right and Jesus relays um uh the the concepts of every hair on your head and every bird in the field, right? Don't worry about what you're gonna wear. Um so there are clear commands not to be anxious. Go over to Psalm 94. Psalm 94. This is a lamenting psalm like we talked about the last couple weeks. And yet I want you to see, go down to verse 19. When the cares of my heart are many. Your consolations cheer my soul. Some um tran translations have um when I am anxious Right? So clearly here the psalm being just very adamant or or transparent that yes I go periods where it is overwhelming. I have great anxiousness. And yet what is the cure for that? Your consolations cheer my soul. Right, the remembrance of the goodness of the Lord and how he protects his people. Does anyone have that translation that shows that has the word anxious in it NIV is the same thing. NIV? When it named that where you could send me your compilation talk to what you're doing. Yeah, that's what I was looking for. Marie the the NASB, I think that's where I got it from. Go ahead. Yeah, yeah, it's the that same word, um deep, deep worry and anxiousness. And yet So again we see transparency and yet he turns to the Lord in remembrance of his consolations. I wanna do maybe a a real practical application and may maybe you've never thought about this before. I I wanna walk through the history of Martha. Alright, you remember Martha and Mary? So let's go over to Luke. Luke 10. And I know you are familiar with these stories, but I want to highlight um some of them. Luke ten, verse thirty-eight. Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house, and she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me But the Lord answered her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her What was going on in Martha's heart right now? Jealousy? Resentment? Yeah, she she was clearly focused on the things of the world Is her serving bad? Absolutely not. But she was so focused on a secular mindset, she had the Lord in her house. And and her her focus was elsewhere. I mean that's an important point. We all have been there, have we not? Right? We all get distracted by the moment And we forget about the Lord God. Alright? That's what he was getting at. So so keep that in mind. This is the the s the mind state of Martha right now Totally distracted, totally anxious. Jesus even used those words. You are anxious. Okay? Let's go over to John 11. John 11, and I'm not going to read all of this because it's a lengthy this is all about Lazarus. You know, so you know that story. Um Jesus finds out that that he's sick, and what does he do? He hangs out for a couple days, right? He could he could have just said the words, but he was trying to drive home a purpose here. But I I want you to reflect on Martha's heart here, in contrast with what we just read. Go down to verse twenty. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him. So she goes out to him. But Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. So certainly she's in anguish. And I don't think this is a critical statement. It's just a a groaning of her heart. And and here's why. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, your brother will rise again. Right, what is her heart attitude right now? She's in anguish, yes, but what's happened? Her eyes are clearly on the Lord. She is resting in the power of the Lord. You know, if you had been here, because she knows just with a word, right, he could live. But even now she's basically saying, I'm trusting you. Totally different mindset, totally different attitude from what we just read. Alright, let's keep going. John, go down one chapter to John 12. So we see Mary very anxious. We see her in this period of anguish and yet trusting fully in God. And then John 12, verse 1. Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at the table. Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment and it goes on and on and on. Verse two, though, what is what's Martha doing? She's serving. That's her gift. What are you not hearing? She's not anxious, right? So I I love this um kind of thread that we pull to say Mary's or Martha's doing what she was called to do. She probably has a servant's heart, but her mindset has changed. Now, it doesn't say explicitly, right? I'm I'm making an implication here based on the setting But we can see this flow of being totally anxious to trusting in the Lord to now just serving faithfully. Right? So I I think that's just a a beautiful thread of we do see Martha being anxious in the impact of that, right? So to be anxious really is to totally, um maybe not totally, but to a large part turning your eyes away from the Lord Right, that's the the spectrum that we have here. Alright, concern on the other hand. Can we have concern? Do we see concern in the Bible? Concern is an affection, a careful regard, if you will. Okay? We see an example of that in Nehemiah. And you don't need to turn there. If you guys may recall, I did a sermon on this last summer. And um It was I I really enjoyed it because the the whole premise of it was we are all the right people at the right place at the right time. Right? God has perfectly put you in a place for a certain time. That doesn't mean everything went well for Nehemiah. Right? So you if you recall, he was met with much opposition, threats. And what did he do? Did he ignore it? No, he took action. What did they have to do building the wall? It says that in one hand they had a weapon and in the other hand they're picking up stones and Building the wall, right? Not very efficient, but that's what needed to take place. You don't get a sense that they were over anxious, over worried, but he took steps. Right? He took precautions to make sure they were protected. And they built the wall, I think, in like 54 days or something, right? Just some remarkable feat. Um let's go to 2 Corinthians. And we'll touch on this obviously when we get there, uh probably the third quarter. 2 Corinthians 11. All right. 1128. Apart from such external things, there's the daily pressure on me of concern for all the churches. Alright, so Paul clearly had um this biblical concern for these churches that he planted. He was very concerned, obviously, for their spiritual welfare welfare. So this picture I have here um I think is a good illustration of how we can look at this I this contrast, if you will, between concern or anxiety. And this was something I was just looking online and and someone had this analogy. But think about it as concern kind of on the road. Right? We can have concern. We can have biblical concern. We just saw a couple examples of that. It's prudent. The the two extremes though, when you fall off into the ditch, on one hand you get apathy Don't care. I'm not going to worry about it all. Is that wise? Not always. Maybe rarely. We're going to see some of that in um Thessalonians where They hear Jesus is coming, so what do they do? Some of them just stop working. They don't care. Right? They just stop. Um you can you can hide, you know, I this this problem is too stressful. I'm just I'm I don't care about it. You just hide yourself in a closet, if you will, metaphorically, okay? The other extreme is anxiety. We can fall into that pit where that now um overclouds our thinking Right? It becomes the focus of our thinking versus how is the Lord going to work through this? How is he going to be glorified through this? Right? So it it really is this spectrum and and to get to that point of anxiety, treat it for what it is. It really is sin, because what are you doing when when you are at that spectrum of being anxious What does that say about God? He's not in control. He's not in control. You're not trusting him anymore in your situation. Right? That that's where you're you're pulling this to And so recognize that and treat it as what it is, a sin. So repent of that. Ask the Lord for forgiveness. Glenn. Um I have a hard time discerning so to speak big anxiety versus concern in my life. And so I try to look at it from the standpoint of what does it drive me to? What what what is my response to this feeling that I'm having Is it do I start praying? Then it it becomes concerned or do I start grumbling or being sad or frustrated or um Or or does it drive me up to height am I wearing out that kind of stuff? anxiety. But if it's driving me to godly things that is to okay, I'm gonna go do something I'm going to a at at the minimum pray and therefore get a a a godly sort of perspective Um or is it right, oh maybe I gotta go uh I gotta go call that person under the disk and whatever then I can sort of see it as a concern. So that kinda helps me discern the difference between Yeah, that's really good. And and I wanted to ask the question, how do you guys navigate um this pr this pretty slippery slope can happen pretty quick, right? How do you navigate that? You you just gave a perfect example of that. Diane. I feel like um you can be anxious in the moment without that being sin because then you get it under control, you go to the Lord. But if you're constantly living in that state, then I see that more as being Because if if I get a report from the doctor that I have some disease, my initial reaction may be to be anxious in that moment. Right. So to me, I think it's that momentary versus that perpetual. Yeah. Diane, I think that's a great distinction and it's a great way to characterize it, right? Um and I think um the the medical or health is a great example. You go into the doctor, you've done some tests and and already you're fighting anxious thoughts, aren't you? And and I think the key here, and Glenn you highlighted it, are you recognizing that? And are you recognizing that early? And that's gonna be a journey You might find where you're taking a bunch of tests and and it's natural what do you do? You go on Google and hey what does this mean? And then your mind starts to rave right and pretty soon you're down in this pit of anxiety. And now it's controlling you. You know, that's the key, is are you able to recognize that and do what? Turn it back to the Lord. Lord, I'm anxious. Be honest with the Lord. Lament in front of the Lord. It's okay. He wants to hear that. Lord, I need to be encouraged. I need to get my mind straight. It doesn't mean that you can't research it. You can't try and get um you know um good medical advice But is it now controlling you, that anxiousness? And it's going to be different for everyone. That's the journey you have to go on to recognize when you're starting to fall into that anxiousness And every for everyone it's going to be a little bit different. The journey you have to be on is how do you pull yourself back to you know the the lane of concern. Does that make sense? Yes, Carolyn. I always think like what Diana's saying that that that type of anxiety is not actually anxiety, it's an alarm. Yeah. Yeah. And alarms are important. Yes. Hey, you might have this disease. Yeah. That tells you, okay, now I need to focus on Yeah. So almost like a an alarming set of I I think again, I think that's a really good distinction 'cause when we look at what we just looked at with anxiousness, right, you do get the the sense that it's more of a a systemic you know, long-term thought process. And we when we talked about Martha, I suspect she was probably always anxious, right? Um versus like you said, this quick alarm bell or this quick God made us that way right to for danger and and what have you. Um but it's what we do with that, like Glenn said. And and that's a thing you have to cultivate. That's a discipline you have to train yourself Um and and how do we overcome some of that? Go back to what did we talk about in Philippians four? How do we overcome anxiousness? Remember? Philippians 4 says to be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with Thanksgiving. Yeah, with Thanksgiving That's the real key. How do you turn anxious thoughts? You start thanking the Lord. Thank you for this and this and this. Thank you for the medical community. Thank you for right? Marie. I go to that verse a lot, but also Do you sing it though? Inside joke. Inside joke. And one of the psalms it says to cast your burdens upon the Lord and he will stain you. Well that's like an active like you gotta keep your Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So just to keep doing that. Yeah. Elizabeth, is that what you were going to say? Yeah, perfect. Okay, good. I would just say the big thing is the anxiety and concern is that they they were setting really well with an alarm that fear is actually not necessarily evil of itself. I have my feet above a cliff. I don't want someone shouting at me, You terrible Christian, you need to trust God. I'm I'm gonna back away. Sure. That fear is actually a great alarm and it's not that I'm being a sinful Christian It's a good thing that I'm actually being concerned and removing it. And I I see people can feel bad that they have that fear, but the fear itself is not evil. Like Glenn said. Does it lead you to become a God? Does it lead you to Pray, fast, read your Bible, care what God says, or is again just being like Martha and getting stressed, being grumbling, so forth. Again, I understand that slippery slope, but I think the distinction is pretty clear. What does it lead you to do? Yeah. It it's easy to to slip into that thought pattern though, isn't it? So so let me ask you the question I asked at the very beginning. Verse 5 again, for this reason this is Paul, when I could endure it no longer, I also sent to find out about your faith for fear that the tempter might have tempted you. And our labor would be in vain. Is Paul being anxious, concerned, fearful? What are your thoughts? Stephen? Um I think well I would say concerned, because I do think it's just Um I think what's interesting and maybe it's just kind of like talking about this idea of concern versus opportunity is that I feel like both of those ultimately we start focusing on Yeah. Sometimes we're not concerned because we're like, vote not affecting me, but it's affecting somebody else. Great point. And like Paul is deeply not self-centered at the deeply deeply concerned about that. Yeah. And I don't know, I guess like we we're talking about like personal application. You see this in chapter two and chapter three. Like for me something that God has challenged me a lot is just like like they're my children. Yeah. Or a father. And so I just like it's great to see Paul Park. Like if he were just like the tempter could be tempting them Yeah Stephen I love that insight because i if you caught what he said, I mean this is the heart of Paul. Right? It could have been easy. Ooh, stood up a church there and there and there You know, that wasn't his his desire. You know, that wasn't his passion. He was truly concerned for his children. Right? And that's really what you gotta take away from this. And I think the other point You know, when we're knee deep in anxiety, the focus is always us. That's a great indicator of what's happening in your heart. Is the focus on you or is the focus on the Lord? So good discussion. Carolyn. And his concern was that I mean this was a time where they knew that Paul and Timothy and Silas of Tim were being persecuted. And some of them being young in their faith could have been faint hearted like he talked about, you know, in chapter five. Yeah. You know? So so that was a valid thing. He would protecting his church. For sure, for sure. Yeah. Um Glenn, real quick. Um I have a hard time sometimes between empathy and concern in the argument of God's sovereignty. And You know, all of a sudden I could be Wakanda Savannah he's going to protect them. And and and uh Maybe that would have been the right thing to do, maybe not. I don't know. That's my concern is or my my my struggle is is sort of like what if I'm if I'm I'm constantly thinking about what what should do this to do this. I should do this. Yeah. Am I am I not relying on on God's sovereignty and Sure, yeah. I I think that's a great paradox that we all have to struggle through, right? That God is sovereign and we can trust in that and yet there is valid concern and and where do those come together. Nehemiah again, could he have said I know this plan is from God. I know it is. He called me to go do this. And yet he still had to take precautions to protect the people. Right? Where is that overlap? Boy, everyone's got to have discernment to figure that out. Yeah, that's a that's a great great point. All right, let me keep going 'cause I want to make sure we get to everything. Really, really good discussion. All right, so that's kind of the attitude that Paul has here. He You know, he needs to find out what's going on. He's concerned about the church. He he had to leave early. He knows there's been, you know, persecution. He's concerned that the enemy has has tempted them away from the gospel, right? From that first love. So we read in verse six, but now that Timothy has come to us from you. Now remember I want to show the map up here what had happened. You remember they were quickly booted out of or Paul was out of Thessalonica. They went to Berea. Um I think Paul went on to Athens. Eventually um what you'll see is that Timothy and Silas joined them in Athens and then um Timothy is sent back to Thessalonica. Alright, so that's what's happening with the map here. Um But now that Timothy has come to us from you and has brought us good news of your faith and love, and that you always think kindly of us, longing to see us just as we also long to see you. For this reason, brethren in all our distress and affliction. We were comforted about you through our your faith. So Paul has this deep concern. We just read that and now he's getting this this beautiful report from from Timothy. You can only imagine how excited he was to get that report. Right, and why the first three chapters is really just really um thanking, encouraging um the church in Thessalonica for their steadfastness. All right, their steadfastness in the faith, but you really see the pastor's heart come out in Paul. Um I have this quote here and I have to be very transparent. I saw it earlier in the week. I was looking at something. I'm like, ooh, that's really special. And then when I went to go see who said it, I couldn't find it. So description of John Newton by somebody. His past oh so John Newton real quick you guys know John Newton from Amazing Grace, right? He m he wrote Amazing Grace, but he was actually a pastor for over 43 years And he was really well known for his pastoral letters. I mean just world acclaim and and lots of people seeking after him for the way he brought in pastoral care or counseling. And so I love the quote there. His passion in ministry is shepherding God's people through the teaching and counseling of the scriptures. That was Paul's heart. Right? And I can attest to you, um, your elders, that's their heart. It really is. Now, you're gonna see that in different styles, different formats. We teach differently, we lead differently, but I can tell you at the core That that is our heart's passion, right? The concern for all of you. We want to equip you, we want to protect you, we want to feed you and lead you Um so you really see, Stephen, I love your point, you really see the heart of Paul come out in these passages. Um you guys are familiar, you don't have to turn there, but 3 John 4. This is John speaking. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. Right, that's what that's the feedback that Paul was looking for. Um I've said that to my own children as we talk about, you know, what is the Lord's will for you, what's career going to look like, what's the future look like? And and so we talk through all that, but I I want to reassure them that the thing that I'm looking for the most as a parent You know, are you walking in the Lord? That gives us the greatest joy to see you walking in your faith, even in the struggles and whatever that looks like. Um you know it's it's not hey if you become an astronaut or you become this or you become that, that's all great. But our greatest you know pleasure is when we see you walking in the Lord. That's what we try and emphasize Okay. And yet what we're going to see, go down to verse 10. Um so Paul is is very um complementary of of what's going on, and yet there's a recognition that their faith is not yet complete. Verse ten. Let me start in verse nine. For what thanks can we render to God for you in return for all the joy with which we rejoice before our God on your account. As we night and day keep praying most earnestly that we may see your face and may complete what is lacking in your faith This was not to be critical, but to recognize that it is a journey, isn't it? Um where do we get this evidence that when when we are saved through faith and repentance That that faith is not a uh ending point. Right? The the faith that we have at that point is is it's a journey, right? Let's go to Hebrews Hebrews 12, verse 1. It says, Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses, and you remember chapter 11 is kind of the faith chapter, right, of all the witnesses. The cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also lay aside every encumbrance in the sin which so easily entangles us. So you kind of get this image of the put-off and the put-on that we talked about in Ephesians Let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, fixing our eyes on Jesus, and here it is, the author and perfecter of our faith. So we know that faith is a gift from God. Yes, we are to respond in faith, but that faith comes from who? Comes from God. He's the author, but also the perfector. What does perfector imply? Sanctifying, right? You have to go through a process of increasing your faith. So Paul is recognizing here that their their faith is not complete. There's more that has to be done Let's go to James. James one. Again a familiar passage. And it ties back to what we talked earlier about trials. James 1, starting in verse 2. Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you're encounter when you encounter various trials, knowing that The testing of your faith produces endurance, and let endurance have its perfect result so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. You remember the goal here in our sanctification is God's glorification. Right? He is trying to make us more and more into the image of God so that at that time we are presented as a church to the to the to the bridegroom, right, to Jesus Christ, moving more and more in holiness. So again we talked about, right, the the trials and tribulations are there for what? To build endurance. And endurance have its perfect result that we might be made complete. So again, we clearly see evidence from Scripture that faith is not a You know, you don't have all the faith you need when you first get saved. It is a journey. That's what sanctification does. Okay? Does that make sense? Alright, so we see this. Let's go back to First Thessalonians. And we're at the the end of the the chapter now and and we start to see this transition prayer, right, in verses eleven through thirteen. Now may our God and Father Himself and Jesus our Lord direct your way to you, and may the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love for one another and for all the people, just as we also do for you. So that he may establish your hearts without blame and holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. So you see this starting this transition from thankfulness to now he's going to start to get into application, right? He needs to address this idea of completing out their faith And his request is what? You see that in the first part of thirteen. That their love would increase and abound. It's not complete yet. Remember, that's one of the things he encouraged them with. Your labor of love. You know, the evidence is there Keep going though. Love more. And why? So that their hearts may be made complete. Paul is describing a people that will be able to present themselves as the bride of Christ at his return Okay? Having excelled in their sanctification. The focus is on what's being presented into whom, not necessarily their reward. This isn't about them. This is about who they will be as they are presented. All about the focus. So we we get this hard attitude, you know, back to the comment that Stephen made. The spiritual life was Paul's supreme concern with the church. Right? It wasn't about do you have the right music program, uh, what kind of house do you live in. Yes, there was concern for the widows and the orphans, right? We we get indication of that. But his chief concern is their spiritual life. And I would say that's the heart cry I have for my children. That's the heart cry I have for for you. And I mean that, right, as as the flock. As a shepherd, as a pastor, that is my my heart's desire, is your spiritual life, which is why we love to teach. We love to counsel. We love to counsel with that underpinning of God's word. So what is the goal of our sanctification? Is it not to glorify God? Right? And that should change our perspective. It's not necessarily about the reward we're going to get. We will be rewarded. But let your sanctification be how do I glorify God best? How do I love my wife as Christ loved the church? How do I submit to my husband? How do I respect him? In doing so, right, you're doing that as unto the Lord. You're a testimony, just like the Thessalonians were throughout the region. Alright, so we're going to see that Paul's going to start in chapter four by exhorting, remember, standing alongside to do what? To excel still more. So he's going to start to get into some of the issues that were going on and some of the practical applications. So we'll cover that in chapter four. So chapter four are some major themes. Excelling still more in sanctification. We're going to talk about the will of God. I think this is always a fascinating topic. People are always asking, what is the will of God? We're going to touch on that a little bit And then there are specific contexts as far as the coming of the Lord. So we have to start talking about eschatology, everyone's favorite topic So what I wanted to do, we're not going to go into great depth here, I wanted to start talking about some concepts of end time. So This is a nice easy chart. You guys got it? Any questions? Good? Alright, so so let me let me do this. Today I'm just gonna kinda give you a primer of some of the big topics we we need to talk about in the context of Thessalonians and what Paul's going to address here. I'm going to be very transparent. This is a a view that I would call a dispensational view. This would be um those that would believe in pre-trib pre-tribulation, pre-mill, right? We'll explain some of those terms. You don't really need to be concerned about it. It really is a great chart as far as laying out all of the different verses. But I'm being upfront with you. If if you hold to a literal, grammatical, historical, hermeneutic, you know, you're probably gonna end up here. Okay, but What I want to share with you is some key terms that we really need to be concerned with in this context. One is the second coming of Christ. I don't think there's any doubt in evangelical circles about that truth. If you have someone that doubts that, you need to you need to go to a different church. Right? And this is the common ground. You know, you're gonna see we talked about dispensationalists or covenantalists, and many of those pastors are good, good friends John MacArthur sitting on the stage with RC Spro, with Bodie Bacom, you know, the whole group. Um I think you guys saw that Bodhi passed away this week, right? So the the Lord's taken a generation, guys. Right? He's taking a generation. But my point is is you know even they were a witness of not being dogmatic on this particular issue. But we do need to understand some of the overarching concepts. It starts with the Lord is coming again All right, that's we can all unify around that one and we can all be excited about that. The the one topic that really gets a lot of debate is this idea of the millennium Millie meaning a thousand years, so that's where you get that from. And it's specifically talked about in Revelation 20, verses 1 through 6. You see that reference to a thousand years in many aspects And there's basically three types of views when it comes to the millennium, a millennium, post-millennium, and pre-millennium. In and I want to go to systematic theology to to maybe give you a little bit of context what what that looks like. Okay? And then the other term, um that kind of comes with that secondary is this idea of the tribulation. So we'll talk a little bit about that. And and I would tell you, based on um you know, kind of these groupings of millennium you get different variants, right? Especially when it comes to the tribulation. You you don't necessarily always get the polar polar opposites on a stand. There's kind of some that are fall in between. There's some that are pre trib, post trib, mid trib, um they're pre millennial but they don't believe in the tribulation. I I mean it just starts to get a little bit fuzzy. Um we're not gonna worry about that, right? We want to stay focused on some of these large concepts. Okay? So let me read to you. This is from Grutom Um and and he I I think I have to verify but but I think he is more of a covenantalist, so he would have uh more of an ah mil view, um but he really is uh does a great job of explaining the different views. I I think Brutum and Systematic Theology um I find is one of the more easy reads However, MacArthur's biblical doctrine, systematic theology gives a different view. He shares the different views, but you can just you can see in some of the language he uses. And so it's good to have that contrast, right? It's good to to look at different views. But I thought Grudom does a really good job of um explaining these different positions. So let me do that. What I'm going to be doing is talking about um these three different positions over here and it's talking specifically about the millennium and where in that process is Jesus coming. All agree Jesus is coming. But where on this timeline does that fit? Alright, that's what I want to explain to you. Alright, a millennium or a mil is what it is often referred to. According to this position, the passage in Revelation 20 1 through 10 describes the present church age. This is an age in which Satan's influence over the nations has been greatly reduced so that the gospel can be preached to the whole world. Those who are said to be reigning with Christ for the thousand years are Christians who have died and are already reigning with Christ in heaven. Christ's reign in the millennium, according to this view, is not a bodily reign here on the earth, but rather the heavenly reign he spoke of when he said, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. So this idea of a millenniist are saying um the thousand years are not literal. It's symbolic of a long time and that the rain that is happening is actually happening today Right in heaven with with believers that have passed away. So from the beginning of the church age, um what they are gonna say in Ah means no They're they're not saying that God isn't or Christ isn't reigning. They're just saying it's not a a literal thousand years here on this earth. Alright? So what they're going to claim is that that thousand years is happening right now in heaven. And so from the church age, and what they're gonna argue is that it goes all the way through Let's do this. It goes all the way through, and then Jesus is going to return, and then you have the um Christ is going to reign, you have the new heaven and then the new earth. Right? So that's where they would fall out on the timeline. So Amil, just think it's happening right now. The thousand-year reign is symbolic and it's happening in heaven. And when he returns, that will be start of the new heaven and the new earth. Okay? That's Amil Alright, let's talk about uh post-millennialism. So they would believe that Christ is coming at the end of the thousand years. Now I will tell you in evangelical circles you won't find a lot of this view. Alright? But let me read that. The prefix post means after, according to this view, Christ will return after the millennium. The post-millennial view may be a it's representative figure here you can't see. According to this view, the progress of the gospel and the growth of the church will gradually increase so that a larger and larger proportion of the world's population will be Christians. As a result, there will be significant Christian influences on society. Society will function more and more according to God's standards, and gradually a millennial age of peace and righteousness will occur. on the church. This millennium will last for a long period of time. Again, symbolic. And finally at the end of this period, Christ will return to the earth. Believers and unbelievers will be raised, the final judgment will occur and there will be a new heaven and a new earth So what what they are saying as a post millennia is um that g Christ is reigning right now At some point, a long period of time, the gospel will be so effective that the world's going to look better and better and better. So it's a very optimistic view and it integrates into society. So think political, um, that's all gonna happen. Then Christ is gonna return when everything's good. Right? That's the view. That's a hard one to to grasp, right? But that's what they believe. And then again, um, so think of it as church age plus this millennial period of the gospel doing its work and then Jesus returns. That's post-millennialism. Okay? And that's why I say you don't see a lot of that in evangelical circles. The last one is pre-mill. So this would be the idea that Christ is coming before that thousand-year reign And there's a couple different categories, classic or historic, and again there's a lot of different views and that has to do primarily with how they view um the tribulation. But the prefix pre means before Um it says that Christ will come back before the millennium, that thousand year reign. This viewpoint has a long history from the earliest centuries onward. According to this viewpoint, the present church age will continue until, as it nears the end, a time of great tribulation and suffering comes on the earth. After that time of tribulation, at the end of the church age, Christ will return to earth to establish a millennial kingdom, a literal thousand years. When he comes back, believers who have died will be raised from the dead, their bodies will be reunited with their spirits, and those believers will reign with Christ on the earth for one thousand years. Um It is in in the other aspect I would say of a pre-millennium is that God has a specific plan, promise for Israel. So pre-Millennials would believe that there is a specific function for Israel in this construct. Okay? So you see the differences there. We at Hope Bible Church We would obviously believe in the second coming of Christ, but we would teach or claim to be, we have the view of being pre-millennial and pre-trip. Right, that's where we stand as a church. Do you have to believe that to be a member at Hope Bible Church? Absolutely not. Right? That is not in the basic doctrines. And I will tell you, this is an area that it's hard Right? People people really struggle with this. I was listening to a podcast from R. C. Sprohl on this topic and and he even admits that his view has changed over time And at the time of the podcast he says, I still don't land dogmatically in any one area. John MacArthur, I think, would tell you, this is crystal clear. Right? And and and again he's coming at it from a literal, grammatical, historical, and he believes as you read this, boy, it seems pretty clear this is what's happening. Okay. Was there a comment or a question? Glenn. Um in my experience um not all covenantalists would be on limits. Yes, true. They would only list. Yeah. Well not in totality. Not in totality. Not in totality. And and Gl to Glenn's point, again, there's kind of the the I'll call it the dogmatic left and right, but there's a lot of in between and what does that look like? It's not. It's absolutely not black and white. Um and that's why I go back to what we want to make sure we understand is do we understand these core descriptions And then what do we believe the word says regarding these? So here's your homework for next week. Okay? Obviously, read chapter four. Continue to memorize Psalm 19, 7, and 8, because I'm going to call on. You're going to be voluntole. And the last part is in this area of eschatology, what is the issue? I want you to discern what is the issue that Paul is addressing when it comes to eschatology. Is it the concern that, hey, he called me a pre-mill and I'm really an ah mill? Obviously not. But I want you to see if you can discern what is the issue. That's what we want to focus on when we come to studying eschatology. Does that make sense? All right, let me pray.