Okay, um the Hartmanns are not here unfortunately, but I I really wanted to thank Randall for uh for covering last week. Um got lots of good feedback. I did post his slides um up on our group on Hope Book. Um I know it was pretty exhaustive, which can be really good and and I can tell you firsthand um the countless hours he spent preparing um because that's Randall and I'm sure it showed. So difficult uh subject and and yet I think he covered it really well. So slight change in the the schedule. So next week we'll cover 1 Corinthians 12 this week and then next week we're going to cover two chapters 13 is not a really big chapter, and it all kind of ties together, so it makes sense to do that. So we'll stay on track with finishing 1 Corinthians by the end of this quarter. Okay So where we're at on the timeline, again, we're in this um section that is really focusing on the worship service itself. And so Randall talked about some of those issues and we'll cover those real quickly. But a little bit, you know, the the previous chapters he's been Paul's been maybe highlighting some aspects of their external witness. So remember they were uh the divisions that were being caused. Um what kind of witness that was to outsiders, um taking people to court for for small claims, court trivial type of issues in front of this spectacle of of court that happened in the marketplace um there in Corinth. And now you're seeing kind of this shift to what is happening specifically in the worship service. So that is the context that he's talking about here now. is specifically um during the worship services. And so last week um you guys talked about a couple topics. One was Just this idea of order. So God has clearly set out an order in His creation. We see that in the Trinity, uh we see that in the marriage relationship, we see that in the church And so Paul is is simply emphasizing some of their disobedience or disorderliness in the way they were conducting themselves. And that had to do with headship And specifically the practical application of that time, right, was the the head covering. That was a a a signal, if you will, of of whether they were submitting or not Do you remember you guys talked a little bit about what are some current day practical applications of of showing that that submission to God's order within the the church service on a Sunday morning? What were some of those? Elizabeth. Wearing your wedding ring. Wearing your wedding ring, all right? Excellent. Kurt. Make sure that we're sleeping well. her spouse. And for me, when I speak well of her, it's because I'm submitted to to Christ. Yep. And she's is to speak well of me because she's That's it. As I follow Christ. Yeah. Yeah. Can be so easy to to tear, you know, you don't even realize it, but just snide comments uh about your spouse can can really do a lot of damage. um to your witness, but you know, not following this headship that was designed by God. Good. Anything else? One of them was um how you dress, alright, modest dress. You know, that all goes those are all practical applications. And I think Randall did a great job of pointing this out. Sometimes uh you know I've heard sermons um in the past really struggling with this this heav head covering idea. Is it applicable to today? And I think the the idea that Randall brought out is when Paul's talking, we need to understand those underlying principles And then how was that applied in the culture in which he was talking? And how and and is that relevant to us today? And I think he showed there are very specific contexts for you know, that practical application today that doesn't necessarily include the head covering as it did in the time of Corinth. So it's really important for us to make that discernment and then apply those principles to our culture today. So good. And so the second one had to do with um The Lord's Supper, which was great because we had the Lord's Supper, you know, last week. I love how how the timing that the Lord brings in sometimes when we're teaching to what actually happens in the service. But what was going on there? What was the issue people were I guess disrespectful of others and going ahead and getting done. Not waiting. Right. They were very selfish. Me first. Me first. And isn't that a common theme that we're seeing in the Corinthian church? I mean have we not seen that throughout the last eleven chapters? Paul is continually addressing, you know, their heart attitude, and we're going to see that again today. So Uh before I get to that, uh we have been working on memorizing Philippians two three. Anyone want to take a crack at that? I wasn't here to pound it in you last time. Yeah, Kirk, go ahead. Do nothing from selfish conceit. Selfish conceit. Um but with humility of mind, uh think more highly of others than of yourself. Yeah. Um And then the there's no the second verse after that is is related to uh no, I lost it. Verse four, do not merely look out for your own personal interest, but also for the interest of others. Um very good. So thank you, Kirk. So again, I want you to keep working on that. We're being very intentional with why we're trying to memorize this verse. This is a common theme that Paul is getting at with the church in Corinth, the heart attitude It is very much a a selfish, me-oriented attitude. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, let each of you regard one another as more important than himself. Right, that has been the the foundation heart attitude when Paul's been talking about their their liberty, right, their freedom that they have It's not freedom from something. It's not freedom to do something. It's freedom for something. Right? It's for worshiping God. It's for spreading the gospel. It's for putting others before yourself. So we're going to see that heart attitude, or Paul trying to emphasize that throughout both 1st and 2nd Corinthians. So that's why we're we're memorizing that verse. And is that not absolutely applicable to our daily sanctification? Alright, let's go over to 1 Corinthians 12. So Paul's going to continue this thread of Orderly worship, what's happening in the worship service, and he's gonna bring up a new topic. So let me let's read together uh chapter twelve. Let me read verse one, the first couple verses Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware. You know that when you were pagans, you were led astray to the dumb idols, however you were led. Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says, Jesus is accursed, and no one can say, Jesus is Lord, except by the Holy Spirit. So how do we know it's a new topic? You guys have been studying, we've been on this journey together with Paul, you're starting to get a lot of insight into how he writes. How do we know it's a new topic? First word, right? We see this. Now concerning and then he fills in the blank. We know that from chapter seven. Go back to chapter seven. How did he start chapter seven? Now concerning the things about which you wrote. So he's specifically referencing a letter that they wrote to them. We know that there were exchanges um by mail, if you will, that are not in in our Bible. Only two of those four are believed to be um in the Bible here. So he is clearly referencing um something that they had written about Go over to chapter 8. Now, concerning the things sacrificed idol, right? We see this pattern. And I guess what I want you to get excited about is studying your Bible How you study your Bible, the hermeneutic, right? The art and science of studying your Bible. Don't just jump into a chapter, read it, and ask questions. Boy, as I go into this new chapter, is Paul talking about the same thing or is it something else? And I think what we've seen with Paul is yes, he'll bring up a new topic But there's a common thread that's happening throughout, right? We've seen that again and again. So that's what we want to make sure we pick up on. So yes, absolutely he is talking about a new topic. And most likely, he doesn't say specifically But he doesn't say this is something I heard, so most likely this was something that they had written about. So now, what is the topic? Now concerning spiritual gifts. Alright, so we now know that Paul's going to be talking about spiritual gifts. What is the issue though? We're not quite sure. We gotta investigate is my point. Alright, now often when we go to to chapter twelve When we start talking about spiritual gifts, what do we do? What usually comes up? Speaking in tongues, okay. Keep pulling. And what about speaking in tongues or healings or miracles? Are they relevant for today? We always go there, don't we? I'm going to give you the bottom line up front. That's not what Paul's talking about here. So what I caution you is is sometimes remember we're supposed to challenge our own presuppositions. We can quickly get into this debate about are those gifts relevant for today? And we totally miss the point of what is written in chapter 12. So that's our journey, that's our our job today is to make sure we understand what Paul was getting at. I want to read from the commentary I use. It says casual readers who come to chapter 12 only to learn about spiritual gifts are tempted to skip over the difficult opening verses, but they are crucial for understanding Paul's intention for the entire section. So let me just talk briefly. Um there's a nice little book uh called The Biblical Case for Sensationism. Uh you might know Tom Pennington is from um Countryside Bible Church in Texas, a CMS grad, often part of you know the Shepherd Conferences speaking there, but it's a nice little volume. We're gonna cover this in a bit more detail next week because Paul's gonna continue um this discussion simply because I'm combining thirteen and fourteen. But I I wanted to just give you a couple definitions because you're like you might cessationism, what is that? Continuationism, what is that? Those are big theological terms. But this is typically where we go when we have this conversation about spiritual gifts. And after today I'm hoping you can bring people to a different place based on what Paul's talking about. Okay? What is cessationism? Cessationists believe the Holy Spirit no longer sovereignly gives individual Christians the temporary sign gifts, also known as the miraculous gifts, described in the New Testament. We argue that these gifts were present and active during the first century church, the apostolic era, but haven't been in operation beyond that time period, including today. Cessationists argue that it is neither the Spirit's plan nor his normal pattern to distribute any of the miraculous spiritual gifts to Christians and churches today The miraculous gifts played a unique role in the Spirit's work in the New Testament church and were never meant to be normative outside of first century apostolic era. That would be a cessationist. Now, let me be upfront with you. Folk Bible Church, in our doctrinal statement, we are cessationists. So let me be clear about that. All right? That is what we believe On the contrast to that, what is a can what is continuationism? Continuationists believe the miraculous gifts either continued unabated since the birth of the church at Pentecost were waned during most of the church age, but were restored early in the twentieth century. It can be defined this way. It is the teaching that at least some of the miraculous gifts assumed and described in the Bible ought to continue in the church and in fact do continue to be given to the sh the church In short, where cessationists believe that the miracle, miraculous gifts of the Spirit have ceased, continuationists argue that those same gifts have continued through the church age. So that's the the two ends of the spectrum, if you will. And again, we're going to talk about that in a bit more detail next week. So if you have specific questions about that, we we potentially have time today, but but really want to maybe hold that till next week I really want to hopefully we'll have some time today to have a discussion about what we're going to teach. So if that's the case, that's the warning to us, let's make sure we understand and investigate what is this all about. Now in order to do that, sometimes you got to read the whole context. A little bit before, read the whole chapter, and even maybe the surrounding chapters. But we do get some indication in these first couple verses. Let me read again. Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware You know that when you were pagans, you were led astray to the dumb idols. However, you were led. Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says Jesus is accursed And no one can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. Here's the problem. I'm going to give you the answer right now. Alright? Um the Corinthians were using the gifts as a gauge of one's spirituality. We've seen that before in previous chapters. They were assessing each other's spirituality by their gifts. Okay? Assuming some were more spiritual because they exhibited the more electrifying and exciting spiritual gifts. What would those be? What would be just astounding and electrifying when we look at the list? Healings. Healings, tongues, right? Those are just spectacular if somebody has that ability. And we're gonna talk here in a second what is tongues specifically. But that's the so what they were addressing to Paul, uh flip over to chapter 14 real quick We'll get there next week, but uh 1412 says, so also you, since you are zealous of spiritual gifts. Seek to abound for the education of the church. He's highlighted again there they are zealous for spiritual gifts, but it's for selfish motivation. Right? Because the more miraculous, the more astounding gifts that they have, they will be perceived as more spiritual. That's what Paul is addressing here. Okay? Pastor Christopher. Yes. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. But it's really important to make um sure you understand that's what Paul is addressing here is their selfish desire to assess themselves by the manifestation of the gifts. Okay? And he says in in verse 2, as pagans They were led astray to what? Speechless, dumb, mute idols, who had no power, no influence. This was in their old nature And he says, however, they were led. So he doesn't go into detail, but it could be by deception, ignorance, maybe demonic forces. End of the day, they were led to something that had absolutely no power. That's who they were in their old nature. But now he makes this contrast in verse 3. But as Christians, as new creatures in Christ, they now proclaim through the Holy Spirit Jesus is Lord. Right? That's the contrast that he's making in verses 2 and 3. That's what's important. So Paul's main point: who qualifies as spiritual? All Christians are spiritual. That's what he's trying to tell them. You were a new creature in Christ. In your old sinful nature, you you had no spirit Or you had the spirit of darkness, or you were led by the spirit of darkness. But in Christ you are a new creature. That's what makes you spiritual, not the manifestation of the gifts. All Christians are spiritual, and each one exhibits gifts as a manifestation of being indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Why? For the common good of the church body. That gets back to this heart attitude of selflessness Right, these gifts, all these gifts are given for the building up the common good of the church body. That will be his theme. That is the main point. Does that make sense Right, really, really important. So instead of running to why are these applicable to us today? Right, what is Paul talking about He's trying to address their selfishness and how they're assessing themselves, the the importance that they're putting on the spiritual gifts for their own selfish um status and gain. Okay? Right, having established this foundation, Paul will address several categories of gifts, but all are given by the same Spirit. So let's go to verses four through six. So he brings in um a Trinitarian reference, which I think is really special. He says, Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit, speaking of the Holy Spirit. And there are varieties of ministries And the same Lord, speaking of Jesus. And there are varieties of effects, but the same God who works all things in all persons. Speaking of God the Father. So you see there are a variety of gifts, and we'll talk about those in a second, that manifest themselves through different ministries and manifest themselves in different effects. Right, all that coming together through, you know, the the work of the three person Trinity of God, and yet all by the same Spirit. All because we are new creatures, all given by the Holy Spirit, not something that we did. And then verse 7, I just mentioned it. For what purpose? If you walk away from anything today, glam on mark up verse number seven. The purpose, but to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for what? For the common good. That is absolutely paramount to what Paul is talking about here. So Paul is going to list several categories of gifts. So let me pop up this slide for you. I know there's a lot on here. A couple of things I want to mention that I did on this slide is at the top I put this is strict or straight from what we teach on our doctrine of the Holy Spirit. Right? And specifically some of these things about um spiritual gifts. So if you want that reference, let me ask real quick. We sent out an updated version, revised version. How many of you have taken a look at that? You can be honest. Okay. Thank you. Not all of it. Yeah. Good. I encourage you to look through that. Um just uh if anything to encourage and reinforce what we believe here. You went through that in detail when you became a member. Some of you that was a long time ago. Um, but I think it's always helpful to to go back and look at some of that. We did add some some parts to that, as you know. We studied the whole point on marriage and divorce and remarriage, so that was a big uh change or insert, but there are other refinements. But for your anchoring here, this is some of what it says regarding the spiritual gifts. So let me just read that first section up there. There were two categories of spiritual gifts given to the early church. Miraculous gifts of divine revelation and healing, given temporarily. Again, this would be a cessationist view, right? given temporarily in the apostolic era for the purpose of confirming the authenticity of the apostle's message. And we'll talk a little bit more about that next week. And then ministering gifts given to serve believers for edifying one another. And you can see some of the references down there below to include um the chapter we're talking about today. So what I've done, and I and I grabbed this from uh the internet, so I didn't do a one-for-one mapping. You know, it all depends on the translation you're using But what I did do is reorder these in the order the books were written. So these are not the order in your Bible, of course. Romans comes before Corinthians. Um, but this is how they were written. And so what I want you to see, a lot of these these giftings, these positions, um we'll see here in 1 Corinthians 12. When it talks about languages, that would be tongues. Many of your your transcripts will say tongues and then the interpretation of tongues. And then you'll see other lists that start to appear in Romans. So this was written about a year after, and then Ephesians, you know, four or five years after that, and then Peter. What do you recognize as we go through time? Shrinking is what I heard. Okay? Specifically, let's talk about healing and miracles. Do you see that in Romans? Do you see that in Ephesians? Do you see that in First Peter? I I highlight this simply to say, and I don't want to overemphasize this, but one commentary pointed out that It is possible that even in the short time of this apostolic era, even during Paul's time, you start to see maybe the diminishing of those particular giftings. Right? Just a note. I don't want to overemphasize that. The other thing I want to say, and many commentators would agree, is this list exhaustive? Absolutely not. Think of these as just categories of giftings. I I think it's one commentary pointed it out or had this analogy. You know how each person has a unique fingerprint. I I could almost say or he would say that the giftings that we are giving are so unique to us. When you think of this list, think of a a palette, um an artistry, a fabric that is being blended together Right? So someone might have the gift of mercy, um, but also probably has helps and maybe a strong faith and you see a mix in somebody else that has the gift of mercy. Yes, predominantly you might see one of your giftings on here. Right? And it's a good place to start. And we're going to talk a little bit more about that at the end when we when we have a time of discussion. But what I want to just encourage you with is Don't treat this as being exhaustive. You know, we know we are all given at least one spiritual gift to be used what? For the common good, for the body. And we're going to talk more about that at the end. Okay? But I I I guess what I would encourage you is to maybe think of this more as these are categories and you all have a unique blending of probably several of those gifts. Okay? Does that make sense? Okay It is likely um all right, so we talked about um kind of these two broad categories of miraculous gifts and think of those as healings. Um probably prophecy, um tongues, uh you know, this this uh spectacular gift of tongues, and we'll talk about that in in a second And those were really, sometimes you hear those as sign gifts. And a sign points to something. So we'll talk more about that next week. There was a particular purpose why those miraculous gifts were in place. And yet today what is left is the minit ministering gifts, right? The teaching, the serving, the encouraging, you know, the list goes on. Leadership administration um many of the gifts that we talked about at our workshop yesterday. So so kind of two broad categories of gifts. I and again I wouldn't be you know um churn a lot about mappings specifically, just think of these as categories. And and more importantly is our heart attitude how we are using this. Okay? Now it is It is very likely that the the particular gift that was being talked about was the gift of tongues, because that would have been an extremely spectacular gift Um and it would have been it was being used during the the worship service and it was being used wrongly. Right? We'll talk more about that next week in more detail. But this is uh what we have written in our what we teach The gift of tongues is the supernatural ability to speak prophetically in a foreign language never learned by the speaker. It was a sign given to confirm to the Jews in the early church the coming of the Holy Spirit. Being a sign gift, it ceased after the Holy Spirit's intended usage for it. So would this be a cessationist view or a continuationist view? Sess sensationist, right? And again, I'm being very open that this is what we believe, but there are some different viewpoints out there. Okay? Paul was addressing because of their false significance of this gift in particular and the misuse of this gift during public worship. And again, we're going to see that in a bit more detail when we talk next week. Let's go over to now some people say, well how how can you really define tongues as a foreign language? Let's go over to Acts 2 And I'll show you a chart next week. You will see there's primarily four instances where you will see tongues pop up in this early church age all the way to Acts 19. Paul's missionary journey is covered in Acts 19. One, two, or three Three. Guess what? We're covering that right now in Corinthians. So we see tongues being mentioned here. It's about the same time frame. Well it is the same time period covered in Acts nineteen and you'll see that tongues is referenced. So um very clearly tongues was was very evident at that time. But as we just discussed, you know, shortly after that we don't start to see that mentioned at all anymore. So again, there might be a de-emphasis on that particular gifting. But Acts 2, uh 4, Acts 2, 4 through 11 And I know this is familiar to you all, but this is uh the day of Pentecost, starting in verse 4. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit was giving them utterance. Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men from every nation under heaven. Remember, because of Pentecost you had Jews from all over the world, you know, concending down onto Jerusalem. And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and were bewildered because they were each one hearing them speak in his own language. So clearly this is talking about um foreign languages that they understood, but that these these particular Jews in Jerusalem should not know. Right? It was dialect from other parts of the world that um that they should not know. Verse 7. And they were amazed and marveled, saying, Why are not all those who are speaking, well, why are not all those who are speaking Galileans? And how is it that we each hear them in our own language or our own dialect to which we were born? Go down to eleven. He finishes the list of of these different dialects or languages, Cretans and Arabs. We hear them in our own tongues, speaking of the mighty deeds of God. Right, so clearly there is a definition of what it is meant by tongues right here in Acts 2. Alright, you see that? These are foreign languages that they should not know and yet they are miraculously speaking them. It was a sign. It was a sign gift that there is a different Manifestation of the Holy Spirit, right? That they were indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Again, I'll show you a chart next week that'll show um where this pops up in Acts. Alright, back to Corinthians. So now Paul, so he's kind of lays his foundation. Now he's going to start talking about the diversity and the interdependence of these gifts. Right? So he he lays out this list of different gifts. And we didn't read that. So let me read that before we jump into this next section. Starting in verse 8. Let me start in verse 7. But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. For to one is given the word of wisdom through the Spirit, and to another the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit to another faith by the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing by the One Spirit, and to another the effecting of miracles, and to another prophecy, and to another the distinguishing of spirits, to another various kinds of tongues. and to another the interpretation of tongues. But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually just as he wills So he's now going to be talking about. Okay, I've given you this list, this category of spiritual gifts. Now he's really going to be talking about this analogy that you're all aware of: of one body, many parts. Right, here's where he's gonna emphasize the importance of the use of these gifts. A bunch of squeaky uh gears and and wheels. Uh let me read another statement from our what we teach. The purpose of the gifts of the Spirit is to glorify Christ by implementing his work of redeeming the lost. in building up believers in the unity of the faith, the knowledge of Christ, and in Christ-like maturity. Therefore, the Holy Spirit is not interested in ostentatious displays of powers and miracles. That's what was happening. That's what Paul was addressing with their use of these gifts. Alright, so um this is uh from the commentary I'm reading and I liked it. I said the church as Christ's body is not an agglomeration of autonomous body parts, but like a physical body, a complex living organism. So you could think of um would it would it be beneficial for the common good if if it was just the sum of a bunch of hands? Right, they would be useless without the brain and the legs and the heart and the blood. Right? You understand the analogy It really is this very complex living organism. And if anybody in the in the medical community or you've done any study on any of our body parts, it is just amazing how God has created us in the interdependencies. I mean study the eye alone and it is just it's fascinating. Study the foot and you'll be amazed Right? It's just all the the interacting parts and that's what we are supposed to look like as a body. So God gives spiritual gifts what? To build up the body and members should not misuse them in a way that destroys the fabric of life. in Christ's body. So let me read starting in verse eleven now But one in the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually just as he wills. For even as the body is one and yet has many members, and all the members of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ. For by one spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one spirit. For the body is not one member, but many If the foot should say, because I am not a hand, I am not a part of the body, it is not for this reason any less a part of the body. And if the ears should say, Because I am not an eye, I am not a part of the body, it is not for this reason any the less a part of the body. If the whole body were an I, where would the hearing be If the whole were hearing, where would the sense of smell be? But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body, just as He desired. And if they were all one member, where would the body be? But now there are many members but one body, and the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Or again, to the head, to the feet, I have no need of you On the contrary, it is much true that the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary, and those members of the body which we deem less honorable on those we bestow more abundant honor. And our unseemly members come to have more abundant seemliness, whereas our seemly members have no need of it. God has so composed the body, giving more abundant honor to the member which lacked, that there should be no division in the body, but that the members should have the same care for one another. And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. If one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. Now you are Christ's body, and individually members of it And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, various kinds of tongues And it is interesting that he lists tongues at the very end of that list, probably because of their emphasis on tongues. All are not apostles, are they? All are not prophets, are they All are not teachers, are they? All are not workers of miracles, are they? All do not have have gifts of healings, do they All do not speak with tongues, do they? All do not interpret, do they? Obviously he's being very rhetorical here. Right? Obviously the answer is no So I think you get the understanding here that he's trying to to emphasize that every gifting is important. And this is why, you know, we emphasize this heavily during the the new members class This is the importance of being a member in a church because you have been gifted as a new creature in Christ. It needs to be used with the rest of the years, right, for the body to function well. Diane. Clearly we've all been uniquely gifted and we should be operating within those gifts. But wouldn't it also be right to say that not having a certain spiritual gift doesn't preclude you from exercising it. Like I might not have the gift of hospitality, but that doesn't mean I shouldn't be hospitalized. Absolutely. I want you to hold that thought because I'm going to wrap up here and really have a time to discuss that exactly Um he's clearly saying, you know, don't be eager to go after certain gifts because you because it it looks like it makes you more spiritual. Right? Let me challenge your hard attitude. This is all about working together with the gifting that you have. And we know not everyone has every gift. Alright? We know that. We just read it. So we are dependent on one another for equipping the body, for protecting the body, for sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. It is essential that we are working together. So let me get to this last part here. He concludes with, but earnestly desire the greater gifts. Now there's been a lot of debate about that particular verse. or passage, because some might read it as, yeah, I go after those greater gifts, tongues, healings. That doesn't make sense, does it? I mean Paul just admonished them for thinking that way. So we know it doesn't mean that. Um again let me read this commentary because I I think he nails it. What does Paul mean by greater gifts? Paul must redefine what greater really means for the Corinthians, and does so in chapter 13. So you've got to come back next week to hear the rest of the story. As the Corinthians ranked the gifts, the greater ones were the most eye-catching, the ones that conferred a higher status to the individual, and thereby were the most personally gratifying. Paul has a a priority, if you will, of gifts in mind, but he calculates that priority according to how each gifts contributes to the building up of the body of Christ. Do you see the emphasis there? Not the individual. The greater gifts are those that edify, encourage, and comfort others. That's what he's trying to exhort them and admonish them to do. Those are the greater gifts the ones that that more accurately build up the body. But, and and I like the way Glenn phrased this, he he kind of leaves us with a cliffhanger, right? But earnestly desire the greater gifts. And I show you still a more excellent way. What is that? Dun dun dun. You gotta come back next week. You guys know what it is, but you gotta come back. It's really exciting. Right, so he's gonna he's gonna basically take a pause. and really get after the heart attitude here, and then he's going to talk about prophecy specifically in tongues. So we'll talk in a bit more detail when we get to that part. All right, let me pause there. Any questions about the material? Does that make sense, Paul's emphasis here? Yeah, and then we're going to get into some discussion. Kirk. Is there a subcategory of those gifts that are in fact Greater than the others. Um what do you think? Well, I I would say that uh within the context of a church, uh you have to have teaching and preaching so that and so in one sense those are foundational gifts through instruction about how a how to grow in your Christian faith So in one sense those could be considered greater, but then the all of the diff all of the various gifts are so necessary and essential that you can't really divide and separate some of them as a greater. Right. Right. Anybody want to uh agree or challenge uh Kirk? Let me go to Aaron and then Diane. Well the the except like the question that helps divide the three minutes Up is greater to who. Well I'm kind of on Kurt's side here and to affirm that when you had the list of all of the gifts that were up there and how many of them went away, teaching is the one that's consistent Sure. Yeah, yeah. So I might th personally I might frame it this way and and Kirk you bring up a really good point. Um you know it says in I think Timothy or Titus were to give double honor to those who have been called as a pastor, especially those who are preaching. So, you know, I might frame it this way. There are certain gifts that are absolutely foundation to an organization of a church. One of those is preaching and teaching for sure. Um, but boy, really hard to do that if A V isn't working, if uh you know what I mean? All of those working together, to Aaron's point, for the greater good of the body. So I would I would caution us not to be thinking of of priority, but but more importantly, you know, how how am I using my gifting for the body of Christ? I mean that's where I want you to to walk away from today Um not trying to understand, you know, the the ranking and I know that's not where you were going. It was a good reflective question. Um but I really want us to consider how are we using our gifting And for those of you, um, some of you were at the the workshop we had yesterday, I mean that that was the root of yesterday, what was really getting after, you know, the Lord has given each of us gifts that can be used And Kirk summarized it, I like the word you use, curate opportunities. Right? How are we looking for those opportunities? Yes, there was a focus on international missions. But I would argue local missions and outreach, but even serving in our own body, right? How are we using those giftings? So let me ask you this question How many of you have gone through how many of you think you know what, you know, your priority or or if you look at this list or or even subcategories, you think you know what your gifting is Okay, I'm not going to ask you to say them, so it's okay to raise your hand. Okay. How many of you have gone through any kind of formal, I know some churches do like a gifting assessment. Has anybody gone through that process? Okay. And and what w did you think that was effective or what was your comment on that? I don't remember it. So I guess it wasn't very effective. Okay, Diane? I personally did find that to be an effective way of finding out what my distance is. For me it was doing a variety of things and where I was being most accepted and and felt that joy. Yeah. Yeah. God kinda spoke to me through actually getting in Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I often tell people, I said, if you if you don't really know what your gifting is, um don't churn over it, don't wring your hands over it, just jump in and start serving You know, to Diane's point, what's gonna happen? You're gonna start to gravitate towards, you know, those giftings that you have because you're gonna be passionate about it, you're gonna have joy doing it Um in but you always gotta keep that mindset of you're doing it for the common good. But that's you know, that's what how I would counsel people. I'm not against assessments. I've done some of those in the past. I don't know how effective they are um because it really seems to put the emphasis on you know the category if you will. And like I said, I I love this idea of kind of a fabric of giftings that we've been given Right, some might be more prominent than others, but we each have a unique, I'll call it, fabric that the Lord has given us to be used by the body. That's what you've got to figure out. The only way you're gonna figure that out is by serving, by jumping in and serving. When you're in the body, um, your body of friends will confer with you too because because you are working with group of people they know what your people. Yeah. They know. Yeah. So I think they affirm that for you also Yeah. Hong, I think that's a really good point. Uh part of the workshop we had yesterday, some of the missionaries that were with us gave some of their testimonies and this one couple, um really precious, their pastor had this vision that we need to we need to stand up the next generation. Right? He put a real emphasis on their church being able to send out missionaries and and some of them were were getting up in age and he's like we we need to start calling that next generation. And uh they would drive home from church and they're like, Yeah, we need to be praying for that people, thinking it's not us, right? It couldn't be us. Um and over time they're like, wait a minute, I think it's us And and so they've been called to Brazil. But you know, how do we know? They talk to the pastor, they talk to others, you know, to get that affirmation of of the gifting, the calling, I think that's really important. So And I think that's a great exercise. Some of what we did yesterday was to affirm, you know, with each other that, yeah, I see that in you. Or I see this in you and maybe you don't see that One of the exercises we had is if you had to go on a a missionary trip, short term missionary trip, you know, who would you bring with you? And why? What were some of the traits and the attributes? And it was a just a very encouraging exercise um as people kinda called out others and and I think it was a real encouraging time. For those that went, any other you want to make any comments and I'm looking at you too. Brian you were there too I guess. Hong, you were there Yeah, one of the things I I recall is that once you uh collectively your your uh circle had identified traits, advertising traits of people that you would want to call co-labor with. Then they turned the question and said, well how many of those traits do you think you have in terms of your character, your ministry skill your couple of others that yeah character ministry skill life skill and I forget the last category. It's okay. But let let's pull that thread a little bit. Um as we were making these lists, you know what didn't pop up is you know the gift of healing, tongues, interpretation of what what do you think were some of the gifts that were mentioned? What kind of life skills might you need that would be effective on on the mission field? Home repair, right? A handy person for sure. Um being flexible. Um having good hospitality, being an encourager Um being a prayer warrior. Um administration. You know, you often need someone who is who is pulling all the logistics together. Really, real important on the mission field. Financial wisdom. Financial wisdom. Yeah. Huge So you you think I highlight that to say we think of maybe some of these bigger giftings, you know of course we need a teacher to go with us or maybe a pastor. Um but all of these skills that were listed were in in the point was these are all skills that we have, right? All of us in varying degrees, but all can be used. And I put the emphasis, you know, yesterday was focused a lot on international, but I would I would surmise it's the same skills that are needed for local outreach and the same skills needed to serve within the body of Hope Bible Church Right, that should be the encouragement. That could be very helpful if they're within your own children. church or abroad is teaching other younger women how to be a a good mom. Because that's the that's the hand that rocks the Absolutely. And and think about it, when you go to you know a foreign country, you know, you're thrown into this, you might have some you know, some other missionaries with you, but you are very isolated. You're you're immersed in this totally separate culture. What do you do about schooling, health care? Uh finances, I mean it's huge, right? So that that gifting, again you might think, well I'm just I'm just a mom. No, you're a mom, right? You have a lot of skills. Yeah. So let me ask you this. Um, what prevents us from using our gifts? Pride. Pride. Fear. Fear. Selfishness, we get really comfortable, don't we? So that's a good point, Kirk. You know, part of it is boy, I just feel inadequate. Right in in there is let's say you're going to a foreign country, would it be wise to start some language training? Yeah. There's lots of ways to get that done uh done. You know, Duolingo is one of them, right? You can just pull it up on your app, but there's more formal methods But some of the testimony that we heard yesterday from the missionaries that were from ABWE um is many of them felt that way. I Lord I feel this calling, but I don't I don't feel equipped to do that. I can't do that Right? And as they assessed their giftings and got out there on the mission field, um, again, it was these very practical gifts that were so critical to what they were doing in that particular context So the encouragement is, you know, don't be don't be um subdued by fear or or your lack of feeling like you're gifted. In certain cases you do. You need training. Um and there's things that can be done to help with that. So Um do our gifts stay stagnant over time? Right? Any examples of moving through seasons of life and where maybe your giftings have changed? You certainly gain more experience, don't you? Yeah. Thoughts, examples? They probably stay stagnant if you uh uh just aren't using it. God isn't uh fanning the flames if you're not really working in cooperation with Yeah. So I'll give you an example, well a couple of points with what Tara said. One of the gentlemen that was at the workshop yesterday, his passion is creative arts media, writing, uh music, and and he's like, Lord, I pff you can't use that out on the mission field. His primary role right now as part of ABWE is to lead short term um trips. He had one recently from Cedarville College, a bunch of college students. Their whole focus was to go and support um this particular example was in Kosovo to support missionaries and they're telling their story. So how do we use media and and video and and writing to tell this comprehensive story and and he showed a video clip and that that's what the whole team did. You know, they they put together the script and they they taught them how to do interviews correctly with the correct lighting and how do you do that with interpreters. Um and then they came back and it showed them, you know, working all of them on computers trying to knit this all together within a week. And it was just really fascinating. how and that's a real need in today's environment. Often we have missionaries who were like, hey, send us your video so we can pop it up on the screen. Right? Sometimes you get these handmade videos, which is fine Um but in today's environment we have so much technology at our disposal. So he used his particular gifting for a very special niche that has huge dividends And guess what? Antonio wa Pastor Antonio was in the back of the room and he starts asking questions and he's thinking what? Locally. How many times is Pastor Gabe you know putting out videos behind his computer screen or whatever Could we have um and not trying to be professional, but can we tell our story? That was his mission was storytelling. How do we tell the story of what's happening in our church um to to continue to spread the gospel and so true of missionaries on the field. So that's just one example of how someone had these unique giftings and thought, man, there's no way. But the Lord opened that door and he's using it very effectively The other thing I would tell you talking about seasons of life, you guys have heard, you know, my testimony with biblical counseling. That was always a passion that Kareem had and it was never my passion because I felt at the root of biblical counseling you had to be this very empathetic person. And I don't think I've been characterized as very empathetic. Some empathet some empathy, but not very empathetic Um, but that that is not the case. Um and it was through several events of taking the fundamentals course and my passion now is because biblical counseling is simply helping people take the truth in God's Word and help them with their sanctification. Boy, I get really passionate about that. I love doing that. And so I, you know, that's how the Lord has used other giftings that I have Um, but that hasn't been a part of my life for many, many years, not until I I came here to Hope Bible Church. So yes, your your giftings or the use of those giftings I should say um can change over time for sure Any other comments on that? Glenn? Um also sometimes uh necessity can drive getting like in vision work. You go there and you find out why I need to do this and get done. And then you develop a a skill and go out and produce this. Yeah. Sometimes it's somewhat miraculous, sometimes it's Just really developing there. How about um, you know, I'll call it the doctrine of suffering. Right? We all go through it. What about those? Or you may have experienced just a chronic illness that makes life really, really difficult. Does that not kind of specially equip you now to minister to others in a way that maybe others don't, right? Jessica Yep, yep, perfect example. And I'll go back, I'll take that example and go back to, you know, uh moms out on the mission field, you know, especially you moms, your ability to come alongside um some of our missionaries' mothers uh is huge, right? You've been there, you've lived it, um, and you can be a real encouragement to them. So absolutely right. Um do you ever find you don't have to raise your hand on this, do you ever find yourself being jealous of other people's gifts And just be thank you, Glenn. Be truthful with yourself. I mean that's what was happening here in Corinth, right? Um they were uh very much motivated by self. I mean that's how they were determining spirituality and and it we're human beings, right? It's tempting to to see this person that might be getting all the acclaim or, you know, the preacher up there and think, Boy, I wish that was me You know, you need to just pause, right, and check your heart. That's when you stop and ask for forgiveness from the Lord. Um, repent of that And go back to God's word. And and what did we hear, what is God's will for us? Remember in First Thessalonians five? That we do what? We be what kind of people Thankful. You want to overcome those types of attitudes, become a thankful people. Cultivate a spirit of thankfulness. Lord, thank you for the gifting that you have given me. Let me cultivate it more. Let me cultivate others that I can be of maximum use to you. Let that be your prayer. Do you grow irritated when others are not using their gifts? I've been there. Right? It's frustrating. Like, man, I'm I'm here all the time, I'm doing all the work You know, eighty percent of the work is done by twenty percent of the churches. I don't think that's true in our church. I will say that. I've been to fourteen different churches. Um I don't think that's true here. But You know, back to back to this. Every part is absolutely critical to the working of the body. So we can be an encouragement to others to bring them alongside, right? To gently come alongside them the importance of them being involved in the church and in activities and that I'm not here to say you need to be involved in a bunch of activities. That's not what I'm saying. But how does the Lord want to use you in Hope Bible Church specifically? Because you're here. Okay, does that make sense? All good? Kirk. See I I guess going back to edifying whether or not your gift is edifying the body versus building up your body I think any if even service if if we have the wrong attitude It could be for our edification. Absolutely. In our resume. Absolutely. That's a great point, Cork, and I think we all have to be on guard, on alert, um, because that pride can so easily seep in. Just little seeds right just seep in so quickly and go back to 1 Corinthians 12, right? Let that be your motivations for the common good of the body. All right, we're at time. Let me wrap up. Again, we'll be covering 13 and 14 next week. So what's your homework? Read 13 and 14. 13 is a pretty short chapter. It's really critical. It's really good And it's kind of a pause for Paul to set this foundation before he will continue this discussion about the giftings, specifically prophecy. So we'll get into a bit more detail um next week. All right, let me pray.