Okay. Quick update. So last week we did uh an intro kind of moving from part one to part two. We're we're in the kind of the beginning of First Corinthians And you can see the schedule here. Alright, so we're actually going to start back up and we'll be in chapter five this this week. So if you want to turn in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. And the chart you guys all love, I'll show it many, many times. But the gospel message, right? Paul was constantly trying to take the church back to the simplicity in uh simplicity in in this message, but so packed in meaning and so applicable to our lives today. You know, again, the the highlight here that I really want you to take away is when we talk about the gospel, yes it's for salvation But for believers here living on this earth, it is so critical to our sanctification, right? Remembering who God is, cultivating a high view of God, remembering who we were in our sinful nature Dead to sin, hostile to God, and yet God's mercy shown to us through his Son Jesus Christ. Should that not dictate how we relate to others, our relationships with others? And then I think as important is constantly reminding ourselves of who we are in Christ as a child of God. What does that mean? What are the promises? Who do we have inside of us? Right? We talked about the The Holy Spirit, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. We have the mind of Christ. That should be a great comfort and hope and encouragement. All right, we showed some maps. Um Paul's third missionary journey again uh launches from antioch and and as was his norm he went back through many of the regions where he started those uh initial churches and this is the beginning of the church age and And he really considers himself as the spiritual father of these churches, right? Having established, having established leaders, elders, and so he goes back to why? To be an encouragement, right, to see how they're doing. Um we talked about how he addressed the the church in Thessalonica and just the progress that they have made and what a contrast now as he's addressing the church in Corinth And uh they're still babes, right? They're still drinking milk. Uh they lack maturity. We'll get into that in a second. All right. So he's actually at Ephesus where this is where he's writing the letters to uh the church in Corinth. He will eventually work his way through there um on this journey, but his letters are being written from Ephesus. Alright, a little bit of background for maybe some of the new folks on Corinth. So let me go back. Here's Corinth over here, kind of the bottom part of Greece today And you can see they're located right here, so I'll I'll do a little bit of a blow up here on the map. That's what this is. And and where they're located, there's this um a sliver of land called an isthmus and you can see the definition down here. It's a narrow strip that combines two big bodies and then it has water in between. So you can imagine just a significant trade route, right, where cultures are just coming together from land, from you know you got two major ports that are coming in, so it's just this crazy hodgepodge of culture um that is experienced there in Corinth. So obviously a major port city trade route. Uh very, very secular, very pagan, right? A lot of pagan temples, a lot of pagan worship And the the real um cultural influence there was this thrust for knowledge, this thrust for being good at rhetoric, um a good orator. And so you would have these folks come through called sophists that they would actually pay to to teach you how to um garner that skill, if you will. So there was a huge, huge emphasis put on um those who could do that well and then gaining those skills. Again very secular focus but it's really important as you study a book of the Bible Right, we go back to the hermeneutic, understand the context, understand the cultural context. And the challenge for all of us is You know, understanding that culture back then in in Corinth, we need to understand our own culture today. All right? The American culture is not pure by any stretch of the imagination. Many of the influences, maybe they don't look exactly the same as here in Corinth, but it is just as nasty. Alright? And and we all bring in those biases, those presuppositions. It is a blessing to live in this country, but we all carry, you know, cultural presuppositions because of that. I'm asking us to challenge those As we think about the health of our church and as we think about the health of ourselves and our families, we need to be challenging our presuppositions. And all these slides will be posted on the Hope Group. I usually do it a couple days afterwards. Okay. Alright, so we have been working our way through 1 Corinthians, and these are the major divisions that you'll see in the chapter. We just got done with 1 through 4. What what was the big it's kinda written there, but what was the big issue there in chapters one through four? Some of my part oneers. Alright, I'll hide I'll move the pointer. Divisions. Divisions. Well in what can you characterize it though, Glenn? Some were divisions with uh who to follow, like some would follow follow some would follow some others. Right. So in chapters one through four, the the big emphasis like Glenn said is this idea of division. And and you gotta remember what was happening here. Go back to the the cultural context I just talked about, right? uh really being good at orator uh rhetoric. Um what was happening here is that within the church, the Christian leaders, people were were idolizing the the church leaders Right, because they were good at rhetoric or good at oratory. Right. That was their focus. And for them to say, I'm of Paul or I am of Apollos, and Paul was actually just using them as examples Some of the commentaries believe that he was actually addressing other church leaders that were that were committing this sin, if you will, and he didn't want to call them out. He was showing grace and mercy Ultimately Paul's saying, look at Paul and Apollos, look at us, let us be your example of how we get along well, right? Because what was happening was because they were idolizing these particular church leaders um division and strife and jealousy was happening. Right? There w there was antagonism between each other. Because my my mentor My teacher's better than yours is better skilled. That's the kind of dialogue that was happening, the kind of strife and bitterness. You can imagine how damaging that would be to a church Alright, that's why Paul's addressing it. What he said about himself and Apollos is what? We're both just servants. We're stewards We've been given this gift, the gift of the mystery of the gospel. You know, that's what I'm in charge of sharing with you all. That's what I need to defend. That's what we all need to defend Let us be your example. And so we talk about um do you remember the the parable the talents? You're all familiar with that One was given five, one was given uh two and the other was given one. Right? The one who was given five, what'd it say? He immediately started investing And he gained five more. The one that had two, same thing. Immediately started investing, gained two more. Alright, so they were very faithful as stewards of what God had given them. The one that had one did what though? He hit it. Right? Um and ultimately the servant said, cast them out. Cast them away. Right? So really important understanding this role of us as stewards of The faith stewards of God's church. And you're going to see, I I want to make sure there's this important theme that you're going to see, especially today. Paul's really addressing the purity of the church. Yes, there is application for individuals. We are all individuals, and and maybe this is one of those presuppositions we have to challenge here in America, right? We are independent faithful, right? We want our own rights, the Bill of Rights. We fight for that. I wore the uniform to fight for that. Right? But but that can cause problems too when we think of just our individual rights. Do we think too lowly of God's church? Is my question to you. We'll come back to that at the end. Okay? So if you're in your in your Bible, let's go to First Corinthians. Chapter four. I want to finish up at the end of chapter four. How does he end? He says, What do you desire? Shall I come to you with a rod or with love and a spirit of gentleness? And how does he start chapter 5? He's bringing the stick. He's bringing the rod. Alright, so we're gonna now address a a separate issue as we go into chapter 5 And and let me finish with uh the bumper sticker here at the end. Um he says this in chapter three, I gave you milk to drink, not solid food. What he's saying there is not that you're you're not um intellectually mature yet. He's saying behavior wise, you're still acting like babes, like little children, you know, the fighting and the snickering and the jealousy and the strife. You should be mature by now. Right? And we're going to get to this idea of judging or examining ourselves and others within the church. How do we do that? Right? What are some good techniques to do that? And how much should we do that? Okay. So let's jump into chapter five. Like I said, he's going to continue with the rod. And what we're going to talk about now is he's going to admonish them. For their lack of stewardship in protecting the church. That's really the major theme that we're going to see here in chapter 5. And here's what I want to do. We're going to talk about the issue, their response, what is the standard. How should they have responded? What's the imperative to us? And then the motivation behind that. So that's kind of the outline that we're going to see here as Paul pulls this back. Alright, verse one It is actually reported that there is immorality among you, and immorality of such a kind as does not exist even among the Gentiles, that someone has his father's wife. So if you look at that first part, it is actually reported. The King James probably does the best job of translating it. It is reported commonly So this is common knowledge now. This is not something that's that's happening behind the scenes in private. Everybody knows about it. All right. This is out in the open. It is reported common. It's common to all, public knowledge. Right, this term immorality actually means sexual immorality. Right? That's the specific meaning of this. And do you guys know the Greek word for that? Pornea, right? That's where we get our our uh vocabulary pornography from. Okay, pornea, fornification, um sexual immorality. So that's what he's talking about. And it is gross sexual immorality. A kind, what does it say, not even accepted by the Gentiles? So this this very secular culture that we just talked about, even they're repulsed by it In fact, Roman law at the time, um, you could be thrown in jail and and cast out of the the province for for such immorality. Alright, so it's important to understand what Paul is addressing here. This is just gross, gross immorality Not only within the church, but within the secular culture that surrounds it. Alright? Nobody would would find it satisfactory. And then that last part there, that someone has his father's wife. Many commentaries agree this is probably a reference to his stepmother. Right, not his actual mother. Regardless, you know, the the incestuous type of behavior is forbidden. Uh we see that in Levitical law, we see that in many references to to Deuteronomy. We don't have time to go there, but I can give you those those references if you want. But that kind of behavior is punishable by death. Alright? Yes. slightly not on the immorality part, but just on the aspect of reporting all. And and and that some people somehow he got a report of this of this situation. So I'm thinking somebody from there were ups were upset about it and told them all about it. Yeah. Somehow. Yeah. Got a got a message to them about it. And and my question is That sounds like a call to a higher authority within the church. So the church of Corinth and They went to a a higher author some authority that was above the church in some way. Yeah. And so my question is is worth how does that work out today Um if if there was something going on that's you know just accepted but you feel like it's it's wrong and it's kind of bad, uh that happens. Yeah. Unfortunately. Yeah. And so what how would one So we're gonna talk about that, Glenn? That's a great tie-in. So hold that thought, but but something you bring up. So you remember in chapter one, where was he getting an initial report from? Do you remember? Oh what was her name? Oh Chloe. Remember reference to Chloe. It doesn't say a lot who Chloe is. We don't have a lot of uh background on that. But it's most likely she was probably a a very wealthy, prominent person in the church. Um but she was she was sending reports to Paul, hey man, there's some stuff going on here that you need to address Did he hear it from others? Um probably, but he was probably getting very um good information, again, because he says it was open, it was common to all And so how do you address that? How do you appeal to the authority? Now, something to keep in mind, because it's a great question. You know, what did governance look like back in the day in Paul's when the church was just being established? Right? I I suspect it looks different than it does today in our churches, uh, especially here in America. Even at Hope Bible Church, right To some degree, absolutely, they were Paul set them up, they were independent. But we'll see, Paul sees himself as as kind of the authority or father of all these churches, early in the church age. So just keep that in mind. Right? Governance was a little bit different. but he is going to appeal to them strongly that this is what you need to do. So he's going to give us instruction on how to deal with that. And it's very applicable to um operating today. Same principles. So we'll come back to that, okay? Good question. All right, let me ask you this. Can you think, and I want to be careful here, you don't have to give details, but can you think of a a gross sexual immorality that would not be tolerated today Not only in the church but in our secular culture. You know I I think of adultery today, and don't think about church leaders, just just adultery in general. It's promoted. Right? We kinda we kinda wave a hand at it. Th there's I think there are still legal frameworks today, obviously, but Uh would it cause us to to stir like Paul's asking this church to stir? I I don't know. Yeah well like you said the Romans would would there'd be legal implications. Right, right. Yeah. There there may or may not, to be honest with you. The point is I don't know as a society that we would be outraged when we hear that. We're not outraged when we hear of adultery. Diane. So what I had written was anything against children. Right? And let's just leave it at that, guys, because I don't even want to go down that path But but anything with children just makes everybody, even our our secular society, just just get outraged, right? So that might be one area where we would see that kind of you know outrage happens. Kirk maybe here is a clear well cool. No, I don't know. I've been hearing like think back on the Diane what she said. There's been you know getting this movement and trying to rename affiliate the same line are attractive persons. Okay. Uh so, you know, who are kind of moving in that wrong direction, I think, you know, just as like fifty years ago, it was repulsive For sodomy now ditch. You can see this good point, Henry or Harry, you see this trend of just becoming callous, right, to to something that was so outraged us and yet today it it's Yeah, I I was thinking that even adultery is unacceptable and it's viewed as something that's really bad. Um and even in like the I was reading an article um or partly reading an article in the Wall Street Journal uh a C CEO of a well known company being asked to step down because he had a relationship with female employees So there's some standard that's still there, a battery of a standard. Yeah. No, I I don't I agree with you totally, Kirk. Um I just think as a society and even as a church writ lard, we've become desensitized Explicitly against the like our our values aren't really based on something moral, they're being based purely on if it's if it's legal or it's not illegal. Right. Then somebody's okay with it. Yeah. And that's like a lot of things. Yep. And I think let's leave it at that point because what I want to encourage is you might say, well good golly, that's not happening in our church. I don't need to worry about that. I think the point here is what is the standard? God's Word is the standard. And we cannot become callous in specifically what's happening in our church All right. And it's not because of the church building, the the church club. This is God's church. Right? And we need to purify it. And so we're going to talk about that. That's really what what um Paul is focusing on here. Not so much he doesn't even talk so much about the individual. He's talking about the church, how you responded to this. So let's go. We talked about the issue Sexual immorality, let's talk about their response. Verse 2. Here's what he says to them. And you have become arrogant or puffed up or prideful and have not mourned instead, in order that the one who had done this deed might be removed from your midst. Right? Paul is clearly admonishing them for their lack of taking action This is common knowledge and they've become so prideful, not in the event, but in themselves, thinking themselves wise you know, maybe maybe focused on the bickering, the jealousy that's happening, focused on, you know, idolizing their respective teachers, that they are not addressing this gross, gross immorality Now, again, there are some commentaries, a couple different opinions out there as to why. Why would they not do that? Again, in this society, potentially this was a person in very high standing Um so to to confront them um maybe you had to be at the same stande in is one thought Um, like I said, maybe just focused on self. I think at the end of the day he's getting after their heart attitude. Right? Their heart was not in a place that said, This is God's church and I need to protect it. They were focused on self. Okay? So at the end of the day they were failing. Remember, we're all stewards, we're all given talents. At the end of the day, they were failing their stewardship of protecting the church. And and again I think specifically he is addressing some of the church leaders here. Yes, the church writ large, because everyone has a responsibility, right, for purity of the church, and we'll talk about that in a second Um, but particularly the church leader should have been stepping in. He says, you should have been mourning with sadness and grief Over this infraction of the church. And yet you're arrogant. You're prideful. Alright, so the issue, the response, and what is the standard? What is required of church discipline? Again, let's look at verse 2. And you have become arrogant and have not mourned instead, in order that the one who had done this deed might be removed from your midst. Right? They were to remove this person from the church. That's what it's called for. Keep going. For I, on my part, though absent in body but present in spirit, have already judged him who has so committed this as though I were present. Again, this gets to some of the authority that Paul had in that early church time frame. In the name of our Lord Jesus, when you are assembled, and I with you in spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus, I have decided to deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, that his spirit may be saved. in the day of the Lord Jesus. What's Paul saying here? Any thoughts? So first of all, when is this supposed to happen? Immediately. Immediately. As soon as you guys assemble together, basically you're assembling as a church to uh do your service or whatever it is, you need to do this, right? You need to expel this person from your midst How does he describe it though? Does that mean deliver to Satan for the destruction of his flesh? Yeah. Yeah, that's exactly right, right? You you're being cast out of this this remember uh Pastor Gabe talking about the sheep? Right? And and you're in this protective uh area, if you will. He's basically saying remove him from that for the the the testing of his faith, really Right? So when we talk about destruction of the flesh, let me give you a couple commentaries here. Excluding him from the believing earthly community for the destruction of his sinful nature, the flesh Remember we talked about the flesh is what? The desires, the motivations. We want to destroy our secular uh earthly flesh. And we often hear when we talk about flesh, it's usually negative in the Bible Right? So it's talking about the destruct destruction of those sinful natures. The man is not regarded as a non-Christian. The purpose of the community's actions is the salvation of the soul at the judgment. um and another commentary may result in divine chastening for sin that results in illness and even death. So that may happen, right, when he's excluded, you might see actual destruction of the physical flesh through illness or death. Um but it's really trying to drive him towards repentance. Okay? Glenn? Absolutely, absolutely. And so to your point, Glenn, why? Why such this might seem very severe Right to excommunicate somebody. We do that in church discipline today sometimes. Boy, where where's the where's the love? Where's the grace of God? Okay, we're gonna talk about that. But Paul goes into You know, part of the standard, why the extreme measures? So let's go to verse 6. So he says, when you assemble, you you need to kick this guy out. Verse 6, your boasting is not good Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump of dough? Clean out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, just as you are fact unleavened For Christ our Passover also has been sacrificed. Let us therefore celebrate the feast, not with old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth So boy there's a lot of um word picture there, a lot of reference back to Old Testament. So I you're all familiar with the Passover, hopefully, right, during the the Exodus from Egypt Um the the plague where the Lord was gonna cast down all the for firstborn sons and he's gonna send a plague right throughout the land and he says You need to take the blood of the lamb and put it over the doorpost, right? That'll be your covering, right? You're in the community if you have that covering. Um And this word picture also related to unleavened bread. So this is from Exodus 12. Where this Passover is described. And we have the feast of Passover, or the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, but on the first day you shall remove leaven from your houses. For whoever eats Anything leavened from the first day until the seventh day, the person shall be cut off from Israel. Right? So for eating leavened bread, they were to be cut out. Right, that's the severity. Now, what do we know about leaven? Anybody a baker in here? I'm not, I had to look it up, but Naomi, what does leaven do? Causes rise. Causes rise. Yeah, I had to look it up. So it's a living thing. Yeah, just a little bit of this agent I'll call it creates a chemical reaction. Um, and it creates gases, and that's what causes your pancakes to rise, your cakes to rise, right? So just a little bit of leaven impacts the whole lump of dough. That's what Paul's saying. That's the imagery that we have Okay? Yes. Well I I And so it's a really good word picture of just a little bit of sin in the church, right, can affect the whole community. That's why we have to be so severe about it Um and we're gonna see something gross like this or um divisions specifically. Right? He talked earlier about divisions. Divisions can be so destructive um to a church and it has to be dressed a little bit different than what we see in Matthew eighteen. So we'll talk about that. Alright, let me read a little bit of commentary here. Levin In scripture it is used to represent influence, in most cases evil influence, although there's a a reference in Matthew thirteen where it is positive, but most often we s when we see Levin mentioned, it's a negative influence. When tolerated, sin will permeate and corrupt the whole local church. We mentioned Christ as our Passover, just as unleavened bread symbolized being freed from Egypt by the Passover, so the church is to be unleavened, since it has been separated from the dominion of sin and death by the perfect Passover Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ. The church is therefore to remove everything sinful in order to be separate from the old life. including the influence of sinful church members. So I want to highlight that again. If if we have this this presupposition, we're independent, we're Americans, that we come to church as independent people Right? We not we may not be as um quick to address sin in the church. And we we need wisdom and discernment. We'll get to that in a second. Right? What does that look like to to judge or examine the church Right? I think often we we go to the other extreme to say I I'm not gonna do that. I want to show grace and love, and we're not addressing issues we should be addressing. That's the danger. In contrast to the Old Testament Passover feast celebrated annually, believers constantly celebrate the feast of the new Passover, Jesus Christ. As the Jews who celebrate Passover do so with unleavened bread, so believers celebrate their continual Passover with unleavened lives, right? Being set apart. Being sanctified, made, made more holy each and every day. So that's the word picture that we have here. That's the the reason Paul says you've got to take care of this. The next time you guys meet, you've got to take care of this Because a little leaven is going to leaven the whole lump of dough. Alright, any questions on that? Alright, let's go to What about today? What what references do we have? What obligations do we have when we think about church discipline? Now I think what what Paul is simply getting at here, we go back to the um I'll call it the governance of the early church and the authority. Remember uh Paul talks about himself as being the their spiritual father So I I think he's saying there, you know, I'm there in in spirit, if you will. Um in what I'm uh what I'm telling you to do, I want you to carry it out as your your father, your authority, if you will Right. Exactly. And he does give reference to the power of Christ. Absolutely. Absolutely. Right. He he would say, Jesus Christ is the chief shepherd, I'm the under shepherd, right? That's how we would characterize ourselves today, even so. I don't think he's trying to say um my spirit is with you. Right. That's not what he's saying. We might say, boy, I can't be there for Christmas this year, but I'm I'm there in spirit. Right? Uh same type of deal. Right. Absolutely. And we've we talked about this, right? The indwelling of the Holy Spirit. I go back to the the gospel, right? Remembering who we now have in us. The helper, the Spirit of God, right? Permanently indwelt um in in ourselves. which is how we're able to be sanctified, how we're able to do any of the commands that were given. Alright, so let's go over a couple of these. These are um a couple different references. Often when we think of church discipline, we go immediately to what? Matthew eighteen. as we should. And we've talked about this process, basically a four-step process. And it starts with when your brother sins against you You taking the initiative to confront your brother. How are we to do that? In public with waving arms and neon lights? No, in private, right? Why Sure. You're you're doing it in a spirit of love and grace. Now, what's the what's the sin that we're talking about here? Well that's the gray area. You know, it it's not gonna say if it's if it's gross immorality, that might look very different than hey I heard you were talking about me So step one is go find the truth. That's why you do it in private. Go make sure the information you have is actually accurate. This is your brother. This is your sister Um, you don't want to shame them. You do want to show grace and love. So yeah, you do it in private because the goal here is repentance and restoration If that doesn't work, they still don't repent, then you take others with you as witnesses to confirm the sin that is being addressed. Again, you do it privately Right? You're trying to show grace and love, but you're continuing to address the issue. And then you in in uh what will happen here is you'll typically bring it to the elders. And then we'll start working it. Right? There might be counseling, there might be letters, there there might be other things that happen. And then ultimately, as you guys see sometimes, we have to bring it before the broader church And again, the motivation is twofold. One, it's we're we're truly seeking uh restoration, repentance restoration of that individual. But we're also trying to protect the church. That's what Paul is getting at here. That's the importance of church discipline. And remember, it's not our church. What you're protecting is God's church. Okay? And then lastly is basically an excommunication. In and just similar, you're not treating them as a non-Christian, but you are treating them as someone who is out of the fold Which means you're not having just social interaction with them. Yes, you could go invite them to lunch if you want to talk about um the topic, if you want to encourage them, if you want to admonish them as a brother, as a sister But it's not, hey, let's just go to the ballgame and hang out. Right? That's what that means is to excommunicate. Does that make sense? Diane. I love that. So so what Diane mentioned, and I forgot to is you start with what? Pray. Get your heart right first. Alright? You need to go into this with humility, but how often Do we finally talk to somebody and you finally get clarity as to what happened? Okay, so important. And the last thing is, is it sin or is it a preference? Right? And you have to we need wisdom and discernment to know that. But so important to start that process with an open, uh, you know, a prayerful heart. good communication one-on-one in private to make sure you have good clarity. But there is a clear process that Scripture outlines for us to address sin, ultimately again, for the individual and for the church Right, to protect the church. That's why we do it. Now, there are some other references in Scripture, though, to address church discipline. So let's cover a couple of those. How about elders? So in 1 Timothy 5, we see, now your elders, your pastors, are to be held in high standing. Why? Right? They've been called by God. They're supposed to meet uh particular qualifications, be above reproach. Like Kirk said, they they have this high calling to be examples. Like Paul says, I I'm your example of how you should live out your life. Right? But guess what? Your pastors are human beings. All right. And they can sin. What is the avenue to address that? Back to your question, Glenn. How do we address when we see sin in the church, especially when it's one of your leaders? It tells you here, you can confront them with two or three witnesses along with you because it's so serious. Now this is to protect the elders. It'd be so quick in a a uh spot of um you know, public uh awareness of high pr um high profile if you will, to get acquisitions really quickly or to get them um without due diligence Right? So to protect against that, they're saying if you have an issue with one of your elders, you should bring two or three witnesses to confirm your accusation. That's the intent there is to protect the elders Number two, though, is if it's true, right, and the elders are in sin, what do you see? Rebuke publicly, so the others will be fearful. And I believe in that passage when it talks about the others, the other pastors Right, to to put the the fear of God in them that your sin will be addressed. You will be held accountable and because you are in this public, you know, high uh profile position sometimes the the discipline has to happen more publicly and quicker. Yeah. I I want you really good point. I want you to see The slight difference here between Matthew eighteen and and first Timothy five about maybe the quickness and the public nature of it. You know in Matthew eighteen, I I don't know what the sin is. Um we gotta be careful we don't put a box around Hey, if it's this, then you do Matthew eighteen. The spirit is grace and love, but you still are addressing the issue. Right to um Diane's point Let's get clarity first. Let's make sure we understand that. In 1 Timothy 5, you have a leader, public leader that is sinning. And it might be public knowledge like we saw here. It's common Right, that needs to be addressed immediately. Why? So that that leaven doesn't permeate more quickly. So there are cases where where expediency is important and public rebuke is important Knowing those differences is important, but we do have some guidelines here in Scripture. How about in Titus 3? This is specifically talking about a divisive person. reject or expel a factitious man. What? After a first and second warning. You don't necessarily see the the the long Matthew 18 process. And sometimes that can take very long I said it before, once you hear Pastor Gabe announce something from the pulpit, there might be a year or more of activity that happened before that. All right? Um but in this case, because of of the danger of division in a church You know the the clear guidance here is to address that quickly. You get one warning and then you get a second warning and then you gotta take action. That's that's a good indication, right? Um what might that look like? So we talked a little bit about in Corinth, um what uh uh division look like. They were they were idolizing different church leaders, if you will. Alright, that's what was happening there. What what is the danger or what might division look like in it in our church today? Right. So Carla, that's a good example where where camps start, you know, uh clicks or camps start to form and they become divisive towards each other. Absolutely. And and what does that say about the heart So everybody you know dealing with that. But that is something that needs to be dealt with for sure. What else? Kirk. The church doesn't teach whether you you want to promote your doctrine within within this church. So Kirk brings up a good point, right? Um, you guys know to become members you have to believe what? The basic doctrine. Do you need to believe uh do you need to affirm um necessarily everything in what we teach? You don't You know, eschatology, I'll give you that example. There's there's a lot of different opinions about that. But like Kirk is saying, what we don't what we cannot tolerate is you can have a different opinion But you're not being a troublemaker trying to push your particular doctrine. If that's the case, go to a church that affirms, you know, your belief But that's where we get really dangerous ground is where you start to um you know, there's strife against doctrine or um things that maybe your pastors have have you know given out as instruction or what have you. When you start to see division against the leadership, it becomes really, really dangerous. Alright? Diane. Right. That's the word I was looking for. It was undermine. That's the key word. And that can come very subtly at first, right? Talking here and there and there. You know, if I could encourage you guys, and I I get it sometimes Hopefully we don't come across this way as intimidating, but it could be intimidating. I I just want to encourage you, if you guys ever have a question, please come and talk to us We really, really need to hear that. We need to know. We need to understand. We may not change our perspective. Um we not may not change the way we do things, but that gives you clarity, right, on whether you you can live underneath that that authority or not. And that's okay if you feel like the Lord's moving you to a different church. We're okay with that. But to to undermine the authority is so, so dangerous. And and we see, right, the the quick action that needs to be taken for that type of behavior. Right, so so sometimes that um that open rebuke, that public rebuke, that quick rebuke is important, especially when it comes to division. And then 1 Corinthians is what we we are covering today. So at the next gathering, right, immediate removal. Now again Was this person confronted? Maybe. Maybe somebody had confronted them. Alright, so they applied some of Matthew 18. Maybe Um but because this was such a gross immorality, because it was so common, because the leaders were not doing anything, that was Paul's admonition is you gotta act quickly. Alright? So I wanted to share with you This is actually from what we teach. And I wanted to show that this is the four-step process that it talks about in Matthew 18 that we just went through. We did, we're actually going through the process of slightly revising what we teach. You know, I'll make an announcement of that in a couple weeks. We're really close to getting it back out to you guys. It's not a big change in our doctrine, don't be worried. Um it's just over the years There are certain translations that have been used that we can be clear in some of our terminology. So that's happening. And we're also, you guys get a pre-announcement. We're also adding some passages that in our culture today are important, one man, one woman, things like that. And also a section on marriage, divorce, and remarriage. We get a lot of questions about that to make sure we have clarity in our our counseling. You know, that's probably the biggest ad to what we teach. But one of the adds that we did have is this statement here All believers are to help one another grow in godliness. This requires the discipline of confronting one another when necessary in humility and love, which we talked about, to determine the facts and to expose sin privately. This exercise of self-control guards against gossip, misunderstanding, and divisiveness. I don't think I copied the section I wanted to copy that basically said sometimes this requires a quicker response especially when it happens with divisiveness. So I I miss wrote that down, but that's what I wanted to capture. Okay All right, so let's let's keep going. We've got a couple minutes left. I want to be uh cognizant of our time here. Um so we talked about the issue. Their response, what was the standard, the standard of church discipline that we just went through? So what is the imperative? The imperative again being a command And Paul's going to talk about not judging those outside the church, but to examine those within the church. Verse 9. I wrote you in my letter not to associate with immoral people I did not at all mean with the immoral people of this world, or with the covetous and swindlers, or with idolaters, for then you would have to go out of the world. But actually I wrote to you, and that phrase actually means now I'm adding clarity. What I really meant was not to associate with any so-called brother if he should be an immoral person again uh or covetous or an idolater or a violer or a drunkard or a swindler, not even to eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders, do you not judge those who are within the church So he's making this this clarity statement, if you will, to say, you know, you're not supposed to to associate with those who conduct that kind of sin. And he's saying, specifically, those within the church, those who call themselves brothers or sisters, believers. Alright? He's saying you are to examine. We're to examine one another. How do we do that? What does that look like? Give me a give me a scripture passage that you might use to examine your brother or sister And let me phrase it this way, not the command to examine them, but what framework would you what criteria would you use to examine them? of the Spirit. Bingo. Galatians 5. The fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, self-control. That's how everyone is to be sanctified. We're all to be growing in that fruit. Not fruits, but fruit. Those are all characteristics of being indwelt by the Holy Spirit. You've got to remember, if someone claims to be a believer, they are what? They are a new creature. We all should be very contrast from the world that we live in. Right, the secular society that we live in. We should look different. The church should look different. So for us to be examining one another in a spirit of love and grace The fruit of the Spirit is a great way to do that. Now, if I were to take those nine characteristics, you know, some of you might say, well, I'm doing this part really good. The self-control part, not so good. So we're all working on different things right through our lives. The Lord is is sanctifying us through those different characteristics. But in general, we should be improving. We should be coming more and more in the image of of Christ. That's what sanctification is. Carly. Because I I agree with what you're saying, but I know a lot of people use that particular Yeah, yeah. So it's a great question. If you go back and and look at that, he's actually addressing the Pharisees, right, when when he talks about that, but it gets back to our own heart attitude. So you bring up a really good point and and I see this in counseling all the time, especially when I bring in married couples, right? 'Cause they're like, Hey, if you fix that person, we're good and I have to get them back to what is your role and responsibility before the Lord? What do you are you loving your wife as Christ loved the church? Laying down his life? Let's examine that first. Then we can address some issues. And guess what happens? You just become very humble in heart when you start to address your own responsibility before the Lord. So that's what that's getting at. That's a really good point. That Yes, we have to take care of what's happening in our heart first. If you take the biblical reconciliation class that that Gabe often does, right? Almost the entire class is about yourself first And then at the very end, how to address your brother or sister towards reconciliation. So really, really good point. So it starts with humility, but I I think I think the point here is Um, especially when you see just this gross immorality, right? That's just clear. And why? Because they should be a new creature. You really have to question are are you really a believer? with that kind of sin. I think that's the the dramatic effect here. So I'm not talking about just little things, although M Matthew might eighteen might be in that realm, right? But this is very drastic things that Boy, I I I question whether you are a believer or not. And you do that, you confront in love because you're protecting the church. Kirk. point as far as Paul and maybe the church making the assumption that this is a believer. And then you raise the question, well how could a true believer be uh carrying out that activity and still be a follower priest. But Paul Paul is giving him the benefit of the doubt, I guess until he shows otherwise over a period of time that he's not interested in coming back to the pole. But yeah, there's a little bit of peculiarity of that particular sin. And then The assumption of yes, he's a true member of his church. Right. So so go back to um casting him out for the destruction of his flesh. Think about what's happening. If he is now placed outside of the fold, he's not part of this community. He doesn't have the protection, the fellowship, what have you. If he's truly a believer, he's not really part of this community either So something should happen. And again, the motivation there is he would repent and he would be reconciled to the church. If he doesn't then then most likely he was never a believer. That's the the the drastic severity that is now going to force the issue of what camp are you in Right? Um that's what that's needed for. It sounds it sounds harsh, but it's really love. Right? You are showing love not only to that person but to the church. Let me read this commentary regarding the church. The ease with which the present-day church often passes judgment on the ethical or structural misconduct of the outside community Is at times matched only by its reluctance to take action to remedy the ethical conduct of its own members. We have reversed Paul's orders of things. Alright, so we're quick to judge what's happening in our society. We're not quick. We're reluctant to confront what's happening within our church. Now again, I have to caution, wisdom and discernment, a humble heart, praying. Right, we're not gonna run around with the law seeing who's doing what. That's not the intent here. That's not the heart motivation here. Okay? What is the motivation? Let's end with verse 13 But those who are outside, God judges. And then a reference, an Old Testament reference, remove the wicked man from among yourselves. And this is a reference to many passages in Deuteronomy. The actual word at the end of those references is purging evil from your midst. Right? That's the motivation. You're protecting the church by purging evil from your midst. And we all have an obligation to that. So I I'll go back to the question I asked you earlier. What is your view of the church today, here in America? Right? Is it something you show up on Sunday morning to fellowship and worship? That's all good. But do you really see it in the high view? Remember, God created three institutions, right? The family. The church and government. And the church he's using as part of his plan of redemption in this age Right? And it's our job as good stewards to protect that. This is God's church. These people protect them. Right? We need to cultivate a really high view of God's church. Alright, for homework next week, 1 Corinthians chapter 6. And the verse I want us to be memorizing, some of you probably already have it already, is Galatians 5, 22 through 23. That's the fruit of the Spirit. It's a really good one to know for your own life as you examine yourselves and as we protect the church. And again, use that as a way to encourage others And even in a positive way. Hey, I I noticed, you know, you and I have talked. I know you struggle with self-control, but this issue the other day, man, you showed a lot of patience. I just want to encourage you. Use that as an opportunity. Um I did have someone at the start of class come up and tell me, hey, I took your advice. I read First Corinthians five every day. I even put an alarm on my phone to remind me. I read it every day. And I started to get all these questions. Yes! That's what I'm looking for. You know, when we talk about studying God's Word, we all we often use this frame of reference. Observation, interpretation, application. The observation is understanding the context, but it's asking questions Why do you say that? Well what does this mean? Right? Those are all the things that come out of reading that passage again and again and again. So if you guys are not doing that, I would really encourage you. Really, it'll take you three minutes to read chapter six every day of the week and just jot down on your worksheet some of the some of the questions you might have or some of the insights. um as you try to interpret um what the author truly meant. And then more specifically, how does that apply to your life? Alright? Alright, 1030. Let me pray. Father, you are