Okay, I wanted to start with so we're going through we're memorizing Galatians five, twenty-two and twenty-three and very intentional about that. Who wants to give it a go? But the fruit, and it's fruit, not fruits, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. Um, I think it's really important. I'm really glad you included what was the very first word he said But right, sometimes we start with the fruit of the spirit is there's a but there. What what form of speech is that or grammar? Conjunction. Conjunction. The only reason I know that is schoolhouse rock. For you old timers, you know what I'm talking about, right? Conjunction. Junction. Bringing contrasting ideas together. So we're going to talk about that a little bit later. Why is that but there? What is it contrasting? The end of it is also very important. What does it say? Against such things there is no law. There's a freedom there And so we're going to talk about that. That's a really key point of our lesson today that I want you to take away. So we'll come back to Galatians in a second. But that's the the memory verse. That's part of your homework. So if you have a new clean sheet on your homework, at the very bottom you can write First Corinthians chapter seven is what you're going to be reading for next week, and then memorize Galatians five, twenty-two through twenty-three. Okay? Alright, I did want to pause for a second. You know, we're we're starting a new quarter, and I explained last well a couple weeks ago why we have the worksheets, what we're doing there. And so for my part oneers, they they know what this is all about. But this might be the most important thing you do to benefit from this class. This is for you And so I really encourage you to to be filling out the worksheets. I I wanna ask, just so we can kind of demonstrate what this looks like. So for last week, chapter five, what were some of the main themes that that came out of that? Without looking at your notes, you remember what chapter five was all about? Church discipline, right? What was the big issue that was happening though? Sexual immorality, gross sexual immorality such that even the Gentiles wouldn't even put up with that. Right? But Paul's main point, like Diane said, was what? The purity of the church. The witness of the church. And they weren't doing their job by enforcing good church discipline. Alright, that that was the main theme, and you're going to see that carry through here. I'll talk about that in a second. Alright, so so as you looked at that and took notes, let's go through the worksheet again just so you can get an idea of what this might look like You know, I always encourage people when you're studying the Word of God, when you're reading a passage, we really want to cultivate a high, high view of God. And so we do that by recognizing or studying his attributes. So what are some of the attributes or characteristics, character traits of God that you might have noticed as we went through chapter 5? And let me say, you may not capture this in class, but as part of your homework, go back and see if you can fill out some of this based on your notes. But anybody have anything for attributes? Elizabeth. Passover lamb of the L. Okay, Passover Lamb. Love it. That's really critical. Kirk, yeah, I love it. And and Kirk brings up a really good point. Sometimes you may not see it blatantly stated like the will of God is, right? That that's an easy one. But sometimes there are implied characteristics or indicatives or imperatives even. Alright? So to pull those out, to tease those out is really important. Good. What else? Let's He's holy. He's holy, I heard that written down, right. God is holy. You could probably write that every week, but sometimes that really jumps out in a passage That God is holy. I had um God is merciful. He's he's an orderly God, right? To provide provision for the church to to discipline Right? That's a gift from God for us to be able to to ha maintain order, to maintain the purity of God's church. Um God disciplines those that he loves Right, Kurt, back to your comment about cast this person out. It was to discipline them, because he loves them, if if that person is truly a child of God Okay, good. Let's go to the next section. So this uh theological term, an indicative, is really just a truth. It's a promise. It's something that God has stated in his word. It includes truth about who we are as children of God. We'll get to that. Paul's going to address that. But anything that jumped out to you there Glenn. Along with the purpose saying that God will preserve his saints. Hmm. Even if they do uh Love that. Yep. Yep. Even if we go wayward, he will preserve us Good. What else? What was the question again? I'm sorry. This on your worksheet, it's a second category, the indicatives that you might have pulled out from uh the passage. Gotta judge. He's going to judge. He was going to judge, yes, yes. Um couple that I had written down, you know, leaven, he talked Paul talks about this analogy or word picture of, you know, leaven affects the whole lump of dough. Right? That's a truth that we know. Sin corrupts It doesn't go the other way, right? Which is why it has to be addressed. Sin affects the witness of the church, the purity of the church Alright, good. Again, sometimes it's very clear God says this, and and those are easy to pick out, but I think it's really important to pick out these these truths or what God has said or done. Because typically what happens is what what follows is an an indicative is an imperative. An imperative is simply a command, something that we are to follow based on the truth um that we just heard. So any imperatives that you picked out of the passage? You guys already mentioned it. Alright, do not boast. Okay, good. Yeah. Well we are to boast though, right? Just not like boasting who? Boast in the Lord. Why? Because we can understand and know him. Right? That's the the verse we had last quarter, Jeremiah 9, 24. So beautiful. Someone had Raymond. Okay. Yeah. That I might call that an indicative. Okay. Right? Fair enough. Kirk, could you have another one? Uh oh uh this is possibly an imperative to The church, do you not judge those who are within the church? So I don't know if that's uh imperative or indicative, but it's It's a um it's stated in a way that you should be doing this. Yeah, yeah. No, I would agree with you. I had that written down. We are to Not judge those outside of the church, but we are to examine, uh hold accountable, if you will, those inside the church. We do that with love and grace, for sure. So I had written down exercise church discipline, right? That's one of the that's one of the commands that we have. And the danger is not doing that. We saw the implications of that. Alright, good. And then personal application, I'm never going to ask you to reveal that. That's really for you to apply these indicatives, these commands to your life. But I would ask you to really spend time on that section This is where the rubber meets the road. And and don't list twenty things. Maybe list one thing that you really want to work on. Um and and that's my passion. That's how I teach. That's what I try to glean from these passages is what is it saying? And then how is it applicable to us? That's what I'm passionate about, that's what I do. So try to be faithful with that. But that that's my encouragement to you with the homework. Alright, so any questions on the the worksheet or the homework? Again, I just want to make sure you guys understood what we were trying to do there. Okay, if you have questions you can certainly um grab me afterwards. Alright, if you have your Bible, let's go to our passage, 1 Corinthians. Oh, chapter 6. And here's where we're at schedule-wise. So we're already on lesson three. We're on 1 Corinthians 6. Just humming along. You remember at the very beginning we went through kind of an overview of First Corinthians and these are the major divisions. So we talked about chapters one through four, talked a lot about, you know, divisions in the church. Um The strife, the gossiping, jealousy, discontentment. And again, a common theme there that we're going to see is what? What that what kind of witness did that create for the church Right, division um um causes discord, right? So you're not protecting the church and you're gonna see that common theme through throughout We are now on chapter 6, so we're in this area of responding to moral issues. Okay? But bottom line, what Paul is saying is you should be more mature at this point. Right. You've had the training, the teaching, and he's not talking about knowledge mature. He's talking about behavior, your sanctif your sanctification. All right, so we talked last week about again this this beautiful uh gift that God has given the church called church discipline And we do that to to love our brothers and sisters. We do that to protect the church. We do that to protect the witness of the church And we talk about a couple different scriptures that give us guidelines on how to do that. We're all familiar with Matthew 18, kind of that four-step process of that individual interaction And for those of you that are members, you remember you you s you had a membership interview, you signed a document that said, I will commit to church discipline. And that starts with who? You. Right? It starts with that initial contact or initial confrontation. That is so important. If that's happening, I suspect we won't see things bubble up to the next level But it's hard, isn't it? That's hard to confront your brother or sister, and yet we're commanded to do that. Alright, we see in First Timothy we the church, um the the local body also has a vehicle to confront the elders, the leadership. We are to do that very wisely, and that's why it starts with, you know, bringing two or three witnesses. And that's to really eliminate, you know, gossip and discord, if you will, just by just by quick comments or or what have you. It ensures that that you know we're holding our leadership accountable. And then if they don't repent, what? It's a public rebuke so that the others will fear Um we we talked about 1 Corinthians 5 last week and and it seems harsh that the response was, you know, next time you guys meet, hand them over to Satan. But the the issue was this was such a public and gross um immorality against God that it had to be addressed immediately and publicly And then we see in Titus 3 this idea of factitious or a divisive man. Again, a first or second warning, and then it needs to be addressed. You don't see this long drawn-out process, and that's because it is so destructive. You know, go back to that analogy of the leaven and the bread, right? It will spread quickly And then I wanted to share this because I I stepped through it really quickly and I kind of lost the point I was trying to make. This is um as I mentioned we are in the up process of updating our what we teach document. Again, not major shifts in doctrine. Don't be scared. Really it's trying to add some clarity in some areas. um bring in some issues that that maybe we wouldn't have even thought of twenty years ago. Um and I would tell you the probably the biggest um insert has to do with a section on uh marriage, divorce, and remarriage. So that will be coming out to you guys in the new year. You'll get a chance to take a look at that. But what I wanted to show you was um What was in there already was kind of the Matthew eighteen four-step process. What we added was this second part that this process can be shortened In the cases of open debauchery or divisiveness. Alright, I go back to the slide behind it where sometimes where there's factions or divisiveness that is happening that needs to be addressed quickly. Okay But again, the motivation is all down here, right? To do that with humility and love. That's always the the goal is to to bring that person back into the fold. But again, like we talked last week, someone who exhibited that kind of extreme behavior, it it of course will cause you to say, is that person truly a believer? Right and and they're cast out now to to really show that contrast of being part of the fellowship and and you're gonna see pretty quickly whether they are or not. But the ultimate goal obviously is restoration, repentance, um reconciliation. Alright. Any questions on that? Chapter five? Yeah, Bill. So let me say it this way, Bill, um, because I've not studied in great detail. Here's a couple of points that we have to understand. is that was the beginning of the church. Alright, so what that structure looked like at the very beginning, you had very small, you know, local bodies that were being started Um, you know, Paul often considered himself the father of these churches, and we see that in these missionary journeys, standing up these initial churches. And so in some regard he probably played a more prominent role than what we see today in how churches are governed. Okay, so we have to ask our qu ourselves Especially in that early church time, and we'll see this in other issues that come up, is this meant to be normative? Is this the governance that we're going to see throughout church history? Right? And and we know that that um that that has changed over time. Um and that's probably a whole study in and of itself, Bill. So I will tell you is We have to be careful to to make sure we understand what was happening at the beginning of the church age. Paul, I think, clearly had a a role that is different than what we see today. Now, having said that, let's take a church like ours that is independent. Right? We we govern within ourselves. That's what our bylaw says. That's how we're structured. There are cases where um it would make sense to bring in um potentially outside help to be a mediator. I mean there are professional biblical mediators to help process maybe not only our own church but but maybe dealings we have with other local churches I mean those are all possibilities and wise to do. So all I would tell you is we have to be careful that the governance structure was absolutely different back then than it is today. Okay? And that may not suffice, but but that's what we have. That's what we know. I don't think it's normative in that in that particular case to say that's the way churches the church has to be governed today I don't think it is. I think we have more freedom in what that looks like, but you can do a lengthy, lengthy study on uh ecclesiology, right? The the church and and church structure, church governance. Okay Great time to the lesson today, Raymond. Seriously, great time. So let's do that. Let's take your thought and come back to that. That's exactly what Paul's going to address today. Right, lawsuits in the church So last week we talked about this this idea of gross immorality, right? Um someone was having his father's wife, most likely uh a stepmother. Um and In chapter 6, we see Paul now starts talking about lawsuits. And you're like, wait a minute, that just seems very disconnected. Here's what I would tell you. Uh again, this underlying principle of protecting the church of the witness of the church. And last week he talked about this issue of gross immorality, but the underlying principle was still the church, the preservation, the purity of the church. He's doing the same thing now. He's just using a different topic, right? Lawsuits. So let's read that Lawsuits discouraged. Does any one of you, when he has a case against his neighbor, dare to go to law before the unrighteous and not before the saints? Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world, and if the world is judged by you, are you not competent? To constitute the smallest law courts? Do you not know that we shall judge angels? How much more matters of this life If then you have law courts dealing with matters of this life, do you appoint them as judges who are of no account in the church? I say this to your shame. Is it so that there is not among you one wise man who will be able to decide between his brethren? But brother goes to law with brother, and that before unbelievers. Actually then it is already a defeat for you that you have lawsuits with one another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded All right, so let's be careful here. We gotta understand context. So let me start with this. What Paul is not saying He is not saying that Christians can't sue Christians. Alright? That's not what he's saying here We know in Romans 13, right, it talks about the the government, the person uh the purpose of the government for a common protection to include the rule of law. God is described or the government is described as a minister of God, an avenger who brings wrath upon one who practices evil. So there there's clearly a role in the institution that God designed in government um to apply this rule of law. I have been deployed to a country where there is no rule of law. Right? It was eye for eye. It was based on tribal tradition You can't even begin to believe the contrast there. Alright? What we have in this country is not perfect, but when you see that contrast of nothing, it's quite incredible. So we have to understand the context of what's happening here in Corinth and in in this book of Corinthians. To go to the law, it says, um, is really just a process to pass judgment. All right. So it it's going to the courts, it's going to a body to to do uh judgment, if you will Um in the the Greco-Roman culture, and there's a picture here, when we talk about um going to the law, we in our mind right away think a judge comes in and he sits behind his big desk and he's got a robe on, you got jurors sitting there That's not what we're talking about here. When they did court of law, it was out in the public. It was in the market. And it was a spectacle. Right? It was um it was biased, uh they were bribed. And we talk about the the different status in society. Usually those of high standing could bribe um the court, if you will to to render a verdict to go their way. So it really was just a spectacle. And so you can imagine Paul's, you know, disdain when he's like You Christians are part of this spectacle of the secular culture that you are in. Right? So it's really important for us to understand this context. It's not a court of law like we understand it It I have heard uh some scholars talk about it it might be similar to what we might call a small claim score. So I looked it up. In Maryland, the the max limit for small claims court is $5,000. Now that's I'm not saying that's trivial, but the cases that were bringing brought forward, I'll give you this example. I got a sledgehammer there. Let's say you go to one of your sisters in Christ to borrow a sledgehammer. And yes, I said sisters intentionally. We have sisters that can do demo, right? Um you you borrow this this sledgehammer um and during your demo you break it. And so you return it into their garage without saying anything, right? And you just kinda put the sledgehammer there And then later on this sister confronts you and says, Hey I I saw the sledgehammer but it's broken. Oh oh yeah, I meant to tell you that. Um I don't really have the money to repay you for it So that's the type of thing they would now go to this public spectacle right court. That's the idea of what's happening here. That's how trivial it is. Okay? Versus how how sh how would you handle that Pay you later? Okay. I could work for it, Kirk? Yeah. That's a really good response, Kirk. And I I you know later on it talks about would it not be better for you to just be defrauded Right? In in again we're talking about trivial cases. What Kirk's pointing out is it it is the the issue still needs to be addressed. There's heart attitudes that are going on. To to just say no it's all right is not addressing the issue And it might cause you to become anger and bitter towards this person. It needs to be addressed in love and kindness, but it still needs to be addressed. There's sanctification that can still happen here All right. Um and it might be, you know, your witness is tarnished by by what you did. Um I forgive you, but you may not trust that person anymore. Right? And that's very natural You still love them, but so the issue still needs to be addressed, but it's being addressed internal to the church. What they were doing is immediately running to the the secular courts and again the spectacle, that's what was happening here. That's the context. Does that make sense? Okay. Sure. you know hide the fact that they did that. For sure. Yeah, and that that should be addressed, right? That's my point is it should be addressed. Now I I want to reiterate Paul's not saying, you know, the uh you know in matters of of criminal activity, embezzlement, um abuse. Yes, we have courts. We have uh government sanctioned courts that we can use at our disposal to address some of those issues. And sometimes unfortunately that needs to happen. That's not what he's talking about here. Okay? So I think the context is really, really important Um he admonishes with some very strong verbiage, doesn't he? You dare, you dare to take your brother and sister to court. He's shocked And again, we talked about the different ways that Paul addresses the church. Sometimes he's encouraging, sometimes he's exhorting, he's clearly admonishing here. And we'll see throughout this text he uses nine rhetorical questions. Often, or do you not know, you see that a few times. But nine times, and that's Paul's style, isn't it? He often uses rhetorical questions to get at the point of of what he's addressing. And we see that used here. Again, they should be already practicing um these principles, but they're what? They're drinking milk instead of ver uh eating meat. They boast in being wise, yet they do not practice these things. That's a continual theme, is they're wise in their own eyes Alright, so so let's go to let's start in chapter or verse two. Paul reveals a fundamental truth about who they are and what they will do during the reign of Christ. So this is really interesting And again, Paul's kind of addressing their sin issue, but he's also reminding them who you are or who you should be in Christ. Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you not competent to constitute the smallest law courts? So and and this is why we know it's trivial um because he talks about there constitute the smallest law court. So so that is a phrase meaning these are trivial issues. Somebody broke your sledgehammer. That's what he's talking about here. And he's saying, do you not know when the millennial reign happens, you're going to be ruling with Christ You're going to be judging the world. That's part of ruling. That's part of the authority, the responsibility that comes with that. You will be ruling the world. I d I don't know that we often think about that, but that's an aspect of a role responsibility we're gonna have as Saints. Elizabeth. Um what does it mean by rejudge uh nature? Verse 3, the tie-in. Do you not know that we shall judge angels? How much more matters of this life? I don't know. I didn't do a really in-depth study. I don't know if that's said anywhere else in Scripture that we will judge angels Alright? So it's a good question. Her question was, what does that mean to judge angels? We know ultimately that Jesus Christ will judge, have the final judgment of a person's salvation, right? So we're not doing that Um Jesus Christ will have the final judge of of angels that have fallen. Right? That's that's not what is happening here. However, it's interesting to think that right now we are made a little bit lower than the angels, and yet during the millennial reign, we will rule them. And think of it more as a responsibility we will have ruling with the Lord. Whatever that looks like, whatever authority we will have, the angels will be underneath that authority. Alright, it's just spectacular to think that's the role we're gonna have. We think of of angels as above these celestial beings, and yet we will govern them. That's pretty fascinating. And he's saying you you are going to be doing this in in the end times. You're supposed to be trained for that right now. This is your training ground And these are trivial matters. When that happens, those are going to be big deal kingdom issues. And yet you have been equipped. Ultimately, he's saying you have been equipped to handle these issues right now, and you're not doing it Right, you're you're running to the secular courts. Yes. Um contrast. So I I think this contrast, you know, judging the the world and the the millennial kingdom Right? That's going to be a different reign. Back to Bill's point. That's going to be a different governance than what we know today. All right. Jesus Christ will be the the the king, and everybody will know that. He will reign To contrast with maybe chapter 5, where we're told not to judge outsiders and judge them against a criteria, I'll call it, of Galatians 5. 22 Right? Really the way we're we're attacking or not attacking, addressing the outside world is what? Evangelism, right? We're trying to spread the gospel. Yes, we can see sin, but but it's not our job to judge their sinful behavior. It's our job to to evangelize. Within the church, these are brothers and sisters. You know, I've talked about even in the counseling room. If I know you're a brother or sister, go back to the imperatives, the commands, then then you are accountable now. To what this says. That's how we are to judge. And I like to use the word examine better than judge. Judge has this connotation of condemnation, right? That's not what we're doing So those within the church, we are holding to a higher standard because we know what that standard is. We know that they've been equipped with the Holy Spirit. And again, it's a view towards the the the church Right? First and foremost, glorifying God, purifying the body, protecting the body. That has to be our our first thought. Does that make sense? Right? And that's an important distinction to make I think I read that um Yeah, from one of the commentaries last Last week, the ease with which the present-day church often passes judgment on the ethical or structural misconduct of the outside community is at times matched only by its reluctance to take action to remedy the ethical conduct of its own members. That's exactly what you're talking about. And that's a behavior that we we have to guard against. And it's easy to do, because we don't like to confront. Alright, let's go down to verse five. I say this to your shame. That's strong language coming from Paul. Right? This is this is true strong admonishment. Is it so that there is not among you one wise man or lady who will be able to decide between his brethren? But brother goes in law with brother, and that before unbelievers. So the point, he's saying you have people capable. You've been equipped, all of us, right? When we become believers and we're indwelt with the wisdom, the spirit, the Holy Spirit We are capable to help mediate. We are capable to help, you know, bring uh reconciliation and resolution. And he's saying to your shame you run to the secular courts. And I think it's important for us to remember again who we are in Christ. You have that capability. Right now, you have that capability. Now, there are times when maybe it's wise, hey, let's bring it to the church leadership, but it doesn't always have to go there Right? You you have that capability. You are going to reign that way with Christ one day. You're gonna execute that. Practice now. Now is the time to practice. Okay, Master Christopher. Yes. Kirk, I think that's a really good point. You think of the diversity of our church. Um and and I think of uh simply the example of construction. I mean we have so many skilled laborers in this church and and it could be easy where you go to someone, hey, this person does HVAC, so they're gonna do something on your house. and boy it's not up to the standard that you wanted. Now it's easy you can easily see the friction start to happen um to bring in a third party within the church that is skilled to say, no, that's that's pretty much standard. Or you're right, that was that was pretty poorly done. And then for the parties to come together in humility, that's exactly what that should look like in this case. Yep, spot on Good. So it's not always the pastor who is on that topic. Yeah. In fact I would I would suggest it it starts below that for sure, right? You think of Matthew 18 in that church discipline plot process, that's where that starts. So Yeah, but it takes a lot of humility, doesn't it, to to come to that agreement to say, no, you're right. We're first and foremost we're brothers and sisters in Christ. Let's start there Right. We're gonna get into uh a little bit here the freedom that we have in Christ. It's really important. And I want to make sure we get there, so let's keep going. All right, uh verses seven and eight, again, he admonishes them. Actually then, it is already a defeat for you that you have lawsuits with one another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? Right? So that we talked about this principle. It may be wise with the sledgehammer, at the end of the day, to just be defrauded, to just take the loss Because you are preserv preserving the witness of the church, you are trying to glorify God, that might be what's best in the situation. It doesn't mean you don't address the the heart attitude of the other person I think that's important, but the end end of the day, Paul's saying in these trivial cases, the preference first and foremost might be to ultimately just be defrauded. Right? That's better than getting your justice Okay. Alright, um verses nine through eleven in your favorite chart. But this is in in chapter I'll say chapter six there are some transitions in here that they're not agreed by all scholars. This is a a difficult passage Um where you talk about he's talking about lawsuits and then he's talking about um sexual immorality again. But I go back to the lawsuits is really driven by this foundation of preserving the church the purity of the church, the witness of the church, protecting the church. It's just another example of where where they're not doing that well. Alright, so it fits in that theme. We see a bit of a transition here though, and this was really chapter 5 in the first part of 6, really addressing the overall congregation. the the bigger church body, if you will. We're going to see this transition, although applicable to the broader church, really addressing the individual. Let me read 9 through 11. Or do you not know That the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor feminine, nor homosexuals, nor thieves. Nor the covetousness, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. So you see this contrast is what? It's the gospel He's saying here's some of you were this. You were this in your sinful state, in your bondage to sin, right? To to no man in our sinful state. But he says you've been washed, that regenerative heart through the work of the Holy Spirit. You've been sanctified. And we talked about this before. Two basic elements of sanctification. There's that initial sanctification to be set apart. That's what he's talking about here. And then that progressive sanctification, where we continue to grow more and more into the image of God. And then that beautiful word that I just love, justify. Right? To be declared righteous. before a holy God. And he's saying, he's reminding them, that's who you are. That's who you are in Christ. And it's important for us to continually remind ourselves, that's why the gospel is important for us each and every day Alright, so he kind of sets that stage. He's now transitioning to maybe speaking to individuals. Here, you know, this is what you are in Jesus Christ. And he's going to go back to um this really important element of the body and what does that mean and specifically relates it to sexual immorality. And and you see a common theme with Paul throughout the epistles on the focus on sexual immorality because it specifically affects the body. Alright? And that's what we're going to talk about in the rest of these verses here. So in the next section, Paul is going to emphasize Christ's lordship over our bodies as his adopted children. And once again, going to use the context of sexual immorality. What's the Greek word for that? You remember? Pornilla, right? That's where we get pornography from. But any kind of sexual immorality. Alright, as I mentioned, not all commentators agree on this passage of Scripture, 12 through 20. Look at the very beginning, verse 12. All things are lawful for me, but not all things are profitable. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. Food is for the stomach, and the stomach is for food, but God will do away with both of them Yet the body is not for immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body. Now, verse 12, I don't know if you have an ESV in front of you, but the ESV you will actually see quotation marks around all things are lawful for me. Alright? Um and I think food is for the stomach and so there are some commentators that believe that that was um just a picky statement that the Corinthians used to to validate their behavior And that Paul was trying to counter that um with some of these comments. Not everyone agrees with that. I I think I'm one of them. Um Some other scholars believe what Paul is doing is actually laying a critical foundation of truth that will permeate throughout the letters to the Corinthians and many other of his epistles. What does it mean for freedom Christ has set us free? That's in Galatians 5. 1. Alright, so I I think uh um with some other scholars that what Paul is really getting at is addressing this issue of freedom in Christ and and what does that mean. Um he obviously is addressing point blank in chapter five there was a there was a man that everybody knew that was addressing, you know, uh engaged in sexual immorality. um these lawsuits, you know, does any one of you, when he has a case, dare to go? So there were specific instances um that he was addressing with these issues. I I think this is a bit more general when he's talking about sexual immorality in the body. Um i and I think you can see his pattern, his writing throughout, and we'll talk about Galatians real quick. Um that really gets to this point of he's not trying to challenge their statements or or I don't think the Corinthians are so bold to say Well, we're free to do anything we want. I I don't think that's what Paul's addressing. I think he's getting after more of the freedom issue. And so I took this from um a commentary that I really, really, really like. If you take anything away from today, it would be the statement on freedom. Let me read that True freedom is more than freedom from something and more than freedom to do as one pleases. For freedom to be meaningful, it must be freedom for something. And Paul understands that all things must be done for the glory of God. And then it goes on to say doing what is beneficial governs Paul's instructions. And we'll see this come up again and again and again. So that's why I want to make sure we we hit it here. So let's think about that for a second. Um just think of the beginning of our country, the Revolutionary War, right? Freedom from what Tyranny. Taxes. Alright? Um I think uh maybe a a young adult that gets to go off to college for the very first year. What what do they have freedom from? Yeah, mom and dad's rules. You know, I gotta be in bed by eleven. So I now have freedom to do what? Stay up till three in the morning playing video games if I want, eating pizza, right? So freedom from some and this is often how we think of freedom. And again, remember in this class we want to challenge our own presuppositions. You know, living in America, we talk a lot about our freedoms, our rights Freedom what? To do what we want to do. That's not what we understand freedom in Christ is, right? It's freedom for something. And I hope that changes your mindset. Yes, we have freedoms being believers now, but freedom to do to for something. to glorify God. And we'll see that come up again and again. And often it comes down to what is most beneficial or what is most profitable in this particular instance, in this particular context. We'll see that when we address different foods and and people being upset about certain foods that be are being eat eaten and and elsewhere. Alright, so really, really important principle. Um and let's go to Galatians. Let's go back to Galatians. Galatians five. And and we're you know we memorized five twenty-two. I'll try and go through this real quickly. I don't know if I like the uh short timelines, but that's okay. Verse 1, it was for freedom that Christ set us free. Therefore keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. Now, in reality, we know from other passages what We were um at birth what? We were slaves to sin. When we become believers, we are what? We are slaves to Christ. So we are still slaves, but we now have a different disposition. We are now free to serve God in his holiness versus when we were slaves to sin we were not. Right? We were free to serve Satan and his dominions. So there there is still an element of bondage, but but now what we're hearing from Paul is we have freedom now Freedom for something. And that's the mindset that we have to have. Okay? It was for freedom that Christ set us free, that we don't carry that yoke of slavery of our old sinful natures Behold, I Paul say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. So what he's addressing here is people who are trying to reinsert the law, right? You need circumcision for salvation. Let me jump to six. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything but faith working through love. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion did not come from him who calls you. A little leaven, here it is again. A little leaven leavens the whole lump of dough. I have confidence in you in the Lord that you will adopt no other view but the one who is disturbing you shall bear his judgment, whoever he is. There's the judgment again. But I, brethren, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross has been abolished. Well that those who are troubling you would even mutilate themselves? Again, talking about this circumcision. For you were called to freedom, brethren. Only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. You see the mindset here He's saying, don't fall into the trap of saying you're free now to do anything you wish. You are free to serve Christ. You are free to glorify God. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in the statement, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour another one another, take care lest you be Consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. For the flesh does it the desire against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. For these are in opposition to one another, so that You may not do the things that you please. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now here's the contrast, starting at 19 Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions. A lot of the things that Paul has already talked about, right? Um and that we already saw in verses uh nine through eleven. Envying, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who practice such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Paul just said that in Corinthians 6. Here's the contrast, though. That's why I say the but is so important. But the fruit of the Spirit is, and you know the list. And the end of that, against such things, there is no law, right? There's no checklist, there's no yoke of slavery associated with this fruit. We are free to pursue this fruit. We need to be um uh evidencing these fruit in our life. Right? That's the work of the Holy Spirit. Okay? So I I wanted to Give you that synopsis because I think it's so important this principle that Paul is trying to affirm here of we are free in Christ, but free for something. That's the mindset that we have to have Alright, so let me quickly go through some of this idea of him now addressing the body, and it can get a little bit complicated, I'll be honest with you. Um verse 13, so he talks about the food is for the stomach and the stomach is for the food. That's a parallel. Alright? God created those two to have this interconnectedness well The next part of that, though, is God will do away with both of them. Yet the body is not for immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body. So we know we are made what? In the image of God. Right? Mind, will, affections. Um we it's a bit of a paradox, but we talked uh in in the last quarter, right? We would affirm here at HBC that the that we are a dichotomy. We are made up of an immaterial, a soul, and a body. I'll call it physical. But when you think of body here, you have to go beyond this idea of just physical skin, flesh, right? It's this interconnectedness of of that physical realm with our our soul, our spirit Alright, that's what we're talking about when we talk about the body. Here's a reference from a commentary. Body refers not to human self, personhood, or individuality. It is the locus where we experience life, death, sickness, and sexuality. In short, our creaturliness and our position in the realm of nature. Alright, the body here is not just referring to an outer shell, like I talked about the physical body. We know at glorification that Yeah, we are not redeemed um from our bodies, but our our redemption will include our bodies. So if we were to die today, we know that our soul would be separated from this physical body, right? But when we talk about redemption, that final part of glorification, we know we will be reunited with new bodies. Right? So there's a body element. And we know we know this because the way that Jesus Christ Ascended, he did that in bodily form. That's when it says he's the first fruits, that's what that means. He gives us an example of what that's going to look like. So what Paul is trying to emphasize, I'm trying to be quick here, I'm sorry What he's trying to emphasize here is there's something very unique about the the body and the spirit, that interconnectedness. He compares it right with the food and stomach, but in this case You know, the how God created us to be united, if you will, that interconnectedness. And that's why um sins against the body are so dangerous. That's why sexual sins are so dangerous. Let's keep going. Verse 14. Now God has not raised the Lord, but also uh Will also raise us up through his power. And that's this point I just made about his resurrection in bodily form. Do you not know that your body are members of Christ? Shall I then take away the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? May it never be. And so he's specifically talking about in this culture it was very common to just go and be with a prostitute Right, to pay for a prostitute culturally, that was very acceptable, and it was probably happening within the church body Or do you not know that, verse 16, the one who joins himself to a harlot is one body with her? For he says the two will become one flesh. Where do you see that? That's an Old Testament reference. Genesis, right, in the very beginning. But where else do you see it? In the New Testament. Ephesians 5. What's Ephesians 5 all about? Marriage, right? It's talking about the roles and the responsibility the the marriage relationship and you'll see that verse quoted again to emphasize that The two are are to come out from their respective families and join a new family. There's a new authority that's happening. Yes, there's obviously a physical element of oneness But he's getting at this verse is really getting at this interconnectedness that I'm talking about. Right? And and those of you who are married, you know what I'm talking about. There's just there's this oneness that is supposed to happen and guess what? That marriage relationship is supposed to be what? The image of Christ in the body. That's what it's really supposed to represent. Right? So there's this um uh interconnectedness that's being talked about here Verse 17, but the one who joins himself to the Lord is one spirit with him. Again, what do we have in us as believers? The Holy Spirit. And you're now joining this this oneness, you're now joining with a harlot, with a prostitute, physically. You know, there's something that happens there when we have that that physical sin. That's what Paul's getting at here. Flee immorality. Alright, this is really important. We often think about resisting immorality. I'm going to fight it. No, it says flee, run from it And again, this word is sexual immorality. Every other sin that a man commits is outside the body. But the immoral man sins against his own body Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit? We talk about this um in uh 1st and 2nd Thessalonians about the temple or sanctuary and it was talking about the church at that point. And here it's specifically talking about each and every one of us. Right? We are a sanctuary, a temple. Um Filled with the Holy Spirit. The temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own For you have been bought with a price. That's what redeemed is. You have been bought. Therefore, glorify God in your body. So, yes, we are free in Christ. We are also slaves in Christ. Right? And and I think the point he's making here again is this interconnectedness with the body. So don't don't think of this fleshly outer outer shell, if you will. Yes, there's an element when we die that this physical body that's decaying. one of the patron saints that came in this morning is complaining about their old age. I won't mention Randall's name, but I feel your pain, brother. I feel your pain. That will go away, right? But we will get new bodies. There's there's definitely in interconnectedness that is happening here. Alright, that Paul is emphasizing. So again I want you to walk away with this principle is really, really important. We have freedom in Christ, but freedom, what's the purpose of it? It's for something. Okay, that's the main point because we're going to see this come up again and again and again. Right? That's the the principle that Paul's trying to get across So I told you we'd start keeping a list of all the different things that we're going to see, because we're going to see a lot of them in 1st and 2nd Corinthians. I hope what you're getting an understanding though is and and I had this idea of It was hard to read first and second Corinthians because it feels like, all right, sexual immorality, lawsuits, uh h hair coverings, you know, just this hodgepodge of of different issues. That's not how Paul works though, is it? Right? So it's been really enlightening to see the common threads that he's pulling here. And so far it's been about the preservation of the church Right, that's really what he's been focusing on. When we talk about um you know, the church discipline, um, the trivial lawsuits, the sexual immorality, is really about the witness, the purity of the church. So we see that common theme. Okay? So we'll keep adding to this list as we go along. Let me close here just because it is time, but if you have questions, you can certainly come up afterwards and we can talk. Sorry for the the speed, but lots of good stuff to cover here. And a reminder, your homework, read First Corinthians seven and continue to work on uh Galatians five, twenty-two through twenty-three Again, it's a familiar verse, but it it is so important for us to remember these these character traits that we should have, that we should be holding our brothers and sisters. accountable that we can be encouraging them in, but also understanding the context of that verse. We saw the but, the contrast to who we were. in our old lives and the fact that we are now free. We are free to to exhibit um uh and obey those commands each and every day for God's glory. So let's pray