Alright, if you are not already, you can turn to your Bibles. Uh 1 Corinthians, we are in chapter 9, so here we are on the schedule. Cruising through, I will highlight in a couple weeks on the twenty-fifth, so when we cover First Corinthians eleven, um I will actually be teaching the new members class, so that's My time that I'm scheduled to do that, and Randall is going to cover 1 Corinthians 11, so that's why I have the asterisk there. FYI. And then here's where we're at on the timeline. We're in chapter nine as depicted. I added the blue words there. Um you know when we first put this together, some of the the references I were look I was looking at divided it this way and it and I think they have that accurate but I added the issue of liberty there because I I think often we we think of these divisions and we think all all these issues related to food. And as we found out, food might be the catalyst to get a point across, but it's not really about food, is it This has really been a subject about how do we use our liberty at the end of the day. Alright, so that's why I put that in blue I have the freedom to add because it's my chart. So all right. So that's where we're at, and then I'm gonna go to um to this chart that I've showed a couple times because I'm going to leave that up for for most of uh chapter nine because it is very applicable. And again I want to highlight we went through uh First Corinthians chapter eight and and maybe countered some of our thinking of how we were taught this this particular passage where it was two groups that were basically battling against each other, right? Some say they're they're strong in their conscience or they're strong, mature Christians, and others are weak and and we're just being tolerant of those that are weak Right, so we don't offend them. That's not what Paul is saying here. That's not the battle that's happening, right? They were engaging these these um Christians that were strong in their conscience. They knew they could eat any food that they wanted to. That was scripturally the precedent now. They knew they had that freedom. They knew there were no idols. There's only one God And yet what were they doing? They were continuing to engage in these activities that surround it were surrounded by idol worship And and that was because you remember you gotta go back to the culture of the day. That's the pagan culture that they came out of. That's where all their friends were. That's what the social activities were. They they were all revolved around um the temple and temple worship Right? And they felt I have I know I have freedom. I don't believe in any of that, but that's where all my bugs are. Right? And the danger what Paul says is by you engaging in that activity Those whose consciences are maybe less mature, haven't been adequately trained, see you engaging, and now they believe that they can actually engage in idol worship as well as be a Christian Very, very dangerous. That's what Paul was saying. That's the activity that that I'm trying to persuade you not to be a part of. to really contrast yourself with the world. Paul knew the implications of that. What what would have happened if these people said, you know what, I I can't engage in that I can't go to that social event Even you know, it's at the pagan, it's on the outer courts of the the temple, but I can't go. What might have happened society wise? They would have lost their influence. That's it, right? They'd be ostracized. They'd be persecuted. Uh maybe that has economic implications. Right? Um huge implications. And and Paul understood that. And yet that's what we're called to do as Christians, are we not? Right? We are to be separate from the world. And he he was trying to persuade them that that's not how you are behaving. So that's where we have this alternate view that that I think is more accurate of what Paul is talking about. Now, the underlying principle, and we're going to see it today, the underlying principle of let love govern your actions is absolutely true. Right? But Paul's really going to make an extremely solid point here as we transition into chapter 9. And I got to tell you guys, I told my family this last night, I am so falling in love with Corinthians Um, I've always struggled with these two books because I saw it as a set of he's gonna address this issue and then this issue and then this issue, and I think what we're seeing is the thread that he's pulling all the way along. And that shouldn't surprise us, that's Paul But hopefully, you know, we are getting inside of Paul's mind, his thinking, how he does things, his style of writing, and we'll see some of that today. But I just I am thoroughly, thoroughly enjoying it Because he is applying some principles to some very difficult situations, right? And we have to deal with those today. We have to counsel people today And so he's giving us a lot of good uh biblical principles and truth on how to do that. You know the uh the gray box at the bottom there um I really, really like, but that's It's not from scripture, that is a commentary that I primarily use here. Let me read that again, because I think it's really important. True freedom is more than freedom from something and more than freedom to do as one pleases. For freedom to be meaningful, it must be freedom for something. And Paul understands that all things must be done for the glory of God So in this particular situation, um, these Corinthians that were still engaging in these activities, you know, how were they viewing their freedom? I have freedom from the law that restricted what I could eat or what I could do. I have freedom from that. I have freedom from idol worship because I know there's no idols. There's only one true God Then what do they do? So I have freedom to do something. I have freedom to continue to engage in those activities. What's the focus in all of that So, freedom from something, freedom to do something, it's all self-focus. Versus that last part, the freedom for something. And that's what Paul's trying to ingrain in their minds. You are now free, yes, but free for what? He's going to argue for the gospel, for Christ. Let that be your motivation. Alright? So chapter 9 is all about Paul's really gonna he's gonna set the example now. And he's gonna use himself as the example. So the the theme, the thread continues But Paul's going to use himself to make a very, very critical point. Alright? So let's chap uh jump into Mr. Christmas. Yes. Yeah it it does make me think of uh um the degree of separation that we should have from the the world, but then at the same time asking the question of the the degree of connectedness that we have with non-cr Christians because Paul said um when I said stay away from immoral people I meant those in the church who are immoral not in the world otherwise you'd have to leave So there's always that in qu that question, at least in my mind, of the level of engagement that you should have with immoral immoral people and the activities Yeah. That's a great point. Absolutely. And I and I think we have to really be careful of that distinction. That's a great, great point. And it requires what? Wisdom and discernment. But what was happening here, you gotta remember the ex Extreme case of what was happening with these folks engaging in in these pagan activities still, right? The damage it could cause to the weaker brother. those whose conscience were not trained, um, causing them to continue in idol worship, which was extremely dangerous and damaging, right? That's the distinction And so you're right, for us to engage in in activities at work and social events, soccer, uh uh secular weddings, right? That that's all going to happen and we need discernment the extreme might be going to, you know, that late night nate nightclub or you know, extreme activities where if someone with a weaker conscience saw you um it it could cause great damage to their behavior. Right? That's the distinction. But it requires wisdom and discernment. Because certainly, you know, we are not of the world or not in the world, but of the world, wh whatever that phrase is We have to be, right? And we're called to do that. So having that wisdom and discernment. But I again I think if you go in, remember it's also going into those activities with the right attitude. Right? If you go in with my sole purpose is the gospel versus I now have the freedom to do what I want. That's the change. That's the heart attitude that you have to examine. So really good point All right. Chapter 9, starting in verse 1. And what does Paul often do in his writing? Right? He is always using rhetorical questions. I love that. That's just his style. A rhetorical question. He knows the answer. They know the answer. So am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? So Paul is using four rhetorical questions for this intro, which can be interpreted this way. This is how the grammar is set up. As you well know, I certainly am free. As you well know, I certainly am an apostle. As you well know, I certainly have seen the Lord. As you well know, you are my work in the Lord So, by asking the question the way he did, he was simply affirming what the Corinthians also knew. Right? They knew this I'm free. I'm an apostle. Right? So quick note, uh, what is the criteria to be an apostle? There's two primary criteria. You had to have seen the risen Jesus Christ. Alright? That's a distinction. You had to see the risen Jesus Christ. What was the other one? Be appointed. Be appointed. You had to be called by God. Alright? There is a third element that often associates uh is associated with apostles. Can you think of that one? It's a gifting that they're given. Miracles. Miracles, right? And what was the purpose of the miracles? To validate, to affirm their ministry. We're going to get into that um in a couple chapters where he talks about some of that So we'll get back to that in a in a second. But I just thought a quick pause um as we talk about what is an apostle. So really hard for someone to be an apostle today, right? Because they wouldn't have seen the risen Jesus Christ. Um and and so we have to be cautious about those who claim to be apostles today. And again, we'll get into more of that as we go through. Yes. Jesus every before the ascension. Before the ascension. He was resurrected but not ascended yet. Correct. Because he he hasn't and and Jesus form. Yeah. You know, Jesus was the word incarnate, right? And we had him. He was here. We we have his wisdom now. You know, I I think we would um affirm here that we have all we need. That's a sufficiency of script scripture. Could God do any of that? For sure. But does he need to based on what we read in scripture, we would say no. Okay, um so Paul is actually going to answer as we look through kind of break this into two sections, chapter nine, he's actually going to reverse these um the answers to these questions in he's gonna reverse the order. So he basically says Am I free? And am I not an apostle? He's going to start with this idea of who he is as an apostle. So he's going to reinforce what rights does he have as an apostle. And I think it's important. He's not trying to defend his apostleship here. That's not what's going on. We will see that later in 2 Corinthians But right now he's simply trying to reinforce these are the rights that I have. And you know you all know that I do. So he's just laying that foundation again. Remember, he's trying to make a point here about what do we do with our liberty? What do we do with these rights that we have? Alright, so he's going to start with these are the rights that I have. So basically Verses 1 through 12 will talk about rights, and then the second half is what is he going to do with these rights? Okay? So let's see what kind of rights does he have. Let's go down to verse 4. Do we not have a right to eat and drink? So this is the same principle, right? We we have under the uh the Old Testament law they were s restricted by what they could eat Right? But now we know Peter had the vision. You can eat anything that God created. You can eat and drink anything. We have that freedom. We have that right. And we have that right as apostles. Okay? Verse 5. Do we not have a right to take along a believing wife, even as the rest of the apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas? So clearly, and see if this is Peter here, right? Clearly some of the apostles were married I noted um I think it was last week that some believe that Paul was married at one point and they say that because he was a Sanhedrin and apparently to be a Sanhedrin you have to be married. I don't know Bible's not clear about that. Clearly now he's not married, right? Um and it looks like Barnabas, when he talks about um we Yeah, do we I think he's talking about himself and Barnabas uh specifically. We'll see that in verse six. But um and he talked a little bit about that. I I think Paul would say he he has the gift of singleness He is able to have that laser focus on on his dedication to the Lord. That's where he's at right now. But he clearly they have the right to get married if that was God's will. Right? Is that clear? Does that make sense Okay. You know, Paul's laying the foundation to say we have the right to get married. Right? That's not something that we're forbidden to do as apostles. Right? So we have that freedom. But he's not married. Okay. Verse 6 Or do only Barnabas and I not have a right to refrain from working? So he's also saying what here? And he's going to take several verses to kind of expand on this idea um of the right to earn a living from preaching. That that's what he's getting at here. Um and again He uses three rhetorical questions to emphasize the point. Basically, it is customary to enjoy the fruits of your labor. Right? We're going to see that um from scripture, and he's really going to push that point home. But he doesn't. Right, we're gonna see he doesn't um um accept that right, if you will, or facilitate that right. What was Paul? What did he do? He was a tent maker. He worked hard with his hands. But he's saying, I have the right to earn a living from preaching. Verse 7. So here's the rhetorical questions. Who at any time serves as a soldier at his own expense? Right? So a soldier wasn't required to to pay for all of his um supplies and weapons and food, right? He he earned wages. It probably wasn't much, but um so that what? He could focus on fighting, training. That was the focus Who plants a vineyard and does not eat the fruit of it? So think of a uh a farmer or vineyard, you know, or who or shepherd, or who tends a flock and does not use the milk of the flock. So again, they were able to enjoy the fruits of of whatever activity that they had. Okay, that's the point that he's trying to make here. Verse 8, I am not speaking these things according to human judgment Am I? Or does the law also say these things? For it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle the ox while he is threshing. God is not concerned about oxen, is he? Or is he speaking altogether for our sake? Yes, for our sake it was written, because the ploughman ought to plough in hope, and the thresher to thresh in hope of sharing the crop. So we brought this verse up before, right? You shall not muzzle the ox. This is actually a reference back in Deuteronomy 25 4. I'm not going to go there. But Paul gives uses that reference and gives a very similar charge in Timothy. So let me read that. 1 Timothy 5, 17 and 18. Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching For the scripture says you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain, and the laborer deserves his wages. So this was his instruction to Timothy um that they are to earn a living from preaching the gospel. Right? That is their right, their privilege, their freedom as an apostle However, the direction doesn't only come from the Old Testament law, but directly from the Lord as well. Go down to verse 14. So also the Lord directed those who proclaim the gospel to get their living from the gospel. And I don't have time to go back to those passages, but that was direct teaching from the Lord in the gospel. So you have an Old Testament precedent and you even have the Lord Jesus Christ that's saying it is okay. And this w the context was when he was sending the the twelve disciples out and and there's um different references for that. basically saying it is okay for you to to earn your living um from the preaching of the gospel. Alright, so he's setting this precedent that I have this right to to eat and drink, I have the right to get married, I have the right to earn my living as an apostle from preaching of the gospel. I want to pause here for a second and ask you all a question. Today, right, in our culture at Hope Bible Church, how do we ensure our staff pastors are adequately compensated? Okay, giving certainly it is through your generous giving. And let me encourage you once again, you know, you giving is a form of worship That's how you worship the Lord. That's how you say, Lord, it all comes from you. Right? He is giving you a stewardship with finances and and you returning that by giving to the local church is your form of worship. And those funds, uh a large portion of those funds go to pay the staff pastors. Alright? And I would say this too, we'll talk about it at the congregation meeting. I'm giving away some of my announcements, but you guys are a captive audience. Let me say this, right? Often when the congregational meeting we'll we'll go over finances and we'll give a brief kind of uh hey here's where the money is going. I want to encourage you not to think of that as just a an overview of the balance sheet Right? It's just not a financial report. We are that budget is driven by our philosophy of ministry Right. This is what we feel is important. This is what we feel is important to the Lord and that's why we're where we're trying to put the funds. And the budget is simply our execution plan to carry out that that philosophy ministry. Does that make sense? And so we get really jazzed to see how the Lord is providing, through the generosity of all of you, to carry out that plan. So when you see those slides, I want you to just Think of it differently. It's not just a balance sheet overview. It's Lord, what are you doing in our church church through your provision? Does that make sense All right. So obviously a large portion of that budget, roughly fifty percent, goes to the staff pastors and the staffer writ large. So um the ladies uh in the office to include much of their compensation. So it's not just salary, it's some of the other compensations that they get. But how do we go about making sure we live in a very high cost of living area How do we ensure we are attracting, you know, solid gifted pastors? How do we uh make sure that that we are giving them double honor? What are your thoughts? So giving certainly is the means in which we do that, but what are some other thoughts? Glad I imagine the first thing would be prayer. Um but uh after that, then more pragmatically I suppose is that you would have in uh I think there are places you can go to get information about the um salaries, average salaries in different areas and so forth. Absolutely. And that's kind of what I was asking, pragmatically, how do we do that? Yeah. Good. Any other thoughts? Make him get a second job. They start small and I would imagine that you you take care of the paid employees first and then you gradually add the other things. Like maybe uh maybe you're meeting in somebody's house first. Yeah. Instead of paying rent for a place or buying a place. Yeah. So and I really love what you said. I don't know if you guys all caught it. Um you know the the analogy or example used, think of a church plant. Think of when this church first started. Some of you were were close to being here when that happened. Um you might have just enough funds to make sure the pastor is being paid. And you might not have enough to rent a space or you might have to meet in a house. You are sacrificing in order to take care of the priority And and sometimes we can be tempted to think, well, well boy, if they weren't paid so much, we could pay for all these other ministries. This is foundational to your church. You've got to think of your your staff pastors that way. Right? They have been called to to carry the burden and they will be held accountable to make sure that they minister the Word of God accurately to you. And to have that foundation, that commitment, especially in our world today, is significant. Right? It is a privilege, a blessing. But that's the heart attitude that you have to have. All right? Um yes, Carlos? churches who can help really kind of fill in whatever gaps you have. Um I know of my dad's several churches that they're able to invest financially when they're kind of patches or congregation ticket as much at that time. Yeah. Yeah, love that. Um and when you have a church plan, often hopefully you have supporting churches, you know there there's a lot of different ways, but again I go back to the budget should be set by what are the priorities. What is your you know philosophy ministry? Let that drive the budget and and where those funds go. Um so good. Any other points Raymond. Yes, yes, he was hard at work. You know we see uh I think uh I think Aquila and Priscilla were tent makers as well and and so he joined with them. But Um let me go back to something Glenn said, uh the pragmatic piece. I want to be very transparent with you. How do we determine what is an adequate salary here in Columbia, Maryland? Right? Um Barbara. I believe. For sure. You know, Barbara, I think you nailed it. You know, what kind of testimony are we giving to the world about our staff pastors? But you nailed it. So we have Pastor Allen on the sta on our staff, right? And so he knows all about the civil servant um scales, if you will. So that's exactly what we've done. We've taken that as a baseline, but we tailored it to to meet our needs. And and we have some Some things in there that would um you know potentially prompt up based on you know do you have a master's, a doctorate, years of experience You know, we've added some things so that we can have a standard. So that if anyone asks, we can go right back to this is how we're gauging this And certainly we have cost of living increases and what have you. Now as um a pastor based on state-federal law they also get some exemptions on some things. So there's we want to make sure we're always staying up to date with what the law allows for um some of those exemptions, looking for um different opportunities with health care, what have you. But you know, you guys hold I'll call it the lay elders accountable because it's often our job, you know, those guys step out of the room to be above reproach. It's it's often the lay elders that are discussing, hey, what more can we be doing? Is this adequate Um, you guys be praying for us and hold us accountable because again, we want to have a good testimony of of our pastors. We are so blessed to have three staff pastors and and the staff that we have Um this was the vision a couple years ago and the Lord has provided. It it's precious. It's really, really precious. So did someone have a plan? Um I I always uh looked at it from the standpoint or went in the direction of uh give them more. If they if the pastor feels like he's getting paid too much Sure. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I guess we want to get them, everyone, to that point of contentment where, you know, um what's uh I think it's in the Psalms, Lord don't give me too much That I forget about you and don't give me too little that I steal. Where's that contentment zone? And and that's individual course, but I just want you to know we work very hard to try and make sure um that our guys are taking care of. But we use the civil servant standard as a starting point, which makes sense, right? But then we tailor it based on individual needs. So if you guys have any questions about that, please um don't hesitate to ask. But hold us accountable We want to make sure we're taking care of uh the blessing that the Lord has given us. So. Alright. So that's kind of the first part 1 through 12. Him, Paul re-emphasizing, these are my rights. And you guys know this These are the rights that I have, but what do I do with those rights? That's what we're going to look at in the rest of the passage. So beginning in verse twelve So Paul having established his rights as an apostle now transitions to answering the first question. Am I not free? So we have to s we have to observe, what does Paul do with his freedom? What does he do with his liberty? And that word liberty means right. Right, his rights that he has. Verse 12, if others share the right over you, do we not mourn? Nevertheless, this is the turning point. We did not use this right But we endure all things that we may cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ. Well, underland underline that part of uh the Bible. That is the turning point That's the foundation for what Paul's trying to say. Paul is setting aside this right, enduring all things, that there might be no hindrance to the gospel of Christ. What did he endure? Persecution. Persecution? For sure. Think pragmatically again. We're gonna cover this because it's in Second Corinthians, but Second Corinthians eleven twenty-seven And I'm just taking um second Corinthians eleven is where he goes through the whole list of what has happened to him. Right? So the beatings, the shipwreck, the snakes But this particular verse 27 talks about, I think relates directly to this idea of not receiving funds for preaching. I have been in labor and hardship. through many sleepless nights in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure. Really difficult life. And you're gonna see this is causing an issue for the Corinthians that want to take care of him. Back to the witness that Barbara talked about. Right? And we'll cover that when we get there, but I you can't imagine what this guy went through in his life, right? For his dedication to the gospel. But when he says I endured all things, he meant it All right, very pragmatic physical things that he had to endure. By what? By setting aside this right. That's the the severity that I want you to understand All right, why might it be a hindrance to receive um let me go back to let me go to this chart. But why might it be a hindrance to receive um funds from new converts or or from the church. Alright, let me read a a quick commentary from what I use here. How would receiving money have hampered the gospel? That was his concern. He didn't want to do anything, anything, that would hinder the gospel. For whom would it have been an obstacle? Potential converts might have shied away from converting to the gospel if they suspected that it came with strings attached. Acceptance incurs financial obligations to support the one who brought them the gospel. Paul sought to avoid any impression that he was preaching only to earn a living. All right, and remember go back to our introduction um slides, this idea of the sophist, do you remember the sophists that would travel around and they were training people in rhetoric and and how to be good oratories and and training those skills, but it came with a price. You had to pay them. Alright, so culturally there might have been this mindset that if you're getting um this kind of knowledge, this kind of training, that you had to pay for it And so they might have Paul was concerned that they might be struggling with, you know, this idea of well he's only doing it to earn money. He didn't want any glimpse of of hindering a believer to think such way that he was motivated by money. Right? So it's very drastic steps that Paul's taking here to set aside his rights. That's what's happening. Does that make sense Okay. For sure. Right. Remember, go back to what's happening here. He's trying to set the example. He's talking to them about their the use of their rights in a in a negative way, right? You're using those selfishly. Let me give you an example. I also think from another perspective it could possibly uh lead to a false sense of security and false might start trusting in the front as opposed to God. Yes. Yes. I mean that there could have been a temptation there that he was trying to avoid. Great observation Let me pick up in uh the second part of twelve, and we'll go a couple verses. So this is nevertheless, we did not use this right, but we endure all things that we may cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ. Do you not know that those who perform sacred services eat the food of the temple, and those who attend regularly to the altar have their share with the altar? So this would have been, you know, the Levites, the priests, he's saying it was it was okay for them to do that. And then we covered verse 14. So also the Lord directed those who proclaim the gospel to get their living from the gospel. So he's again reinforcing this right. But then in verse 15, but I have used none of these things. And I am not writing these things that it may be done so in my case. For it would be dead better for me to die than have any man make my boast an empty one. And so a couple interesting points here. Um again he's saying I have the right, but I'm putting that aside. And he's saying I'm I'm not writing these things to convince you to start giving to me. That that's not what I'm trying to say I would rather die than someone be hindered um by the thought that I was doing this for for financial gain. He preferred death over anything think or anyone thinking his motivation was financial. Now I want to highlight in this um I think it's fifteen, yeah. Better for me to die than have anyone make my boast an empty one. This the the idea of boast here is not a negative. It's not pride. It's rather refers to the basis for rejoicing. What he's saying is, I find great joy in in sharing the gospel, in preaching the gospel, right? That's what makes him, uh gives him great joy. Not in receiving the money. Paul was overjoyed with the privilege of serving the Lord and he did not want any material support to hinder that. Right? That's what his boasting is. I I rejoice, I find joy in preaching the gospel. Pick up in 16. For I preach the gospel. For if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast of. For I am under compulsion, for woe is me if I do not preach the gospel. For if I do this voluntarily I have a reward, but if against my will I have a stewardship entrusted to me What then is my reward that when I preach the gospel I may offer the gospel without charge, so as not to make full use of my rights in the gospel. So in in verse 16, when you talk about boast there, that is the negative sense. He says, I'm not boasting in the this is not my gospel Right? I I'm not boasting in that. I just have great um privilege to do that. And not only that, I I've been pressed into service. That's what that means I didn't just say, hey, one day I I think I'm gonna I think I'm gonna preach the gospel. No. He saw the Lord on the road to Damascus and he was called into service. He has a stewardship now. And he says, Woe to me if I don't do that. He knew the the severe chastening he would get from the Lord by not obeying this this um critical calling. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. And we see we have seen we'll see where several of the churches um were making collections to give to the church in Jerusalem. So think of you know missions type work or give to the the various apostles. You know that was happening throughout. And remember the structure is a little bit different than it is today Yeah, great question. I'll have to go back and study that. I I don't know that this is to say that Paul never accepted anything, right? We have to be careful about that. But I think the general rule or what he's trying to emphasize is is he the uh all of his support was not coming from giving, if you will. But that's a great question. Um and let's let's go back and study that and see what see what the context is. That's important Yeah, Paul has been pressed into service by the Lord to preach the gospel. He does not boast pridefully, for it is not his gospel. He is compelled. Um I have brief Compelled to preach or receive the severe, yeah, he's compelled to preach or receive the severe chastening. That's what the woe is. Woe to me if I don't do this. Okay? Um 19. Verse 19. For though I am free from all men, I have made myself a slave to all, that I might win the more, and to the Jews I become as a Jew, that I might win Jews, to those who are under the law. as under the law law, though not being myself under the law, that I might win those who are under the law, to those who are without law, as without law. though not being without the law of God, but under the law of Christ, that I might win those who are without the law. To the weak I became weak that I might win the weak I have become all things to all men that I may by all means save some. So again, we we've heard this before, but this is Paul saying, you know, I am setting aside everything to become Like those that I'm with. Right is basically what he's saying. I've become all things to all men. Why? That by all means he might save some. His singular focus was the gospel. Look at verse twenty-two and twenty-three or twenty-three. And I do all things for the sake of the gospel that I may become a fellow partaker of it. Now Let's be careful here. Is Paul preaching a doctrine of tolerance? Right? You could conclude I'm going to become all things to all men So I don't offend them. That's not what Paul's saying. Verse 23, what was his singular focus? The gospel Right? The preaching of God's word. The salvation of those who are lost. That's what he's saying. I'm setting aside my right so I can come alongside people and not be a hindrance so that nothing um negates the message that I'm giving them. That's the difference. The focus is not on others and really self. I I fear man. I don't want to offend anybody. That's not what Paul's preaching here Alright? He what he's preaching is I'm gonna lay aside those rights that I have so that nothing hinders the gospel. Is that clear? Does that make sense? Really, really important concept. Yes. So if if Paul is um Preaching to mainly a Jewish audience, he would observe the maybe parts of the Jews Jewish law would not be an offense to those. So he would he would go along even though he's not under under compulsion. Right. Under compulsion. Yeah. That's that's it. That's exactly it, right? And and not condoning that um those traditions have any role in salvation, right? It's just recognizing it, um, maybe respecting it. Um he's a Jew himself Right? So where's that wisdom discernment again? You gotta be careful about that. But that's exactly right. That's the attitude. French speaking Islamic country. She observes and she puts no stumbling block in front of the people that she's trying to do. What what does that look like specifically, Kirk? What does she do? Because that's a great example. She'll use her right hand. And the left hand when serving or doing and it that's just part of the culture. She dresses. Uh women don't wear pants, so she'll dress in a way that's doesn't put up an an offense. Those are the two two things that come to mind. But there's a there's a whole list of things that you have to either not say or not do In order to to be uh to love these people to be a part of their culture. That that I think is a perfect example where Teresa can say uh Uh those uh those aren't hint uh those aren't obligations I have to do, right? I'm free from that. But she chooses not to to exercise that liberty right, on behalf of being a witness to those around her. That's a perfect that's exactly what Paul's talking about. Exactly what Paul's talking about. Carlos Yep, yeah. And remember, this church was primarily Gentiles, right? There were some Jewish converts, but the majority were Gentiles. But but doesn't that reinforce the gospel message is the gospel is for all, the Jew and the Gentile? And he becomes both, right, to to gain uh a gr uh broader audience if you Yeah. That that's the principle. That's good. Alright, so let's um uh we'll end this with again focus on verse twenty-three. And I do all things for the sake of the gospel, that I may become a fellow partaker of it partaker of it, right? laser focused on the gospel. Now he's gonna end with this analogy and I want to highlight again when we talk about this chart. Um you remember they were uh Corinth was on the s it's Isthmus, which is this landmass that connects two big landmass. You got the the two waterways of the two ports. And they had um Olympic Games, that's what they were similar to. In fact, they were extremely popular and only second to the Olympic Games. Alright, so this was a really, really big deal. So he's gonna use some analogies that they would be very very familiar with. And the idea is to prove a point. So verse 24. Do you not know that those who run in a race all run, but only one receives the prize? Run in such a way that you may win. All right, you don't run around and just willy-nilly. You want the prize. That's what he's saying here. You run to go get the prize. And everyone who competes in the games exercises self-control in all things Then the they then do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an unperishable. Again, going after the prize. Therefore I run in such a way as not without aim. I box in such a way as not beating the air. But I buffet my body and make it my slave, lest possibly after I have preached to others I myself should be disqualified. So to buffet your body actually means to bruise it. He's talking about self-discipline, self-control, right? Building those spiritual disciplines so that the end of the day Right, you haven't become disqualified. You hear those words, well done, good and faithful steward. Right So these are analogies that they would have gone to the games, they would have seen the games, they would have known exactly what what Paul was talking about. So this idea of just the intentionality of the singular focus of what he was doing. Okay? So again, the main objective in Paul's discourse, he gives up his rights for the sake of others out of what? Out of Christian love. Let's finish with this. We've got a couple minutes left. What is the perfect example of setting aside your rights? Cross. Jesus Christ. Let's go over to Philippians. If you question, well that was Paul, our times are different. We always go back to the example of our Lord and Savior. Philippians 2, and I know a familiar passage. This is also going to be an introduction. We're going to move from Galatians 5. 22 for our memory verse to Philippians 2. 3 So on your homework at the very bottom of your sheet you can put read 1 Corinthians 10 and memorize verse Philippians 2, 3. So let me start in verse 1. If therefore there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any consolation of love, if if there is any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion Make my joy complete by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. This is Paul writing, right? Very similar language to what uh how he's trying to exhort and encourage those in Corinth. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, let each of you regard one another as more important than himself. That's your memory verse Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus. who although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but he emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Go back to verse seven Um what other translations do you have for empty? But he emptied himself. Anybody have something different? Laid aside. That's what it means. When it says he emptied himself, it's it's saying he laid aside. He didn't when he came um to be incarnate, God in in the flesh, he was what? He was truly God? And he was truly man. Two natures, one person, a whole doctrine we can get into. But the point is, at that time when he did that, he didn't lose some of his attributes and privileges He decided to lay those aside. Right? That's the picture. That's the picture Paul paints in 1 Corinthians 9 Right? For a season, he is laying aside those privileges, those rights, and and remember where he came from, Jesus. Right? To come down, to humble himself, to take on a human nature, to live what he lived, and that's that's part of the gospel. Right? Yes, the cross, but don't forget his life He had to be perfect. He had to resist every temptation. Right? So that's exactly what that word means. Exactly what Paul's talking about. Laying aside. That is the perfect example we have is in Jesus Christ. Any comments, questions on that? Raymond. I was trying to say it for the lost. Yeah, so Raymond, really good point. He came down to do what? Right? That was the plan, that was his father's plan of redemption. The Father had very specific um instructions for Jesus, I'll call it. He could have healed everyone, but he didn't, did he? He did only certain things at the time as instructed by his father. Right he talks about that often, right? His obedience. In the garden, not my will be done, but your will be done. Right? Was he persecuted? Did he grieve? Did he did he grieve uh drops of blood? Yeah, we can't even imagine the anguish. And yet his singular focus was what? The plan of the Father. He ran the race to get the prize. That was his focus. Kirk. Yeah during that being baptized by John the Baptist Washington. For sure. No, and that's probably a whole nother doctrine we can talk about, you know, at a very high level though. Did he need to be baptized? Absolutely not. That was uh potentially more for us Right, a a witness, an affirmation of the deity of this this God man. Right? And now in in this nature of humanists had to go through those things that that a human would have to go through. So that was probably more for us. Certainly he didn't require that, don't he? And I I think about how the Bible tells us that John the Baptist was Yeah. That seems like it goes right along with what you just said. Right, right. It was really the pronouncement, if you will. This is the Christ. Yeah, for sure, for sure. So I I go back and we'll we'll end it up here. I go back to this this chart on on the gospel. You know, this is what Paul was preaching, yes, salvation, of course But I think what Paul's demonstrating here is even in sanctification, day-to-day living, right, our attitude, laying aside rights, what? With that underlying principle of love for our brothers and sisters. Right? Now, let me go back to we talked a little bit about the example last week. What what if what if you have the case where you offend the brother? What might the default position be Lay aside your right. However, it doesn't mean it's not worth a conversation. Right? If this person was offended because he saw you drink having a glass of wine with your spouse at a restaurant That's probab you know that's probably what we're talking about. You want to train the conscience of each other. Right? Why why did you get so angry? Let's let's search the passages together, right? There's an opportunity there is my point Um back to it's not j it's not about tolerance. It in and let's say this, if you say, you know what, I'm I'm gonna lay aside that right, but what do you harbor in your heart? Now you're bitter, or you're angry, or you're oh that's the weaker. You know, back to that initial view of the weaker and the stronger. That's not what is happening here. And that's not the attitude we should have Right? If you're gonna set it aside, set it aside because you love that person. But at the same time, it might be worth it's an opportunity for a conversation. Does that make sense? All right, let's end it there