It is I can't believe we're almost done with with um you know the quarter. And so you guys know we have this is actually a three part series, so we'll we'll go actually into the spring Um you're not emboldened to have to continue but um I think it's pretty pretty interesting So we are in this section now of First Corinthians. Remember the first four chapters is all about this idea of division, and we're going to see more of that today. So here's where we're at. Again, this is just a quick overview. I did um some of you were asking about the links that we we watched or the videos we watched last week. I did send that out on an email So if you have questions about that, please let me know. But hopefully those worked. And again, we're here in chapters one through four. Paul really talking about this idea of uh division. Chapter two though, what what was the focus of chapter two? Do you remember? Let me frame it this way. You know, we we saw in Thessalonians, Paul, how did he address the church? Sometimes he was exhorting them, sometimes he was encouraging them, sometimes he was imploring them, sometimes he was admonishing them. Um what what was he doing in chapter two? Do you remember? The Spirit. Right. He he was encouraging them. He was trying to remind them of the Holy Spirit. The fact that they are now indwelt with the power of the Holy Spirit. What did he say? We have the mind of Christ We have the mind of Christ. And so before we jump into chapter three, I wanted to go back to chapter two. There was, let me do this. I'll go back to that. Let me go here. So this was a chart that we covered last week talking about um in our understanding of all the roles when we talk about the Holy Spirit. And I I think this is such a vital issue to discuss because, you know, the the enemy has done a great job of distorting a lot of these terms All right, we see that with the charismatic movement and the experience that people are looking for versus what does the Bible say about these particular terms? And we did not talk specifically about sealing, so I I want to touch on that And then we didn't spend time going through the application of Romans 8. I really want to spend some time doing that because I think it will be a great, great encouragement. But for review, um you guys help me. What does it mean when we talk about the baptism of the Holy Spirit? You can't cheat, look at your notes. But if you took notes, shouldn't we get better? You can't. You can, I do. That's it. Okay? This is really important. It is not an experience. It's not something we're commanded to do. It is an act of the Holy Spirit. It's a positional act where we are placed at the time of salvation into the body. That's really important, isn't it? Right? To be adopted into God's family. So that's what it means when you read the baptism of the Holy Spirit. How about the indwelling of the Holy Spirit It it feels like it's self-explanatory, but that yeah, it literally it's always with us that we guides us in all all the ways. When do we receive that indwelling? Once we've been baptized. Yeah. If if you're talking about baptism of the Holy Spirit. Yeah, that's what I thought you meant. So that you can you can roll all that into um at your your point of salvation or conversion Right? Um Oh I did not mean word of baptism. I g I get it now I get it. We will have we will have believers baptism today. Um so yeah, ballot point. That's not what we're talking about here So this this indwelling, is that something that you lose? No. Boy, that's really important. Absolutely not. It is permanent Do you do you lose the level of the Holy Spirit or the indwelling? That means the Holy Spirit will change. Absolutely. Right? Don't don't ever think of say again, go ahead? Yeah, it's right. It's a zero or a one. Right? When you are indwelt with the Holy Spirit Right? And and that's why I love Acts. We often talk about that's the beginning, you know, the history of the church. It is. But you see a different manifestation of the Holy Spirit and the believer in Acts. You see this permanent indwelling that you never lose. And it you always have the same power. That's w when we talk about the mind of Christ, that's what we're talking about. You have the spirit of God. Glenn. I was gonna say if you want to be really deep It's latching. Once it happens, it's stuck. Yeah. You are geeky. That's good. Alright, well so so sealing, we didn't really cover this in great detail. It it's not um It's not rocket science, but the indwelling is the seal of the Holy Spirit guaranteeing our eternal inheritance in sealing us unto the day of redemption. We'll see that when we get to 2 Corinthians Now he who established us with you in Christ and anointed us in God, who also sealed us and gave us the Spirit in our hearts as a pledge. We've covered this before, but we've seen it in Ephesians 1, 13 and 14. In him, you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, you were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise. Who is given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession to the praise of his glory Alright, so the sealing is the assurance that we will persevere until that day of glorification. That's a beautiful truth. Remember, the worksheet you have in front of you, we are trying to understand when we read those truths in Scripture, that's what we want to cling to. Those are the indicatives And then how do we apply that to our life? That provides an anchor of hope, does it not, that we are sealed by the Holy Spirit Right, that's how you would apply that as you're going through those trials and tribulations, reminding yourselves that we are sealed by the Holy Spirit. All right, what does it mean to be filled by the Spirit? To be influenced by the spirit. To yield to the spirit. Really important to understand that. Right? We saw that in Ephesians 5. The contrast was what? Don't be don't be drunk with wine. Don't be drunk with alcohol. The the concept there is to be influenced by something else, controlled by something else. Boom, binga. Diana said it. It is this is the only place you'll see a command related to um this doctrine of the Holy Spirit. To be filled by the Holy Spirit is a choice we all make each and every day, maybe hundreds of times a day. Right? Are you going to yield what the Holy Spirit is is convincing you of, is prompting your conscience of? Or are you going to turn away from that? When we turn away, what are we doing to the Spirit? We talked about that next term, right? We quench or we grieve the Spirit. We never lose the Spirit But you can quench the spirit by not yielding to his prompting. Alright? Again, you never lose the spirit. Now what happens if You are continually not yielding to the spirit. What happens to your conscience? See it with a high? You start to sear it. It becomes callous. And and you start to um you you are never separated if you are a true believer, but you start to lose that ability to hear from the Spirit if you understand what I'm saying. It becomes numb And sometimes it has to be recalibrated. Um I had a counseling uh session, Kareem and I, with a couple, not from this church. Um But they we were walking them through many godly principles, uh roles and responsibilities in the marriage relationship, and we weren't making much progress And what was characterized by them, which is not uncommon, is the way they were speaking at each other was Astonishing. Some of the words they were saying, the behavior that they were using, and they didn't even recognize it So we got to a point where where I had to um admonish them. All right. I I had to be a little bit more stern with my language. And it it shocked them Right? They admitted, they said we weren't even aware we were we were doing this. It became so commonplace. And by doing that though, in love I mean that is hard to do, but we love them and want them to grow, and it just shocked their system enough to kind of recalibrate, and we are now seeing the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Right? So so it's important sometimes we have to admonish. We're going to see that today in chapter 3. But this is the only one you'll see where we are commanded to do this. We play a role in being filled by the Spirit Right? That's an action we take. Do we do that through the power of the Holy Spirit? Absolutely. But this is something we have to cultivate each and every day. We do that by being in the Word, by being in a class like this, by being under good Bible teaching. By fellowshipping with the saints, memorizing scripture, right? That's how you are filled and become sensitive to the leading of the Holy Spirit. Does that make sense Glenn. I would say this, you know, anytime you start talking about analogies they break down if you take them too far, but I I think to some degree both, and here's what I mean by that That passage in Ephesians, when it talks about sealing, it goes back to this idea you're talking about, like the king used to put the wax seal and he put his ring on there and say, This is my property. Right? So there is absolutely that aspect of it. Hermetically sealed to some degree, yes, because we can never lose that salvation. Not so much in the sense that we can be swayed by other influences. And we see that in Corinthians, right? They're they're being swayed by the culture. You know, there's no guarantee that that you are going to continue to grow in Christ's likeness without you taking action as well. That's where the synergistic work has to happen. So to some degree, yes, hermetically sealed in the fact that you will never lose your salvation, but but you won't be necessarily protected from sinful behavior. Does that make sense? Yeah, I I appreciate that. that aspect of God you know putting his ring of the thing. Absolutely. Absolutely. And that and you know you brought up a good point. What happens when we start to to quench the spirit and quench the spirit, we start to have doubts now about our assurance Right, and that's why going back to these truths is so very important. So let's go. That's why I take a lot of people to Romans eight It is so, so precious. And if you have not spent much time in Romans 8, I strongly encourage you to do that. Just go and read it and read it again and read it again and write down all the truths. Um if you want, let's go to Romans 8 real quick. And we won't we don't have time to to go through in this in detail, but I I want to highlight how you might approach going through a chapter like this. Do you remember uh the chart that I show, I'll show it at the end about the gospel, right? We go back to the gospel and this idea of cultivating um a high view of God. um remembering who we were when we were dead in our sin, but I think as important, maybe more important, is who we are as children of God. and and the truths that God gives us. And I will post these these slides, I promise. I did get caught up yesterday, but I'll I promise to do that this afternoon. So if you want, um let's go to Romans 8. And I love where it starts. What does Romans 8. 1 say? There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. What does that word condemn mean? Condemnation Judgment. Judgment. Right? It's it's saying you you are guilty of sin. I can lay out all the evidence and you are condemned. You are judged to eternal damnation. Now I used to get this answer wrong when I would answer this answer or ask this question. Who is the great condemner? Say it. No. I used to say Satan. Can Satan condemn us? No. He accuses. He's the great accuser. And guess what? We love to try and condemn ourselves, which is really sinful thinking. There's only one person who can truly condemn us. And that's God. I know, that's why I pointed at it. You gotta have courage. You knew it. Alright, so really important, that's who we have to reconcile with. God is the judge Right? We boast in what? That he is just. We we just memorize that, or we're working on that. So I love how that starts. You are not condemned Now, life is hard, right? Like Glenn said, you go through periods sometimes where you doubt. You doubt your assurance. You doubt If the Lord is working in your life. That's why we covered how to lament. Right? There's a biblical way to go before the Lord and cry out to the Lord. But true lament turns you back to these promises That's the the um discipline that you have to cultivate and it starts us with this beautiful precious idea, we're not condemned. What's the contrast to that? We're not condemned, we're what? We're justified. I love that word. Alright? You guys know it's a legal term, but we are declared righteous by God. through that double imputation. Right? Our sin imputed to Christ and his righteousness imputed to us. And so Romans 8 goes on with that principle, right? We are free from the bondage of sin. You'll see that in 8. 2 So we're new creatures, and if we're new creatures, we set our minds on the things of the Spirit. We're no longer under the bondage of that sinful nature. And let's go through, let's take a look at Romans 8. 14. I love uh going through this with people. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of flesh. So nope, wrong passage I was in seven. Romans eight, fourteen. For all who are being led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. For you have not received the spirit of slavery leading to fear again But you have received a spirit of adoption as sons by which we cry out, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. So sometimes when I get questions about um you know someone maybe doubting their assurance, I I love to take them to this. One one of the ways that we we can have um confidence in who we are is that the Spirit of God testifies with our spirit, that we are children. And the manifestation of that is what? We cry out, Ah the Father. You're not going to do that if you're not a child of God. And that is a term of of just sweet endurement. That's like daddy, daddy, I'm crying out to you. So that's one evidence of our assurance, that sealing that we have. However, verse 17, right, it goes on, and if children, heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. There are other passages, but understanding this doctrine of suffering is really critical. Right? We will suffer. It says it right here. The path to glorification is through suffering. What does suffering do though? Sanctifies us. Sanctifies us. We heard from Thessalonians, right? It is God's will that we are sanctified. So we should do what? We should rejoice when we are going through suffering. That is so counterintuitive, but that's the discipline, that's the spiritual discipline that the Lord requires. That's when you will find peace and joy Right? The other will that we talked about is to say thanksgiving, to be thankful. We see that in Philippians 4. I love taking people there too. When you pray, pray what? With thanksgiving, and what's the result The peace of God that surpasses understanding will guard your hearts. Again, a wonderful critical truth that we need to be applying to our lives. Sorry, I get excited about this stuff. That's your favorite chapter in the Bible, isn't it? Romans eight. It is right now. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Keep going though. You know, we talked about the Holy Spirit as helper And in that role, one of the things he does, he intercedes for us with groanings too rich for words. And he intercedes for us what? According to God's will for our lives. We've covered Romans 8. 28, the very famous word. God acts sovereignly in our lives. He works all things for our good for those who are in Christ Jesus. Go to the the follow-on is just as important. 29 for whom he foreknew He also predestined to become conform to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren, right? So he's working everything for our good towards sanctification. Right, more and more in the image of Christ. And then the beautiful passages at the end of that, never separated from God's love. Nothing can separate us from God's love. What about our doubt? What about our fear, our anxiety? How about when we condemn ourselves or try to condemn ourselves? We can't truly condemn ourselves, can we? Nothing will separate you from the love of God. That's the truth that you need to refresh and renew your mind with. Alright? We know in Ephesians 4, right? Put off the old self. We just read, we're new creatures in Christ. Put it off. Renew your mind. Put on these spiritual truths. Encouraging? Alright, Romans 8. That's where you want to be. Alright, let's go back to First Corinthians chapter three. All right, and this is kind of a quick outline of what we're going to cover today. So, you know, I talked about Paul in in in how he um interacts with the churches. You see him acting different ways depending on the context. Sometimes he's exhorting, sometimes he's encouraging. We're going to see today he's going to admonish the church at Corinth. Alright, so you're going to see this admonishment. And we talked about the importance of the context of the culture Right? We know that the divisions were happening. Why? Because they were idolizing men. They were boasting in men. And that was the culture to be really good at rhetoric, at debate, at oratory Right? And and that's where their devotion was. And we're gonna see the impact of of that. But at the the crux of it was their lack of maturity Of growing, of being sanctified. And that's a message to us today. It's not about just gaining knowledge. Are we growing in Christ-likeness? Are our eyes centered on Jesus Christ versus man? And then Paul's going to talk about this clarity regarding the roles and responsibility and rewards of God's workers. And who are God's workers, right? We'll come to that. And then a reminder, a sweet reminder of who we are in Christ. What does Paul always do? He brings it back to the gospel. Right? Keeps our focus on the gospel Alright, so I will keep it there as we go through um our passages here. Alright, any questions so far? Good? All right. Chapter 3, 1 Corinthians chapter 3, this idea of admonishment for lack of maturity as evidenced by their behavior. And I, brethren, could not speak to you as spiritual men, but as to men of flesh, as to babes in Christ. I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. Indeed, even now you are not yet able. So he makes this contrast between You should be spiritual people. You should be spiritually mature. But but where is your focus? It's on the flesh. And often when we see um this reference in the New Testament to the flesh It's it's negative, isn't it? Right? We are to flee the lust of the flesh. Now when we talk about flesh, we're not talking about uh our physical body, our skin, our our noses, our ears, you name it Right? It's our desires, our our motives, our drives. That's what we mean by flesh. Now, did God give us flesh? The way I just defined it? Absolutely. When we were made in the image of God, our mind, our will, our affections, our flesh. our emotions, our ability to reason. That was all given to us by God when we were made in His image. However, when the fall happened, all of that was distorted. Right, that's the effects of the fall. That's the effects of the sinful nature. And we know in Romans 7 that's something we will continue to battle as long as we're on this earth. Right? Paul describes the great apostle Paul describes the struggle that he had. Let me read this uh commentary from from John MacArthur on this particular section The cause of problems in the church was more than external worldly influence. So we've talked a lot about that context. It was also internal carnality. The pressures of the world were combined with the weaknesses of the flesh. Although Corinthian believers were no longer natural, they were not spiritual, fully controlled by the Holy Spirit, right? This idea of being filled by the Spirit we talked about earlier. In fact they were carnal, controlled by the fallen flesh. So you see that contrast of who they are actually being controlled by. Though all believers have the Holy Spirit, they still battle the fallen flesh, like we just talked about in Romans 7. Paul describes that very clearly. Okay. This analogy or figure speech Paul uses milk versus solid food. What what's he talking about there? Nicholas, go ahead. So earlier he was saying that when he was there, you fed them with milk. So kinda like started with the basics and possible. Yes. So I think the idea is that I think he's connecting their doctrine with their s with where they are at spiritually, but they're not ready yet to receive something deeper because they have to kind of like go back to where they started. Right, right. So spot on, and you know for you mothers out there, you can probably give us a better i idea, right? A a little baby can't handle solid food. Right? Uh they'll they'll choke on it, they'll uh disrupt their digestive system. They need just pure milk at a very young age. But as they grow, their body needs meat, right? They they need protein, they need the vitamins. Um and so he's making this analogy that by now You should be much more mature in in your doctrine and in your faith and in your walk and in your spiritual disciplines. Um he says here, I gave you mouth to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. Indeed, even now. you were not yet able. So you remember Paul was with the Corinthians, right, for 18 months. And at that time he was probably giving them just the basic doctrines, milk. And and he's now writing to them again and saying, Boy, by now I you should be more mature. Now what we know from from scholars is that Paul probably wrote um they think at least four letters to the Corinthians. Right, so call that A, B, C, and D. What we have in the canon here is the B letter. So he might have written, it looks like he wrote them a letter earlier. We have 1 Corinthians Looks like he wrote another letter, and then we have Second Corinthians. So he was in constant communication with the church at Corinth, and that you see evidence of him communicating earlier, but again he's saying You should be much more mature now. And and that's an important aspect for application for us. We need to examine ourselves. And each and every one of us are different in the maturity of our walk. But are are we growing Are we on a positive trend? And I have a couple questions, just one second. How how would you know that you're growing? Let me ask that question Okay, right? The the things that you the fleshly desires that you had will will start to grow weaker and weaker. Right? That's good. What else Give you a hint, Galatians 5. Fruits of the Spirit. Fruit of the Spirit, right? This is evidence. Remember, this is fruit of the Spirit. This is the work of the Holy Spirit. Great way to examine yourselves is are you growing in those nine characteristics that are listed in the fruit of the Spirit? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, self-control. Now we we all have different maturity in those areas, right? We know we have to maybe work harder in some areas versus others. You should be asking uh your close friend, hey how am I doing? Your spouse, how am I doing Right? That's how we can evaluate or examine ourselves. Are we growing in Christ-likeness? Are we integrated into a local body? We're each given a gift. Are we using that to serve the body? Please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm not saying you know fill up your whole calendar with church activities. But how are you serving the body? How are you using your gift to build up the body? We're going to talk about the analogy of the body, but but Paul is talking to the church, the body. Alright, who had a comment or question? Io. Yeah. That's a great question, Io. And I I I think we have to be careful um to think that we have like levels of knowledge we should be at. I I think the the contrast he's making here is that you know he started with the simplicity of the gospel, you know, the power of the gospel message And the evidence is is that they have been turned away to, you know, seeking secular knowledge. So I think he's even just going back to the basics of You know, I gave you the basic principles of the doctrine of the the gospel, if you will, and now you should be apply- I should see the evidence of you applying that in your lives You know, that would be evidence of them maturing in Christ. Not that they're necessarily growing as theolog theologians, theologians. Right, that's that's I think we need to be careful about that. That's not what Paul's trying to say here, right? He's saying you should now be mature in Christ likeness. Does that make sense? That's a really good question. Jason. I think another way you can see this Um through the the two letters to the Corinthians that we have are simply in the issues that Paul has to address specifically within the letters themselves. almost like basic things that like you shouldn't have to address unless there's like an actual dysfunctional church because they've never really gotten past that initial phase Because it's things of like he opens a letter with why are you guys fighting over who like which faction you're in talks about specific open sexual morality within a church and like how to administer the Lord's Supper and uh like these basic basic things or uh food to idols is another one. Like the it's like the mindsets of the people are sort of stuck in the is hey we're we're we we've been saved but we don't know what to do. Right. I think that's a great way to frame it Jason. That's a great great way to frame it Oh, does that make sense? I I think he framed that really, really well. Just the basic concepts of of how you should be acting, governance, right? It's not so much about you know what level of theology you're at. I think that's a really important distinction. All right. But the fact that they have so many of these issues going on simultaneously I think points the same Yeah, yeah. Good. Alright. Was there another comment? Like sometimes I struggle with you know, I want to do something. Listen to this song, but I try to kick it out because if I do that not well enough I might be influenced by something I should be influenced. Yeah maybe they were had friends they were teachers in the old ways they Yeah. Good, good. Alright, let's go to verse three. You know, how Paul makes this accusation that you you still can only be fed milk versus me, what was the evidence of their behavior? Verse three, for you are still fleshly, for since there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly And are you not walking like mere men? Right? Their behavior was the evidence of their spiritual maturity. Go back to you know this idea of the fruit of the spirit. What kind of fruit were they exhibiting? Jealousy and strife You know, we heard it in the in the video we listened to last week in that introduction. Because their devotion were was to men and they were caught up in the carnality of the culture around them, it was what? Causing jealousy. and strife. How how might that permeate itself into a church like Hope Bible Church? Okay, favoring certain teachers. Boy, I I like his style better than that other person's style, so I'm gonna go to that class versus I really need to hear that topic. That topic is important for me Right? So having the maturity to not not be driven by the style. Now I get it. Everyone likes certain styles. We all teach very differently, and that's a blessing, right, to have that variability. But that could be one way for sure How about um if you are a ministry leader or coordinator um of any type and you just you're starting to grow weary, you're starting to grow tired You're starting to think, well no one's appreciating me, right? Or you see somebody else that that maybe is excelling in their ministry, so you become discontent, you become jealous That's how strife starts. Right? You're taking your eyes off of why you're serving and who you're serving. Now that doesn't mean you can't evaluate yourself to say, boy, am I overbooking myself? Right? We we constantly need to be doing that But that's how subtly jealousy and strife can work itself into a church as solid as ours. I'll I'll say that. Right? We always have to be on guard How did so contrast, here Paul is describing um the behavior of the Corinthians, the jealousy and the strife. You remember how did he describe the church in Thessalonica? No in a positive sense. Oh positive. Yeah. Remember uh um the church at Thessalonica was kind of like the model church. And it wasn't only um the report he got from Timothy, but from the surrounding churches, right? He was hearing this from everyone. Remember their work of faith, their labor of love, and their steadfastness of hope. That's how they were characterized. Versus Like Jason said, all the things we're going to talk about in this church of Corinth. But again, it's written, you know, that's God's inspired word. It is written for our benefit. Right to be examining ourselves. So I'll I'll ask you guys, you you can be very transparent. How would Paul characterize Hope Bible Church? Spiritual or fleshly? Alright, good. So there's certainly a a foundation of training there in our and I'll call it our staff pastors for sure. Other thoughts? Amen. Good. So let me let me keep going, but here's what I would tell you. Very encouraging remarks, but but we can't really see the heart of everyone Okay? So if if that was all revealed, I think you would see a spectrum of behavior in our church, right? We always have to be on guard. You know, the subtle example I gave you of of a ministry leader maybe getting tired, growing weary of doing good, um, and starting to maybe become frustrated or bitter or jealous. I mean that can seep in at any time Right? So we need to always be on guard. So I you know, we are a very transient church, meaning um we have quite a bit of turnover. That's just the the nature of where we're at Um and so we're constantly getting people that are at different maturity levels, right? And we have to continue to reinforce these principles, be on guard, search our hearts, but we We I I would say foundationally, um I I think we in any mark you want to test, we're we're probably a very solid church. Um, but we have to be very careful not to to puff ourselves up. Right? We always have to be on guard. Careful. Absolutely. And some of them don't even know that they're Amen. Some of them believe that you're a believer. Yep. So that's also a great point. So we always have to be vigilant. always, always vigilant to go after the word like Paul convinces us, go back to the basics of the gospel, right? That's always our tour. Right, good. Alright, so Paul is is no kidding admonishing the church at Corinth. Right, and and as we go f uh continue to go first Through 1 Corinthians and 2 Corinthians, we're just going to see the litany of issues like Jason talked about that we're going to have to talk about But specifically here in chapter three, Paul's going to go on now to clarify, you know, the roles and responsibilities of God's workers. And it is most likely that he is specifically talking about Um, you know, himself as an apostle, the apostles, pastors, but this is very applicable to all workers in the church, and we'll we'll come to that in a second. All right. So let's pick up in verse five Verse 4 I'll cover. For when one says I am of Paul and another I am Apollos, Apollos, are you not mere men? Alright, so going back to their behavior. What then is Apollos? And what is Paul? Servants, servants through whom you believed, even as the Lord gave opportunity to each one. I planted Apollo's water, but God was causing the growth So then neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything, but God causes the growth So remember we talked about Apollos was was most likely at a pastor at Corinth um after having been you know um under the tutelage of Aquila and Priscilla in Ephesus Um, but you see that Paul isn't necessarily addressing Apollos here. He's not saying Apollos, you messed up. He's addressing the church. They are all responsible, they are all accountable, but he's saying, you know, who is Apollos? Who am I? We're just workers, we're servants. Right? That are working together to do God's work. We are simply the enablers that God used to present the gospel to you. We are not to be worshipped. And he points back to who causes the growth? It's God. We see that in the history of the church in Acts, right? This rapid growth. But it talks about why. That was all God. That wasn't a program, that wasn't seeker sensitive, that was God. It's always God. And he uses this analogy of the field, right? For the one who plants and who waters is nothing. All the glory to God who causes spiritual goals. Growth. Um a reminder of Romans eleven thirty-six. You all know this. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. I go back to the the example or the illustration of oh I'm gonna ruin my question, regard disregard. All right, illustration Who are the workers of God? All of us. All of us. Right? You might um initially go to well the the pastors, the deacons, the ministry leaders. True But you all play a vital role in being workers of God. So I'll give you an example. Um someone in this room had a family member that was going through really, really difficult times, addiction and and just all kinds of problems. They were willing to take this family member and bring them into their home an adult person willing to bring them into their home and and help this person walk through life, that's a huge commitment. And that totally changes the the function of your home. And yet, I don't think that has happened yet, but through that whole process, what has happened? You know, the gospel has been shared. Love has been demonstrated. The fruit of the Spirit has been demonstrated. They were planting seeds. Right? They are workers of God. They may never see the fruit of their effort. But God knows. And what does he do? He brings some alongside that's going to now start to water. And someone else is going to water and nourish and make sure all the weeds are taken away. Right? That's how he works. So yes, you are all workers of God. And you gotta keep your focus on Christ because you will get frustrated sometimes when you don't see the fruit. I talked about in the counseling room, right? We have to go in Saying our sole purpose is to make sure we minister the Word of God. I can't affect the outcome of that counseling session. Only the Holy Spirit can Right? And we have to remind ourselves every time we walk in that room or we'll get frustrated. The focus will be on us. That's what we have to guard against. So we are all workers with this illustration I love of of the farmer. All right, let's go on to verse eight. Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. So there there is a benefit to your labor, and we'll come back to that in a second, okay? So the question I have for you, how does the work get accomplished. We just talked about, you know, one analogy, if you will, of the field. Um Paul's going to turn to another analogy of a building. For we are God's fellow workers in verse 9. You are God's field. So he again he's talking about the church body here. God's building. So here's this analogy of the building. Let's go up to verse 10. What do you do when you're going to build a building? You have to start with a foundation, right? You always got to lay the foundation. According to the grace of God, which was given to me, as a wise master builder, I laid a foundation. and another is building upon it, but let each man be careful how he builds upon it. So what Paul's saying is, I have been appointed as an apostle, as a servant, as a bond servant. Of the most high God to lay that foundation. What is that foundation? Jesus Christ. It's the gospel. Right? That's the foundation that that and he's really just an enabler. God laid the foundation, right? And and he's just um expounding on that Exhorting that, expositing that is what I wanted to say. For no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. So people can try to distort the foundation, try to destroy the foundation. They can't, though. Right? That's in God's control. The foundation has been laid, and it has to be Jesus Christ. Now, if any man builds upon the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evident. Let's pause there for a second. So you have this contrast now. The the quality of the believer's work will be tested by what? By fire. That's what he's saying here. And he has this contrast, gold, silver, precious stones. All right, think of that as as dedicated spiritual service. That's the the positive side of the labor being dis uh displayed here. versus the wood hay straw signifying shallow activity with no eternal value. We're going to see this again when we get to 2 Corinthians. Right? So you see this contrast of the type of work that is being done. Alright. Even as believers, sometimes we can do a work, a labor, that is truly not motivated by love. Right? We all struggle with that. Wrong desires. We're we're ca that go back to the flesh. We're constantly battling those desires. But let's go on. Verse 13. Each man's work will become evident, for the day will show it Because it is to be revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. What is that, the day? Yeah. We we talked earlier, right? The day of the Lord. The day of the Lord is a day of judgment. Now wait a minute. Believers are going to be judged? Yeah. Yeah. They're gonna be judged. Their unbelievers are gonna be judged. Yes, but there's a difference. The difference is the unbeliever will be judged, will be condemned. At that point, it's too late. You are condemned to eternity in hell The believer will be judged by the refining fire, no longer under condemnation. So think of your your list of deeds will be put forth and put through the furnace. And what comes out on the other side is the the pure gold of your works. Those that were were driven by pure motivations. Right? That's now your reward. That's the judgment that you will receive Right? So that's why we are continually trying to be sanctified, to be more Christ-like, but to truly have heart motives that are pure. And when we don't, what do we do? We confess it. We repent of it The Lord knows our struggle. He designed it, for whatever reason, he designed it such that we will struggle through while we are on this earth. Right? But that's the judgment you will receive, no longer under condemnation. It's not the same judgment as the unbeliever. Does that make sense? I think that's an important distinction. Okay Alright, and then he finishes up this chapter with who we are in Christ. So let me pick up in verse 15. If any man's work is burned up, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet so is through fire. So again he's emphasizing this point that your works will be judged, you personally cannot lose your salvation. Do you not know that you are a temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? So this idea of temple, think of it as a sanctuary. And remember he's he's addressing the church here. So he's saying you as a church, the body are a sanctuary of God. He's not talking about the physical body here when we talk about the temple If any man destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him, for the temple of God is holy, and that is what you are. So any any work that is trying to destroy the foundation that we just talked about. Right, that is trying to um distort or um destroy um um you know this foundation of Jesus Christ by adding to it or subtracting from it. Right? That's that's the judgment that will come on those people It is a severe warning to those who might try to pervert, that's the word I was looking for, or destroy the building of the church on any foundation other than Jesus Christ. 18. Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become foolish that he may become wise. So you know Paul was already talking about this contrast with their culture in seeking um fleshly wisdom or worldly wisdom For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God, for it is written. So I love that reference, right? What's Paul doing? He's going back to Old Testament scripture. Right? He is a theologian. He understands the inspired word of God and he pulls from it because it's all part of God's redemptive plan. And he's reinforcing this message. For it is written, he is the one who catches the wise in their craftiness. Alright, don't look at your book. Where do you think that's a reference to Great guess. Right? Paul Paul references Isaiah the most of any of the the authors. It's actually Job. So in this instance, you remember Job had three friends that were counseling him, and this is taken from the first friend. Um and actually The friend does does um talk about godly truth. Right? There is truth in some of what he is counseling to Job, not in its entirety for sure, but this particular passage obviously is reinforcing this this contrast um in the sovereignty of God. So Paul is pulling from that truth to reinforce this this message. that only God is wise, in this distinct contrast with worldliness. Alright, for it is written, he is the one who catches the wise in their crappiness. And again, the Lord knows the reasoning of the wise that they are useless. Where's that a reference to? Good guess, Isaiah. You're wrong. Yeah, actually it's uh I believe it's Psalm ninety four. Yeah. And actually if you go to Psalm ninety four you will see it has the pattern of a lamenting psalm, right? And we've talked about that, so I thought that was interesting But again, Paul is is grabbing these Old Testament sc uh scriptures as application to reinforce the point that he is trying to make here. Verse 21, so then let no one boast in men, for all things belong to you. So here we are again, back to this idea of boasting. And that's why we're memorizing Jeremiah 9:24. All right, I I really I just want to encourage you to be very intentional about memorizing that. That is so sweet. What are we boasting in? Yes, we are boasting in the Lord, but what does Jeremiah 9. 24 say What's the key there? What does it say? That we can understand and know him. Think about that. When we talk about the having the mind of Christ, that's what that's saying. Again, we can't know him exhaustively, but he now reveals himself. Why? Because we are in Christ. And what does it say? Christ is in God. Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come, all things belong to you. And you belong to Christ, and Christ belongs to God. That's back to the the truth of who we are as sealed believers in Christ. Right? That's what it means to have the mind of Christ now Boy, doesn't that give you hope and encouragement? Right, man, when you're when you're going through those trials and tribulations, we know we will. The path is through suffering. We know that's going to happen. These are the truths you've got to cling to You have the mind of Christ, you have the power of the Holy Spirit. Sorry to be preachy, but I get excited about this. And that would So we talked about we'll um you know keep a list if you will of the topics and issues that Paul brings up as we go through First and second Corinthians and and there's going to be a long list, but we saw initially in chapter one, you know, his addressing this divisiveness or them really idolizing um Christian teachers or or the teachers that they were devoted to. And here we see in chapter three him admonishing them. Right? They should be mature. They should be more spiritually disciplined And they're not. They still need melt. They still need just the basic principles of the gospel. And that's uh an encouragement, hopefully, for us to always be examining ourselves Okay? I will end with this chart. Again, just a reminder of the gospel. We need the gospel preached to ourselves every day. We often think of it as just an evangelistic for salvation, but it is a sweet reminder as we go through passages, as we read God's Word. We are knowing more about God. We are learning more about His attributes in its totality and as precious who we are as children of God. But the assurance that that gives us. It's recalibrating our mind to the Holy Spirit, to the leading, so we can be filled by the Holy Spirit. That's what it does. Okay? Right. Questions, comments, Glenn. Okay. What does that really mean as far as what the temple is I'm looking at the temple as God's indwelling place where God dwells. And certainly he has decided to dwell within us, make us his temple. And so then what am I going to do that is going going to destroy that temple and then therefore be destroyed by God. Yeah. So so Glenn, great question. From the the commentaries that I read, and I'll I'll caveat it that way that um they believe that this is really a reference to the church body. Right? That that he is addressing the church here versus individuals per se. Yes There's accountability, there's application personally, but this sanctuary that he is talking about is the church body. And and he's saying the foundation of that is the gospel. Those that have come in And to some degree talking about the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the religious leaders of the day, um, even today those who are trying to distort that foundation, you know, they will be held accountable. Right? That's how you can destroy the sanctuary is by allowing division allowing sexual immorality, allowing, you know, all the things we're going to cover in these uh two books. Right? So I I think it helped me to think about what Paul is addressing here is actually the church body Right, versus an individual. Because we know as a true believer we can't do anything to destroy that relationship. So so it's unlikely that's what he's referring to. We can't destroy that per se We can have very little growth, we can have you know slow growth, and that's on us, and we'll have that judgment time, but I think actually destroying he's referring to the church itself And that's why we have to always be on guard. Does that make sense? Is that all? Yeah, I I think there's an element there that there there is probably, you know, you can think of the one extreme where it's um you know the tares that we talked about, the the wolves in sheep clothing that are trying to be deceptive and distort, you know, there's that extreme But I think there's also those in the body that are trying to build with maybe wrong motives, you know, and that will be judged separately than the extreme I just talked about. So I think you could see both of those where I as an individual, there are times that maybe I'm building with gold and precious stones, like pure motives, and there's probably other times where it looks like wood, hay, that's going to be burned up versus those that that um are truly within the church that are not of the church. Right? Does that make sense? So I I think both are at play here. Alright, let me pray and we'll finish up.