We are already on lesson three if you can believe it. So we'll be talking through uh First Thessalonians chapter two. However, there was more in chapter one that I didn't get to. So we're gonna we're gonna finish up with that and I knew that was gonna happen. It was just a lot that was happening to kind of set context in chapter one, so we'll we'll go over a bit of that. Um Yeah. So let me ask first. So you got your worksheet. Um I I want to ask if we can share a little bit from last week, all right, so everyone can kind of get an understanding of the format What did you write down if someone's willing to share? What were some of the attributes or character of God that you saw from our our lesson last week? Elizabeth, did you have something? God chose us before. Okay, so he chose us, right? That shows a sovereign God? Good. He is our example. Okay. He is our example, and I love that you guys are are grabbing verses too. That's excellent. And and please keep in mind, you know, we we looked at um not only First Thessalonians, but went to a lot of different uh passages. You can be grabbing things from those chapters as well as we're um or passages as we're trying to you know make a point if you will. Alright, good. Anything else? Yes. He's love, right? Absolutely. Yes, Barbara. Say again? He exhorts us. Love it. Love it. Those are very um reassuring words, aren't they? He loves us, he exhorts us. Good. Okay, I I would I would tell you guys don't um underestimate the value of that very first question You know, as I talked about, anytime you are reading Scripture, be asking this question, what does this passage say about God? Right? We're always trying to cultivate a really high view of God. That's where it starts. All right, good. How about any key indicatives or truths um that we saw in God's scripture. And again, what I'm after here is things that that really jumped out to you, things that really impacted you, where you know your season of life. Maybe it's something that you just wanted to re-emphasize in your life Um any any of that. It's not for you to regurgitate here's the indicatives that we heard in the passage. That's not the intent of this. Glenn. Rescues us. He rescues us. Alright, good. Yes. He is deliberate. Deliberate. Okay, yeah. So there's a truth there, right? That he chooses. We didn't choose him, he chose us. Good. Okay, how about based on those truths, what imperatives or commands do you see that come out of those? Barbara. Okay, be bold. Love it. Not be timid, but to be bold with our faith. Good. Glenn. Imitate. Imitate. Imitate. Alright. You see Paul talk about that um a lot in his epistles, and we certainly see it here in Thessalonians. To imitate, good All right, so based on those truths, based on those imperatives, um, is anyone willing to share personal application You know, that's where the rubber meets the road. How do we apply these truths, these imperatives that we see from God? And if you don't want to share, that's fine. But Glenn, pull that thread for me, brother. Okay. No, that's good. And I want to challenge you guys, make this section very personal So and and you don't have to share that, this is for you. So Glenn, I appreciate what you shared, but that was kinda high level, right? I I wouldn't get from that um knowing a circumstance or issue you're dealing with and that's okay, right? Again, these can be very personal things, but I want to challenge you in that section specifically, you know, make it specific to to your life and what issues you are going through I can I can elaborate in the endure hopefully uh learning uh I've been having mind rate problems and dealing with that. Um and so uh yeah, the my goal or my challenge, I should say, is to be hookable in there in that Yeah. Okay, good. Good. Love it. I've been having health issues. Just a few, eh Jim? Yeah. And uh it's really true. We can uh have joy in in those afflictions. Yeah. Um and uh knowing the the Holy Spirit Just there to guide and direct us. And there are times when we really need the Lord. We feel desperate. And our prayers can encourage us to uh to know that God is there. Amen. He's there. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that assurance. Love it, Jim. Good. Thank you so much. Um in real life too, you you guys sharing um is only going to help the rest of the class, right? The the body as we hear How the body is going through struggles and overcoming those struggles with the application of God's Word. It's only going to lift up and encourage the body And we'll talk about that word encouraged today. All right, good. So do you kind of understand the flow of what's happening here, of what I'm trying to get after? Alright, if you have questions about that um afterwards, please don't hesitate to ask All right. Yeah, so let me go through quickly just kind of review where we're at. Or how far we got in uh chapter one and then we'll start to pick up uh chapter two as well. So again, these are kind of the main themes of First Thessalonians. It it is a very um celebratory book. Alright. You probably often heard that the church in uh Thessalonica was a model church in all respects Right, you see a lot of rejoicing or celebrating over their faithfulness. And we talked about those components last week. But it starts with this uh prayer of thanksgiving And so what we talked about last week, if you remember, I tried to give you just a couple, I'll call it tools or or way of thinking from God's Word on how to help in some of these situations, these circumstances, just life in general. And one of those is cultivating this spirit of thankfulness. Right? Even in the midst of persecution, even in the midst of trials and tribulations, cultivating this idea of thanksgiving. And what are we doing when we are thanking the Lord? Just real basic, what are we doing when we thank the Lord? Praising Him. We're remembering what the Lord has done for us. We are trusting Right? Those are all elements of cultivating a spirit of thankfulness. What are we not doing when we're thanking the Lord? Crumbling? Grumbling, right? We're not focused on our issues, we're not focused on self. We're going back to the source of power. So this idea of right praying leads to right thinking, leads to right practice. Extremely, extremely powerful. Again, if you want the peace of God in your life, start cultivating a prayer life that is full of thankfulness Okay? So that was one of the tools I'll call it or patterns that we see in Scripture, this idea of right praying, thinking, and practice. Does that come naturally? No way. You've got to work at it. That's why I call it a discipline. It is a spiritual discipline. But we see it also. So we talked about this idea of lamenting. Definition is at the bottom there. The honest cry of a hurting heart. We've probably all been there. But this idea of wrestling with the paradox of pain that you're going through as well as the promises of God. And we we talked through the The four-step process, if you will, it starts with addressing who? The Lord. Right? You are recognizing his sovereignty And it turns into a complaint or a groan, and we talked about that word last week, whichever one you want to use. My idea here is you don't want complaint to be grumbling. That's not the sense here Right? You're just honestly crying out to the Lord. What happens if you stop right there? Then it does turn into grumbling. That's what you're doing. You're just a complainer. But that's not the process that we see. But we do see the freedom to honestly come before the Lord. That's why I like to call it a groan And then that turns into a request. And in this particular Psalm, Psalm 13, you know, he's saying, Lord, I need to be encouraged. I need to be refreshed. I know that you are the source of that. And then always look for those turning um uh uh words, but or yet. And that's where you're gonna see the turn in the psalm. And this is where you see thankfulness, an expression of trust andor praise. The psalmist is remembering Lord, I remember, even though in the midst of this trial and tribulation, I remember what you have done for me. I remember the provision. And this is the cry we've all been there. How long? How long, O Lord, is this affliction going to continue? But but God. Right? That's the idea here. All right, does that make sense? Right, and then we talked about um why is Paul what is he thankful for? What is he recognizing in the church At Thessalonica. And we talked about this idea of the nine Marks. This is from Capitol Hill Baptist Church in D. C. Uh this is a um a ministry that they put together. They are really big, kind of their ministry philosophy is planting churches in the area Um and we have been to to some of those, but this is uh a ministry that they put together to come alongside churches. And and this is a list that they put together to say, you know, these are the things you should be looking for in a church. All right. We also get um input from Revelation, right, when uh uh the seven churches are recognized, if you will, and we see positive and negatives And then we looked at specifically what does Paul call out to the church in Thessalonica. And it's this Faith, love, and hope. But the adjective or adverbs that go before that, right? The action that goes before that. The work of faith, the labor of love, and the steadfastness of hope And and Matt, I don't know if this was the point you were trying to make, but I I the way I took it, it's a good one. When you look at this l list on the left, it it can come it can become or feel very checklisty Right? Okay, the church has this, this, this, this, this. Foundational though is are they manifesting the things on the right hand side? Right? That should be underpinning any church that i is a godly healthy church Right, is they are demonstrating, they are manifesting. And again, we talk about this idea of work and labor and steadfastness. Right? Those are and and what do we know about those three qualities? How long do they last? Forever, right? We saw that in First Corinthians is we have all these different gifts, but those are are just partial. Those will go away. What remains is faith, love, and hope. So we need to be cultivating those kingdom qualities, I'll call it. Okay? All right, that's where we left off last week. So I want you to turn in First Thessalonians, chapter one There's a couple more qualities that we're going to see that Paul is going to highlight in this particular church. And let me just build that out for you. So there it is. And we can see that starting in verse 9 and 10. For they themselves report about us what kind of reception we had with you and how you turn to God from idols to serve a living and true God. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead. That is Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. So you're going to see this new pattern and it looks like I messed up my slides. No, I didn't, I got it right. Alright, so what you see here is a turning away from something and a turning towards something. Okay? Glenn. Sounds like a pendant from it. That absolutely is is an aspect of it for sure, right? Um we see this pattern very clearly though, and again it comes out in the the counseling room. And let me say this, I'm going to bring in a lot of counseling examples, but you all know, and I won't give you the trick question, we are all counselors Right? And and what I'm about to share is very applicable to each and every believer. This is the pattern of sanctification. Go over to Ephesians 4. And I have it written here up on the screen, but it might be hard to read. So if you have it in your Bible, you can follow along there. Let me start in verse 17. Ephesians 4 17. This I say therefore and affirm together with the Lord that you walk no longer just as the Gentiles also walk in the futility of their mind Being darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God, because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of the heart. And they, having become callous, have given themselves over to sensuality for the practice of every kind of impurity with greediness. But you did not learn Christ in this way If indeed you have heard him and have been taught in him, just as truth is in Jesus. And here's the the pattern I want you to see. That in reference to your former manner of life, you lay aside the old self, which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of the seed. and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and put on the new self, which is in the likeness of God, has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. So do you see there in 22 through 24 this idea of to lay aside or put off the old self Right. You are new creatures in Christ. Does that mean you are completely holy and righteous at that point? Absolutely not. Right? Now you are in this process of sanctification being made more and more holy, more and more into the image of Christ. That's the that's the lot that we have in this life as a believer. Right? That's reality. But what we're doing is really this is an imperative. This is a command. It's not a suggestion. It's a command to put off the old self. And absolutely includes repentance, right? And you can only do that through faith. Faith and repentance and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. You are putting off the old self. However, if you put off, what do you got to do? You gotta put on something. And I love what's sandwiched in the middle of there, right? Renewing your mind. It is easy to put off, but what's the danger If you're not renewing your mind or putting on, the the old stuff just creeps right back in. Alright? So renew your mind. How do you do that? You're spending time in God's word. You're spending time in prayer. You're serving the body. Right? That's renewing the mind. And then you're putting on how to think correctly. You know, all the things that we've been talking about. That's what you're putting on. That's what you're arming yourself. That's what you're robing yourself with. Alright? Christ's righteousness. And again, why it's so important to be in the Word. That's the imperatives that you're putting on. And you're acting out. So we talk about faith, hope, love, the action verbs that went with that. Right? That's putting on the new self. Does that make sense? Right? This is a really, really great framework for us to think about sanctification Alright, so we talked about Philippians praying rightly, thinking rightly. Um we had how to lament. Right? We all go through those times of crying out to the Lord. And then this is uh again just another, I think, helpful framework. um through our sanctific sanctification. And we see that in 1 Thessalonians. They are being recognized for turning away from idols. That was a big deal back then and today Um and what did they do though? Instead, they turned to God. Alright, so let's go back to uh that passage, 1 Thessalonians in chapter 1. And I want to cover this because I think it's important. You know, I s I started the the session this quarter with this idea of foundational is the gospel message. Right? And in gospel as we know we often think of salvation, yes, but it is also critical for our sanctification But I I want to show you how Paul um the gospel message really jumps out here in chapter one. And I want to be careful. I'm not going to try and pull out secretly the gospel in every single passage that we have, but it's pretty clear here And I think it's important to highlight. So look at uh go back to uh the beginning of chapter one. I'm not going to read all of it, but but I want you to see the triune God at work here in this first chapter. If you look down at verse 4, knowing brethren, beloved by God, his choice of you. Someone mentioned that earlier. God, in his sovereignty and his providence, chooses you. Right? That's God the Father you see in action there choosing you. Isn't that the gospel? It all starts with God and who God is. Alright, go over to verse 5, just below that. For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with conviction. So here the gospel was preached and they believed and it came with the power of the Holy Spirit. That's why love acts is yes the history of the church. But Lauren said it when I asked, it's also a you see a different manifestation of the Holy Spirit. Right? We now have the permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit as a new believer. That's what we see in the beginning of the church we see in Acts. Okay? This is really, really critical We as believers now have the power of the Holy Spirit. So this idea of put off, renew your eye, put on, you try and do that in your own strength, you're going to fail. It is critical that you live in the assurance of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. So you had the Father choosing, you had the Holy Spirit with this permanent indwelling, and we just read verse 10, but go back over to that And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, that is Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. So obviously talking about the life of Jesus Christ here, right? His his uh or his the work of Jesus Christ, and it starts with his life Right? He had to be perfect, to be that perfect substitute, that propitiation, if you will. And I know that's a big word, but it's packed with so much meaning. The perfect substitute to appease the wrath that we deserve. Okay? And then he rose again. Now this idea at the end there um delivers us from the wrath to come. There are some commentators that believe that that mention of wrath is talking about the impending tribulation and that um the Thessalonians may have been you know worried about um the tribulation that was coming, what they knew about it and um that that they were going to be delivered from that. There are other commentaries that believe this idea of of wrath really talks about eternal wrath Right? The wrath that we will have as unbelievers. I tend to believe the latter. That what he's talking about here is simply the salvation of Jesus Christ. Alright? And so again we see God choosing. We see we must be saved as sinful people, and that way is Jesus Christ. That's the only way Right? And then what do we have? We have the permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit. That's what you have as a believer. That is the gospel message. And we see the work of the triune God, you know, right here in chapter one. Go back to Ephesians. And I'll cover this quickly, but we see a very similar um pattern, if you will, of the Triune God in our salvation. Ephesians chapter 1, again verse 4. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. So here you see the Father again choosing us. Okay? Go down to verse seven. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. Obviously they're talking about Jesus Christ here. Barbara. Yeah, Barbara, let me her question was this idea of election or predestination. And um let me say this If we have time, let me talk about that at the end. I am not here to try and push the idea of election. You know, I'm simply reading God's word. And here's what I want you to take away from this conversation. is the work of the triune God. That's why I think this is special. It's not just God, I want you to see the three persons that are in activation here, if you will. That's the main point I want to get across, right? I don't want to sidestep this idea of election, but that can be a very lengthy discussion. You will notice in our what we teach, our basic doctrines, you do not need to believe in election, right, to be a member here at Hope Bible Church. Right, so if we have time let me come back to that. Okay. Yeah, it is in many different ways. Yeah. Yes. Absolutely. Yeah. But we we could spend three or four weeks talking about this topic, so that's why I wanna I I don't wanna spend a lot of time on that. What I want you to take away is the work of the triumph here. Okay? Great question though And I wondered if that was going to come up, so thank you for asking. Alright, so we talked about God the Father. Obviously, we know the only way of salvation. We see the work of Jesus Christ But then we see um the Holy Spirit as well. Go over to verse thirteen through fourteen. In him you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation having also believed you were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to redemption of God's own possession to the praise of his glory. So here you see the Holy Spirit does what seals us, gives us that assurance of that permanent indwelling. I love that, and that's why I I often turn people to Romans 8 Because of just the assurance it gives us of who we are as children of God permanently once we are saved. Because it's so easy once you're in the midst of those trials and tribulations to forget that or to to allow that to start to seep out, right? That memory or that truth of who we are in Christ. That sealing of the Holy Spirit. So credibly important. Does that make sense? Do you see that pattern? I love that. To see all three persons at work in God's plan of redemption. Right? It's there we see it in 1 Thessalonians, and we see it here in Ephesians. Alright, good. All right, back to Thessalonians. I swear I'm gonna get through chapter two today. Yeah. But this is really important, right? This this foundational stuff is is really real important. There's a lot that Paul packs into um chapter one. So I want to ask you, so uh again they're hearing from Paul um the these um just praises and and thanksgiving, praying for them for what he is saying uh witnessing in their life or the feedback he's getting from Timothy, right? Their their uh hope and their love and their steadfastness, turning away from idols, turning to God, all positive, you know, excellent stuff Uh my question to you, the Hope Bible Church, where does our affirmation come from? We don't have Paul the Apostle roaming around sending us letters saying, HBC, man, you're right on target. You're doing a great job. Would you feel affirmed if you got a letter from Phil in the Blank, John MacArthur, R. C. Stroll, Piper Whoever. Yeah, if you got one from John MacArthur right now you'd probably be affirmed, right? But but you get my point. You know, is that the affirmation that we're looking for? Maybe, maybe that'd be encouraging. I'm thinking if my family or friends said something and they noticed that I was All right, so let's let's pull that thread. Let's go to verses um six through nine. You also became imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much tribulation with the joy of the Holy Spirit. so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and Achaia. For the word of the Lord has sounded forth from you, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place Your faith toward God has gone forth so that we have so no need to say anything. Right? The witness is coming from the testimony from other people, from like-minded churches all over the region. Paul didn't just get this feedback from Timothy. He's hearing it from everywhere. So to Marie's point, it's word of mouth, it's the testimony of others. Let that be our affirmation. Right? What are others saying about Hope Bible Church? We often hear of people are here because they moved and they get a referral from from somebody, hey any good churches in the area and they refer them to to Hope Bible Church. Now let me say this again. What what is Hope Bible Church? Right? It's not a building, it's not the elders, it's everyone sitting in this room. You are Hope Bible Church. You are the testimony that people are hearing about. You are the testimony that when someone says, Hey, you got a good church I can go to? You're the testimony that brings them here. Alright? And if I were to go back to that list of nine marks, and you're like, well, I don't think we do that very well, and we don't do that very well. Well, guess what? You're the church Go do it well. Right? That's my encouragement to you. It's not on the elders, it's not on the leaders, it's everybody's responsibility to do that well. You are the church. We are the church. Alright, so I I love that, that yes they must have been so overjoyed to get this letter from the Apostle Paul, and yet you can see the joy that he has in knowing he's hearing this testimony from from many, many people from churches all around the region. Let that be our testimony as well. So again in summary I had cultivate a spiritual discipline of praying with thanksgiving. Be sanctified through the put-off, the renew your mind and put-on framework that we just saw in Ephesians 4. Cultivate and demonstrate the kingdom qualities. Faith, hope, love. And remember, those came with verbs. All of it grounded in the gospel message. Right? Let that be your foundation. Alright, that's chapter one. Any questions on any of that? Really, really important foundation that we'll use throughout the rest of uh our time together. Alright, let's turn now to chapter two All right, so as let me ask you this. Again, on our system, I won't make you close your eyes this week. Let me just do it this way. Again, the homework is for you to be reading the chapter ahead of time. You will get the most out of this class. You will get the most out of being in the Word ahead of time and jotting down some notes so that when you come to class, you've got questions, you can share. That's where you're going to get the most benefit. So I I hope you take advantage of that. Paul is going to remind them of the heart attitude in which he and the others, so again Silas and Timothy are with him, approach the thir the church in Thessalonica with the imagery of a loving mother and a caring father. So that's what we're going to see. Go down to Verse six. Nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others, even though as apostles of Christ we might have asserted our authority. But we prayed to be gentle or we prove to be gentle among you as nursing as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children Having thus a fond affliction for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you have become very dear to us For you recall, brethren, our labor and hardship, how working night and day so as not to be a burden to any of you, we proclaim to you the gospel of God. You are witnesses, and so is God, how devoutly and uprightly and blamelessly we behave toward you you believers Just as you know how we were exhorting and encouraging and imploring each one of you as a father would his own children. So I want to pause there and kind of um Break this apart a little bit. Again, you see this affirmation or analogy using parents, right? A nursing mother, very tender, very caring. And we get a lot of insight as he talks about how a father would react to his children. So so dads, you can glean a lot of wisdom from what we're about to go through. And really this is applicable to everyone Um I I will say this up front. I I will tell you as elders, one of the things we we talk about and we challenge each other um in private is yes we look at the qualities like uh we have this pastor candidate coming next week. Of course we're gonna look at the qualities in in Timothy and Titus, right? But overall is this someone that others would want to emulate? Right? Is that the type of life that we lead that we can be an example? Right? So that that is something we are always challenging and holding ourselves. accountable to. So we're going to look specifically at this idea of a father and his own children and how do we best equip the saints with what he is about to say Alright. So let's look first at how. Right? We want to see how, for what reason, and their response. That's kind of the pattern we're going to look at here. So first the how in verse 11. We see this idea of exhort. Just as you know how we were exhorting, what does that mean? To exhort is to urge by strong appeal. Urged by strong appeal. Now this is interesting. It comes from the Greek word periklesis, which means to call to one side, to summon, encourage, admonish, entreat. So you don't get this idea of someone who's standing in authority over, they're coming alongside and strongly appealing, encouraging, grabbing the you can you can imagine their arms around their shoulder Coming alongside. That's the idea here. Paraclesis. Similarly, parakletose, who knows what that word is? It's the helper. Right? It's the Holy Spirit. So remember Jesus was talking to his disciples and he says, I gotta go away, but I'm gonna send a helper. That's parakletos. And that idea of helper, it's the same idea as to come alongside and exhort the believer. You can see that in John 14 who will teach us all things. And this idea of the helper is an encourager, an intercessor, an exhorter, a reprover, right? Who convinces us of our sins so that we turn from that. So you can see the helper is exercising this paraclesis, coming alongside and exhorting the believer. And again, hopefully in a very encouraging way. That's what it means to come alongside. Are we to come alongside our brothers and sisters in Christ? Absolutely. Right? You're not lording it over them. You are coming alongside them. You are urging by strong appeal. Um go over to Romans 12 real quick. Romans 12 and I'll read 6 through 8. Paul is talking about some of the some of the spiritual gifts. Verse six And since we have gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let each exercise them accordingly, a prophecy according to the proportion of his faith If service in his serving, or he who teaches in his teaching, or he who exhorts in his exhortation Alright, so you can see it listed there as a gift to exhort. Now, with all the gifts, we're all given different gifts, right? So as a body You know, that's the imagery we have. We're we're functioning in a unit. But do we continue to try and strive towards these other gifts that we may not be spiritually gifted? Absolutely. So exhortation coming alongside is something we should all be pursuing. Uh you don't need to turn that brother first Timothy four thirteen. You know, Paul is uh imploring uh young Timothy. Uh let me go there real quick Because it's a a charge to um pastors, elders 413. Until I come, give attention to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation and teaching Right, so yes, the word must go forth. We want you to teach, but we want you to come alongside the believer as well, right? To strongly appeal So that's what that means here, to strongly appeal, to come alongside. And we get this imagery of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, who does that for us. Right? So the Holy Spirit as the helper is coming alongside us. Alright, the second word we see there is to encourage. In this, you know, I think you understand to support, to import confidence, to build up. To exhort is to make a strong appeal. To encourage is to build up. Now, you parents out there that have children, have you ever had to exhort your child and have you ever had to encourage your child? And did you understand when which one was needed? Right, that's the the wisdom I need, the discernment. Sometimes I I would rather do the exhorting and what they really need is encouragement. I have specifically found this in my adult children that are now transitioning into life, I'll call it. Right? And and that transition was not what I thought it was going to look like. Um it was not my expectation, my ideal, so I've had to be sanctified and learn Um but but what I have learned, and we teach this in the parenting class too, is it it moves very much away from being that authoritative parent to more of an encourager, a friend. Right, this is a fragile time. They're trying to figure out their own faith, what that means to them, life, what what is God's will for me? Um it's easy for them to lose confidence And so it's an important time to come alongside and really encourage, right? To build up. I think of uh muckbreaker. The what? The muckbreaker has his eyes down. Oh right. So many times we take our eyes off of the Lord and we need to come back. So I look at the encourager as someone saying, pointing and saying, um you know, encouraging them. No, you have this. Yeah. You're seeing it here, here, here. Yeah. To encourage them to strengthen this It's very important to do that. And and Jim, you bring up a really important aspect what you just said. Um and again I'll go back to the counseling room. There are times when when they're just they're in dire need and they're hopeless and and you are trying to give them God's word and trying to get them through application And all they see is this mountain of what they're not doing. And oftentimes we need to be that encourager to say, no, no, no, no, no. Here's what I'm observing that you are doing You have been faithful at doing the homework. I I saw how you changed your attitude here. I saw how you implemented you know this application here Right. We observe things often that our brothers and sisters might not see because they're in the midst of a trial or tribulation. So great point. We need need to be observant of that. And and come alongside and encourage. Right? We need to be encouraged. Um I won't say this about me personally, and I don't think it's indicative necessarily of the rest of our elders. I haven't heard them say this, but they need to be encouraged too Right, they carry a heavy but joyful weight um to to minister to the flock that the Lord has given us, right? If you if you hear a good sermon, a good application, a good whatever, you know, don't be afraid to shoot them a quick text or what have you. Okay? Everyone needs to be encouraged. But that's the idea. And it's not flattery Right? It's not false encouragement. It's true observation of how you see. When you see someone applying God's word, encourage them. Let that be your foundation. Alright, so exhort, encourage, and the last one is to implore or charge, to request earnestly And the idea here is there's greater stress on the human responsibility in the abandonment of sin. So you go to what we're talking about right here, the beginning of verse 17, right? So this I say and affirm together with the Lord that you walk no longer in the futility of their mind. That would be an example of Paul imploring the Ephesians. Right? Requesting earnestly. It is actually a command. But you see here, this idea of put off, renew your mind, put on Yes, we have the power of the Holy Spirit, but it's a synergistic work, meaning we also have a responsibility. We make choices every day to either follow the leading of the Holy Spirit or to quench the Holy Spirit. By the way, to be filled by the Holy Spirit in Ephesians 5, that's what that means, to be controlled by. It doesn't mean you're getting more filled up with the Holy Spirit. You have been permanently filled or indwelt with the Holy Spirit when you became a believer. To be feel filled as you are yielding to what the Holy Spirit is guiding you in. To quench the Holy Spirit is to disobey. to sit. We make hundreds of decisions every day about either yielding or or not. But that's an example of imploring. Does that make sense? Okay So how was Paul equipping the saints? We see that in these three words: by exhortation, a strong appeal, by encouragement, building confidence, and imploring them, making an earnest request. But for what purpose? Let's go to verse twelve. And this is where when you're reading God's word, these are the types of questions you want to have as you're reading through that. Well, okay, I see what he's doing, but why? We see that in verse twelve. So that well that that's a good indication that we're going to get the why. So that you may walk in a manner worthy of God who calls you into his kingdom and glory. That's sanctification, isn't it? That's what that is. Right, he's exhorting, he's encouraging, he's imploring, so that they may be sanctified We'll touch on this in 1 Thessalonians 4. It explicitly says God's will for you is your sanctification. Right? To be applying the things that we're talking about, to put off, to renew the mind, and put on. And it doesn't stop there. How do they respond? Verse thirteen. And for this reason, we also constantly thank God that when you receive from us the Word of God's message You accepted it. Not as the word of men, but for what it really is, the word of God which also performs its work in you who believe Right? Let that let that sink in. How they responded to hearing the gospel. And Paul's saying we didn't we didn't come with flattery words. It's not from men. It is from it is the Word of God. It is the living Word of God. And you accepted it. Not as a Word for man, but for what it really is, the Word of God. It transformed their lives when they heard the gospel. That's how they responded to it. And I love this word used, which also performs its work. How do we know it performed its work? What does that mean? Okay. They became imitators. They saw the manifestation in their behavior, in their actions. We talk about the work of love, the the labor of hope, the steadfastness of hope. Faith work, faith, love, hope, right Um they saw it in their behavior. I want to take you back though. Um so Barbara you're spot on. Let's also go to back to Psalm nineteen. I've taken you there before and it's a goodie. And remember, Psalm 19 is this beautiful psalm that summarizes general revelation, what we know about God from creation and our conscience. Um and then the second half of that, and I just want to read seven and eight, is all about his special revelation, his his word. And we find that in the Bible. So if we talk about performs its work, just think it was active. The Word of God was active. Right? And like Barbara said, we saw that in their behavior. But look at Psalm 19, verse 7. Think about what's active here. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. That's why we're so big on being in the Word. Why? It restores your soul. That's active The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. It makes you wise. The precepts of the Lord are right. It rejoices the heart. Do you want joy in your life? Be in God's Word. Because it's active, it performs its work. The commandment of the Lord is pure enlightening the eyes. So you see there we get wisdom, uh our eyes are enlightened, we get joy, it restores the soul. Verse 9, the fear of the Lord is clean, I love that, enduring forever. It it's unchanging, it lasts Forever. The judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous altogether. So Psalm 19, really, really important. And those verses 7 and 8, as part of your homework, I want you to memorize Psalm 19, verse 7 and 8. Right as a reminder of the gospel, God's word performing its work, right? It's active in your life. Does that make sense? Okay, good. And so I had a question. Does our walk communicate to a lost world that we have been set apart? Is the gospel performing its work in us, in you? That's the intent of the worksheets. I want to exhort, encourage, and implore you throughout the class. Right, so that that is absolutely why I put that worksheet together so that you in your own personal journey can walk through that process. Right, of exhorting yourself, encouraging yourself, imploring to yourself through God's word. And I'm going to try and do the same. That's my goal Okay. All right, last little bit, let's go down to verse fourteen. Paul's thankfulness and encouragement is now going to be amplified because he recognizes their godly response even in the midst of persecution. Alright, so we we can't remember the context of what's happening here. Verse 14. For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea, for you also endure the same sufferings at the hands of of your countrymen even as they did from the Jews. So you remember why was why was Paul scooting around from city to city on his missionary journey? Persecution. Everywhere he went, and who was he being persecuted by? The Jews, his own countrymen. Right? This was heresy what he was preaching. And so he would go to a city, um, teaching the synagogues was his pattern first. And and what would happen? He would get believers, Jews and Gentiles. Right? They they would truly be saved and yet there were the traditional Jews, that's where he was persecuted. To the point that he would be imprisoned, they would want to take his life Um, just just drastic persecution. And so he's saying to them, you know, you are imitators, we are seeing this behavior even in the midst of yourself being persecuted And what I love here, and this is why I feel like I do about that term wrath, it says for um In verse 14, For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you also endured the same sufferings at the hands of your own countrymen, even as they did from the Jews. Um sorry, there was another it talked about joy in the midst of that. I might have my reference wrong. But any anyway, they they talk Paul, you know, confirms their joy in the midst of that persecution. And that's why I don't think they you don't get this feeling that they were trembling, waiting for the tribulation to happen. You know, they had joy in the midst of of this tribulation. They were, yes, excited for the second coming, and we'll talk more about that in coming sections. Um but that's why I think the the wrath that is mentioned here is really talking about eternal wrath, that we are saved from that eternal wrath. Yeah, it's very possible then. So here's the context in the early church and starting in Judea and then we go up to Samaria and the ends of the world, right? Is this pattern of the early church had Jewish believers and Gentile believers? And you probably got persecution from both We clearly have indication of Paul being persecuted by his own countrymen. But it's very possible why. What what who did the Greeks serve? Well there are certainly definite examples of where they got k kicked out because they That's it. That's it. The money changers, absolutely, right? So they probably got it from all sides. Yeah, that's a great point. And I think that's an important point, right? They were really big into idol worship and all of a sudden these new believers are turning away from the idols. Right? That would have been so drastic. So yes, they're getting it from both sides. That's a good point. Um, I didn't mention it in the intro on Paul. If there was ever a guy who went through persecution, it's the Apostle Paul. Um I don't have all the the scripture references but we could get those if needed. Go to verse two real quick in chapter two But after we had already suffered and been mistreated in Philippi, as you know, we had the boldness in our God to speak to you the gospel of God amid much opposition. So again, I go back to he was being moved from city to city because of the persecution that he had. But here's a little history of Paul. Some of the punishment you could get from the Jews was a one-time event of thirty-nine lashes. Yes? That's part of it. Absolutely, Lord. Yeah. And that will come during his third missionary journey. Yeah. Received, um, so you get this, hey, you're gonna get punished, 39 lashes. Paul got that five times. Five times. beaten with the rod three times, stoned and left for dead, imprisoned several times, shipwrecked three times. If there was ever a guy who understands trauma and persecution It's the apostle Paul. And yet we see him right the way he does. And I I love what we just read in verse two. Even though we were persecuted, we had the boldness in our God to speak to you the gospel of God amid uh amist Much opposition. So someone mentioned it earlier, the boldness that we need to have. Was there a comment over here? So it was it was it was their their job was to get you as close to death but not kill you. And I'm sure he felt on several occasions that he was right there, right? He it even talks about when it talks about being stoned and left for dead, I I think that's the condition he was in, right? He was I'm done, Lord Just unbelievable. Alright, so we we do I do want to make sure that in the midst of this thanksgiving and and praise for this church, it's in the midst of heavy opposition. All right, um heavy persecution. Let's go down to verse eighteen I'll start in 17. For we brethren, having been bereft of you for a short while, in person, not in spirit, were all the more eager with great desire to see your face. He wanted to see his children. Right, he desired to see them. Verse 18, for we wanted to come to you, I Paul, more than once, and yet Satan forwarded us. For who is our hope, our joy, our crown, or exaltation? Is it not even you in the presence of our Lord Jesus at His coming So you see this evidence of um Satan thwarting and this idea of thwart, it's uh like a military foe would hinder the advance of his enemy. We see this somewhat throughout Paul's ministry and his journeys, right? So Satan was active here. Why? Did he want to see Paul go out and start all these churches? Absolutely not. What are your thoughts on why was Satan allowed to thwart Paul? Yeah, so really good distinction uh comment and distinction here, right? We know that God is sovereign. You know, his plan will never be thwarted. We know in Romans 8 he works all things for good for those who are in Christ Jesus. Maybe Paul wanted eagerly to go see um the church at Thessalonica. It may not have been God's timing. Alright. Let me contrast real quick and we'll come back to to the comments. I pulled up the map back up here. Do you remember when Paul got to to Troaz up here He wanted to go north. He wanted you know this was Asia Minor. He wanted to go north into Asia and he was thwarted once again. Who did the thwarting here? It was the Holy Spirit. Right? So in this case it was the Holy Spirit. Why? Because God's plan was for him to come over here into Macedonia. Right, so so we can see evidence of a couple different players here. Yes, you see Satan that is constantly trying to drive opposition and thwarting We also see the Holy Spirit in play, forwarding, allowing. You know, it's a bit of a paradox, but ultimately it goes back up to God's sovereignty. He's got everything in his hand. his plan cannot be thwarted. So you may be, you know, feel like uh you're trying to to live the right way, you need to move in a certain direction, you need to go visit somebody, you need to, you know, fill in the blank And I don't want you to walk away thinking, oh, Satan's thwarting me. I want you to walk away thinking God's sovereignty is sovereign. Right? He is in charge. I'm going to trust him. Okay. Jody you had a comment. I was wondering if it was something to do with Paul's if Paul had a tendency to be prideful and that God was holding him back so that He would be more helpful. I you know, there's no way his floor in the flesh wasn't instead of maybe his eyesight or something, but maybe it's Yeah. So maybe this is pride of this first. Yeah, so I don't know if you heard everyone joining us talking about is it possible that the Lord allowed Satan to move in that way to to combat maybe Paul's pride? Right? We and she mentioned the thorn in the side. A lot of people have questioned. Certainly he talks about I saw a vision and and he talks about that thorn is necessary so I don't become boastful Right? Um and so it's very possible. It's very possible that he was so eager to get back and yet that's not the plan that the Lord had for him. Or it was something that needed to be instructed to the other churches, right, as an example of persevering. Keep going, pull that thread. Yeah, I was going to say that in God's sovereignty, he knows that we need need to be reminders of what it means to look at the opposition and keep going. Yeah. So I think that's a good thing. Yeah, it's definitely a great point. Let me go back to the example of as a father of adult children. Alright? You spent years and years and years kind of directing your children. And I mean that in a very positive sense, right? You you are the authority, you're instructing them, you're guiding them, you're protecting them. And all of a sudden they become adult independent children and dad's still stuck in authoritative mode. Right? Doesn't go over real well. And and so learning to just fall on my face and become more of a praying dad. And don't underestimate the power of that, of being a praying dad, right? I I've had to learn um to do just that, to put my trust in God in how He's working through my children. Does he have them in the palm of his hand if they are believers? Absolutely. And I have to trust that. Now does that mean I stop being an encourager? An exhorter? Sometimes an implorer? Although just a little bit. Right? No, of course not. But it it looks different now. I have to approach it differently. Um, I need to be much more of the counselor than the authoritative figure. But to your point, I now have to trust because it's like, boy, I can see where they're going. I don't like this But the Lord's gonna teach them something through that. And if I take that away from them, right, they're not gonna benefit from that blessing. That's hard for a dad to take on But I have to uh I have learned now and I have peace and joy with that. And it's wonderful to see them grow in their own faith and their own walk um in the Lord. Um it would be a miss for us to discuss safety without going to Joe Chapter one and two and seeing that interaction between God and Joe and and see um where Satan's authority is not a good thing. Yeah. And and realize, you know, Satan is not omniscient, he's not omnipotent, he's not, you know, he doesn't have those qualities. Is there spiritual warfare going on out there? Absolutely. Right, and and we'll probably um talk about that in our series here. But what what I want you to walk away with is is you know we often have our plans but there's stuff going on behind the scenes and and realize God is sovereign. Right, as a believer you can you can put full trust and assurance in that. Okay? Yes. I think it's really helpful uh to have a map up uh in the process of idea at Athens where where you kind of mention Yeah. Yeah. Except that that's what I just like came down and chased them out there. too so like i like part of the static injury might be like uh we don't really know what was in the mind of of Paul and his co travelers at that point when they got Like maybe we lay low here for a couple weeks, like so and then we go back to the Sonica. Yeah. But that wasn't an option. So kind of wonder that's Yeah, mate uh Matt, that's a great, great point. I love that. You know, what was the reception in Berea It was very positive, right? Uh these are people that I I love what you're saying, but what am I gonna do? I'm gonna match it up with what I hear in scripture, right? I bet uh I bet Paul and Timothy and Silas They loved it. Like, yes, that's what I want you to do. But like Matt said, the the rabble rousers from Thessalonica came down to Berea. And sa and started causing trouble there and and so he had to be whisked away. And that's why at some point they do get separated, and Paul goes on to Corinth. Um And then eventually he sends Timothy back to get a report and to see how they're doing. Okay? So great, great point. Okay. Comment? No. Good Alright, so your homework for next week is read chapter three and read chapter three and read chapter three. Really meditate on it. Pray through it. What questions pop out at you as you observe the scripture? This is the pattern you want to get into when you study God's Word. Start with observation What's the context? Who is he talking to? What's going on here? What questions do you have? And then try to interpret some of those major components of the passage. The other piece of the homework I have for you, Psalm 19. Seven and eight. Easy, quick, very encouraging. I want you to memorize it. And when you come to class next week, I might voluntole some people to share reciting the song. And you can hold me accountable too. I'll do the same thing. All right. Alright, so chapter three and Psalm nineteen, seven and eight. That's your home. All right, does the construct of what we're trying to do here make sense with the worksheets and everything? Alright, very good. Let me pray and we'll close up.