Let me start um with this maybe a a little bit of a a testimony or story that will hopefully add some context as to why this material So my oldest daughter, uh I have seven children, I think most of you know that. My oldest daughter is a veterinary technician. So think of a nurse for animals And a lot of people have commented, oh, she must really love animals. That's why she got into that career field And and yes, she absolutely does. But what she really loves is the science behind it. She has animals that will come in with all kinds of ailments and her passion is Can I truly understand what the problem is? Can I investigate? Can I peel through all the layers and really get to the heart of what's happening with this animal She geeks out over bacteria and worms and just uh Karina and I had an opportunity to go visit her last year and sit in on one of her classes and she was just so passionate about all these different bacteria and worms and it was grossing me out. But my point is she she loves the science She loves training these people, these young students, to be able to do the same thing. Okay? So take that context and now fast forward to myself. Biblical counseling My wife for many, many, many, many years has been drawn to biblical counseling. She wanted to get certified and be a certified biblical counselor Well with seven kids and being in the military and moving all over the place, it was never the right season to do that. Lo and behold, when we come here to Hope Bible Church, it's a training center for biblical counseling. Kids are all adults now and guess what? We have a season where, no kidding, this can happen. So um Gabe has the fundamentals and counseling class that he does every year and and my wife says, Yeah, I'm gonna sign up for that. And I said, you know what? Um I have no draw to counseling. I I'm not empathetic enough to be a counselor, right? But the fundamentals class is good for anyone. As you know, we're all counselors. Every believer is a counselor And so I took the class and I got hooked. I got hooked. Here's why though. Here's what I found out about myself as I've gone through the process of getting certified uh being equipped to do that better, to do that with more excellence. It's not that I'm more empathetic. I have a little bit of that, okay? But it's more about the science What I have found is I love ministering the Word of God to people. People come in with problems. They're lamenting, they're grieving, they're they're having marriage issues, they're having conflict. And I get to help them by ministering God's word. That's what gets me do stuff Right? I get really, really passionate about that. And it's funny, we're at a season now where Karine and I get to do that together. So as a as a team, we get to do a lot of counseling. It's it's usually marriage counseling Um, but it's funny how the Lord has just complimented us. She brings different skills than than what I have, and I so depend on her wisdom to help me in that process. It's precious But what I would tell you is, and she would say this about me, I'm more of the 911 guy. Right? Give me your problems and and I need to figure out what's going on. Right? I need to be a really good listener and then I get to apply and minister God's word And what I find is when people apply that wisdom, you see a transformation in their lives. It is so, so exciting. to see God's word minister in that way. That's what I love. That's the passion that I have. Crean on the other hand, she she doesn't like the 911 part, right? She's not a conflict person. What she really loves is the discipling part. So what will often happen is we'll we'll counsel a a married couple and get them to a a really good point and then it's like, okay, it's time to transition because I got another 911 call over here I gotta take care of, okay? Crean wants to keep discipling, so often she'll she and the woman will will continue on for several weeks as she ministers and just continues the care and feeding, if you will. So we complemented each other well I say all that to say, why did I choose this material? Right? I want us to go on a journey with Paul. And I want us to dig deep into God's Word. And I want us to be equipping ourselves. I want us to minister God's word to our life and really think about the application as we look through what Paul is saying to these churches Now, what I really love as we dive into a particular book of the Bible is to really understand the context. I really like to do it in more of a time chronological perspective, and we'll talk more about that, so that we can really get a sense of what's happening with the author. And in this case, Paul, right? And so I want us to go on this journey with Paul and specifically chose kind of the end of his second missionary journey, where he wrote 1st and 2nd Thessalonians. And then bridge that gap to his third missionary journey where we're talking about first and second Corinthians. So that's that's the reasoning behind that is the context of Paul's journeys but really getting after 1 and 2 Thessalonians and 1st and 2nd Corinthians. And we're going to see two very different churches that that he's talking to. Okay? Um and you're gonna well I don't want to get ahead of myself. But so that's the context of what we're doing. And at the end of the day, what are we doing here this morning? What are what are these classes called Equipping classes. We want to be equipping ourselves. So I think of Ephesians 4. 12 for the equipping of the saints for the work of service to the building up of the body of Christ. So that's our goal here Right for myself as well is to be equipped to grow in Christ's likeness and we're gonna talk more about that. Okay? That makes sense Alright, so that's now if what I just explained to you are like, boy, that's not what I expected at all, and you want to go to another class, that's totally up to you. Okay? But I think you're going to find this is going to be a a very fruitful journey that we go on. Okay? Alright, so here is the outline. Today really is just an intro, so we may not go the full time, but it's really just to set the context for what we're going to be doing actually over the next three semesters, I'll call it. So this is going to take us, you know, three parts to get through it all. You can see we'll get through Thessalonians pretty quick. First and second Thessalonians. They're not large books. They're not large epistles And so we'll finish that. We'll start 1 Corinthians, and then part two is going to be the rest of 1 Corinthians, and then the third part in the spring will be 2 Corinthians. All right, again, very different churches that will be contrasted here Alright, um a little more context, and this is something that uh maybe it's the biblical counseling. Uh you find this this quote in the red book that Gabe put together that we hand out uh the heartbeat of uh Hope Bible Church. It also was kind of the foundation for what we taught um during our short-term mission trip this summer to Columbia The gospel is more than what we must believe to be saved from God's wrath. The gospel is foundational truth for living. And so here's my point. We often, when we think of the gospel, what do we think of? Salvation, evangelism, of course. And you can see the quote there from Paul in Romans 1. 16, for I am not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. Obviously, we understand the power of salvation through or the power of the gospel in salvation. What I really want us to focus on though is it's also critical for our sanctification. What is sanctification? Over time. Yeah, to be more like God That's it, pretty simple. To be conformed into the image of Christ, right? That's it. In in in what did Abbey say? It's a progression. It takes time. That's what we're doing once you are uh a believer, once you're saved That's our life right now. That's what I really want to focus on. How does the gospel, though, play a part in our sanctification? And and I'll say this, when I brought this up um in Colombia in the short-term mission trip, I got some questions afterwards. Hey, I don't understand this whole idea of the gospel and our sanctification Go ahead, Nicholas. I think the more that we focus on what Christ did for us will love him and cherish him and obey him once. Okay. Absolutely. That's an aspect of it for sure. I'd like to put the word uh justification and sanctification together. Justification is a moment in time where God declares us righteous. Sanctification is working that out. Yeah. So we are basically agreeing and uh and living the life That God has declared. Yeah. Let me do this. Great point. Um let me add this this little uh diagram here at the bottom. Where does the gospel start? Go on the left hand side. Right. Right. Think about this. As we read God's Word, what we want to be doing as we go through the sanctification process is always trying to be cultivate a really high view of God. Right, so often what do we do, especially in the midst of trial and tribulation? We bring God way down here to our level. We start wringing our hands and we start taking the problems. We we lose faith. We lose trust in this God that saved us, right? So as we go through this process of studying these epistles, I want us to continually be working at cultivating a really high view of God. That's where the gospel starts is with God. The fact that He is holy, holy, holy, right, is the reason we need a Savior. The reason we need to be justified. Alright? So as we go through this, as you're reading um God's Word, and this this applies to anything you do, your daily devotion, you know, we need to be cultivating a really high view of God What about man? At the same time as cultivating a high view of God, we need to make sure we're cultivating a correct view of man. And as Nicholas brought it up, that's remembering who we were before we were saved. Dead in our sins, in bondage to sin. This comes up a lot in our relationships Right? It's so easy to feel um to feel um like you've been you know thwarted against and injustice has happened against you and it's easy not to forgive somebody Until you go back and remember what the Lord did for you. Alright? So that's what we're trying to cultivate is a remembrance of who we were in our bondage to sin Right? Separated from God. Why? Because of his attributes, because he is holy, holy, holy. And as mentioned, we needed a Savior. We're reminded we needed a Savior, and that's Jesus Christ, of course. But the the last bubble on the right is just as important, and I see this often in counseling. We forget who we are as a child of God. We forget the assurances, the promises of who we are as a child of God. That's so critical for this really difficult walk, this sanctification journey here on this earth Alright, we have to hold fast and meditate on those promises. So that's why I say this really is foundational, the gospel. So we'll keep coming back to that And I'm going to get to the worksheet in front of you. It's going to help cultivate this idea of the gospel and the different aspects of the gospel as we go through these different parts. Okay? Any questions on that? Does that make sense? Alright, so that's absolutely foundational. Alright, another item we need to talk about. Is some theology type words, and we'll explain that. Often what you see in the writing of Paul in his epistles is a pattern He starts with what you would call indicatives. What's an indicative? I have the it up there, but explain it in short terms. An indicator. Indicator, kind of, right? It's just truth. Right? It's it's like it says up there, things that God has done, is doing, will do, it's statements of fact This is God's pronouncement. This is his precious word. And Paul usually starts with that. This is what God says. This is what God did. This is what God promised. Okay, then he follows up with, based on that, here's the imperative. Think of imperative as simply a command or instruction. Because God did this, because God said this, this is how we are now supposed to live. Okay? And we've got to be real careful that this doesn't become a checklist of, you know, God just piling heavy weights on top of our shoulders. That's not the intent here. And we're going to get after that in a second. Okay? So indicatives, imperatives, just think God's truth and then commands or instructions. And then lastly, application. And this is really an individual application. Right? You know there's one true meaning to a passage of scripture, but there can be many, many applications. We want to get after this in this class applications for you personally. And you'll see that on the worksheet, right? In in in view of the indicative we just read, the imperatives that Paul is talking about, what does that mean to you personally? What does that mean to your life? That's the equipping that we want to do in this class. Okay? So to give you an example, And we're actually going to study this because it's in 1 Thessalonians. Um and I really love this subject. And you get a lot of questions. What is the will of God? And we'll talk more about that. Sometimes it is crystal, crystal clear in God's word, as in this case. For this is the will of God, your sanctification. That you be sanctified, right? To be conformed every day, more and more into the image of Christ. That would be an indicative, a truth from God. The imperative, and in this particular case, the instruction, talking about sexual immorality, that to be sanctified, that is the will of God, you abstain from sexual immorality. And then the application, and again I just threw out for this very example, um, especially in this guy's uh uh idea of sexual immorality, there's typically two paths um that we have people take. One is there needs to be this radical amputation, right? And that might be, you know, giving up your iPad, putting covenant eyes on your computer But that never gets at the heart of the issue, right? So that's the second path is that counseling, being in God's Word, finding out what's going on in the heart of the matter Alright? So that would just be an application of what that might look like. So that's kind of the the pattern we're going to go after as we go through the next three semesters, if you will All right, let's look at your uh worksheet real quick. Everyone got a worksheet It's up there on the screen. So again, what it is, is you know, it's blank, if you will, and every class I want you to bring that right on it. This is for you Right? This is for you. And the very uh beginning of it, as we talked about, is what when we study these passages, these chapters, what are you seeing about the character of God What jumps out about his attributes, about his character in that particular passage? And then we'll talk about, or you'll write down those indicatives, truth from God. the imperatives, the commands, and then the application as a child of God. And again, that's for you personally. Alright, does that make sense what we're doing there? On the right hand side is just some area if you have some general notes that you want to take. And then at the bottom is really critical is the homework. So you can go ahead and write right now in your homework, read 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. Now here's what I want you to do. And and you're gonna get the most out of these classes if you do the homework, alright? Well I do sound like a biblical counselor now, don't I? Here's your homework you gotta go do Um, this is really, really critical because what I want you to do is maybe on Monday you read the chapter. They're not long chapters. Tuesday you read it again. Wednesday you read it again. You're meditating on it. You're chewing on it. You're praying through it throughout the week. And then by Friday, Saturday, I would encourage you to start filling out the worksheet Right? You're going to start to see these commands, you're going to start to see these imperatives or truth and and commands. And maybe uh even start to think about some of the application Right? You don't have to fill the whole thing out, but what are some of the things that the Holy Spirit is starting to put on your heart as you read through that? So you're gonna come in prepared, you're gonna come in with questions Um, hey, I was reading this particular section and I'm not really sure I understand what it means, or I'm not really sure what the indicative is, or well, I struggled with finding, you know, the character quality of God. That's okay. That's observing the text. Alright, so does that make sense? And again, I can't overemphasize this enough. You will get the most out of this by doing the homework. Okay? I'm gonna yes. Is this gonna be posted on Hope Book so that we can Yes, you will um Diane's always going to have sheets ready for you, but I think it's posted already if it's not under our group. So um great question, Dawn. Is there is a hope group um group that we have that you can go to and right now that file is posted up there. I will probably post the slides after that after we have our class as well. So if you want to go back to the slides and we are also recording. So for some reason you have to miss a class, you can go back to the recording And of course, make sure you bring your Bible, whether that's on your phone or or hard copy. We have Bibles here if you need them, but uh just let us know. So having said that, let's go to Psalm 19 So let me say this up front. Um many of you know you know what we teach here at Hope Bible Church, but we're gonna go in with the assumption that you know, the Bible, the sixty-six books, that's a closed canon, you know, no no more revelation. It is the inspired word of God, meaning God breathed. It's inerrant. The original manuscripts are without any error. It is authoritative. It is used to guide our life. This is how we should be living. These are truths. about God. And it is sufficient meaning comprehensive for what we n what God wants us to know about Himself. Remember the bubbles I talked about, right? What does God want us to know about Himself? We find that in God's Word. Right? How we are to live, we find that in God's Word. Everything we need in this life is found in the Bible. It is sufficient. So we're gonna go in with that assumption. Alright, Psalm 19. Wonderful, wonderful Psalm. We often talk about two broad character categories of God's uh revelation. What are those? His word, his spirit, and then his creation. Alright, good. So so what we're talking about, we talk about general revelation that's typically creation Right, we see that in Romans 1, that even through creation his invisible attributes are evident, and that no one is without excuse. Right? However, what what do we know about, do we know the fullness of God from creation? Do we understand our place in the universe? Do we understand what is needed for salvation from general revelation? No, absolutely not. What else do we need? The word special revelation. So we talk about general and special revelation. So what we see here in Psalm 19 is that contrast of both of those So that's why I love it. The first part of 19, 1 through 6 is all about creation, that general revelation I want to focus, though, on the second part, starting in verse 7. And I want you to hear how special revelation or the word of God is described. It is precious. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true, they are righteous altogether. They are more desirable than gold, yes, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, and the drippings of the honeycomb Moreover, by them thy servant is warned, keeping them there is great reward. I'll pause there for a second. Let's go back to some of the descriptions that we see here restores the soul, makes wise the simple. It rejoices the heart. I love that the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean. Isn't that wonderful? It's clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true, they are righteous altogether. So what I want you to cultivate here is this idea as we study God's Word. Again, it's not a checklist. It's not a weight that we're pouring on our shoulders. It's freedom. Right? God is specifically telling us how to live so that what our heart can be rejoiced, so that we can have wisdom. Right? So that's the con so that our eyes can be enlightened. That's the context that I want to think about as we go through God's Word. Psalm 19 is just precious, precious. Alright, so having said that, we want to make sure that we we cut the word of God correctly. We cut it straight. Okay? And so in order to do that, we need to use a good hermeneutic. And you see the definition up there on the screen. It is basically the science and art, the rules that are used to interpret the Bible. Okay? Um yeah, I'll get to that in a second. There's basically th there's several different types of hermeneutics, but the the two basics w basic ones I want to talk about and that you'll typically see in evangelical circles are the the two listed here. A a literal grammatical historical hermeneutic And one that uses uh allegory or spiritualizes some of the text. Right? Those are those are the two main differences. Now, let's talk about literal, grammatical, historical a little bit. Literal simply means using the the normal rules of reading a language. Now remember, who gave us languages? God Right? And and I have to believe that when he gave us this very God-inspired, God-pre uh Bible, it was to have clarity. He wants us to understand. Now, are there some difficult passages in the Bible? Absolutely. But the majority of the Bible is pretty clear. Alright, if you read it just plainly as it reads. Okay? So that's what literal means. When there is literally the use of figure of speech, we we understand it as such. When an allegory is used, we understand it as such. Okay? That's what literal. And then obviously grammatical, understanding, you know, the grammar, the the words and and how they're put together, especially in their original languages, uh primarily Hebrew and Greek. And then historical, understanding the historical context. That's why I love to to have this study in the context of Paul's journeys. What what was he going on? Where was he at in his walk? Um so understanding the context. Again, the the Bible was written thirty-five hundred to two thousand years ago Very different environment. Now, on the right hand side, what some people will do though is will spiritualize some of the text. um with with allegories and specifically as it relates to prophecy. This is not to be critical of anyone, typically in reform circles, you can see at the bottom there. you have what is called dispensationalism and covenantalism. And let let me just let me just say right now, this is not in a uh an attempt to really dig into those terms. When you go to the extreme of those terms, there's a lot of baggage with with those terms. That's not the intent here. Okay? I do want to to show that there is a differentiation though Um when you think about dispensationalism and that's that's uh that dispensation is a stewardship, uh an administration, so God using different um administrations or relations with his with his people as you go through time. Alright, that's basically what that is saying It's not distinct forms of or different ways of salvation. There's only one way of salvation. But it's how God is interacting with his people through time in distinct dispensations. And under that, you typically see a um a distinction between the church and Israel because you're reading the text literally. Alright, you're seeing in the text where God is clearly having a promise to Israel. We see in Romans again Paul talking specifically about Israel. On the flip side though, if you start to spiritualize some of the prophecy, um the concept from a covenantal standpoint is that the church is the new Israel. It's the same group of people, but what the promises to Israel are now the promises to the church. All right? I bring that up and and then um it's really driven around um what I'll call theological covenants versus just the biblical covenants like the Abrahamic covenant, the Davidic covenant. Um covenantalism will include things like the covenant of works and the covenant of grace. Alright? Again, we're not going to do a deep dive in into any of those. I only bring this up because this is really important when we talk about end times. And guess what? That's going to come up in Thessalonians. Right, so we have to address it. We have to understand it. Now what you're gonna see though is the issue is not so much, hey, my brother over there he's he's on mill, but I'm pre-mill and That's not what's happening here, right? So we're going to set the context and make sure we understand why Paul is addressing um this issue. But I do want you to know that from um Hope Bible Church, what we do preach is more of a dispensational uh framework. Alright? Let me read from what we teach. You guys all went through that in the new member class, just to reiterate In how we interpret the skip the scriptures are to be interpreted by the diligent application of the literal, grammatical, historical method of interpretation. As the believer is enlightened by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit does not give a hidden meaning to the Scriptures, but rather helps the believer to apprehend the meaning of Scripture already in the inspired works. Alright, so again, we use a literal, grammatical, historical context. I mentioned this earlier, there's only one true interpretation of any passage of Scripture, but there may be several applications. It is the responsibility of believers to ascertain carefully the true intent and meaning of Scripture, recognizing that proper application is binding on all generations. Which is why we want to make sure we have a good hermeneutic. The flip side of that is is if you start with the theol your theology and then try to fit the hermeneutic to to justify that you're going to run into some problems. You need to start with what are the rules? What are the rules of the game and then let that drive your understanding of the word There is a progression of revelation within Holy Scripture. The New Testament completes the Old Testament and anticipates no other revelation until the second coming of Christ. And then let me read, just so you're aware, it's a short paragraph on dispensationalism. The scriptures interpret it in their natural literal sense Revealed divinely determined dispensations or administrations that defines man's responsibility for that age Examples include the age of the law, the church age, and the millennium. If you dive into the study, you know there are some that believe in there there are seven dispensations. You know Three were listed here and they were listed as examples. We don't come down dogmatically to say it's this way. So again, I want to stay away from the far left or right, however you want to define that just that there is a distinction that we have here. Now, having said that, um, you know, R. C. Sprohl, Covenantal, you'll see him and John MacArthur on the same stage. They are really g they were really good buddies. Now they're rejoicing in heaven together. Um but but it's not something that should disunify us. All right. Again, being in the military, moving around a lot, sometimes you've got to find the best church you can in an area. And so um we've gone to a PCA church before. And we have dear, dear friends that are still part of that church and are covenantal. So we have some good discussions, but we're still, you know, excellent friends And so I don't want to cause disunity. I want you to make aware of the distinction because we are going to look at eschatology. It comes up in Thessalonians. Alright? Alright, let me make sure I got everything here. Ah, let's do this. Um let's go to Galatians. Let me say this, you know, like I said, the the literal approach is um our figures of speech is poetry, is allegory used in the Bible. Absolutely it is. So I wanted to give you a couple examples. So think of uh Matthew. thirteen you guys all know the parable of the seed and the the four soils right that's a parable and and it was meant to disguise that message to unbelievers and and his disciples afterwards are like hey man What'd that mean, Jesus? But he tells them. He tells them exactly what the parable meant. So yes, he used uh um you know an allegory or a figure or speech, but then he told them what it meant. All right. The other example in Galatians 4 Go down to um I'll start in verse twenty one Tell me, you who want to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the bondwoman and one by the free woman. But the son by the bondwoman was born according to the flesh, and the son by the free woman through the promise. This is allegorically speaking. So Paul comes out and says, I'm using an allegory here. For these women are two covenants, one proceeding from Mount Sinai, bearing children. who are to be slaves, she is Hagar. And then it goes on. Alright, so my point is simply that allegory is used, but in this case it was specifically uh mentioned so that we understand that. Alright? Literal, clear. Yes, Raymond. Yeah, yeah. But you know going in, you know, the format that's being used. So good. Another great example. All right. So any questions on this Alright. Like I said, we'll come back to this as we get into some of the eschatological discussion. Alright, so let's talk about timeline for a little bit. Um have not done a lot of research on this. I'll I'll do some more, but but why are the books in the order that they are in the Bible? Um a lot of that has to do, you know, there's um historical tradition that goes into that, but you'll see them um listed really by genre. And so if we start with the Old Testament, you'll see you have the law, so the first five books, then you have the historical books go from Joshua to Esther. And then you have the poetry section, you have Job, the Psalms, Proverbs, Song of Solomon's, and then you have the prophets, right? The major and the minor prophets. Um there's that makes sense, the the way that's been organized. Um I l when I teach an Old Testament survey in the New Testament, I like to do it in chronological order Um for example, Job was actually written during the time of Genesis. So I'll sneak in Job just because I think it it adds flavor and a context um to the book. Okay? When we get to the New Testament, very similar. So you ended the Old Testament with prophecy about who? About Jesus Christ. You start the New Testament with Jesus Christ, the gospel. Here's the life. Here's the ministry of Jesus Christ. So that that makes sense for sure. Then you have Acts is a historical document. We'll come back to that in a second. And then you basically have the epistles, majority of those written by Paul, and then you bookend that with Revelation, right? The end time. So you start with Genesis, the beginning, and then you have the end, Revelation. Um let me talk about ah when it comes to the order of the epistles, I don't know. I gotta do more research on that. Right? So for example, yeah, Stephen? Oh I was just something I've noticed and I haven't actually looked at historically like the order. Is that if you start and you just look at which is longer, you actually and then if there's ever a second book it just puts the second word. So it starts like with his all his letters to churches, his letters to people. Uh and then the general letters, but when you always go like Romans is longer than First Corinthians, yeah. And that that might be in the order, Stephen. That's a good point. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's historically what it's doing. Yeah. No, that's good. That's good. Like I said, I haven't done a whole lot of research into that Um but so here let me uh point out a couple things on this chart. These are Google charts that that I grabbed from Google. Um I like both of them, but there there there is some discrepancies between the two of them. There are some areas where there's not total agreement. One of those is Galatians. Right? Many commentators do not believe that Paul wrote Galatians during his first missionary journey, that it was written later. And you see that on this chart. So here it's like 49-ish, here it's 55. Alright? We're not going to cover Galatians, so don't care right now. But I wanted to point that out that there are some differences. And then to Stephen's point, in your Bible, what comes right after Acts? Romans and then 1st and 2nd Corinthians. However, 1 and 2nd uh Thessalonians was actually written before that. It was written during so that's why I like this chart on the left. Because it gives me more of a time chronological perspective. Okay? So 1 Thessalonians might have been the first uh epistle that that Paul wrote. At least that's recorded in the Bible. Alright? So that's where we're gonna start. Um on that second missionary journey, you know, his first epistles. And we're gonna start to see a lot about Paul in his character, in his writing style, um in those first uh few books. And then his third missionary journey, you can see 1st and 2nd Corinthians and Romans there. I actually was going to start this class on The prison epistles. What are the prison epistles? There's four of them. You can't look at the chart, that's cheating. But it's up there. Yeah, right, the four listed here But Doug stole Ephesians from me this quarter, so I I can't do it doesn't it doesn't work if you can't include Ephesians, which is a great, great book So I had to come up with an alternative, and that's when I came up with this idea of of Paul's second and third missionary journeys, which I'm super, super excited about. Um so yeah. Now I'll wait till we get to um the chart. A couple other things to mention here. Now axe. Um what is axe? Who wrote axe? Let's start with there. Luke Luke. Luke, correct. And in what does Axe at a very high level give us a really good description of History of the church. History of the church, right? A new dispensation, I'll call it. Right? God is now going to work through the church. What is the other big aspect of Acts that we see? Paul's converted And it's called legacy if you will. Yep, absolutely, that's a big part of it. Not what I'm looking for though. Boom. The work of the Holy Spirit. What do you see now happen with the manifestation of the Holy Spirit in the believer? The permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit. You didn't see that necessarily in the Old Testament. Holy Spirit was there the whole time. And you see times when he is upon a person, primarily having to do with Israeli leaders Right? Um and for God's purpose, of course, but you see this change in Acts that is really really precious, and I I mention that because it goes back to this gospel message and understanding who we are in Christ. The assurance that you are indwelt with the Holy Spirit. And we'll talk more about that. It's critical because we can't do sanctification on our own, can we? But we have the permanent indwelling. We forget that so often. We condemn ourselves. Right, we'll come back to that. So Acts, really, real important. Now the other thing Axe does is it gives us a good summary of these missionary journeys. Right, Paul's three missionary journeys. However, you can see here, Acts 64, there is no mention of the persecution that happens under Nero's reign. So there is a belief that it was written before that started. And that's so some of these big events that happen, that's how commentators can kind of say, hey, I think the book was written around this time, right? Um the other thing is you don't see any mention of of Paul's death. So again you know, an earlier um authorship of that makes sense. Where it ends is actually um Paul in prison, his first prison experience, which is really a house arrest. Alright? He had a lot of freedom Um there is a second event though that happens where he is no kidding put in the cave and when you go into the cave you know that's it. Alright? Time time is near for death. So he wrote the prison epistles here He was out for a brief time where he wrote 1 Timothy and Titus, and then his last epistle, 2 Timothy, was while he was in his second, you know, more dreadful imprisonment. Does that make sense? All right, but we're going to be focusing on again that second and third missionary journey. All right, let's make sure I got everything here Yes, good. Alright, so obviously the prominent character we're going to be talking about today is Paul. Um just a couple facts about him. I don't know if you knew he was actually from the tribe of Benjamin, which King Saul from the Old Testament was also from that tribe. Um as you know, he was a Roman uh citizen. He studied under, you know, uh a very highly acclaimed Jewish rabbi. He was You know, he knew the law really well, he was strict, he was he was the great persecutor of the beginning church, right? And we see that in Acts. We see that history, we see the account of Stephen And then as Seth mentioned, we understand, we know in Acts 9, his conversion on the road to Damascus. Now, interesting, that was around thirty-four A. D. , that Paul was probably born around the same time as Jesus. He was about the same age, and yet you don't really see in scripture a lot of interaction between him and Jesus. It just doesn't talk about it at all, um which I find interesting. So you kind of had two parallel paths working against each other, and then we see this great conversion Um as you know, uh initially he was off kind of by himself, really being uh led by the Lord as he was being you know built up, sanctified himself. But as you know, uh Paul was was you know primarily responsible for the spread of Christianity throughout the the Roman Empire. And of course, uh Acts, the the beginning of the church That's the account we have as all of these churches starting to happen throughout the region. Alright, so that's what we're going to study. Alright, so let's go through his journeys real quick. Again, the timelines up there are approximate. But there are two major hubs during this time as far as the Christian church. That was Jerusalem and Antioch to the north. So we see Antioch of Syria. You also see an Antioch up in Galatia. But so Paul is at Antioch. That's where he starts from. And you can see this initial missionary journey takes him through Cyprus. um up to Pamphylia. This is Galatia, so he goes to the the Galatia region. Now something um prominent happens on this missionary trip. So Barnabas was with him and John Mark was with him. Yeah. So it's here in Pamphylia that John Mark says, I'm going back home. Now, we don't know a lot about the dispute. All right. What it says in Acts is that um in in this I don't know whose account, you know, Luke is writing it, but it says that John Mark deserted them. Alright, we don't know why. We don't know why he went back home, but it created a large conflict. Pause, we'll come back to that in a second. Okay So um again he starts these churches up in in the glacia region. Alright. Paul's second missionary journey, and this is where we're going to spend um a lot of time. And so we're going to walk through that in a bit more detail, okay? But I want you to notice that it starts down here in Jerusalem. Where does Paul end his first missionary journey? He's back in Antioch. He starts his second missionary journey in Jerusalem. Why is he in Jerusalem? Alright, let's open your Bibles to Acts. Perfect. Alright. So let's pick up in uh chapter fifteen. So I'm in Acts fifteen. And remember, Paul, Paul is, you know, he's going to these churches, he's going to the Jewish synagogues, and you're going to see what drives him from area to area is persecution from the Jews. But in the meantime a lot of Gentiles are being saved. So so Paul spends a lot of time ministering to and having and seeing the Gentiles being saved. But this is going to start to cause some some consternation. So I'm in Acts fifteen starting in verse one. And some men came down from Judea and began teaching the brethren, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. And when Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them, the brethren determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain others of them should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders concerning this issue. Therefore, being sent on their way by the church, they were passing through Phoenicia and Samaria, describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles. And we're bringing great joy to all the brethren. So here Paul is sharing this testimony as he's working his way up to Jerusalem. And when they arrived at Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders And they reported all that God had done with them. But certain ones of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed stood up, saying, It is necessary to circumcise them And to direct them to observe the law of Moses. So here's the conflict that was happening is that people were being saved, Gentiles were being saved But there were those that were trying to to put the law back on them. You need to be circumcised as well. What does that do? That adds works to the message of the gospel of salvation. Right? And Paul's like, no, no, no, no, no So he's asked to go up to Jerusalem. Now, who was the senior pastor in Jerusalem? James. James. Who's James? Jesus brother. Jesus' brother, right? Um we know from Scripture that that his brothers and sisters They didn't understand who Jesus was while he was on the earth. It wasn't until after his resurrection and he was on the earth for forty days that their eyes were opened. But I just I think it's wonderful that James now, his brother, his unbelieving brother is now the senior pastor at Jerusalem. Um as Lauren said, we have our first council of the new church age. Right? The the Council of Jerusalem. And what was to be being debated was this whole topic of You know, adding the law back to the gospel message. And so they wrangle over it, they debate it, they talk about it, and it's actually James that stands up and says, nope, this is this is the way it's going to be So they craft a letter that's going to then go out to um the the various churches to emphasize that no salvation is by Christ alone. I'm paraphrasing significantly, but that's kind of the gist of what's happening. Okay? Alright, so that's what brings Paul back to Jerusalem. Now let's pick up, so this is after the council now. Let's pick up in verse 36. So I'm in chapter 15, verse 36. And after some days, Paul said to Barnabas, now so they took the letter, Barnabas and Paul go back to Antioch. Alright, so that's that's where they are. And you can see in this map here, they're they're back up in Antioch Again, verse 36. And after some days Paul said to Barnabas, let us return and visit the brethren in every city in which we proclaim the word of the Lord, and see how they are. So Paul wanted to go back. And you can see in these maps, what does he do? He typically goes back to the churches that he started. He wants to encourage them, he wants to see how they're doing. And Barnabas was desirous of taking John, called Mark, along with them also. But Paul kept insisting that they should not take him along, who had deserted them in Pamphylia. Now again, we don't know the full context of what happened here. John Mark might have had a really good reason for going back home, right? We don't know the context. But Verse 39, and there arose such a sharp disagreement that they separated from one another. And Barnabas took Mark and with him and sailed away to Cyprus. But Paul chose Silas and departed being committed by the brethren to the grace of the Lord. So you you see this this parting that is now happening. We know from scripture, I think it starts There's a reference in Colossians and it might be 2 Timothy that Paul and John Mark do reconcile. We don't know how that happens Um, of course the Holy Spirit, but we don't know the circumstance we don't know how long that conflict happened. But you know that term, a a sharp dispute, that's a heated debate. That's a heated, heated conflict Right? It's not like well I I don't prefer that he comes, say? No, Colossians. Uh first Corinthians nine, six, but there we are there in the Toss. Okay, maybe. Good. So we're maybe going to touch on that when we get to it. So good. Thank you, Lauren. Alright, so so now they kind of part ways. So Barnabas and John Mark go to Cyprus, but then you see Silas and Paul take this journey, this second missionary journey. Alright? So let me just describe that real quick. So they go through Leystra up here. Still the Galatian region, but you're going to see they're going to get into Asia Minor, which is today is Turkey. So they go through life store. This is where they join with Timothy. So we believe that Paul met Timothy actually on his first missionary journey, but his second time through, this is where Timothy comes on the scene. Alright, so now Timothy is joining Paul and Silas. They go up to Troas where Luke will join them in Troaz. And again, what's happening is in each case, you know, they're getting persecuted, and that's what moves them on. So Paul actually had a vision um while he was at Troas and he was prohibited from going north, south, uh basically it drove him into what is called Macedonia, the Macedonia region. Okay So they go to Philippi and then to Thessalonica. So let's let's turn to Acts 17. And let me start in verse one. Now when they had traveled through uh Ampholis and Apollina, They came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. Again, that was Paul's um uh normal pattern was to go to the synagogues. And according to Paul's custom he went to them and for three Sabbaths reasoned with them from the scriptures. Explaining and giving evidence that the Christ had to suffer and rise again from the dead. And saying, this Jesus who I am proclaiming to you is the Christ And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, along with a great multitude of the God-fearing Greeks, and a number of the leading women. But the Jews, becoming jealous and taking along some wicked men from the marketplace, form a mob and set the city in an uproar. And coming upon the house of Jason, they were seeking to bring them out to the people. And when they did not find them, they began dragging Jason and some brethren before the city authorities, shouting, These men who have upset the world have come here also And Jason has welcomed them, and they all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. And they stirred up the crowd and the city authorities who heard these things, and when they had received a pledge from Jason and the others, they released them. So how long was uh Paul in Thessalonica? From what I just read? What clues do we have? Three Sabbaths, so less than a month, because we would have heard four four Sabbaths. We didn't. So he was there actually a very short time, and then driven out by persecution. Okay Uh go to all right, let's go keep going in verse 10. Um and this is now Paul in Berea. And the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea, and when they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. So we always talk about, right, let's be like the Bereans. This is where we get this from. They were excited to examine the scriptures against what was being said You need to do that for me, right? Right? I'm a human being. I make mistakes. But we all need to be like the Breams. But what you see here is Paul was sent away Timothy and Silas were left behind and Thessalon uh um I'm sorry. Three weeks Yeah, sorry, so they they all go to uh Berea, but then Paul is then taken to Athens. Paul goes to Athens alone, Timothy and Silas will join him later Alright, so Paul goes forward and the two of them stay behind. In 1 Thessalonians 3, so we'll cover this in a couple weeks, Paul asked Timothy to go back to Thessalonica to oversee the work started there. So again, this is important context where Paul was only there for three less than four weeks and he had to depart. So he sends Timothy back, Timothy and Silas. I I need a report. I need to understand what's going on. So he sends them back, and then when Timothy joins them, he has this beautiful report that we're going to see. Alright? So that's the context of what have is happening. So Paul goes then on to Corinth, and that's where he will spend actually 18 months in Corinth. I just want to see if I have time to read any of this. Yeah, let's go to 18. And let me start in verse 1. We're almost done here. After these things, he left Athens and went to Corinth, and he found a certain Jew named Aquila. So this is where he meets Aquila and Priscilla, and both of them were tent makers. And he found a certain Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontius, having recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome. He came to them and because he was of the same trade he stayed with them and they were working and they were working for by trade they were tent makers. So they were all tent makers And he was wreasing in the synagogue every Sabbath and trying to persuade Jews and Greeks. But when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul began devoting himself completely to the word, solemnly testifying to the Jews in Jesus. That Jesus was the Christ. And when they resisted and blasphemied, he shook out his garments and said to them, Your blood be upon your own heads, I am clean. From now on I shall go to the Gentiles. And he departed from there and went to the house of a certain man named Titius Justus, a worshipper of God, whose house was next to the synagogue And Crispus, the leader of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his household, and many of the Corinthians, when they heard, were believing and being baptized. And the Lord said to Paul in the night by a vision, Do not be afraid any longer, but go on speaking, and do not be silent, for I am with you, and no man will attack you in order to harm you For I have many people in this city. And he settled there a year and six months teaching the word of God among them. Alright, so again we get the time frame there Timothy and Silas are now joining him and giving him a good report. And this is where he's going to write 1st and 2nd Thessalonica. And you're gonna see that of all the churches, this is like the model church. Okay? So a little bit about Thessalonica and and then uh We'll wrap things up. So Thessalonica you can see this is kind of modern day uh beautiful port city. Like many of the the major cities that that Paul invested in it was at the nexus of a major trade route, right? So a lot of people coming and going. You can see it was a pretty popular city back in the day, 2000 The name, um, you know, it was named back in three fifteen and actually it was uh the wife of the king at the time. She was related somehow to Alexander the Great. I think uh a niece or I can't remember, but um that's where it got its name And then we know that he was there, you know, less than a month, as we read in Act 17 And and primarily persecuted because of his claim of a new king, right? Jesus Christ. But that's what drove him out. So a little bit uh about Thessalonica. And then I want to do in this preparation for next week as we start to jump into 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, but here's kind of the broad themes of 1 Thessalonians. You're going to see in the first three chapters the celebration of faithfulness. Like I said, very different contrast between these two churches That's where we get, you have followed our instruction, excel, excel still more. Right? So we're gonna look at that Um but Paul was very, very encouraged, and it's amazing because he was only there for what three weeks, three to four weeks. The second part of that book is going to be encouraging them to continue on as followers of Jesus Christ. Right, so many lessons for us as a church. I want you to think about it as Hope Bible Church, this local body, as well as as yourselves individually. And then he kind of uh layers in, I think, this this very important aspect of prayer. So you're gonna see up front a prayer of thanksgiving, what does that mean to us and how we should be living this transition prayer and and then his final prayer. So we'll talk about that in a bit more detail. Alright, so very, very exciting book, Thessalonians, and really looking forward to jumping into that And the lastly I did want to show you Paul's third missionary journey a little bit later in time. And this is where at the end of that he was encouraged not to go back to Jerusalem because, you know, they they fear for his life and and Paul being the stubborn dude that he is, you know, he goes back to Jerusalem. And that's what brings him back to Rome for that first house arrest, like I mentioned um during the timeline phase of that. Okay? And we'll get more into this, you know, setting the context when we transition into Corinthians. All right. With that said, again you got your worksheet, so make sure you're doing the homework. Boy, if I if I can emphasize anything, do your homework. Right? You're going to be in the Word. Just meditate. Spend time just hanging out on chapter one this week. And start to fill out your spreadsheet. Come with any questions you might have. Let me say this just a note about questions. Certainly, certainly encourage questions. We're going to have a lot of material. What I really want you to try and do is focus your questions on clarity You know, as you're going through these passages and you're observing, that's kind of the first step in looking at your Bible is observe, interpret application, right? What questions do you have? You know, who's the author? What's the context? What's going on here? You know, let's ask questions for clarity for everybody. Versus I'll call them just knowledge or speculation questions. Those those are good questions, but maybe that's after class. You know, boy, I wonder what uh sandals Paul was wearing. I don't don't really care, but it could be interesting So I want to challenge you to really try and think of clarifying, you know, observation types of questions. What's going to enhance our understanding of what we're reading and could be a benefit to everyone in class? Does that make sense? Right, so let us all be like the Bereans. Nike's All right, let me pause there. Any questions about anything I covered tonight? Do we do we kinda understand the context? Do you understand what we're going to be doing in this class now? All right, I think it's going to be exciting. Yes? All right, thank you, Diane. All right, let me pray and we'll close things up.