All right, we uh let me get here. So we are getting really close to the end, everyone. We need to finish up where we were in chapter 10. And then we'll get into chapter eleven. But remember this last section, these last several chapters, is all about Paul going back to defending his ministry, but it's in the context of what? Hey, I'm coming. I'm coming back in what demeanor am I going to have when I come back? Alright, so we'll talk a little bit more about that. And then again, uh we're in the last chapter. Steve to your question at the very top right-hand corner is the link there, so you should be able to see that. Okay, so let's go back to chapter 10 in 2 Corinthians And again, let me let me kind of paint the picture, just give you a little context of what's happening. So I talked about um the last part of this letter, 10 through 13. Paul's going to continue to defend his ministry, but again it's in the context of what? I'm coming back. I'm coming back face to face, and you criticize me, or I've been criticized for what? Being meek and gentle. And what who is he patterning after that Jesus Christ, right? He says this is how Jesus Christ uh presented himself. I'm simply trying to um uh carry out that example. However, when I need to be bold I can be. Alright? Paul's conclusion um was grounded on what was most likely his Chief criticism from these false apostles, these super apostles that they were called. Right? His style, his demeanor, his speaking, his skills, his appearance All of it was extremely unimpressive when they compared it to what? These worldly secular standards. Right? So that was the criticism. That was the main thought that Paul was going to fight against. And he was going to fight using what? spiritual weapons. Right? He called it spiritual warfare. And he talked about some of these weapons. Again, he comes meek and gentle, but he's not afraid to carry these weapons forward. And we talked A little bit about that. We have the list right that we use in Ephesians 5. Putting on the full armor of God to include prayer, and there are others, right? This was not meant to be exhaustive. Our testimony um the fruit of the spirit, uh renewing our mind, these are all weapons that we use. And again, uh Paul is not afraid to use what? The word. Right? That think of that as your offensive weapon, the word in prayer. But we are to resist Satan. We're not to to do battle, we're to resist him with what? The word of God So Paul's going to show them using some very different techniques, which has been a lot of fun in in this lesson to see how Paul is just a master at literary techniques to get his point across. But he talks about these weapons as what? Being divinely powerful. These are God's weapons, right? Controlled by the Holy Spirit. Paul is going to wage war. But wage war against what? Specifically in this context. Right? Verse 4, the destruction of fortresses, or what we might call strongholds. And destroying speculations or arguments or thoughts. Right? Remember I mentioned the main thought here that he's going to contend against is this speculation or argument that he is not adequate Right? They're they're challenging his authority. That's the main point here. He's not taking this personally. He's defending um the the authority of God, the authority of Christ and his appointment as an apostle over these churches. How is he gonna do that specifically? What's he gonna do? What's he says he he needs to do Take every thought captive, thank you, Kayla. Take every thought captive. That's the goal here So I want to pause here real quick in in this idea. We talked about it last week, but this idea of taking every thought captive. A couple things I want to say. First of all, we talked about you guys addressing elders or pastors and the cautiousness of that. I want to be really clear about something. You guys questioning your pastors and elders is not necessarily questioning their authority. You have an obligation. When I stand up here and I say something after class and say, Christopher, you said something, I I want to make sure I heard that clearly, because I don't quite understand it, or I'm not sure I agree with that Absolutely. We encourage that. That's okay. Right? You're coming with a spirit of of uh humbleness and and being teachable. Um the pastors will have policies that that we lay out there or decisions that are made and you're like That makes no sense at all. No sense at all. Go talk to them. You can question them. Can you give me clarity as to why? Because often we can't share everything that went into that decision We're happy to be transparent though, where we can. Right? So go and ask. That is all good. We encourage you to do that. Does that make sense? It's when that rolls into undermining that authority. And again, we don't take it personally, but we feel we've been appointed by God to be shepherds of this church, and we want to do that well Right, and to be undermined would be um would be uh um you know distorting or deteriorating, you know, the authority we have in this church. And it's God's church Does that make sense? So I want to be really clear. It's okay to question your pastors and elders. You need to do that. It's just the hard attitude that you do that. Okay? So we talked about these different applications where in one sense we we can apply this as Paul does to the leaders of a church, right? The pastors, the elders, I would argue, even ministry leaders and coordinators, small group leaders. Right, we all have a responsibility to do what? Take thoughts captive, right? In aligning those to scripture. Really critical. But what about on a personal level? Right, we talked about battles in the homes, parents, right? Spiritual battle every day with the minds of your kids and and what they're hearing from the world I wanted to share real quick just a a quick example that I saw in the counseling room. And I see this a lot. So Karine and I have been counseling a couple Just strong in the faith. Just godly, godly people. They have a strong marriage. Um I think I've shared this before. She, and they don't go to this church. She um suffers from some very chronic uh health issues to the point where um there are times when when she is is in the hospital, right, because of the severity of depression and and certain thoughts, right? And when they go through those um extreme trials and tribulations, it is just extremely taxing, as you can imagine. This man, um, he's actually a chaplain in in the service Um and he's he just became an elder in the church. And what he struggles with is his um I'll call it commendation, right? His affirmation. And when they go through a severe trial like that, his first thought is, I'm not qualified to be a chaplain. Because my wife goes through this severe trial, I'm not qualified. He knows it's wrong, but that's self-condemnation. Right? I I'm not worthy to carry this this role, if you will. And so what does he need to do? And it was funny, the last time we met, we had I had just studied this. I'm like, hey, let me show you something Right? He needs to take that thought captive and align it with Scripture. And he knows that. But that's why I I push things like Romans 8. That's just so full of truth about who we are as a child of God Right. That's how you have to renew your mind with those truths. Um and so I was really able to encourage him. You know, I said, you going through this trial makes you even more qualified, right? 'Cause you understand the extremes of what this looks like. You now can can minister to your soldiers and your church family because you understand it. It makes you even more qualified, but you need to think biblically Does that make sense? So I I think in that context, you know, we talked about the difference of, you know, fleeing temptation, fleeing thoughts. Um there is an element of taking that caught thought captive, but you're really fleeing, right? You're putting off. And then you're you're renewing your mind with scripture and you're putting on you know, the fruit of the spirit, uh righteous thinking. So a little bit different, but I wanted to give you that example of a an individual case specifically, because I see this a lot Of of tending more towards self-condemnation. And what are we doing when we do that? Bam. Right? Romans 8. 1, we are no longer under condemnation And who's the only authority that can condemn us? God. Right? And when we start to condemn ourselves, what are we saying God, what you provided through your son is not sufficient. I'm not trusting you. It really is sinful thought. Call it what it is, seek forgiveness and repent. Right? You've got it, you've got to do battle. You've got to take those thoughts captive. All right. Jeff. That's a great question. Here's how I would frame it. I see it across the spectrum. And and here's what I would tell you. Aren't we don't we all go on a journey of of sometimes when we first become Christians we can we can um struggle a lot with doubt Because we're still trying to purge ourselves of the world. Right? You see that happening in Corinth here, where they're they still have a foot in the world and they're so easily swayed by um these outward appearances and and criteria for examining folks, right? So what I would tell you is I I don't know that I have a distinct one way or the other. I I see it across the board And it really I would tie it to someone's just growth and sanctification and maturity in the Word. Does that make sense? Yeah. Alright, any other comment? Diane. So I'm back. And again, I think that's a journey for everyone. We're all kind of at different spectrums of what that looked like. But but I I I'll say it this way, and I I think I had this application or question at the very end. I don't know if we'll ever get to it. You know, I I feel like sometimes as Christians we have an identity crisis What I mean by that, you've often heard me say, we need to, every time we're in the word be what? Cultivating a high view of God And his attributes, right? Really, really high, and uh at the same time cultivating a correct view of who we are Yeah. As sinners, but more importantly, as believers, as children of God. Man, you gotta arm yourself with that truth. It's battle But I feel so often I what m what I observe is is r us really struggling with that identity, having a boldness and courage because of who we are in Christ. We'll talk more about that today. Alright, let me keep going. Alright, so we are in chapter ten. I only made it to what? Verse seven? Mm-hmm. Alright, so here's um a little more context. So Paul identifies, you know, what's going on, and their chief problem was what? how they were looking or assessing. They were using what? Outward appearances, right? Your your style of oratory, your demeanor, your, you know, you name it. It was all outward. It was all secular And his imperative, right, his command to them was look inward. Look at the spiritual evidence. And that's what he's going to start to pull the thread on. And we want to get to this point starting in chapter 8. And he says, what the evidence that is obvious is what? You're a church. The fact that you're even a standing church is evidence of the power of God in me Right? But he's going to walk through some other evidences, and we have this idea of how can we boast biblically? And this idea of boasting is to exalt or glory in Can we do that at all biblically? Well Paul gives us some some criteria of what that might look like and I'll just throw this slide up. We're going to quickly go through these verses, just kind of hit the highlights, because I do want to make sure we get to chapter eleven today. So number one, verse eight. Chapter ten, verse eight. For even if I should boast somewhat further about our authority which the Lord gave for building you up and not for destroying you. I shall not be put to shame. So he clearly does what? He recognizes the origin of his authority. Right? It's not from man. He wasn't appointed by man or himself. He was appointed by the Lord. He takes it back to the Lord. And he understands the purposes for what? Building up, not tearing down. It really gets back to a heart attitude. So he is boasting in the fact that the Lord has appointed him. All of this points back to the Lord, doesn't it? And you'll see at the very end of this we go back to what? Jeremiah 24-9. So we'll get there in a second. All right, so focusing on uh on the Lord is is uh his authorities from the Lord and the purposes for building up. 9 through 11. For I do not wish to seem as if I would terrify you by my letters, for they say his letters are weighty and strong, but his personal presence is unimpressive, and his speech contemptible. Let such a person consider this, that we are in word by that we are in word by letters when absent, such persons are also indeed when present So he's saying, whether I'm there or I'm writing, I am the same person. Right? It's the same Paul, no matter how I um you know present myself to you. And we've talked about this many times Paul uses very different um or a variety of techniques when dealing with the church, his children. Sometimes he's exhorting, sometimes he's um exhorting, imploring, sometimes admonishing, sometimes chastising. Right, similar to if you're a parent, right, you're using a lot of these different techniques um to to get your point across to share the gospel. But his motives remain the same. Again, to build up pattern after the behavior and the example of Jesus Christ. Okay? And now guarding against this idea of self-commendation, look at verse 12. For we are not bold to class or compare ourselves with some of those who commend themselves But when they measure themselves by themselves and compare themselves with themselves, they are without understanding. They're fools, aren't they? So this idea of commend, we've talked about it before Speak in favor of, to give validation of someone's character or work. Right? Boasting in one's own accomplishments is theologically misguided. And that's what they're doing. And they do it how? By comparing two others. They're relative to human beings or their peers or those around them. Right? Extremely misguided. In essence, Paul is saying only fools dare to use self-comparison with others to commend themselves to others. If you are a Christian, a new Christian, and you're hanging out with all your secular friends and you're and you look around, you're like, hey, I'm pretty good. Right? That's false commendation. You're comparing to a worldly standard versus God's standard So that's the danger. And it happens in the church, doesn't it? Right? We can look around at different ministries, different ministry leaders, other churches, and easily start to compare. Very dangerous path to go on. Paul saying yeah, only fair uh fools dare to use self comparison with others commend themselves to others. They were reverting back to their cultural standards. And we we see that in the example what when the with the prayers of the Pharisee and the tax collector Lord, I'm grateful I'm not like that guy. Right? That's the comparison that was being made. And Paul says that's the the wrong criteria, that's the wrong standard. And then thirteen through sixteen. But we will not boast beyond our measure, but within the measure of the sphere which God apportioned to us as a measure to reach even as far as you For we are not overextending ourselves as if we did not reach to you, for we were the first to come even as far as you in the gospel of Christ. Not boasting beyond our measure, that is, in other men's labors, but with the hope that as your faith grows we shall be within our sphere, enlarged even more by you. So as to preach the gospel even to the regions beyond you and not to boast in what has been accomplished in the sphere of another. So Paul was not only appointed as an apostle, but um apparently given a certain region Right? And to the Gentiles specifically, Peter to the Jews. I mean they were all given kind of their allocation, if you will, and and Paul saying We're boasting, we're staying within the context of what the Lord has apportioned. Now we know Paul wanted to go to where? Spain. Every indication he never made it. So he still had plans, he still had visions of of where he thought the Lord was taking him. But Paul's simply saying, I uh we boast, but we stay within the confines of our God-given allocation Um this idea where it says within the measure of the sphere, that's actually the Greek word canon. That's where we get the word canon when we talk about the Bible. It is a measuring rod, an authoritative standard. Right? That's that's what the When we talk about the canon, we have the authority of Scripture, the closed canon. So, bottom line, Paul's boasting stays within God's allocation. Why? Because it is from the Lord And then lastly, 17 through 18. But he who boasts, let him boast in the Lord. Where's that from? Oh, I got the verse wrong. Nine twenty-three through twenty-four. Let's go there real quick. You got your Bibles open. That was a a memory verse that we had. I don't remember what quarter that was in. Maybe the first one. Jeremiah 9, let me read in 23. Thus says the Lord, let not a wise man boast of his wisdom, and let not the mighty man boast of his might. Let not a rich man boast of his riches. And then verse 24. But let him who boasts boast of this. And this is precious. That he understands and knows me. This leads me to believe we can understand and know God to some degree. Right? And we do that by immersing ourselves in His Word. But let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness, justice, and righteousness on earth. For I delight in these things, declares the Lord. So this is the framework that Paul has set out on how to biblically boast. And if you ever lose sight of that, just go back to Jeremiah 9, 23 and 24. Right? Let him who boasts what? Boast in the Lord. It all comes from the Lord. Your skill set, your experience, where you're at right now, the fact that you're here at Hope Bible Church Right? The sovereignty, the providence of God, it's all from God. And that's where Paul is trying to take them back. The problem you guys had, Corinthian church Is that you were looking outwardly. You were looking at secular criteria, if you will, to assess the adequacy of somebody. Right? And that's wrong. So he's pointing them back. Alright. Um let me ask you this. Um seventeen and eighteen. I forgot almost the most important part. But he who boasts, let him boast in the Lord. Write a reference back to Jeremiah. Verse 18 For not he who commends himself is approved, but whom the Lord commends. Now, let me ask you, what does it look like to be commended by the Lord? Ever yeah, that's the answer. We want to be commended first and foremost and only by the Lord. What does that look like? How does he commend us? Glenn. Well it's not it's not based on everything going well and and and and all that kind of stuff because Paul uh I mean it's in chapter eleven I guess it gets into all the different things that happened to him. Don't ruin my story, man. No, you're right. Keep going. If if that was sort of a measure, then Paul failed miserably. And uh we have a good code I I'm not sure if I can answer your question, but I can only say it's not that. Okay. All right. Um Glenn share what it is not, which is important. Absolutely Think about this. I I don't know that I have the right answer. I have a couple notes here, but but let's think about that because that's what's important is that we seek first and foremost and maybe only our commendation from the Lord. Doug. Amen. So there's that that final commendation we'll get, right? Well done, good and faithful servant. Absolutely. What about today though? How does he commend us today? Think boldly, guys, you are his children. Yeah, so joining spot on. That is absolutely one key aspect, right? The Holy Spirit Number one, we know in Romans eight what? It says the Holy Spirit testifies with our spirit that we are children of God and enables us to cry out what Abba Father, Daddy, right? But also, um, you know, we're commanded to be filled by the Spirit, to be controlled by the Spirit. We can also grieve the Spirit. And and you guys know as we go through this this journey of sanctification There are times when the Holy Spirit, as encourager and helper, is what convincing us of our sins, of not being filled by the Spirit. And what does that lead us to? What does godly sorrow lead us to? Forgiveness and repentance. So the Holy Spirit um plays a huge part, I believe, in commending us, right, um, as we go through this journey. What else Seeing where God is leading you in ministry being fruitful. Okay. When people come to Christ. What you're doing is Yeah. So Carol brings up I'll call it experiential, right? Um maybe you're leading a ministry and you're seeing the fruit of that. Um absolutely that that could be a a signal. We have to be careful that don't we though? Right? That we aren't solely relying on numbers or experience to say, yeah, this is the work of the Lord. I have a a dear pastor friend um had a s small church plant in Utah while we were there And you know, when the green showed up we doubled the size of the church. You know, it was that small. And when we left we cut it by a half, right? And And that church isn't there anymore. Um but this is a man who's been so faithful and he's just moved all over the place and he's still not part of a you know, this huge church that is growing and thriving. Um and and I just his faith and perseverance has been such an encouragement to me. But in that case The the evidence is not there, right? And it'd be easy for him to question and doubt, and yet he still feels like this is his calling. So yes, but we also have to be careful of experiences. Okay What else? We're missing a big one. Joe. What you're not gonna go with my signal? Renewing the mind? Okay. Let's do that. Renewing the mind with what? God's word. I know you guys get tired of me talking about Romans 8. I know my wife does. But it is so precious, if you want to be commended with who you are as a child of God, immerse yourself in rumency. It is just full of truth and power and encouragement of who you are in Christ. First and foremost, I would say God commends you through his word. That's the boldness that I'm talking about. Don't have an identity crisis. You are children of God. Live that way. Live in the boldness and courage of who you are in Christ. That's one way that He commends you. It should be the primary way. Secondary um Oops sorry. Secondary is um potentially affirmation from I'm going to say this wise godly people. You've got to be careful with this one too. If you have one or two people that are just solid Christians that will speak truth to you That can affirm some of your giftings, that can affirm when you're being prideful, that will confront you, but also tell you the truth Those are very helpful to commend you from the Lord. But you have to be wise and discerning in who you pick. You can't always be looking for affirmation from people, even your spouse. Alright, first and foremost, it has to be what's written about you as a child of God in this word. That's how the Lord commends you. And then we'll get that final statement in glory, right? Well done, good and faithful servant. So I would put at the very top the Word of God, right? Renewing your mind, as Jeff said, with truth And then far below that, I would put um godly people in your life, and then far, far below that, I would put experiential evidence. Be very careful of that one. You must be very discerning. It'd be easy for church leaders to what? Focus on the numbers. Um to focus on you know the number of church plants. And we're going to talk about that in chapter eleven. How does Paul he's going to boast here. He's going to do it foolishly. It's pretty exciting to talk about. Okay? He would have a a he a long resume of accomplishments, but he doesn't go there. We'll talk about that in a second. Does all that make sense, Glenn? I I really like the aspect of good and faithful survey. In fact We need to be to be commended by God we need to be good and faithful. Well, how do we be good? We're not good. Well we're good because of Christ's work. I think we need to keep remembering, as Paul says, this inexpressible gift of his Goodness given to us. Yeah. Yeah, that's perfect, right? Tying it to um those truths and just letting your heart overflow with thanksgiving. But but to that point Well done, good and faithful servant. I believe to a degree we can be hearing that now. And we hear that by the confirmation, the testimony of the Spirit. You just obeyed me Right, you had a decision to make and you just obeyed me. You know when you get that confirmation, the peace, the joy that you have. Right? Those are all the ways that the Lord commends us. That's what we need to focus on. Okay? Make sense? Alright. I want to take this thread of boasting and let's go to chapter 11. I'm going to skip ahead though. I want you to go to verse 21. We're going to start in verse 21. To my shame, I must say that we have been weak by comparison. But in whatever respect anyone else is bold, I speak in foolishness. I am just as bold myself. So so Paul's going to use a different technique here. He's going to become foolish. He's going to do the very thing he just told them not to do. Alright? And we're going to come back to that, so just hold that thought. But let's look at how he does this. I speak in foolishness. Paul is going to use a bit of irony, sarcasm, in this technique called fool speech to do the very thing he told them not to do. Outward comparison to make his point Right, look at verse 22. He starts with, are they Hebrews? These are claims that these false apostles are most likely making. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they descendants of Abraham? So am I. So Paul is boasting about his pedigree. Right? They claim to be Hebrews, Israelites, descendants of Abraham. So am I. Next, verse 23. We're going to see his evidence of being a servant of Christ. And this is where you're going to see a departure from his accusers. Are they servants of Christ? I speak as if insane. So again, this foolishness. You're going to see earlier he's going to call them false ministers of Satan. Right, false apostles. Uh the he'll use this term super apostles. And he's he's here, are they servants of Christ? He says, That's crazy talk. Right? It's insanity to talk that way. But again, he's using this technique. Fool's speech, I'll call it. I more so, in far more labors and far more imprisonments, beaten times without number, often in danger of death. So, the next several chapters, far more he says here. It is likely that his accusers may have used some of their labors, and they might have been in prison as well. Now remember, right, they they are claiming to be servants of Christ, so they would have uh been dealt maybe some of the same persecutions. Paul's saying, you're not even close to what I've gone through. So that's where he uses uh that term far more. And again, they're disguising themselves as what? An angel of light. We'll talk about that in a second. Alright, you can follow along in verses 24 through 27, but I'm just going to start listing some of this stuff. Um then starts the list of accomplishments. And now here's what I the nuance, the change in what Paul is doing. He's not going toe-to-toe with their accomplishments. Anyone who has built a resume You don't fill it with all your weaknesses, do you? You fill it with all your accomplishments. And Paul could have had many. Here's the number of churches that I started, here's the number of converts. Oh, by the way, I have a couple epistles that are going to end up in the canon. Right? He really could have filled out his resume, but he doesn't. He fills it with what? His weaknesses and his sufferings. That's what's going to happen here. And you know, uh for those of you that have trained for an interview, what do they teach you? Identify you know they're gonna ask you what is your what is your primary weakness and what are you taught to do? Turn that quickly into a positive. Right, here's my weakness, but here's how it's a benefit. Paul's not going to mess with any of that. Alright, so I'm not going to go through 24-27. You can follow along. 39 lashes, not just once, but five times. Why not forty lashes? Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy twenty-five, the law is set. No more than 40 lashes. 40 is the maximum that could be legally administered What are these rulers doing though? They're going to back off by one just to make sure they don't over overgo the 40. Right? So that's why you see 39. That was what was legally acceptable. And and you know Paul is a Jew Right? And so they had to be very careful not to overstep their boundaries. But five times he received thirty-nine lashes. Three times beaten with rods Stoned one time, and and I just made a note to myself, I I wonder if it was ironic for Paul having stood there and watched Stephen get stoned Right, the zealot he was for persecuting the church and here he was on the other side of that being stoned. Three times shipwrecked. How many times was he shipwrecked? Trick question. The shipwreck that is most notable is what? Malta, did I hear someone say? Right? What is the timing of that? He returns from his third missionary journey, and he's on his way to Rome to be imprisoned, so actually shipwrecked four times. So that account that is most notorious in in the word is not even accounted for here because it's it happens after the fact. So four times shipwrecked. And night and day in the deep, on his journeys and frequent dangers from rivers, robbers, um, persecution from his own countrymen, from the Gentiles. dangers in the city, the wilderness, on the sea, and obviously danger from um false brethren. Um labor and hardship, sleepless nights, hunger and thirst, cold and exposure, that word exposure nakedness. That guy had it all, man. That's what he's listing on his resume. Some of Paul's tools, though, contend, or what were some of Paul's uh tools to contend with such peril? First and eternal perspective. Do you remember what he said in 2 Corinthians 4 17? All these persecutions were what? Nothing quite. A momentary light affliction. I can't even imagine, right? In eternal perspective. Um we talk about this. What was his secret to contentment? There were times when he had in abundance And there were times when he went without he was hungry, he was naked. What was the secret? Philippians four thirteen. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. So the strength of power is not in contentment, the strength of power is in Christ. In your memory verse, we didn't go over it today, but Second Corinthians twelve nine, what God's grace is sufficient. His power is perfected in our weakness. These were all the truths that Paul was using to be able to say momentary light affliction Alright, look down in verse 28. So these are all external, I'll call them sufferings, persecutions. Verse 28, apart from such external things, there is the daily pressure upon me of concern For all the churches, who is weak without my being weak? Who is led into sin without my intense concern? So we know we have the example of him waiting in Macedonia for what? Titus, he's waiting for Titus to come back and to get that feedback. He sent a severe letter. He loves the church at Corinth. And he's he he's in anguish to the point where they had o he had opportunity in Troas to preach, and he couldn't even do that because he was in such angst. I I believe, I don't know for sure, but I believe as I I read this and we understand Paul, it might have been a sinful anxiousness Right, even though he tells us to rejoice always, you just get this impression of this hard pressing on Paul externally and both internally. He so loved his children at Corinth in all the churches. Right? So when he hears of the troubles that they're having, that just weighs heavy on him. It weighs really, really heavy. Um very similar to your pastors today. Which is precious, but it weighs heavy. So this is his resume. This is everything that he is boasting about. All these things that press upon him. Alright, verse 30. If I have to boast, I will boast of what pertains to my weakness. So all the things he could have boasted about, he boasts about his weakness. So I blew up um the cartoon overview and y you can't see it on the cartoon but I blew it up. Um you know they just do this comparison. Here's these super apostles And you know, they're talking about their Jewish experts, they've been trained, they have this knowledge about Jesus, and what do they do? They ask for lots of money. All right. Paul in comparison, you know, he was zealous. He was a a Pharisee. He knew the Bible really well, the Old Testament. He knew it really, really, really well. Right? He was trained. Um He spent time with the risen Jesus versus the super apostles. He had visions. We'll talk about that next week. He gave his entire life for the mission of Jesus and he never asked for money. So we'll talk about that later today All right, so just I'll leave that up there, a quick comparison of uh how Paul in the technique that he was using to boast foolishly, he admits it. I'm being foolish now. in my approach, but it's really to drive home a point. We're going to talk about that next. Okay? So in summary, Paul, in a foolish nature, boasts of his pedigree, his list of accomplishments were which were really weaknesses. Um and his experiences. I don't think I covered that. Let's keep going, sorry. Verse 31 The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, he who has blessed forever, knows that I am not lying. So now he's going to talk about some of his experiences. In Damascus, The ethnarch, who wa would have been the governor of the city, under Aretes, the king, was guarding the city of the Damascenes in order to seize me, and I was let down in the basket through a window in the wall, and so escaped his hands. So here he is in Damascus and he has to escape by being let down in this basket, which according to the commentaries would have been a very humbling event. Okay? Um and in a particular note, he has received persecution from the Gentiles and the Jews, but here you're seeing what? Persecution from the secular authorities, right? So it's growing. Um the other thing I thought was ironic, Kyria's in Damascus. So you all know Paul's story, right? Um this zealot for persecution was on his way to where Damascus. And and that's when he had the encounter with Christ. And here he is now ministering to that city. Um, I just want to note we won't cover it, but as we we get into chapter twelve, we'll cover that next week, we're going to see Paul also talking about it and experience this vision that he had. Right? But the result of that was what? A thorn in the side. to keep him humble. Right. So we'll talk about that next week. But again, uh he talks about his pedigree, his weaknesses, and then some of these experiences that he had. All all kind of combining that into a portfolio to foolishly boast to prove a point against these false apostles. Alright, let's go back to the beginning of the chapter. See if I can get through this. Good night. So much good stuff. Alright, verse one. I wish that you would bear with me in a little foolishness. But indeed you are bearing with me. So again, Paul is now going to explain this technique. This idea basically can be rendered this way. Do indeed bear with me with a little foolishness. One commentary called it a wishful imperative, a wishful command. Bear with me now. I'm going to be foolish, right? I'm going to change tactics Again, Paul using irony and sarcasm to highlight his zeal for the church at Corinth and his focus on Jesus Christ. Paul is going to speak foolishly to help them grasp more firmly the wisdom of the cross. Right. So it's really fascinating to see these these different literary techniques that he uses. Paul most likely implementing a literary technique which would have been well known and understood during this time and in this case. culture known as the fool's speech. So here I have the definition up here. I'll read it out. A literary and rhetorical device where a speaker adopts the persona of a fool to deliver profound, uncomfortable truths, subvert audience expectations, or mock the pride of the ruling class It is most prominently featured in biblical theology. They specifically call out 2 Corinthians 11 and classic dramatic literature. Think of Shakespeare the jester. Right? The jester was the fool but always got away with with pointing fingers at the leaders or the authorities, right? Same kind of concept And then we also see Proverbs 26, 4 through 5. This has been a bit of a paradox, and I think we actually get to see this played out now here in 2 Corinthians 11. Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes. How do you apply that? What does that look like It's basically saying don't answer a fool according to um according to their techniques. Paul isn't doing a a one-for-one stand, you know, trying to counter every point that they make He's using his wisdom and discernment to actually counter the fools that they might not become wise in their own eyes. Alright? And we'll see that play out here. I do want to read um the commentary here because I think it captures this idea really good. Paul has repudiated boasting and comparing oneself to others, one upmanship as worthless The only commendation worth any salt comes from God. He is, however, in a dilemma to boast or not to boast. He knows that singing his own praises is foolish But if he ignores the slurs of rivals who have maligned him, the church might be persuaded that they were on target. If he stoops to their lived by boasting, he is a fool If he does not defend himself, he might lose the congregation to greater fools. Proverbs 26, 4-5 summarizes Paul's predicament. Don't answer a fool according to his foolishness, or you'll be like him yourself. Answer a fool according to his foolishness, or he'll become wise in his own eyes. Forced into a corner, Paul feels he must opt for foolishness and introduce his own so called boast. He asked the Corinthians to bear with a little foolishness of his own. It is more than a case of fighting fire with fire. Paul's boasting is different from his opponent's boastfulness. He does not try to match them boast for foolish boasts, but with words that reveal the folly of crowing about oneself. By repeatedly insisting that it is foolish to boast in the same way that his opponents have done, his boasting slyly ridicules the boasting as foolish. The jester He does not directly address these foolish opponents who seem to be a lost cause, but only the Corinthians, to help them recognize the folly of these self-important pretenders for what it is, and thereby to escape their clutches. The Corinthians are no less guilty for being taken in by worldly self promotion of these rivals. In boasting as a fool, Paul also hopes to lead them to recognize how foolish they have been for being charmed by conniving fraudsters. Alright, great, great summary of of this technique that Paul is trying to use. And again, his focus is not necessarily on the false apostles. His focus is more on the Corinthians. You fools. Right? You've been led astray. Alright. Verse 2. For I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy, for I betrothed you to one husband that to Christ I might present you as a pure virgins. So so Paul in his defense he's trying to you know present the church at Corinth as he would a a betrothed woman to a future husband, right, with with purity and and virginity. Paul does this with a godly jealousy. Um commentary from John MacArthur, a jealousy inspired by zeal for God's causes, and thus similar to God's own jealousy for his holy name and his people loyalty. You see that in Exodus 20. I'm a jealous God. It's the same picture we have in Ephesians five, right? Between the church and Christ. Presenting church, you know, betrothed to Christ, a virgin, pure. That's his motivation, that's his love for the church at Corinthian. At Corinth. Verse 3, but I am afraid, lest as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your mind should be led astray from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ. Right? He's afraid that the enemy, Satan, just like he did with Eve, and what was her problem? Pride, discontentment, covetousness Right? She was led astray in her mind, in her thoughts. And in this next, that last piece, boy, underline that in your Bible. Let that be your anthem today. To live how? In the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ. Well I've been meditating on this one just smacked me all week. Boy, if we could strive to just be peaceful and live in the simplicity and the purity of devotion to Christ. Boy, let that be your meditation Verse 4. For if one comes and preaches another Jesus whom we have not preached, or you receive a different spirit which you have not received, or a different gospel, which you have not accepted, you bear this beautifully. Paul is condemning them for their foolishness to so quickly bear a false gospel. They've been presented the pure gospel and they are just so quickly led astray. Again, sarcasm. You bear it beautifully. Great job, Corinthians. Verse 5, for I consider myself not in the least inferior to the most eminent apostles. Most eminent, this is where we get that word super, right? When we use the term super apostles, that's where that's coming from. But even if I am unskilled in speech, yet I am not so in knowledge. In fact, in every way, we have made this evident to you in all things. So, although unskilled in speech, and and he said that, I'm not a professional orator. If you compare me against these professional orators, I'm gonna fall short every time. He is certainly though not inferior to what Knowledge. This is most likely not referring, you know, he was under um the rabbinic teaching of Gamiliel. Is how you pronounce it. I had to look it up. Um but most likely his knowledge of the gospel which he received directly from God. You don't need to turn there, but Galatians 1, 11 through 12 For I would have you know, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man, for I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. That's the boldness that he's boasting in. I received this knowledge directly from Jesus Christ, and he stands firm in that Alright, Paul addresses another criticism. So you'll see in verses 7 through 12, I'm not going to read all that. I'm going to just highlight a couple notes from the commentary. But this is where they have this criticism of Paul not taking a contribution, right? They they made a collection for him and he and he's not accepting it He has done this in other churches, but he's not doing that specifically here. Now remember, these false apostles, what? They took money for their services. And so it was kind of a slap in the face for them to do that Let me just read a couple points there. Greek culture measured the importance of a teacher by the fee he would command. The false apostles therefore accused Paul of being a counterfeit since he refused to charge for his services. They convinced the Corinthians to be offended by Paul's refusal to accept support from them, offering this as evidence that he did not love them. Paul's resort to manual labor to support himself. And what did Paul do? Cet maker, all right, dirty work, um, lowly work, again, just fueled the criticism. Also embarrassed the Corinthians, who felt such work to be beneath the dignity of an apostle With biting irony, Paul asked his accusers how foregoing his right to support could possibly be a sin. In fact, by refusing support, he had humbled himself So they could be exalted. That is lifted out of their sin and idolatry. Now down in verse 9, we're going to see he did receive support. Silas and Timothy bringing money from Philippi and and possibly Thessalonica, so this was in Macedonia. The Macedonians generously uh generous financial support allowed Paul to devote himself full-time to preaching the gospel But in the context of the Corinthian church, right, he knew their temptations, he knew the fears, he was uh making this big collection, he wanted to be above reproach. And so in that context, he had the freedom to receive those wages. He emptied himself though, didn't he? And he rejected that because he wanted to be above reproach in this context That Paul refused to accept financial support from the Corinthians was a source of embarrassment to the false apostles who eagerly sought money for their services. Paul intended to keep the his ministry free of charge and thereby undermine the false apostles' claims that they operated on the same basis as he did. Alright, so using that as As again a testimony of his appointment by God. Again, great discernment and wisdom in the context of the situation. Great example for us. Right, and we've read this before, but here we get. He calls out the apostles or these super apostles, these false apostles, for what they are. Look at verse 12. But what am I doing? I will continue to do that I may cut off opportunity from those who desire an opportunity to be regarded just as we are in the matter about which they are boasting. For such men are what? False apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. Therefore it is not surprising if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness whose ends shall be according to their deeds. So that's the danger. They don't come in with big signs saying super apostles Right? They come in as angels of light and and that's the danger we have in our churches today. Right? That's where we have to always be doing spiritual warfare. We have to be taking thoughts captive So Paul, again, as we finish up here, employs the use of fool speech to admonish the church at Corinth. Again, he he skillfully addressing these false apostles, but his real aim is after the saints in Corinth. Let's pick up in verse 16. Again I say, let no one think me foolish, but if you do, receive me even as foolish, that I also may boast a little That which I am speaking, I am not speaking as the Lord would, but as in foolishness. Again, he's not saying this is how the Lord has taught us to speak or me. I'm specifically being foolish here in this confidence of boasting. Since many boast according to the flesh, I will boast also. For you, being so wise, bear with the foolish gladly. Again a bit of sarcasm For you bear with anyone if he enslaves you, if he devours you. Um real quick commentary, this is from John MacArthur. These next um passages 19 through 20, 21-ish. These verses contain some of the most scathing sarcasm Paul has ever penned. Again, verse 19, for you, being so wise, bear with the foolish gladly, for you bear with anyone if he enslaves you, if he devours you. If he takes advantage of you, if he exalts himself, if he hits you in the face. Now, we don't know if literally these super apostles were physically abusing um you know the saints there But this uh this me it could have been metaphorical. To slap someone in the face would have been a a sign of um disrespect. Um sign of disrespect and contempt. So we don't know if it was for real, but metaphorically for sure, um these guys were being deceived and disrespected. Right, so Paul is really admonishing the church, isn't it? You you so easily are led astray. And that gets back to what did we hear at the beginning of 1 Corinthians? But they are weak in the faith, their consciences have not been fully trained. They're still drinking milk, they're still babes. Their consciences need to be trained All right, and we picked up after that, we started the whole list. So again, Paul using this this very cool technique, fool speech, to make a point. And and I think it really exemplifies how to masterfully use Proverbs twenty-six. I've I've always kind of it's been of a paradox for me. You know, don't answer answer the fool according to his folly, according to his techniques, according to his standards. But sometimes you need to answer the fool. You need to confront the fool according to God's standards. Right? I think that's the lesson there. All right, uh for homework. We finished on time. Good job guys. So, uh for homework next week. First Corinthi or read second Corinthians chapter two 12, and again we're going to kind of continue this theme, but I want to have a new verse as we finish off the last couple weeks. It's going to be 2 Corinthians 13. And it's going to be a short one. Five, I'll call it five alpha. Test yourselves to see if you are in the faith. Examine yourselves. Or do you not recognize this about yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you? So Paul's going to finish up this book with, yes, you need to examine yourselves. It goes back to how does the Lord commend us? Part of that is examining ourselves. Psalm 139. We'll talk about that next week. Alright? But that's your memory verse. Okay? Right. Any last comments, questions? Good discussion today. Glenn. I just appreciate our Paul New the Corinthians. He didn't seem to have this problem with the Thessalonians. He didn't worry about them going off the route, but the Corinthians he knew they were easily swayed. Absolutely. Knowing his flock well. Amen. All right, let me close