We are in let me start with um again just a huge thanks to Randall for uh covering last week uh chapter six. We'll be in seven today. If you want to open your Bibles there So we are in chapter seven and as you know this is going to kind of conclude this section on Paul you know, um walking through his experience of reconciling with the church at at Corinth. And we're going to get the rest of the story today. So pretty exciting. Um all right. We'll stick we'll stay there. So if you are in your Bibles, chapter seven, let's start with verse one. Therefore, we love the therefores, don't we? Therefore having these promises. So I I want to go back um and and we'll see how good Randall taught you guys last week, see how much you remember But let's spend a little bit of time talking about the the therefore. What are the promises that Paul's talking about here? Right, you failed, Randall. Caleb. What are the promises? It says therefore having these promises. What promises? Yeah. So we just go back to the end of chapter six. Let's read that starting in I'll start in verse fifteen. Or what harmony has Christ with Belial? Or what has a believer in common with an unbeliever? Or what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, just as God said. I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Um, what is this referring to? Obviously an Old Testament scripture. Did you guys cover that last week? What what um Old Testament scripture is this referring back to? I think it's Exodus. My notes says Exodus 29 and Leviticus 26. I think that's part of it. I also have Jeremiah 31. What is Jeremiah 31? The new covenant. Right, and that's what we've been talking about. That's what Paul has been talking about. He's a minister of the new covenant. What does God say? I w I will be their people, I will dwell among them, I will be on their heart Right? That's the new covenant. He does that. God does that. That's the cornerstone of the new covenant. It's not striving through the law I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Verse 17. Therefore come out from their midst and be separate, says the Lord, and do not touch what is unclean And I will welcome you and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty. Obviously references to God choosing um the the Jewish nation, the Israels the Israelites. Right, and taking them out of Egypt to be a separate people. So a lot of Old Test Testament references there. We could spend a whole lesson really diving into that. But what was the crux of what was Paul trying to talk about here? This idea of being unequally yoked. Right? You remember he's saying you need to separate yourself. What were some of the nuggets that you took from Randall's teaching last week? We know Paul says we can't separate ourselves from the world. We can't live in isolation on some island. What was Paul talking about here? Relationships. Relationships? Okay. And pull that thread a little bit more, Jason. Well we discussed uh relationships that were keeping yeah that that that had like they basically legal ramifications and had other Yep, yep. You know this this idea you guys talked about of being yoked, right? And that's the intimate I'll call it relationship you're talking about there. What talk me through what does it mean to be yoked? What's the imagery there Right, right. The imagery right we get is the oxen that were yoked together plowing a straight line. Can you imagine two beefy oxen trying to go in different directions? Right, and that's why we know often we hear this about not being um unequally yoked in the marriage setting. I I mean, it happens, can you imagine Right? It's very, very difficult. And yet what did we learn from Paul? What if you find yourself married to an unbeliever? Do I apply this verse and say, Oh, I I should be unequally I can't be unequally yoked He says, no, stay married. Right? We we talked about there is there is a you have a a privilege, a blessing that you can bring to this unsaved spouse through your actions through your words, through your testimony of Christ. But that's why um you know it's so imperative we're training up our children, we're counseling, premarriage counseling, is to make sure at the the you know, at the beginning they're not unequally yoked. Right, really important principle. What about in other circumstances? You know, you talked about I think business and and Paul was probably getting at this social construct that was happening in Corinth Right, where they were not as Christians they were not separating themselves. They were going back to um what was happening in their culture. Right. That's where they did business, that's where they had social events, they were not separating themselves, were they Um is it um a command that you should not go into business with an unbeliever I don't see that command and and I don't know that there's a hard and fast rule about that. Um some of you entrepreneurs might be able to to chime in But um it could be very difficult if you are a Christian trying to drive your company with certain morals and convictions and yet you might be yoked with an unbeliever. You just got to go in with a lot of discernment I would say that you wouldn't want to bind yourself in a into a place where if they go a certain direction it's gonna cause you to sin. So I would be careful of putting yourself into that. Obviously I put myself into contractual agreements and but but it's very well laid out and and um you know obviously technical and uh uh really but i it could be that they might be involved in something that would be illegal or something. Sure. Sure. Yeah. And I would I would then have to remove myself. I would break that. Yep. Yeah. So it takes a lot of wisdom, discernment, um on on those business type of relationships. Really anything you're you're doing to bind yourself through a a contract or a covenant um needs a lot of wisdom and discernment. Any other thoughts on that? I mean this was the crux of what Paul was admonishing them. Right? They were not separating themselves What did we learn? What was the memory verse? What are we in Christ? We are new creatures. Randall wrote this. Believers are of a fundamentally different constitution than unbelievers. Right? We have a new disposition. We are new creatures in Christ. Now we have to be amongst the world. That's how we share the gospel. That's how we share the testimony of Jesus Christ through our words and our actions But we are not to be unequally yoked. That's the admonition Paul gives. Alright, good. So let's continue on. That's the therefore. Let's continue on in verse 2. He says, make room for us in your hearts. We wronged no one. We corrupted no one. We took advantage of no one. Paul again re-emphasizing what? That their heart intent was pure. They didn't come to them trying to manipulate, trying to deceive, trying to use, you know, secular tactics. They were simply trying to um share the just the the simple gospel out of a a true heart content and love for them. Um this idea of these words that he uses, um wronged, corrupted, no one, took advantage, it means to treat someone unjustly, to injure someone with words or actions to present false doctrine, to manipulate for selfish gain? Paul did none of that. What primary characteristic would you give to Paul, having done none of that? Think about the qualifications of an elder, that list. How would you describe Paul in this sense? Paul was above reproach. Yeah. You want to know what that means to be above reproach? This is a a strong component of what that looks like. Paul consistently conducted himself above reproach. Verse 3, I do not speak to condemn you, for I have said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together. Again, this idea of condemn, I'll I'll call it a littlesty. This is not eternal condemnation, of course. Only God can do that, but to judge His goal was not to judge them, but rather to produce godly sorrow, which we'll talk about in a second, which leads to what? Repentance and ultimately reconciliation. That was the whole purpose of this letter that we found out. Verse 4, great is my confidence in you, great is my boasting on your behalf. I am filled with comfort, I am overflowing with joy in all of our affliction. Paul's heart is overflowing with confidence. That's the boasting that he has, the confidence that he has in them. You know, I I approach 2 Corinthians, maybe like many of you, have not spent a whole lot of time really digging into it And it just seemed like um a list of issues that he had to address. And I think we know now it's Paul just his heart crying out for these these saints at Corinth That's we we've got a lot of insight into Paul in his heart and he loves the church in Corinth. And we're going to see what an impact in a in a little bit that Corinth had on him and the rest of his missionary journeys. So I want to ask you, um, do you long for that kind of response from your parents? That they would say, I I boast in you, I have this confidence in you. Do you long for that? Yeah, of course. Do we idolize that? Of course not. Right? They're human beings. And I stand convicted often going through seasons where I think I've shared with you I went to the extreme where I didn't want to use the word proud. I didn't want to say I'm proud of you because of the secular implications of that. So what did I do? I didn't say anything Right? And and that is damaging. And so over time the Lord just graciously, you know, brought me to a different place where I can encourage them in many ways And we talk about as you parent children, they go through different seasons. Now I have adult children, right? I I have to do a lot more praying and encouraging. I do very little admonishing. Very little Right? And and I need to come alongside them and encourage them. And and it is a a joy and a blessing, but the Lord really had to take me on a journey um to walk through that from from not saying anything being overprotective of my words to finding ways to really encourage and and come alongside them. So of course we want to hear that um from from our parents. But if you don't Right, you look to Christ. That might happen where you're not hearing that from your parents. We don't idolize that. We look to Christ. How about from your pastors? I think we have an obligation to make sure, remember how Paul addresses the church. Sometimes he's encouraging, sometimes he's exhorting, sometimes he's imploring, sometimes he's what? Admonishing. He uses all of that out of love for his church. I mean that's how we parent. That's how we should be parenting. Um I think as pastors we we We cannot take any of you for granted. Right? We have to um be intentional about encouraging and coming alongside you. Right? We are confident. We boast in you guys all the time. Um if you were in the prayer time this morning, I know that's a small group, but so many of those who went around the room were just thanking God for just the joy when they come into this building on a Sunday And they are assembling with the saints, just the joy that is perceived is really quite a blessing. Right? That's the confidence that we have in this church. How about from God? Does God boast about you? Is he confident in you What do you think? Go ahead. I would say in one sense yes, because it is his work at work. It's his work in us. um the spirit working in us that dwells within us that it certainly can be proud of that is Angela? Zephaniah 3:17, and it says, Yahweh your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save, he will rejoice over you with gladness, he will quiet you, and I'm going to make him boast in your Excellent. Excellent. I I think any other comments on this? This is really, really important. That's a great verse. I think often we're we're reluctant to think of our relationship with God in this way Right? Uh Lord, I sinned again and again. That thing I've been working on, I did it again. I had that thought I shouldn't have had. I did that action I shouldn't have done. And we do what we condemn ourselves. And we forget the fact that we are children of God, that He sees us now as righteous. That's the power of the work of Christ in his life and on the cross. That's the power of the Holy Spirit who seals us Who allows us to cry out, Abba Father, I just I so strongly want to encourage you. That's how God sees you He boasts he has confidence in you. Why? Because, like Glenn said, it was his work. He now sees you as righteous. Romans 8. 1, no condemnation. The verse that Angela just read, he boasts in us. Right? That's the confidence, the courage that we have to have as we go forward. I I don't mean to be preachy I want to make sure you're encouraged by who you are as a child of God. Yes, Stephanie. And so you often hear like I don't feel poised to God, I don't feel connected to God. And that angel of reading that scripture is is a perfect example of what I mean to provide And what we know about the truth of God's Word. Yeah. Amen. That is such a great reminder, right? We can be so influenced by feelings. And feelings, by the way were given to us by God, but if they rule us or control us, we start to think wrongly. Right? And and that's why we have to be grounded in the Word, grounded in God's promises. It is such and such an important part. For us to to wash ourselves with the truth of who we are. You guys hear me say it all the time. We've got to cultivate a high view of God and a correct view of ourselves. Both as sinners And both as children of God, especially as children of God. Right? Yes, Scott. Six seventeen and seven one. provide a context for what you said. They don't disagree with you at all. Yeah. Matter of fact I think they amplify what you said. But they provide a context for that. We're so busy Reading the Word and trying to feel important in relationship with Christ because of what we study and what we read alone. I I need to care for it, but we need to study, we need to read, we have to have God's Word. But in isolation we don't receive six seventeen the welcome of price because we're not changing what we're doing. Because of the promise of welcome and and Zephaniah, we're not uh cleansing ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit. Look, I I know people can call me lazy all they want. I know that my body is sore and sweaty and bleeding from labor. I don't care whether your injury of calling me lazy makes a difference. Yeah. Right, I'm in the fight. My nose is bleeding. I know I'm in the fight because of what I'm doing. Too many of us are sitting on the sidelines reading the words, not in the fight, and going, I don't really feel like I'm in that You know, I'm not into the price. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Scott, really good point. And I think you're right. It amplifies what I'm trying to say. You go back to the promises, you go back to the memory verse. We are new creatures in Christ. That's the context Be bold and courageous in that context. But to Scott's point, now you gotta do what? You gotta put off and put on. That's the hard work, the sweat equity, you know, building those spiritual disciplines that we've talked about so often And I and I would say this, um, you know, I mentioned it I I think two weeks ago when I when I prayed the Good Friday prayer and I used the word daddy, you know, this balance of um God we are to fear him. With awe in reverence. That's the transcendence that we recognize of God. And yet He is also imminent. Imminent with an A. Right? And that means to be to be in us. It's a personal relationship. And that's that's the balance we have with God the Father. Right? That's the balance we have to walk with His good. To walk in fear and trembling, not scared of him, but in in reverence and awe, but also recognizing that personal relationship we have with God He didn't create us, make us new creatures, and then sits back up there, you know, watching everything. He is in the midst of our daily struggles, of our suffering. He is right there with us, the indwelling of the Spirit. Good. Alright, so if you take away anything today, be encouraged by who you are in Christ and and walk with strength and courage and do the sweat equity through the power of the Holy Spirit. All right, let's go back. We're going to pick up the rest of the story now. Go back to 2 Corinthians 2, where Paul left off at the end Second Corinthians two, let's pick up in verse twelve. Now when I came to Troaz for the gospel of Christ, and when A door was opened for me in the Lord. I had no rest for my spirit, not finding Titus, my brother, but taking my leave of them, I went on to Macedonia So you remember he's at Ephesus. Um he wrote this or sent the severe letter. Timothy or Titus delivered the severe letter to the Corinthians, and now he's waiting. He's waiting. He's waiting. And we kind of had a break right here where we don't get the rest of the story until today, chapter seven. So he has spent four chapters doing what? Explaining the purpose of why he had to send the letter. the purpose of why he had to uh admonish them. Why um uh defending his ministry. Not himself, but defending the ministry. We get these precious truths of You know, being a minister of the New Covenant, the promises that we just talked about. And now we're going to get to the rest of the story. Before Paul gets to the joy he received from their response, he will spend a good amount of time over the next several chapters, four chapters laying the foundation for why he had to write such a severe letter in why he had such boldness to deliver this admonishment. The rest of chapter 7 outlines the joy over the repentance and restoration of the relationship with the Corinthian believers. So we were will continue where he left off in 213 as I just read it. So go to chap back to chapter 7, verse 5. So we're going to hear the results. I know we shared that, I think it was in lesson two But let's uh remind ourselves um and again try to imagine just um really the apprehension that he had waiting for their response. Why? What do we know about Paul? He loved the church at Corinth He loved the saints and he had to give them the severe letter. I don't know if you've ever been in that situation waiting for that response, but a lot of angst, a lot of apprehension. Alright, verse five. For even when we came into Macedonia our flesh had no rest, but we were afflicted on every side, conflicts without, fears within. So you remember we've talked about over the last several chapters this theme of suffering. Right? Paul was constantly confronted with um suffering and persecution. Go over back to first uh second Corinthians chapter four real quick. And you remember the list in 8 and 9. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not despairing. Persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed. Always carrying about in the body the um The dying of Jesus, that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in the body. So constantly, constantly being persecuted, both externally and internally Um the Greek word for conflicts there is most often associated with quarrels and disputes. So it's most likely this external persecution. Do you remember for those um that have been here the last couple of quarters um when we talked about his second missionary journey, right? He went from Troas into Macedonia. How long did he stay in Macedonia Do you remember? Mm-mm. Not long. Right? He was getting shuffled from city to city to city. Why? He spent a long time in Corinth. Yeah. Eighteen months. But to get there he was only a couple weeks, um, no more than a month in some of these places. He was being persecuted everywhere he went The Jews, right, were were persecuting him. And the saints would usher him on to the next city. So here he is again back in Macedonia and still being persecuted. The fears within, like I just talked about, suggest potential apprehension and angst, waiting for the reply from the Corinthians. Again, he loved the Corinthians. We see that we've seen that over the last several chapters, and he's he's gotten no word from Titus yet. Right? He's waiting, he's waiting. Um this is from the commentary that I use. It probably seemed to Paul that from the human point of view, his whole future as apostle to the Gentiles was related to the Corinthians' reaction to his assertion of authority in the lever letter delivered by Titus. The non-arrival of Titus seemed to confirm his worst fears. Remember, Corinth was a major hub of his ministry. Think of Ephesus and Corinth as one of the two major hubs, and he's got this conflict with them. He sends a severe letter and he's waiting to hear what's going to happen. Right, it's possible that what happens, how they react, could could impact the rest of his missionary journeys. So very, very significant. Alright, let's pick up in verse 6. But God, don't you love those two words when you see them in the Bible? If you don't have those underlined, circled, you need to make sure you do that. That's part of when we lament as well. Right? We groan, we cry out to the Lord, but then we get to that point, but God, where you remember what He has done But God, who comforts the depressed, comforted us by the coming of Titus. So Titus finally comes on the scene. Um the NASV and ESV use the word depressed. Um I know some other versions use downcast. That's what it means. The humble, the lowly, the downcast. Paul was downcast, waiting for the reply. He's a human being. Right? Paul didn't walk around just happy, smiley, joyful all the time. He probably had the joy, the peace of the Lord. But we see here as a human he had angst He had apprehension. He was downcast. He needed to be encouraged. And who did the encouraging? God did, but God. But God comforted him. That means to be encouraged. How did he comfort him? Verse 7. And not only by this coming, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted in you, as he reported to us your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoice even more. So how was he encouraged? The safe arrival of Titus, first and foremost. We're going to see in a second. Titus was just a a just a trusted partner of Paul. Right, trusted, trusted minister, um, partner in this ministry. So safe arrival of Titus. Second, the good news from Corinth with their warm reception of Titus Right, he was worried about Titus is delivering this severe letter. How is he going to be received? And and Paul gets word back that they received him warmly. Right? They they recognized him as a minister of the gospel Um, third, their longing for Paul and sorrow over what had happened. There was true repentance and reconciliation. That's the feedback that he's getting. And then their zeal to make things right. I don't know if anyone has experienced that kind of joy or comfort waiting for a response Maybe that's a parent-child relationship where you you had to deliver a stern you know admonishment and you're just waiting, you're waiting. Um those can be complex and tricky, but I don't know if anyone wants to share an experience. Was there difficult waiting for that response? You can imagine Paul's Paul's just angst that he had. Um I know we had a situation um not in our eldership but external to the church. Um that was that was heavy. It was hard, right? It was it was dealt with other brothers in the Lord, right? Makes it very, very difficult. And I can remember praying, Lord, I just, this is in your hand, but I would love just a little bit of encouragement. You know, just that little seed of encouragement and bam. You know, it happened. It it might have been, you know, something just very trivial it would seem like, but it was just enough to be that encouragement that God is saying, I'm here. I got you. I'm in control of this situation. Um but sometimes in the midst of our suffering, in the midst of lament, we can just simply pray. That's the request part of lament. Lord I just I would love to be encouraged right now. And you think about can you be that encouragement to a brother or sister that's going through a time of suffering? Right? That's the role that we can all play. That's what Titus was to Paul here. Right? The faithful partner, the faithful servant. How can we also be an encouragement to others? Chris. Yes. Um just the aspect of Paul um seeing it as Yeah. Glenn, that's a really important point, right? How often do we do we go through life missing um encouragement from the Lord. Because we're what? We're focused on our situation. We're focused on self. Again, that's really the cornerstone of lament. You turn at the end, but God, this is what you did. So recognizing those moments in our life, really, really critical Alright, let's take a little bit of a pause. I know when we started maybe back in the fall we did a bit of a character sketch on Paul, right, which is really important. We've learned a lot about Paul. What about Titus? What do we know about Titus? Before I show you my slide, I just what are your thoughts? As you guys have read the epistles, um what do you know about Titus? How would you describe Titus other than words I just use Alright, we'll just skip to the slide. But Doug is right, we have messenger on there. Um Titus, he was a Gentile. Um we we know that from some of the other epistles, most likely from Syria. Syrian Antioch. You know, there were two Antiochs. This was the one north of Israel, um where uh Paul basically had his his camp, right? That's where he operated out of Um it is likely that um Titus wa heard the gospel from Paul. Right? Um it's not clear in scripture, but but that is very likely. And as we talked about, one of Paul's most trusted associates Um he was a missionary, obviously. He joined Paul uh after the um missionary journey, his first missionary journey to Jerusalem. So we read that in Galatians two. In fact, let's go over there real quick Yeah, no good point. So so we have we have complete evidence this is what what uh Titus look like Google search probably some AI algorithm put that together so yeah I have no idea what he looked like. Good point. I I did want to point that out, so thank you, Brad. I can always count on you for uh keeping us straight. Yeah, so let's go to Galatians two. Then after verse one, sorry. Then after an interval of fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along also, and it was because of a revelation that I went up And I submitted to them the gospel which I preached among the Gentiles, but I did so in private to those who were of reputation for fear that I might be running or had run in vain But not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised. But it was because of the false brethren who had sneaked in To spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus in order to bring us into bondage, but we did not yield in subjection to them for even an hour This is most likely the time period is is um Paul um went up, remember going up to Jerusalem, everything was um just because of the elevation. He was actually up in Antioch, um, so traveled down to Jerusalem With Barnabas and Titus, this is most likely around the time period of the Jerusalem Council that we read about in Acts 15 And what was being debated there, right, was those who were trying to add to the gospel, you know, bringing in the law again, the need to be circumcised And here we have this testimony of Titus, a Greek, a Gentile, who was adamant that no, I don't need to be circumcised. Right, and because of the Jerusalem Council, they put the the letter together basically saying, no, the gospel is the only way. Right? Jesus Christ is the only way And then obviously we read now he's accompanying Paul on his third mission trip um as he travels around and and all of these issues that are happening with Corinth. Um as Doug mentioned, the messenger, he was sent twice to Corinth. Right, sent um the the severe letter um and we'll go again to deliver Second Corinthians as Paul is writing that most likely in Macedonia. Titus will go on ahead and we'll read that I think next week um to deliver that letter ahead of time to Corinth. So so Paul, Titus is this very trusted agent, right, to take this very severe message. You have to have a lot of trust in somebody to deliver a message like that. Right, he was a minister sent by Paul to eventually be the pastor in Crete. Um you can read that in Titus 1. 5. And we know that there is a New Testament epistle inspired to him. I did a quick search, and it's not in Scripture, but a lot of historical documents believe that Titus um actually did the rest of his ministry on Crete and died there when he was like ninety seven. Um why Crete? I mean you think of Titus as this probably one of his most trusted agents And he says, I need you to go to Crete. Why not Ephesus? Why not Corinth? One of the the big spots, right? Probably because they had some huge issues in Crete. And he needed somebody like Titus And Titus was like, what? Yes, sir. I'm gonna go get her done. Right? That's the call. That's who Titus was. Um There was something else I wanted to tell you and I forgot. So we talked about yeah, so he so yeah this was the point. He was probably again we don't have this from the Bible, but he was probably in his fifties or sixties during this time frame. What we know, what does Paul say about Timothy? You know, don't be timid about your youth. Now I think I remember when I studied this before from some commentaries, anybody under forty was considered young. Right? So Timothy wasn't necessarily this this young this young man when when Paul addresses him in first and second Timothy, but he was probably just below forty. But you don't see that about Titus So that would leave us to believe that he's probably older. Um certainly just a a mature, faithful, um known for his leadership, his reliability, and emotional maturity trusted leader and crisis manager, warrior of grace, encouraging believers to live out their faith, just reliable and gentle. Boy, don't we all need a Titus in our life. Or are you a Titus to somebody else? Um let me ask you, so a couple weeks ago, months ago I guess now, we had the International Missions Weekend, we had ABWE come in How many of you were part of that workshop on Saturday? A few of you. Okay. So one of the the um activities that they had us do. Remember the whole idea of that workshop was to try and curate or cultivate opportunities. For us to think about, we all have skills that can be used Yes, maybe long term on the mission field, but but maybe more likely short term missions or local missions. And I when I say local missions, it starts in your family, your small group, evangelizing at the mall this afternoon, right? We all have talents that can be used, but their whole idea of the workshop was to try and cultivate um, you know, us looking intentionally at our skills and how can we use those for the kingdom of God. One of the exercises they had was um Write down if you could take anyone with you on a I'll call it a short-term mission, who would that be And the idea was, um, throughout the day they actually um some of us shared who who that was gonna who that was. And it was really just meant to be an encouragement to think intentionally about, hey, let me partner up with this person because we work really well together. Right Um, I didn't share the I haven't shared this just because we didn't think about it, but Crean was sitting next to me um when we wrote this. We did it individually and I said, hey, who'd you pick? Who'd you pick Um and I picked Scott Mahoney and she picked Angela Mahoney. Now let me explain. We had the the blessing of actually going on a short-term mission with with these guys And and they just exemplify Titus and what I just talked about, right? Number one, no quiet, quiet Number one, um just God fearing people. And and you remember the short term mission trip that we had, it was just heavy on teaching. Heavy, heavy, heavy um, the men and the women, right? Um and the children. It's just heavy on teaching. And so we had to be very faithful ahead of time to to prepare all that. Um and Scott played a role in that for sure. But um the the intangibles I'll talk about it. So we had I think seven of the ten of us actually staying with the Morales family. They had a big home, but that's a lot of extra people in your home. And one of the things they shared with us, um, the blessing that we were to them, is we just if there was a need, we just jumped in. All of us. I mean if the house needed cleaning, you know, midweek we just everyone picked up a broom and but that that exemplifies Angela and Scott. Extremely flexible. If they see a need, they're not asking, they just jump in. Those are people that you want on the mission field with you. Alright, they don't need to be told all the time, go do this, go, they just go do it Um I might be dating myself a little bit, but Scott is the MacGyver of the mission field. All right, this dude can fix anything. And I think during our video I showed you he fixes the big tarp out fast, but there are like four or five other things that he fixed, a sink, tile a coffee pot, um and he really jazzes over that stuff. But um again, those are the types of people that you want that are faithful to the word um are flexible. In fact they gave Kareen and I the the honeymoon suite downstairs and they took the open air suite. So just extremely flexible. Now Scott is not perfect Right? He was up every morning making coffee but it was really thick and dark. I'm like, Scott, I'm not in the navy, I'm in the air force. Teasing, I'm teasing. But really I I hope you get my point. And I what I want to encourage you with is um again the intentionality. Think about that. Who would you go to the mall with this afternoon to be side by side with you? Who's your tightest? Or who do you need to be a tightist to somebody Right, that's the testimony that we want to have. Alright, I'm gonna leave that up there. Alright, let's go to verse 8. So that was a a little pause, a character sketch on Titus. We we don't we don't see a whole lot, but we certainly get implications of what type of man and character he had. Verse 8, Paul emphasizes the goal or purpose of his admonishment and chastisement was to produce a godly sorrow that would lead to repentance. We talked about this before, but let's dig into that a little bit. Picking up in verse 8. For although I caused you sorrow by my letter, I do not regret it. Though I did regret it, for I see that the letter caused your sorrow, though only for a while. I now rejoice that you were made sorrowful, but that you were made sorrowful to the point of repentance. For you were made sorrowful according to the will of God, in order that you might not suffer loss in anything through us. For the sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance without regret, leading to salvation. But the sorrow of the world produces death. So we talk about this idea of sorrow. Sorrow has to do with our expression or feelings of guilt How we respond to that. There's basically two ways. There's a secular model and there's a godly model. Right? A worldly sorrow and a biblical or godly sorrow. Worldly sorrow, feelings driven by undesired consequences. Right, we're just we're sad we got caught. And what do we try to do? We try to suppress those feelings, we try to numb those feelings. What does it often do? It leads to more sinful behavior because we're not dealing with the hard issue Versus godly sorrow leads to repentance and reconciliation. I want to read a quick a quick uh blurb from John MacArthur because I think he summarizes this idea really well. Godly sorrow refers to sorrow that is according to the will of God and produced by the Holy Spirit. True repentance cannot occur apart from such a genuine sorrow over one's sin. The word leading is supplied by the translator. Paul was saying that repentance belongs to the realm or sphere of salvation. Repentance is at the very heart of and proves one's salvation. Unbelievers repent of their sin initially when they are saved, and then as believers repent of their sins continually to keep the joy and blessing of their relationship to God. Sorrow of the world. Human sorrow is unsanctified remorse and has no redemptive capability It is nothing more than the wounded pride of getting caught in a sin and having one's lust go unfulfilled. That kind of sorrow leads only to guilt, shame, despair, depression, self-pity, and hopelessness. People can die from such sorrow. Right? That's the contrast. Doug. Do you think people uh can be led to repentance apart from Sorrow? In other words. Ah. Okay, you see where I'm going. I do. Well maybe pull that thread just to make sure there's clarity on what you're saying. These guys had to get beat up to re Do you have to always get beat up to do it to prevent? What are your thoughts? I just see God's word and go like, oh, alright, I'm gonna change Yeah. Or is that yeah. Anyone want to comment on that? I mean Scott. Scott. repent. Entired momentum leading into the New Testament, repent. So I I see your point. And I actually think that some people are moved through joy and goodness to So I I I don't refute that at all. But there is a necessary stage of repentance and I'm struggling to picture repentance that doesn't have some degree of sorrow. I repent over the direction I'm going to sorrow the direction I'm going to. And I want to miss the rest. Glenn. I tell the kids on the football team a wise man learns from dis Mistakes. But a wiser man learns from someone else's mistakes. Okay. Jason. The sorrow part only has to be external. If you have internal sorrow, that's derived from like saying God like you read the word and you you you get the soul like oh Maybe I shouldn't have done that thing. Maybe that was actually simple in my motivation towards the how that was going, but it doesn't require externality to cause you to repent And you just realize that you felt you and that sorrow in that moment. Yeah. Rather than what Paul's talking about here, which is, Hey, I ought to send you a letter to call you out from your bad behavior. Now you're publicly humiliated. Yeah. Um I I think to be internally Okay, that's a good framework. Phil. Um I think it's it's true that like the general pattern is for repentance to be accompanied by the emotion of sorrow, either it's or external, but a one counterexample to that pattern would be Zacchaeus, where you know Christ calls to him and he clearly demonstrates repentance, right? you know, his behavior is completely changed. Uh but he's not described as sorrowful, he's described as exceedingly joyful. Right and so I I think like it's the sorrow, although it usually accompanies repentance, that's not the essential part of the repentance. It's like the change in orientation of your life. Yeah. And I I owe this insight to Matt as far as that. He really brought that out in SLP this year. Okay. Yeah, I remember him a I wasn't there, but I heard he asked very similar question, Doug, to what you're asking. Let me let me I will I think that's a good way to frame it. Um let me give you just my own testimony Um I absolutely can remember feeling the worldly sorrow, right? Uh the guilt, the shame I had of of getting caught doing something or or sinning and I think that's the conscience that is is put on us. That's general revelation, right? Um obviously as you know, um we we harden our hearts, we turn from the Lord, we're hostile to the Lord Our eyes are not truly opened, um our heart is not malleable. But I can remember when I was saved the summer before my senior year in college, I did not feel This exceeding um level of sorrow. I just didn't. Right? I felt um to your example the joy. I felt a new disposition. However Through my sanctification, the realization of my sin has become much more prominent. However, I'm not condemned now. Right? So it's in a different context. So for me personally that's how that's the journey I went on. I didn't have this great um element of sorrow. I recognized a new disposition, but over time the effect, the weight of my sin became much more prominent, but now I was a new creature in Christ. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. Good good good question. But let's ask ourselves this whole idea of repentance. So Paul's getting word they repented. Verse eleven. The question I want to ask you guys, how do we know if repentance is truly genuine? You probably have been there and maybe with children, how do I know if they're truly in their heart repenting? Let's read verse eleven. For behold, what earnestness this very thing, this godly sorrow has produced in you, what vindication of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal What avenging of wrong in everything you demonstrated yourselves to be innocent in the matter. So let's let's kind of parse this out a little bit and go through um kind of word by word. And let's use as as a use case, uh maybe an extreme one, but adultery. Right? This this extreme you know, sense of sexual immorality where you're breaking that marriage covenant and just the destruction that can have on a marriage. Um again extreme, but unfortunately it it happens all too often. So verse eleven really gives us a great framework to be able to examine Is someone truly being repentant or not? Right? So let's look at some of these words. And you might have some slightly different translations or words in the translations. This idea of earnestness or eagerness, that initial reaction to eagerly and aggressively pursue righteousness. An attitude that ends indifference to sin and complacency about evil and deception. Right? It's that initial reaction. I have heard of of men on their knees sobbing before their wife. Right? That initial reaction of of sorrow. That is a good indication of repentance. Especially in an extreme case like that, versus someone who's like, Yeah, it won't happen again, I promise. Right? Very different reaction. So their earnestness And this is what at least Titus has examined and is bringing this report back to Paul. Vindication of yourselves, the desire to clear one's name of the stigma that accompanies sin. Your desire is to restore trust and confidence with those you sinned against. You can imagine a spouse that has committed adultery and is truly in in repentant mode, I'll call it, right? They know the shame and the stigma that they have um uh that the other spouse has. They want to get rid of that Unfortunately, that's probably going to take time, right, to build that trust back. But that's the journey they want to start. They want to get on that path of restoring trust from that spouse. Indignation, righteous anger over one's sin, and displeasure over the shame it has brought on the Lord's name and his people. Right, truly feeling that ign i indignation over um whatever sinful act happened, or whatever caused that conflict Fear, most likely talking about reverence towards God, who is the one most offended by sin. We see this right in David in his Psalm fifty one, after his sin with Bathsheba. What does he say? Against you, you only have I sinned. We know David wasn't saying, you're the only one I sinned against. He's saying, primarily, foremost, first and foremost, I sinned against the holy God. This idea of longing, feminine desire, yearning to restore the relationship with the one who was sinned against. Right? That is an indication of true repentance. Zeal, we saw this word up in verse 7. Loving someone so much that you hate anyone or anything that harms the object of this love. Verse 7, and not only of this coming, but also of the comfort with which he was comforted in you, as he reported to us your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me. Right, this desire to to now want to protect Paul, the apostle. That's the zeal that they had. Again, these are these are just wonderful indications of true repentance. Avenging of wrong. Vindication, their desire to see justice done. The repentant sinner no longer tries to protect himself, he wants to see the sin avenged No matter what it might cost. That was the admonishment that Paul gave them. Is you were not doing that. You were allowing this to happen. Whatever that confrontation was, they were not defending him. And now they were And then a demonstration to be innocent, an aggressive pursuit of holiness. Um think about uh the the put off and the put on, right? Especially when we talk about sexual immorality. There's that part of the the radical amputation, I'll call it. Right, putting off those things that are a temptation to you. It might be your phone, your iPad, computer. You can't stop there though. Right? You've got to be uh tackling what's going on in the heart The put off and the put on, building those spiritual disciplines, seeking biblical counsel, getting the help that you need to think rightly. So any thought on that? Um again a nice long concise list of what true repentance. Again, we are not to be judged, but there are things that we can examine to see if someone is truly being repentant. And this is what the feedback he was getting back from Titus. Just a real quick word of caution maybe on children, right? When you are training your children Your three-year-old, are you going to see that list come from your three-year-old? Probably not. But what are you doing as a parent? You're training their conscience to respond this way when the time comes Right? And where that transition happens, um really they need to become born again for for them to truly respond in this way. But I would encourage you don't lose heart, right? Just keep training that conscience, coming back to the Word, showing them what true repentance looks like. So that when the time comes Um it will be very evident. Let me pause. Any comments, questions on that? Scott. I just love the contrasting words that are used there. There's the despising of what was old and hurtful and sinful, but there's the longing and the zeal for what's ahead and I haven't thought about it in the context of children, but that's so key as well, right? Just to just correct because you did the wrong thing, stepped outside the line, creates a bitterness in the heart, or legalism, or an apathy or something But to to give that value on the other side and to create zeal and to uh I don't know, yeah. Cultivate a fire something, you know, inside them for what's good and what's noble and what's right and all these other things. What Yeah. And I as you say that, Scott, I I'm reminded once again, and that ties us to what? Opportunities to share the gospel with our children. Right? Because that's what the Lord did for us, so that we can now be reconciled. We had to repent. He provided that avenue, right? That's what you're training them. So great opportunity to share the gospel. All right, let us close up here. Yeah, so we we know Paul's purpose of the letter, but who was the primary intended audience? And and Randall, this gets to your your question earlier. Verse 12. So although I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of the offender, who was the offender? We don't know. Right? It doesn't tell us. But someone openly confronted Paul. He's not writing this to to condemn that person specifically. Alright? Nor for the sake of the one offended. Who was the one offended? Paul. Paul was the one. He'd say, I'm not doing this for for my sake. Who is the audience then? But that your earnestness on our behalf might be made known to you in the sight of God. I believe that Paul was writing this specifically to the saints at Corinth to appeal to them, right? To admonish them, to to drive them to seek repentance and reconciliation. Randall, does that make sense? Yeah, so in essence you're what you're saying is that if you vote to them the result was that they would repent and then manifest their yes earnestness for him as a response. Yes. Right. Um again and and we'll finish up with the confidence that he has, their testimony if you will. So let me read that and then we can kind of discuss this as a whole if we have time. For this reason we have been comforted, because they did repent. And besides our comfort, we rejoice even much more for the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by you all. Look at the the secondary, tertiary impacts of their repentance. For if in i if in anything I have boasted to him about you, I was not put to shame But as we spoke all things to you in truth, so also our boasting before Titus proved to be the truth. And his affection abounds all the more towards you as he remembers the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and trembling. I rejoice that in everything I have confidence in you. So Paul saying here, I was telling Titus all about you I was boasting about you, the confidence I have in you. So now write this letter. The purpose was that you could fulfill that boasting that I have in you to prove what I'm boasting about, I I want you to prove. And they did. That's the good news. So he just full of joy. Alright? Let me pause there. Any thoughts, comments? All make sense? Yeah, so this is just a wonderful conclusion that we hear the rest of the story and hopefully an encouragement to you guys. So let's pray.