All right, where are we at? We are in May already. All right, we'll be in Second Corinthians nine if you're not there already. And what's important, what's happening next weekend? Mother's Day. Don't forget your mama's. Don't forget your mama's. Alright, so we're going to finish up in chapter nine again, eight and nine, um uh talking about uh the Project Jerusalem I'll call it. So we'll wrap that up today. Before we do that, our memory verse, 2 Corinthians 12, 9. Anyone want to take a stab at that? Teresa, you got it? Oh my gosh. Elizabeth, you got it? I need one more week. One more week. I cannot do it. And he has said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness. Right, everyone work on that for next week, including myself. Okay. Back to Project Jerusalem and we'll just kind of uh lay the context based on what we talked about last week and we'll finish that up. Uh Paul will conclude that in chapter nine here. But what what are some of the facts? So the what? What's going on? What is Project Jerusalem? Obviously he's collecting funds for the saints in Jerusalem. Right? Which are what? Primarily made up of Jews How? We we talked about this lack we last week. He gave clear instructions back in the first letter, 1 Corinthians 16. So a year ago He was already instructing them on how to do this, right? He was preparing them for this this collection. And some of the things he talked about is it was for all of them to give. It wasn't just the leadership or a a certain sect of the church, if you will. All were to be giving. How? Regularly. Right? The beginning of the week he talked about. This very systematic, um, intentional giving, if you will. And how? Proportionally Right, sacrificially, based on how the Lord has blessed them. And then freely. It was not meant to be under compulsion. It was to be an overflow of the heart. And then who? Who was going to collect this? So we talked last week about the delegation that was being sent. Titus, this just faithful, he calls them a partner in the ministry, right? This faithful, faithful man who loved the Corinthians. and was excited to go back. And he was the one in First Corinthians who who gave them the letter and was instructing them on this process of starting this collection We talked last week about um the scripture also identifies two other brothers. It doesn't give their name though. We didn't talk about this last week, but some of the commentaries suggest that It was simply so that everyone knew Titus was the lead of this delegation. There was no confusion about who the authority was. But some of these brothers may have been from Macedonia. Alright, so you know the the testimony that came from Macedonia, they are now going and going to be a part of this collection that happens in Corinth. And then the why You know, clearly there is a physical need that's being met, but the but that's probably a secondary or tertiary reason for what's happening Think about the the unity that this will represent. These are Gentiles giving to Jews. Right? You gotta remember the the the culture and the atmosphere during the the early New Testament church, you know, these were these were hotly, you know, divided people, if you will. And now he's asking these Gentiles to give to, you know, the Jews or the church in Jerusalem What a what a testimony of the universal church, right? Of the body working together. And obviously to demonstrate their love of God and the saints, just this incredible testimony, especially that we heard about in Macedonia And then ultimately to glorify God with thanksgiving. And that's those purposes are are true for us today, even. And so we want to be thinking about What is the application as we finish up you know this segment on Project Jerusalem I'll call it? What does that mean for us as a church today? Right? And hopefully we'll have some time at the end to to discuss that a little bit. But I want to start um our lesson today chapter nine. I want to start with a bluff. What's a bluff? Bottom line up front, it's kind of a military swag for for those folks uh in that environment. I want you to go to verse 15. Verse 15, 915, thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. Paul concludes this section by pointing back to the author of all perfect gifts God. And I don't know if if you have that in your Bible, you better underline it, star it. It is easy to just gloss right over that. And I want us to pause and just really meditate on this verse. Couple couple verses to help with that. Romans 11 36, you you know this, for from him and to him and through him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. The conclusion of all of this, Paul is pointing right back to God 1 Corinthians 4, 7. And this was, you remember the divisions that were happening, so Paul's confronting the division that was happening in Corinth, their arrogance. For who regards you as superior? And what do you have that you did not receive? But if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? 1 Corinthians 1, 30 through 31, but by his doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God and righteousness. and sanctification and redemption, that just as it is written, let him who boast boast in the Lord. And that's an Old Testament reference. What is that Old Testament reference for some of you legacy um equipping class students you had to memorize it. Was it down Jeremiah 9 24. And I I love this verse, right? Let him who boast boast in the Lord. Jeremiah 9. 24. But let him who boast boast of this. that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness, justice, and righteousness on the earth. For I delight in these things, declares the Lord. We get to boast that we know and understand completely, exhaustively, absolutely not. But we have the privilege of knowing God, knowing his attributes, and that's why it's so important to be in the Word, the living Word. So the opportunity we in the Corinthians have to give, uh Lisa brought this up last week, right, when we talked about equality. It's really equality of opportunity. Right, to give is a grace of God. The the fact that we can even give, that the Corinthians can now give to the Jews in Jerusalem is a gift, is a blessing. And you remember the the models that we talked about last week Right, so Paul talked a lot up front in chapter eight about what? The testimony of the Macedonians, how they were impoverished and persecuted and yet gave so sacrificially. And and what? They were eager to give. They begged to be able to um be a part of this opportunity. That's the motto he was trying to encourage the Corinthians with. And if that wasn't enough, go back to 8-9 What is the ultimate model of giving? For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. You through his poverty might become rich. Alright, the the gospel message we went to Philippians 2 and we talked about God emptied himself, took on human nature, right, to be our propitiation. That's the indescribable gift that we're talking about here. That's the example that is given. And the overflow that produces in our heart should be Thanksgiving. For this is the will of God. Flip over to First Thessalonians. First Thessalonians five And I love this where we often ask, God, what is your will? And when we have it very concisely and directly, you know, that's something you want to underline, because that's super, super clear. First Thessalonians 5, 16, let me start in verse 16. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, in everything give thanks, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. And a reminder, you know, this term, his will here, is his purpose or desire for you. Right? So it's not his declared will, it is his desire or purpose. And that thanksgiving has to be what? Cultivated. That's a discipline that has to be cultivated. One way that we do that is through giving Alright, that's the blessing that we get through this opportunity to give. Alright, so let's go back to chapter 9, verse 15 Thanks be to God for his indescribable gifts. So that's I'm reading from the Nasby says indescribable. The ESV inexpressible. The King James unspeakable Does anyone have another translation? That probably covered them all. So I said, okay, what what do those terms really mean? So I went to Webster, 1828. Everyone's got a copy of that, right? All you homeschoolers got a copy of Webster 1828. Um and here's what it said for indescribable Cannot be described. Not very helpful. Cannot be expressed. Cannot be spoken. Obviously not in its fullness. In its completeness. Right? How do you describe the gift that God has given us through His Son? I mean that's what I really want you to chew on. I'm I'm letting you know right now, that's part of your homework, is to chew on that verse and really meditate. on what that means. I was uh traveling this week and I had some extra time. I think I was on a uh hotel treadmill or something and had an opportunity to listen to a sermon by Spurgeon Specifically on this verse. And it was an hour long. Only an hour? Yeah. And in Basically the contrast he he made was it it really is impossible to describe in human language and thought, right, the expanse of the gift of God. Right, to be indescribable. We just can't do it. And he went on to say, what is that gift? Right, talking about salvation and in all the aspects of that. Romans 8, all the promises that we have as a child of God. giving that we're talking about today. He had a list. But he ended with we should spend a lifetime trying to describe. Right? That's the journey that we're on. And what does that cultivate? That just cultivates joy. It cultivates a spirit of thanksgiving. That's the overflow that happens. I was um reminded of a hymn, and I know it's familiar to you, but let me read it. Just uh the third stanza, the love of God is the name of the hymn, and listen to these words Could we with ink the ocean fill, and were the skies of parchment made, were every stalk on earth a quill And every man ascribed by trade, To write the love of God above, would drain the ocean dry, nor could the stroll scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky Doesn't that capture it? Right, this idea of being indescribable? Even if we could do all that, that word picture we just had, it would still be insignificant And I I got to thinking, you know, we have a little bit of heaven here on earth, but we know it's not complete. What will it be like in the presence of the Lord? when it's when it's describable in the presence of the Lord. Boy, I really want us to meditate on that. Just be still and send uh spend some time this week just really chewing on this idea of being indescribable. It's this indescribable gift that makes it possible for believers to joyfully, sacrificially, and abundantly sow and reap. As we give in this manner, we show Christ's likeness. Okay, with that as a contrast, and kind of foundation, if you will, or context, I'm sorry, let us turn to Paul's concluding remarks to the Corinthians. on this topic of taking up a collection for the saints in Jerusalem. So let's go back to verse one and we'll start from the beginning. Yes. You can. Um so there's many times, but if you look up gift in the New Testament, then it talks about different types of gifts. the gift of the gospel, the gift of belief, the gift of the Holy Spirit. Is this particular one referring to Like the grace of God? Or did you did you find that in your study that that it the inexpressible gift here is referring to something Specific or all of it? Yeah, great question. Uh what I found in the study in the commentary is it it's overarching. Right, it really brings brings back to this overarching idea of all of the gifts that you could list, right? Starting with what? Salvation, like we saw in verse nine Yeah. It's in the context of giving, of course. Um yeah, I think it's all tied together, but it really roots back because we know this of Paul, right? Is he's always bringing the discussion back to the gospel Always. We saw that throughout Thessalonians and Corinthians. That is a common theme bringing us back to the gospel. Great question, though. Alright, let me read in verse one. For it is superfluous for me to write to you about this ministry to the saints. Let me pause there. Paul starts with a literary rhetorical device, a paralipsis. Who knows what a paralipsis is? I I had to ask my wife 'cause yeah, 'cause she's uh you know, homeschooler and she really gets in, she geeks out about this literary stuff and she's like, I have no idea what that is A paralipsis emphasizes a subject by professing that little or nothing needs to be said about it So we don't really need to talk about this, but I'm going to. Right? That's basically um the technique that's happening here. How might m how might we characterize that today I I don't to to your kids, I we don't really mention this or need to mention this, but I'm gonna bring it up anyway It's a little bit passive aggressive, isn't it? Right? It all gets down to the heart attitude. And we know Paul's heart, right? So he's not being passive aggressive, but I think what we've learned about Paul, um, and I think we knew this, but to actually go through these books, he was just a master at communication. How he spoke, how he wrote, how he debated. I mean, he was trained in all of that, highly trained. And so to see him use these techniques throughout is is really quite fascinating. But so he's gonna use a paralypsis here. Paul's motivation may have included the desire to counter some of the false statements about him. Remember, he was being accused of of not having good speech, of uh mishandling funds, um, all kinds of statements. But most likely it was to encourage, to build confidence, and to set them up for success. Right? That was the heart motivation. He knew the Corinthians lacked maturity. We saw that in 1 Corinthians Right? They were not where they should be based on the training of their conscience. And so they were weak in certain areas. The culture that they were in heavily influenced by material stuff and status Right. And the temptation of covetousness. Paul wants them to be prepared to receive the overflowing blessing that comes through giving. He knew, like we just talked about, this indescribable gift. He knew the blessing that would come from that. He wanted them to be partakers of that. uh from the commentary. It was a courteous way of commanding, complete your preparations. Alright? He was trying to set them up for success. Right, for it is superfluous for me to write to you about this ministry to the saints, for I know your readiness of which I boast about you to the Macedonians namely that Achaea has been prepared since last year, and your zeal has stirred up most of them. But I have sent the brethren that are boasting about you may not be made empty in this case that as I was saying you may be prepared, lest if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we, not to speak of you, should be put to shame by this confidence. So I thought it necessary to urge the brethren that there would they would go ahead to you and arrange beforehand your previously promised bountiful gift that the same might be ready as a bountiful gift and not affected by covetousness. So this word superfluous, isn't that a great word? Superfluous. It's Latin, it's a combination of two words, super and flow. So think overflowing. Excessive, but it has kind of a negative connotation. It's unnecessary, you know, overflowing to unnecessary. And that's this paralipsis idea Right? I we don't need to mention it's superfluous for me to even mention this, but we're gonna talk about it because I want you to be prepared. Right? I'm trying to encourage you. I want to come alongside you The consequences of not being prepared are significant. Right? Paul and the Corinthians church would be put to shame. Look again at verse 4. Lest if any Macedonians, remember, he had representatives from Macedonia that would come down with me and find you unprepared, we, not to speak of you, should be put to shame by this confidence. And so there was a real danger if the Corinthian church didn't follow through, I mean that could have an impact throughout the entire region. Right? Huge consequences. So he's he's trying to set them up for success. He wants them to receive the benefit, but they have to be prepared. So he sends this delegation ahead. This is why Paul sent men on ahead in order to encourage, to come alongside, so that their pledge would be fulfilled. And they previously promised it, didn't it? That's the pledge that we're talking about here. Um in those days they were really sensitive to pledge Dodgers. Those who who made a pledge but didn't fulfill it, they were dodgers. They would actually create a list of names and and publicly present that. People that defaulted, right? So this would have been um very common for them to understand The resulting testimony would not be hindered by again, what does it say in verse 5? Covetousness. Covetousness, an intense, excessive desire to possess wealth, possessions, or objects belonging to others He knew the Corinthians. He knew their temptation. Again, this culture that they're coming from. So many of them still had a foot over in this culture. Right, that he was trying to train their conscience. So again, I I often just think of parenting and how often we're trying to employ these techniques as well. Right. We want them to make decisions. We we want them to to own that faith, to own their commitment. And so often we're coming alongside, you know, trying to set them up for success. The bountiful gift, the blessing, again from the commentary. In the Bible, an act of blessing calls down the grace of God on others. By sharing their material substance with the saints, they are blessing them both spiritually and materially. That's what Paul wanted them to experience. How does Paul develop a joyful spirit about giving? And we're going to come back to this hopefully at the end. Look at verse 6. Now this I say, who who sows sparingly shall also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully shall also reap bountifully. First, he appeals to a bra a proverb. What I just read comes from Proverb 1124 There is one who scatters and yet increases all the more, and there is one who withholds what is justly due, and yet it results only in want. A cautionary note, as we see today, the prosperity gospel, right? They they take this and they turn it and they twist it. That that giving is just a means to an end. You want to be rich, you want to be profitable, give more. And you will be blessed material materially. That's the the the false gospel that they give And I love this quote from, again, the commentary. If one gives in hopes of attaining great greater material prosperity, then one will harvest only spiritual poverty. It's not that that nothing happens, right? They're they're falsely thinking if I give more I'm gonna get rich. No, there's a negative consequence Spiritual poverty is what they're cultivating. That's the danger of the heart attitude. So first he appeals to a proverb. Verse 7. So second, he cites scripture. Let each one do just as he has purpose in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. Most likely a reference to Exodus 25. If you remember, Moses was given the command to build a sanctuary. And and the Lord said, Go out and and let the people give um based on their heart desire. Right? And so they needed all the materials, the tradesmen. And what happened? Do you remember? They got too much. They got too much. Aaron had to come to Moses and say, tell them to stop. Right? It's just overflowing with with abundance of their gifts. God, who knows and appraises our hearts, values only those gifts that come as a free expression of the deepest part of our souls. So he appeals to a proverb, he cites Scripture. Third, Paul refers to God's readiness to provide all that is necessary for generosity. Verse 8 And God is able to make all grace abound to you, that always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance for every good deed. As it is written He scattered abroad, he gave to the poor his righteousness. Sorry, he scattered abroad He gave to the poor. His righteousness abides forever. Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing. Paul is expressing some important principles in these couple verses that I just read. First, Christians can know contentment in every state. Right? What did Paul say? What's the secret to contentment? He says, I I'm content when I have a lot, and I'm content when I'm when I'm hungry and I don't have much. What was the secret? He can do all things through Him and Jesus. Philippians 4. 13. That's where we find this passage he's talking about. Philippians 4. 13. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. That's how he can be content no matter what he has. Right, this idea of God will give us proportionally. Right, we each have a different portion based on God's design. That's how we are to give based on what He has given us And we need to learn to be content because we know God is going to give us that gift. You know, our ability to be generous is from God. Right? For from him and through him are to him are all things. So even our ability to give comes from the Lord. And he's always ready to provide. Second, money is a commodity to be used to serve others as well as to meet our needs. Right? God purposely designed funds. to be used in this way. Yes, to care for our needs, but to specifically be used as a vehicle, if you will, to give to others, to share in this blessing, to unite the church. Everything we just talked about at the very beginning of today. Alright? God bestows both the spirit of generosity and the resources to be generous. Even the spirit of generosity Right? As new creatures, that's the spirit that God has given us to want to be generous, right? To ha to have the overflow of the heart. And then He gives us the resources to actually give And and he who sows sparingly is able to continue to give in abundance. Raymond. Yeah, that's like Paul instructed regularly as a reminder, um an opportunity to just praise and worship the Lord on a on a schedule like that. So good. Again, proportionally, sacrificially Question, yes, go ahead, go on. Um this idea of uh deciding giving a uh a baseline what you decided in your heart to give seems to be an indication think that we need to be involved in deciding what our heart is saying. What what and I might I'm I may be a little confused about the fact that how that's I think Glenn if I understand you correctly, um I feel like it's all part of the sanctification process Right? It giving, um, cultivating a sphere of thankfulness really is a discipline. It doesn't come naturally. Um and I think as we we mature through sanctification that becomes easier and easier Right? Because you you understand I I think it goes back to just cultivating a really high view of God and a correct view of ourselves and th and and that grows over time. But there is a role that we play in that. You know, I can remember early on Um one of the blessings we got when Karine and I got married, we were we were new Christians, but someone gave us a a big binder from Larry Briquette. Right. Um and he was awesome. But that really put us on a just a solid foundation to think about our finances very biblically. But you know, I didn't grow up in a household where we tithed, right, or gave. Um and so to start that practice But admittedly, you know, we're young, I'm in the military, um, we got kids just coming left and right. You know, we we weren't wealthy per se. And so admittedly there were times when when I would think, boy You know that money could have gone towards you know filling the blank, right? And and so early on I can just remember struggling with that, but but just coming back, no, we're gonna be faithful So uh a lot of t for me in the beginning it was just about obedience, right? But as time went on and you just bask in the glory of this provision and in this opportunity to give and and you see the the we'll talk about in a second the the harvest that happens, you know, in your heart. It's indescribable, right? And and so I don't struggle with that anymore. But I I so I would say it's a journey. Right that you go on. Does that make sense? Is that fair? Not what you were after? It's it it is something that is uh something we need to invest in and and by that I mean we we need to be involved in um growing in the Lord in in this Thanksgiving and and we will be benefited, we will be blessed. Yeah. And it won't be necessarily much Right. Yeah, and we're gonna we're gonna get to that, right? So that's the kind of the fourth principle. Any other comments on that? Alright, let's finish the fourth principle here. So second, or first, um he appeals to a proverb, second, he cites Scripture. Um third, it talks about God's readiness, God's provision, if you will, and fourth Paul highlights the benefit of their giving. So, Glenn, to your point, we'll talk a little bit about that. Let me read 10, but we're really talking about the last part of verse 10. Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing, and here it is, and increase the harvest of your righteousness. That's the benefit. You will be enriched in everything for all liberality. That word means generosity, which through us is producing thanksgiving to God. For the ministry of the service is not only fully supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing through many thanksgivings to God. Because of the proof given by this ministry, they will glorify God for your obedience to your confession of the gospel of Christ and for the liberality of your contribution to them and to all. While they also by prayer on your behalf yearn for you because of the surpassing grace of God in you. So let's peel that apart a little bit. So we talked at uh the end of verse 10 there, right? It will make them spiritually rich. You know, contrast that with uh the prosperity gospel where where they're trying to give you a false narrative that you can become materially rich. Now, can God bless you with material blessings? Absolutely. And primarily for the benefit of what? Being able to give more. Right? That's sowing sparingly. But that that goes back to the heart attitude. Right? More importantly, the blessing is a spiritual blessing. Increase the harvest of your righteousness That's the benefit that Paul wants the Corinthians to experience. It will bring thanksgiving to God. How do we cultivate a heart of thanksgiving? Be a cheerful giver. God loves a cheerful giver. And again, it might feel like just brute obedience to begin with. Be obedient. Right? And God will soften your heart. That's the harvest that He will produce in your heart. Those who receive this blessing, verse 14, says what? They will respond with prayer. You know, I go back to the example we talked about last week with the the short term mission trip to um Colombia. I uh they were just so overjoyed to receive this abundant gift and what a privilege we had to be your ambassadors, right? To to share this gift from your generosity to give to them and just the prayers they lifted up on our behalf, they they were just blown away Right? And and they pray for us and they pray for for our church to this day. And we're excited to hopefully see them this summer. And lastly, it will advance the well-being and solidarity of the worldwide Christian community. Right? The koinonia, that's what that word means, koinonia or fellowship of the saints. Join in partnership with them. So this is Paul also strategically trying to unify the church, right? The universal church body. Again, Gentiles given to Jews, unheard of Right? In this equality that we talked of, there will be a time when the Jews will have to give to the Gentiles. It's not a redistribution of wealth, right? That's not what Paul's getting at, but these equal opportunities to meet physical needs But more importantly, to share in this opportunity to receive this blessing, right? The harvest of righteousness in their hearts Alright, how does Project Jerusalem conclude? Were they successful? Let's go to Romans. Romans 15. So this is interesting. I'll share. So in the fall, we're going to start a two-part quarter, if you will, on Romans. And I get to teach that, so I'm super excited about that. But if you think of and we won't call it we won't call it part of this uh Paul's missionary journeys because that confused everybody. But if you look at um what we've done, the whole intent of why I set this class up was to just travel with Paul chronologically through his writings, through these regions. That was the intent. And I think we've gotten so much insight into Paul. As he traveled through um uh uh Thessalonica and and got to Corinth, that's where he wrote 1st and 2nd Thessalonians. And now on his third missionary journey, right, we see him in Ephesus where he writes 1 Corinthians. Now he's up in Macedonia where he writes 2 Corinthians On his third missionary journey, he will travel eventually and get to Corinth, and he writes what? Romans. Right? So that's the path that we take here. So he's now in Corinth writing Romans or to the Romans. So I'm in chapter fifteen, I'll start in verse twenty-four. So again, talking about his plans. Whenever I go to Spain, for I hope to see you in passing, his goal was to go through Rome visit the church in Rome and go on to Spain. He never made it to Spain though, did he? And to be helped on my way there by you when I have first enjoyed your company for a while. But now I am going to Jerusalem serving the saints. For Macedonia and Achaia, which is where Corinth is, have been pleased to make a contribution for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem. So they fulfilled their pledge. Right? We have evidence that that they were faithful in fulfilling their pledge and giving that contribution to the Corinthians. So let me do this. I wanted to leave some time for a discussion, but let me give you your homework. So obviously read 2 Corinthians 10. But I really want you to meditate on 2 Corinthians 9. 15. Really spend some time just chewing on that, praying about it, discussing it, and I would love to hear some thoughts next week. But just just be still and rest in that verse for a while. So, so precious. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. And then work on your memory verse, 2nd Corinthians 12, 9, and I will start. I will lead by example. I was a poor example today. So I asked earlier how does Paul develop a joyful spirit about giving? I want to ask specifically for Hope Bible Church. How do we develop in individuals a joyous and thankful spirit about giving at Hope Bible Church? in 21st century, Columbia, Maryland, with all the the secular um inputs that we get in struggles and temptations How do we uh cultivate this spirit of of joy in giving? Yeah, that's a great, great example. You know, it starts in the home, doesn't it? So you you gave one example. How do we cultivate this? We train them at home. Now, as they start out, they're going to give grudgingly, right? It's going to be obedience, pure and simple, but that's what you're training. You're training their conscience to r to remind them that this is all from the Lord. Okay? Now in the green household with seven kids, we gave them each ten cents. I couldn't afford ten dollars. I'm cheating. Alright, what else? I think we shouldn't approach giving with the mindset of what can I get out of this. But I do think being involved in the church regularly and what the church has to offer is really important because you sort of see like what you're giving to. Like you experience the interaction of the people and the events and the things and it's not so much a what am I getting out of this, but what am I contributing to? I'm taking contributing to this family involvement and contributing to this great facility. And if you don't participate in the church body and in what the church is doing we don't really see that. I think it's important to sort of see what you're doing to Yeah, no, that's a great point. And there's a couple elements there, right? And you've brought this up, I think, before, of you know, Paul's specifically talking about a a monetary gift here, right? A collection Um that can be true of our time and talents and and using all of those gifts. But there is something specific with giving money. Right, that that the Lord uses to remind us of who he is, of his provision, of the gift. You know, we talk about uh being able to give is a blessing, it's a grace And and so teaching ourselves and our kids, um, even though it's a a minor amount, I think it's important to include that aspect of giving financially as well. But to your point, to also complement that with This is where that money is going, all right. This is the ministry. And I think back to the short term mission trip. That's how we felt. We keep giving, you know, we give, we support these missionaries, but to go there personally to invest, to come alongside to see how that money is being able to spread the gospel in Perea, Colombia, right? Was a huge blessing. Huge, huge blessing. Any missionaries in the room if you want to speak up, you you can, but Stephen, thank you. I mean that's a really important observation from a recipient, right? We talked about here the the uh church in Jerusalem were recipients and what did they do? They prayed They prayed for the church in Corinth and and you you talk about this connection with the universal church. Um and I think that's just precious. So that's good. What else? Scott, sure. Yeah. And and just to nuance what I said, agree with you wholeheartedly. That's how we're training their conscience. Their reaction might just be clear dogged obedience Right. Okay, books. But but my the point is, you know, that just brought up is it starts in the home Right? It starts early. You have to be that example for what do we talk about, uh Deuteronomy six, right? The Shema. You carry that down from generation to generation. And we see clearly God uses money in this way. Alright, so starting at home is really, really critical. But what you're teaching them is all the benefits you just talked about, Scott. Absolutely. You can go back to scripture and show them clearly, right, how God uses that. Diane. And for me, I think of the um confirmation of that good work that got me because when I think of myself I am not jealous. I am very stingy, not only with uh my resources, but with And I have seen over the years how God has given me not only the desire but really great joy in terms of given not just my resources but also my time. Mm-hmm. I I love it. Like I have to resource it. And that's only the Lord working in me Amen. Jason? Oh yes. I was just gonna focus specifically on the uh thankfulness aspect. How much the gratitude that we have towards God just in our hearts should really be the driving factor to a lot of this thing because as a false hospital here we should be Basically, battling and confronting and turning away from covetousness that's so easy to develop, especially in the covult and nature of Corinthian culture and US Western culture these days of You know, this is mine, I earned it, I need to have X, Y, or Z. It's really thank you God for everything I have, and it's really yours at the end of the day. So being able to it back to the public way I can. Yeah. Um and I think that also that there's a I feel like this is also a transitional era as well because we're getting away from the separation system and these new the new church you know there's like this is the way to sacrifice moving forward rather than oxen and guns uh whatever else Um but when you look at it also compared to what Jesus talked about and how he taught, specifically looking at the Pharisee versus the widow, right, what does he tell about the Pharisee? Who is the widow? Obedient in his tithing to the ten percent of his personally and whatever else. Right. Right. But he says, you know he's He's giving out of his wealth. Right. It's not sacrificial for him. The widow who's giving so little it's really like everything that she has. Yeah. No, excellent. So let let's take that, Jason, and and let's go back to my question What do we as a church need to do to cultivate that kind of hard attitude? We talked about one. It starts in the family. Right? So so all of us uh who have a family have have children, it is our responsibility as parents to start to cultivate this. What else though? Do we not to do we have to do nothing? Because we as a church are just we're ob we're obedient in that way. We're all joyful. We love to give. Do we need to have sermons from the pulpit? Do we need to that's what I'm asking. What do we need to do to cultivate this kind of joyous giving? Scott. I I'll just I'll add real quick Scott back to something Stephanie said. You know, let's say so much of our giving, you guys know this, goes to pastor salaries, goes to this facility And sometimes tying that to, hey, we're able to h host Hope Academy, we're able to have this fellowship dinner, we're able to, you know, bringing that tie in and instructing our children, this is what it's going for. It's not just a building. Right? It's allowing these ministries. Yeah, and I was just gonna mention something similar to that. You know, I mentioned like as church members, our involvement can go a long way in recognizing like what we're doing to. But also as the church, you know, y the people who lead the church transparency about what I mean not that we need to know every like dollar and cent every line I think, but I'm just saying and I I think Old Bible church has a really And they come and they visit and they share like this is what your generosity has done. And and just all the different ministries of the Bible Church having a sort of platform to say, This is what you're you're giving this helping with. Yeah. Um I think it does sort of you know, it's it's almost like when when you donate to a Christmas ministry versus like, you know, it's like operations in the child. You know, you see the gift and you sort of see the kid opening the present and that carries a little more weight and you're sort of like writing the check. Sure. So I think um you know From a participation standpoint, that's important, but also you guys keeping that flow as well. No, I appreciate that. That's good feedback. Stephen And I think you know part of the things we do is an equipping class, right, where we talk about this. I think I will tell you, just being transparent, you know, how much comes from the pulpit. You you don't hear a lot. Now if we come to a passage, you know, you're you're expositing the word of God and you're just going through, you're gonna you're gonna preach on it, right, as it comes up. But I think there's this balance of of You know, we want it to come from the heart. We we want you guys to initiate that. And we have a very generous church, right? So we purposely are not spending a lot of time talking about those things. I can tell you, we would love to have no mortgage Right. And we're even talking about boy are the ways we can accelerate that payment. So we're looking at that, but you know, to get rid of the mortgage just opens up so many, you know, additional opportunities. So we would we would l love to be out from underneath that. We also want to be very careful that we're not constantly, you know, putting uh a burden on you guys for a bunch of project fundraisers. Right? We want to be very sensitive to that as too. So it's it's a tough balance. Let me ask you this. I think at this church you used to pass the plate around, right? Should we bring that back? Should we leave it as is? What are your thoughts? Glenn? I have thoughts. Do you wish to share them in thirty seconds? I I kind of go back and forth on this. I I would prefer that that giving me part of worship because it is an act of worship. Yeah. But I'm not sure exactly how the best way to do that because I am sensitive to this Cultural idea that had something I gotta give something. So I'm not sure how we do that, but any other thoughts on that, Jason? I personally don't think fair has it like in general because it like Glenn was saying, it puts it as part of the Especially if it's framed appropriately. But also too, I feel that when it's in a box on the side or if it's just Eurostore code or online, it's so easy to Yeah. And it gets hidden away or it gets not discussed or talked about in the way that I think it should be as a integral part of our command to work God in in in in all ways, or giving whatever. But you understand unfortunately this mindset of like pressure to do something So I think it I think it all depends on the framing of it, bringing the aspect lead up and not just what we're doing is think out here some stupid stuff. Yeah, that's right. I think it comes from us as being sort of relegated to a society. Yeah. There is um we've talked about it briefly, you know, there's a logistical element too. As the church get bigger gets bigger, that's another time element You know, that has to be factored in. So I I don't know that we're definitive on any any way, but um yeah. Yeah. Like like Glenn said, maybe it could just be part of the prayer or or what have you. So good. All right. Any last comments on this? Good discussion, Elizabeth. I was just saying. I think we could pulse the church and we'll get a fifty-fifty answer on which way to go here. So all right, let's close