All right, who wants to take a stab at uh Psalm nineteen? Good job. Good job. Now why why do you think I'm having you focus on memorizing This puts it these couple verses. Yes, Abby. Yeah. So the not only the importance of God's word, but the power of God's word. These action verbs, I'll call them, that come after these statements are just incredible, right? Restores the soul, make wise the simple, rejoices the heart, enlightens the eyes. Remember we talked about in chapter two, what did it say, that the gospel, God's word, would perform its work It's active. That's the confidence that I want you to have in God's Word. Right? So often it can be very um it can become just routine, rote As you work your way through God's Word. And we've all been through those those times of we just feel like we're in a desert, right? And God's Word just does not seem like it's alive It will perform its work. And that's why I want you to have these verses memorized. So when you're feeling that way, boy, you go back to that promise of what God's word is going to do. It is his inspired word. That's how he communicates with us. Right? I I want that to just feel so rich and and desire it so much and I think uh a psalm like that just It just reminds us of the the beautiful gift of God's word. Alright, so that's why I have you memorize that. Alright, so keep working on it. We'll call on some new folks next week Alright, let's go over anyone want to share with um what they put on their worksheet. So again, the the worksheet is very intentional. to try and get you to be thinking through as we read God's Word. Number one, what does it say about God? What do we learn about His attributes and His character? Why? We want to cultivate a really high view of God. Always Right? That is always our our desire. But then we go on to indicative these are truths or what God has done or his purposes, things he's going to do Um imperatives are from that we often see commands or instructions, things we should be doing in light of this truth. And we want to pay particular attention to that Okay, and we're gonna we're gonna see why today. And then um your personal application. How are you going to apply that specifically to your life? That's the the spiritual discipline that I'm I'm trying to um perfect in your life or or cultivate in your life. Okay? So with that, with uh last week on chapter three Anyone want to share just an attribute maybe that jumped out to you? Barbara. Oh, I was well expensive. Any anything. Okay. Okay. Okay, good. Yeah. Okay, good. Good Abby. Sanctifying. Sanctifying, yes. Right, and that's a theme that will come up today again. We see that throughout uh this book. Good. Matt, do you have something? You've got that look. Alright, any indicatives or imperatives? Truths that you saw? Joni. God calls us the holiness, God of Purity. Nice 4-7. And if anyone wants to share an application that came out of that indicative or imperative, uh please do so as well Does the format make sense? I I want to make sure I'm being clear on what I'm trying to get you guys to do. If that's not clear and you don't want to ask in front of the class, please come see me afterwards. This is maybe the most important part of the class, to be honest with you. Dawn, did you have something? Yeah. question we missed last week. Did you finish chapter three, yes. Because we're not doing four today? Did I what did I say? We are doing four today. So are you asking questions? We're asking about three. We're asking I'm asking about the homework I gave you from last week. Yeah, sorry. So you guys filled out this sheet from last week. You guys didn't, but you could have. On chapter three. Yeah. We are we are going to talk about chapter four today. We're just doing a quick review of your homework from this week, which would have been on chapter three. Let me let me say it this way. Yeah. The homework I give you, let's be clear. The homework I give you is to read the next week's chapter. So your homework this week was to read chapter four. No doubt about that, right? But I wanted to review what you gleaned from last week's class on your sheet. All right, sorry. My bad. Always working on communication. All right, well that said, anyone wanna change their answer or I'll give another answer. Um Okay. Yes, God. I must recognize and remember that God is the source of all I need for birth in Christ. Love, holiness, and pure earth. All right, I'll give you just an example of things that jumped out to me when it comes to his attributes. Um I just thought of his sovereignty. You know, we talked about Romans 8. 28, God works all things for good And we learned about Paul being thwarted by Satan. He had a plan in his mind, as he wanted to go back and see the church in Thessalonica. Right? He longed for that. And yet he was thwarted by Satan. We saw earlier in his journey he was thwarted by who? He wanted to go north. By the Holy Spirit. Right? So God is using all of these instruments to direct Paul where he needs him to be at the right place, the right time. So I I just think of his his sovereignty in that respect Um, and indicative of a truth that wasn't in the chapter, but we referenced it in Hebrews twelve, one and two, because Paul is talking about Um, your faith is not complete. And what did we learn? Jesus Christ is the author and perfecter of our faith. And God often uses suffering to perfect our faith. That's the journey that we are on in this world. So just a reminder of that truth that my faith is being perfected, I think it can be an encouragement. And to know that this God uses suffering to help with that perfection. Um we talked about, you remember uh the chart I showed about anxiousness. And and if you fall off that road of concern, of biblical concern, what happens? You either become anxious or um apathy. Right? And so it was this reminder for me to to focus on that biblical concern. And the particular application I think I shared um was my transition as a parent of older children, right? Having to now trust the Lord in allowing them to make decisions, to come alongside them more as a counselor friend versus a parent. And that's hard for a dad to do, especially. Um and not to become anxious when they're making life choices that maybe I would not, or health or whatever you want to call it. So that was the application for me is to really work on this idea of anxiousness and making sure I say standard on and to be clear what she asked about was the notes. What I what I load onto the page is the slides I've not been loading my my clas my personal notes on there. Alright. Does that make sense? Is that clear? Good? Alright, so that's kind of the the pattern that we're getting after here. Okay. Alright. So let's move on to chapter four. So that's where we're at. Chapter 4. Obviously we'll close out the book next week. And on the 19th and the 26th, I will not be here, but Carrie Kane, who's in the back, will be. So he'll be teaching those two weeks One of those weeks I have a wedding that I'm officiating, so I'm super excited about that. And then the second one, I think the 26th, the elders rotate through the new members class, and that's my turn. So Okay Alright, so if you are not there, you can turn to chapter four in your book in 1 Thessalonians. Where we left off, if you remember in 3, Paul was longing to see them Right. He was longing to go back. He was concerned about um um the fact that there was persecution and they might be tempted to to fall off Um so he was very excited to get uh the word back from Timothy. But he ended with longing to see them and complete what is lacking in their faith Alright, so he recognizes they have not arrived yet in their faith. And so in chapter 4, we're going to see that he's actually going to address some of those issues. And again, he wasn't trying to be critical, was he? He wanted to see them made more holy. That was his desire. And we we um oh let me do this. This is where we're at, right? We got the moving green arrow. New trick I learned. Alright, so we started with this idea of Thanksgiving. We've been talking about the last several weeks of Hugh, just how thankful Paul was from the the account that he got Not only from Timothy but but from the surrounding area, right? We s we saw that. And so chapters one and three have all have been about this celebration of their faithfulness And then we have this transition prayer where he needs to now address some issues that are happening in the church. Okay? And so four and five is just going to be packed full with I'll call them imperatives. This is how you should live now based on the truths that we just talked about. Okay But I put this back up here. Um the quote was about John Newton, but you could describe and and I love Stephen Riesman when he was here last week, talk about what he is gleaning just from Paul's just passionate heart as a shepherd. He his primary concern was their spiritual war or their spiritual health. All right? That's what he was most concerned about. to be um sanctified, to be made more holy. The ultimate goal is to please God, right? That's where he was trying to point out. And I'm going to show you on the board here in a second, but I love this idea of when we are justified, declared righteous, right, we are now removed from the penalty of sin. All right. When we go through sanctification, this process that we've been talking about, we progressively are removed from the power of sin. And then when we are glorified, we are no longer in the presence of sin. So you see this progression that we'll talk about in a little bit. John even talked about in 3 John 4, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. That was Paul's heart's cry, is to just see them walk in the truth. Alright, so we get to chapter 4, and we know that Paul is starting to conclude his letter because he starts with what? Finally. So now we know there's this transition to the end of the letter. And as we know, Paul's pattern has been, you know, here's kind of some truths, here's what's happening in the first half of the book, and then we see him transition into more imperatives or instructions. So we're going to see a lot of that as we um cover chapters four and five. So Paul, so finally, uh so I'm in uh verse one, chapter four, verse one. Finally then, brethren, we request we Request and exhort you and the Lord. What did exhort mean? Do you remember from a couple lessons ago? Encouraging was one of the so we talked about exhorting, encouraging, and imploring. What did exhort mean? I'll give you a hint. Come alongside. Right? Paraclesis is the word. And perikletos is who? It's the Holy Spirit, the helper. His job is to come alongside. So that's the the image you can get is um someone coming alongside and yes making a strong appeal or strong encouragement But that this is what he's doing. He's exhorting them in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us instruction as how you ought to walk And please God, just as you actually do walk. So again, he's encouraging them. You're doing exactly what we told you to do. That what? That you may excel still more. So love that word. You've heard Pastor Gabe and some of the elders, that's been a theme for us this year, a focus area in our ministries to excel still more. It's this Greek verb that means continuous or repeated action. So it's not like you've reached finality, right? That you've done something that's like, that's it, that's the level you need to stay at. What is sanctification? It's progressive. Right, we need to keep doing more and more. I think it's the ESV translation which is which is really appropriate. To do so more and more. That's that's the the heart attitude here. It's not um You know, you can contrast that with, boy, you you you were in this sports game and you threw a ball, you did a really good job. But, you know, if you turned your feet a little bit more and you you know trying to get perfection, that's not the idea here That's not what Paul is saying by Excel still more. He's saying do more and more of it. Okay? Do more and more of it. Alright, so let me draw on the board. I'm a visual guy. So what I've drawn is is think of not necessarily events, but the work of Jesus Christ. So his life, death, burial, and resurrection. That's what the first one is. And the second is when we are wicked, so in glorification. And then you have this boundary of a believer and a non-believer. You cannot cross without the work of the Holy Spirit, regenerating your heart. Okay? But if if you were to visually think of this as non-believers, this is where we're at, right? For eternity if that's where we stay. So that would continue. So what happens when we are justified, when we become believers, when we are declared Righteous, it's a step function for you engineers in the room. Alright, a step function is a change of state immediate from a non-believer to a believer, which means you you have a new disposition Where once your desire was not to please God, it is now your desire has changed to please God. Does that mean you're perfect here? Absolutely not. Alright, but your your disposition has changed. You weren't even able to please God here. Your heart was hard, it was a rock. Now it's malleable. It can be shaped, it can be formed. Okay So in this state then is justification. I'll put it J. So no longer the penalty of sin. What verse jumps out at you to uh affirm that I've talked about it many times. Think Romans. Eight one. Eight one. No condemnation. No condemnation. What is condemnation, right? The penalty of death The wrath of God. That step function, you are now justified, no condemnation. That's the beauty of it. Okay? So no longer the penalty of sin has been removed. Now, you enter this area of progressive sanctification, right? This is what we've been talking about. And I'll start down here. You guys know it's not an easy path, right? There's some ups, there's some downs, but what we're after is the projection, not the perfection. Okay, does that make sense? That's that's our life as a believer in this world. When we talk about sanctification, this is what's happening. This is what Paul is trying to instruct in it. This is what he's saying, excel still more. Do more and more of the things you're doing. Okay? So now, as that happens, the power of sin over you progressively is released. becomes less and less. We will always struggle with it while we're on this earth. That's just reality. And then when you're in the presence of the Lord, I don't know how high this goes, but we are no longer in the presence of sin. We are truly in our holy state with the Lord. That's glorification. Alright? Does that make sense? Alright, so we talk about this idea of sanctification. This is where we're at. This is what's happening This is what Paul's trying to encourage them with. So he talks about in verse 2, for you know what commandments we gave you by the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. That word by could be through. So obviously he has given them commands or instructions before. We know that. We we don't have all the detail, but it is clear that he has given them instructions. In this idea of authority, so it talks about through the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ, really important word. Right? And we talk about the authority of God's Word. Remember, Jesus is the Word. This is God's inspired word, and it's critically important that we b we believe this to be authoritative. If we do, then we're gonna believe it and we need to obey it. Right? That's pretty clear. John MacArthur in his um Systematic theology, biblical doctrine, he gives this definition or reference to uh I'll call it like a Webster um dictionary definition, the power or right to enforce obedience Moral or legal legal supremacy, right to give a command or give a final decision. That's that definition of authority And then in Grudem systematic theology, this is talking about the authority of the word. All the words in Scripture are God's words in such a way that to disbelieve or disobey any word of scripture is to disbelieve or disbelieve God. Alright? You remember last time I talked about that quote that what we believe about God's Word Is is indicative of what we're going to believe about God. And vice versa. If you have a low view of His word or you don't believe it's all true, maybe some of it, you're you're going to have a false view of God. You're going to have a lower view of God. And vice versa. Alright, so we believe in the authority of God's word. And what Paul is emphasizing here is these commands, these instructions are not from him. They're not from the apostles, they're not from Timothy, they're not from Silas, they're through the Lord Jesus Christ. Alright? And we have to have the same mindset. Make sense? All good? Okay. Alright, let's go on to verse 3. And we're going to spend some time here because I love this. For this is the will of God, your sanctification. Alright, so let's pause here for a little bit and talk about the will of God. I want to be careful not to simplify this. We can have a little bit of a discussion. This is probably a several week class if we wanted to to talk about the will of God, but I I wanted to show you this distinction and I want to cover specifically where we see this phrase, the will of God, in Scripture, because it's pretty clear, right? We often ask, what is the will of God? Boom, it says it clearly here. So I want to cover those. So I want some people to take some some verses for me if you wouldn't mind. Who can take Matthew 6. 10 for me? Elizabeth has that. Hebrews ten. Abby's got it. Uh Carrie, can you take 2 Peter 3 9? Who else? Michael, can you take 1 Thessalonians 4. 3? Joni, can you take 1 Peter 2, 13 and 15? And Matt, can you take 1 Thessalonians 5, 18? And I need one more. Jan, can you take Psalm thirty-seven four? Okay? What we're trying to get is a good understanding, and this will be top level. This is a summary. What are we talking about when we say the will of God? So let's let's read Matthew 6. 10 first. Who has that? Elizabeth? Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Alright, good. So this is what? The Lord's Prayer. Right? That's very familiar. This idea of the will of God, um genome is the Greek word for that. And it means to come into being, to happen. This is simply recognizing that God has a redemptive plan, He's sovereign, His providence is holy, that will come to pass Right, that's what that word will means. It will come into being. You can call it his declared will. And we know everything up to this point in time has been declared by God. Right? He he has um declared it to be. It has happened. His plan of redemption. We know there are some promises from God and his redemptive plan. That will happen. Jesus Christ will come again. Right? His declared will. It will happen. That's not the use of the word that we see here in 1 Thessalonians. Alright? Thelema is the Greek word, and it means his desire or purpose for us. So now when we read this in 2nd or in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, for this is the will of God, your sanctification, I want you to think of it as this is his desire or purpose for your life. Right? This is what we are intended to do as children of God, is to be sanctified, to grow more and more in Christ-likeness. So that's the distinction I I want you to show. We'll talk a little bit more about this contrast in a little bit So we see um what what I could find in my search was four very distinct the will of God. There are probably some other implications in in Scripture that would fit um this definition of desire or purpose, but you know I wanted to grab those things that were very specific. The will of God says this. One of those is salvation. So who has uh Hebrews 1010 if you could read that. Go ahead Abby. By that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Alright, so salvation through Jesus Christ. Who has 2 Peter 3-9? Alright, so so his desire, his purpose is that no one would perish. We know that's not how it's going to play out, right? But his desire, he's a loving God. He doesn't wish for anybody to perish. That's encouraging. That's the loving God that we serve. Okay? So the will of God certainly is salvation. He wants people. His desire is people would be saved Which is why we have to continue to share the gospel. Okay? And we just read did did I sign first Thessalonians 4. 3? We just read that. Go ahead, Michael. For this is the will of God for sanctification. Alright, good. So clearly, clearly he desires or purposes for us to be sanctified. Right, there's no doubt about that. That is crystal clear and we'll talk a little bit more about that in a second. Alright, how about submission? 1 Peter 2, 13 and 15. Who subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the emperor as supreme or to governors as set by him, to punish those who do Evil and embrace good to do good. For this is the will of God that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people Alright, good. So clearly we're talking about submission here to the governments that have been um established, but we see submission in the marriage relationship. Um um church relationship, um uh master slaves, think of just employment. You know, clearly the will of God is is to submit because of the the benefits, the testimony, um and he is a God of order, right? That is the the order that he has designed, but it clearly says this is the will of God. Um how about the last one? Who has First Thessalonians five eighteen? Okay. Good. So we're going to study that next week, and it comes with a whole host of rejoice always, you know, be thankful. Where have we seen that before in this class? It was one of the passages I shared as kind of an equipping or application of what we are to cultivate in our lives. This the spirit of thanksgiving. And what and we we are thankful in our prayers. What's the what's the result of that? Peace, the peace of God that surpasses understanding. So you got it. Philippians 4. Right? Remember Philippians 4. Same message as we're seeing here. But we will see next week it clearly says the will of God is to give thanks. That's the spirit that in does that come naturally? Not initially. It doesn't. We have to cultivate that. It does become easier. But there are so many um blessings uh described with giving thanks, but it is the will of God. That's what He desires us to do. And so we need to obey All right, let's let's pause here a little bit and um how many have have heard of that book, Decision Making in the Will of God? Anybody? I think we actually taught that class here. Carrie, do you remember? Has somebody taught that class? I thought I remember when I first got here somebody had taught that, but it's okay. Okay. Um this was a uh study that I didn't do was part of at my last church and and I thought it was really good. It's a thick book. um sometimes a little bit hard to read, but what he's contrasting here is um what he calls in others the dot theology And what I mean by that is um we often think of uh this idea of the will of God as um you know, what Lord, what car should I buy? Right? What specific What car should I buy? Of all the hundreds of thousands, what what is that one? And so you now go on a journey trying to find that one. You're trying to hear from God, right? You're searching the scriptures, you're looking for that sign, whatever that may be, to make sure you're getting exactly what you know the Lord wants you to get Does that make sense? Um that can be that can be daunting, it can be heavy. I've been there sometimes for sure. Um and so for me this was uh an area where it was very freeing to say to understand this distinction that we're talking about right now. Okay? Clearly God has a will Genome that is going to happen But more importantly, we have I'll call them you know biblical ideas of the will of God that we just talked about. And that's more about our our spiritual condition, right? Our spiritual actions. If we're doing those things The idea is you have a lot of freedom to do the rest of it. So what car do you want to buy? You have the freedom to choose. Right? Now, is there biblical wisdom? That we need to glean and that's what this book gets into? Absolutely. Do we need discernment? Do you need to apply financial principles So you're living staying within your means. Do you maybe bring along a um an auto tech who can look at the car real quick for you? Absolutely. Right? There's lots of wisdom that we should be gleaning from God's word Um but we have the freedom in so many applications to do what we want to do in the construct of the Bible. Does that make sense? That's freeing. I don't know about you guys, but that was immensely freeing for me. Raymond. Yeah, good. Okay. Good Raymond. Let me give you one quick example. Um Pastor Antonio Weary candidate that we just had come through. Um as elders, and I'm I really appreciate Gabe kind of explaining to everyone this is our process. It's intentional, it's long, it can be hard We start with someone will submit a can uh or an application and Gabe will reach out and just have some initial discussion. Are they like-minded, right? Theologically. Let's start there Um and if he's like, hey, this is a potential, then we have a Zoom call with all the elders. We'll have another Zoom call and it's really just Hey, is there a fit here, right? Uh what's your background look like? What's the context look like and why why are you looking for a different position? Um lot of theology questions, you know, to make sure uh like-mindedness and can articulate. And then if we're like, okay, this looks good, we'll have them come out for a visit. Um hopefully with their spouse. That's always helpful. And that first visit, again, is a lot of theological discussion. I mean we'll sit in a room uh for half a day and just kind of grill the person. And again it's for your protection. Again it's for trying to really facilitate unity within the church. Okay? And that does not mean we're looking for yes people. We want people that will sharpen us and keep us accountable and are not afraid to do that But are they are they like-minded enough in their theology and their ministry philosophy that we're not going to create disunity the moment they step on you know the campus, if you will? So then if that goes well we have a second visit like we just did and that really is intended to have you know see them interact with ministry leaders and I'll tell you that is so insightful to watch them interact, to see what kind of questions, how they answer those questions, to watch um you know he and his wife interact, what does that look like? Just very, very insightful. But Our prayer, I think, through that whole process is more for clarity. Right? Lord, would you make it clear to us? You know, point out all the things that we're after If there's any red flags, you know, that we would we would get that, we would understand that. But we have the freedom to choose this person or not. You know, we're not looking for the dot per se Does that make sense? So there's um uh an example of where we have a process in place that can be lengthy, maybe frustrating to the applicant Um and I even asked them this at the end of their their time here, um, and they said we fully understand and appreciate why you do what you do. Right? So that was encouraging So it's not to be overbearing but to make sure um again we're we're picking somebody that we will have the unity and in we're trying to protect all of you guys. We're trying to protect God's church here. So that would be another example So again, maybe we'll have a class on this in the future. Um again, it was very freeing for me, but when we when we think about the will of God, I I want you to now have this contrast between you know God's declared will and the will of God, his purposes or desires. So let's finish up. Jan, can you read Psalm 374? This is really precious. Psalm 37, 4. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Okay. This new disposition where your desire is. What is this verse saying? Is this saying I have all these desires, Lord, and I'm going to delight myself in you because I want you to bless me so I can get these desires? That's not what it's saying What it's saying is when you delight yourself in the Lord, guess whose desires you have in your heart? God's. Right? Everything we just talked about When he talks about the will of God is salvation, sanctification, submission, saying thanks, that's Psalm 374. Those are now your desires. That's what we want. We want God's desires in our heart. So let Psalm 374 just be a refreshing reminder. How do you do that? You delight yourself in the Lord. You rest in the Lord. You rest in God's Word, you wash yourself with God's Word, you memorize Psalm 19, 7 and 8. Right? Just precious, precious. So all right, again, quick summary on the will of God. Hopefully that contrast makes sense and is a bit refreshing because this can be extremely exhausting always going after the dot. Okay If you have questions about that afterwards, please come see me because again I just hit the surface of what that looks like. Alright, so let's go on. It was read Verse 3, for this is the will of God, your sanctification. It didn't stop there though. Paul got very specific. There are three areas that he is going to address now I'll call two of them warnings and and one is really an encouragement. So the first one is this idea of sexual immorality. Let me read three through eight. For this is the will of God, your sanctification. That is, that you abstain from sexual immorality, that each of you know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor, not in lustful passion like the Gentiles who do not know God. And that no man transgress and defraud his brother in the matter, because the Lord is the avenger in all these things, just as we also told you before, and solemnly warned you For God has not called us for the purpose of impurity, but in sanctification. Consequently, he who rejects this is not rejecting man But God who gives his Holy Spirit to you. So all that is kind of packed into this this issue of sexual immorality. What's going on here? What are the specifics? We don't know. Doesn't say, does it? Right? This this word though, um sexual immorality, it's pornea Fornication, right? Anything outside of God's perfect design for intimacy in marriage. Can you have uh fornification pornia in the marriage? Absolutely. Right? When when you're doing things um that are sinful, watching pornography, adultery, right? That that all goes into this idea of sexual immorality. And we see this throughout the New Testament, don't we? Alright, it was an issue back then, it's an issue now. And specifically, he was addressing something that was going on. We don't have all the specifics We're gonna see when we get to Corinthians, right? He addresses this issue again, just this gross immorality. And he's like, How are you guys allowing this to happen? Right, so he addresses that very publicly He's not calling out um specific examples here, but clearly when it talks about defrauding your brother, um there might be instances where Um, you know, maybe there's coveting going on of someone else's wife, maybe there's lust in the heart for someone else's wife. Clearly other brothers, sisters are being affected here, right? And that's what he's warning against. And what does he say? You know, we weren't made for that. He's exhorting them to do what? To use self-control. Where do you see that? Um, this idea of self-control Give me a passage. Like in this is the chapter four. This anywhere? Yeah. Matthew 4. Okay. Does Jesus failure by inventation from Satan? Yep, good I'm thinking specifically of a fruit. Is it Galatians 5? Galatians 5, right? The fruit of the Spirit. There's nine of them, but it starts with love. The fruit of the Spirit is love, and guess what bounds the other end of it? Self-control Alright, self-control. So critical to this walk are sanctification, and that's what He's calling them to do. To have self-control. To not show self-control is sin. And this is how we greet the Holy Spirit. Flip over to Ephesians 4 real quick. I'll start in 29. Let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment, that it may give grace to those who hear. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed. for the day of redemption. So we've talked about this. We have this precious gift of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit at salvation, at justification. Right? That's the power we now have to do what? To be sanctified There's no way we could do the the things that we are instructed to do without that power. So we are we are told do not grieve the spirit. We grieve the spirit how By sinning, by not following his commands, the instructions that we have here. Flip over to 518, one chapter over. And Paul makes this contrast. He says, do not get drunk with wine, for this is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. Right? So this idea of being filled really means to be controlled or yielding to you know the the helper coming alongside you and exhorting you and encouraging you and imploring you You listening to that, you being controlled by that is to be filled by the Spirit. Go back to verse 17 though. So then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. There it is again. Right? How do you understand the will of the Lord? You delight yourself in the law of the Lord. See that connection? Love it. So this idea when you think of of the will of God, yes, there's the declared will, but I really want you to think of it more in the sense of his desire, his purpose. Right? And here it says, understand it I love this parallel to husbands and wives. What are husbands supposed to do? 1 Peter 3, 7. Live with your wives in an understanding way. Gain knowledge about them, intimate knowledge. That's how we need to read our word. That's how we need to understand the will of God. The only way to do that is to be in His Word. Quick quote from a commentary. Holiness does not exclude sexual activity but controls its character. The opposite way of living is characterized by lust Physical desire which does not take account of persons as persons and behaves as it pleases without self-control. The most fundamental principle is what? We are made in the image of God We are image bearers and to to objectify another person, right, is not doing that, is not recognizing them as image bearers Sexual immorality is further seen to be wrong in that it can involve taking advantage of other people. To commit adultery is to attempt to break up an existing relig relationship and bond of love within a marriage. Verse six would be in reference to any kind of sexual immorality towards a brother or sister. So that's where we see um this idea of of him um addressing this idea of defrauding the brother. There were others involved. Whatever was happening, there were others involved in this conflict. A couple weeks ago I mentioned um Mike Moody and Carrie Kane are going to be starting up a Men of Victory. Again, sensitive topic, I get that, but it's it's very, very prolific, and yet our hope is in the word. And I've seen the word transform men in this area. So would encourage you to to reach out to those two men if you are interested at all. And ladies, guess what? You're not exempt Right, this affects you guys just as much as men. Um we're in discussions about can we stand up something very similar for the ladies and that's TBD, right? A work in progress. So All right, any questions on that? So that was kind of of the three issues that was the first one he addressed, uh sexual immorality. The second one is a positive, the love of the brothers. Verses nine and ten Now as to the love of the brethren, you have no need for anyone to write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another, for indeed you do practice it toward all the brethren who are in all Macedonia. But we urge you, brethren, to what? Excel still more. Right? So he was encouraging him. You are doing what we asked you to do. You are loving your brothers. So a distinction. Uh verse nine, as to the love of the brethren. That term for love there, the Greek word, anybody know it? It's not agape, but good guess. Right? We talk about agape love. That's that unconditional um it's a command, it's a it's an act that we do regardless of how the person is responding. That's the type of love that God showed us, right? Philiah? Philadelphia. Yeah, is is this term here and that's how Philadelphia gets the the term of the city, the city of brotherly love. Where that's where that comes from. So, but notice this. In verse 9, now as to the love of the brethren, so this is this Philadelphia, this brotherly love that they are showing, you have no need for anyone to write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. What type of love is that? Elizabeth. Say it. Agape. Right? How do you show brotherly love? By the agape kind of love. By just doing. By just acting. By submitting to the Lord, unconditional of how your brother responds. Good Alright, so he talked about sexual immorality. He uh a very positive you are loving the brothers. Do that more and more. Excel still more And then the last issue is this one of, I'll call it productivity, starting in verse 11. And he says, and to make it your ambition to lead a quiet life, and attend to your own business and work with your hands just as we command you. so that you may hate may behave properly towards outsiders and not be in any need. So first of all this idea of lead a quiet it's just it's this tranquil. It's go about your business. Don't be a busybody. And he's going to address this later Okay? Um I think in the next chapter or in s uh I'm sorry in Second Thessalonians we're going to cover this idea of them just just not working, not being productive. And he says, be productive why? So that you behave properly towards outsiders and not be in any need. What do you think he's talking about there? Be a witness. Hospitality. Right? When when you have the the brothers and the sisters visiting, you have the means to be hospitable, to share a meal. uh to meet their needs. Right? That he's just saying be productive. Go about the business you are supposed to be going about so that you don't have a need. That you can be productive. You can be a witness That's the testimony that the Thessalonians were providing throughout the region. That's what we read earlier. So this is how he's trying to encourage them in their lives. Be productive. Alright, good. Alright, our last topic is this idea of um, and we kind of prepped the the battle space, if you will. I'll just build this out. Of uh and times. So what was the issue? This was part of your homework. What was the issue that he was addressing here? Was it name calling? This guy's a pre-mill, and that guy's a post mill, and he's a pre-trib, and is that what was going on? Those terms weren't even around back then, so no. What was the issue? That's it. Right, so let's read in verse thirteen. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brethren, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as to the rest who have no hope Right, so their concern was is they were anticipating the second coming. They were eager about that, but they were concerned about who? Those who already died. They were afraid that those who already died were going to miss the second coming Okay? So I'll take this from a commentary. People who fall asleep dead before the second coming would remain in their graves and not take part in the event. That was their concern. This would suggest that either they had not heard of the resurrection of the dead, which is not very likely since the resurrection of Jesus was part of the primitive gospel, or they had not understood properly what they had been taught. The later is most likely and most dangerous. There would be no hope, as someone mentioned, for those who died. Alright, so that's what was going on here. They were they were misunderstanding or did not understand the what was going to happen with those who already died. So Paul had to remind them of the gospel message and the precedent that Jesus set by dying and rising again. So if we continue in 14, for if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring him with those who have fallen asleep in Jesus. So he's reminding them that part of God's redemptive plan You know, the work that Jesus did, so I I like to include it starts with his life. He had to live a perfect life, but then he died, he buried, and he rose again. And how did he rise? In spirit? Bodily form. How will he return in bodily form? Alright, so we'll talk next week about this idea of Um w what is what is it to be human? Are we um heart, soul, mind? Are we soul and body? What is it? Right? We'll talk about that next week. So that's part of your homework, I think. Nope. I got another task for you. You guys failed me today, so I'm gonna be checking you next week. So sorry, you got it. Alright, one of you gets an A. But really, this is what's going on, right? They misunderstood um what was going to happen to the body. Right? So think of body and spirit, what is happening here. We'll talk more about that next week. But Paul had to remind them again of the gospel message. This is what happened Jesus died, but then he rose again. He is the first fruit. Right? That's the example that is given. Now, it is um reading some commentaries, it is possible that um Paul even Paul might have felt that the Lord's return was going to happen while he was there on the earth. Okay? Um so they knew that it was potentially very close. So that's how they felt. Again, that's going to be an issue about working when we read that later in 2 Thessalonians, but um that was part of what was happening. So bottom line, they misunderstood the nature of human beings. Again, body-soul or body-soul-spirit, which is it? We'll talk more about that. Alright, we do need to talk about this, I'll call it eschatological term in verse 17. Let me keep going in verse 15. For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that he who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord shall not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. So here he's saying, actually, don't be concerned about the dead. They're going to actually rise first when the Lord returns Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. Alright, so let me go back to this diagram. And like I like I try to say, you know, um first of all this picture we have here is very much I'll call a uh a dispensational view Right, um a literal historical grammatical view of what's going to happen in end times and some of the early prophecy. We'll talk a little bit more about that uh next week. But the really big Nuggets that I want you to focus on is this idea, everyone agrees, at least in evangelical circles, in the uh second coming of Christ. All right. That's first and foremost what's important. The question is, what does that look like What happens when he comes? And and we understand some of the confusion here. Their concern was those who are already dead are gonna miss it. Right? So that's one issue that Paul had to address was what's gonna happen. Yeah, that's a great point. Right? Those who were being killed maybe because of persecution, were they gonna miss it? Right? So Paul had to address this issue. Um and then we talk about these these big areas and this is really one of the big contentious areas. What is the millennium? Is it a literal thousand years or is it symbolic Um so we talked about the difference between um these labels, if you will. Ah mil not meaning or not believing ah meaning no. So they don't believe in a literal thousand years. They believe that that's actually What is described in the millennium is actually happening right now. Right? So when when Jesus rose, um that is happening in heaven, not on this earth. Alright, so that would be on a mill. And then Jesus will come Again, second time, and then you have his reign, a new heaven and a new earth. Alright, that's how mil. Postmill believes that there's the the church age And then a millennial of thousand years, and then Jesus will return again. Alright? And what they believe is during that thousand years, the gospel, the power of the gospel is going to make things better and better and better and better and better and better even in society, think government, politics, and then Jesus is going to return. Very few in evangelical circles believe in in that, right? And then pre-mill, which is what we would we would teach here at this church, is that um Christ is going to return at some point prior to the thousand year, and then he's going to have a literal thousand year reign here on this earth. Okay, now this is where we now have this idea of the tribulation. And it's the idea that think of two phases to Christ's return. The first phase being him what what many um people who believe in pre-trib or the tribulation period go to this verse. 1 Thessalonians 4, 17, then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up. This idea of caught up is uh to seize, to snatch by force Alright? So the idea is they are going to the church will be caught up, snatched up with Jesus in the heavens Then there'll be the seven years of tribulation, then Jesus will return with with all of his kingdom and and establish his kingdom on earth. That's the idea. Does that make sense? Now, a couple different views about this idea of caught up or seas. There was a tradition back in the day when a returning um, let's say, general of the army or king after a war, what would the city do? They would go out and meet the king, but then they would come back with him into the city. Alright? Or if there was a very important dignitary, they would go out to meet him and then they would come back So some some view this idea of being caught up with that view, that, yeah, we might get snatched up, but then we'll come down to heaven in one fell swoop So they wouldn't believe in this um this period here, if you will, or this two phased approach. It would just be whoop whoop. Does that make sense? Yeah. Alright? So that's one view The other is like I just described, if you're a um dispensationalist, I'll call it, or a pre-trib, you would believe that the church is being caught up and then um there's this seven years and then Christ will return Again, I I I want to just give you awareness of some of these different views. What's important here is what is Paul trying to address. And first is their concern about the dead. Right? So he is addressing that. He is ensuring or usuring them that they they can have hope and encouragement that those that have already died actually they're going to be the first ones Right, that meet the Lord. So not to worry about that. We're gonna see next week though that um the next question is they still have questions about end times. Well when is all this gonna happen Right. And that's where some of this terminology becomes important because if you were to believe in um being caught up in the tribulation There is nothing left prophetically that needs to happen for that to happen. So he truly could come at any time, and there's no sign that would let you know that, right? It could happen in any it could happen right now Right? Um if you do believe in um or you don't believe in that tribulation period, then there's much that we know about the tribulation period that would have to happen before that that took place. Does that make sense? So that's where the difference would be in in some of the different views of theology. Um I will cover next week one of maybe the most pivotal areas that really impacted my journey, because this was a journey for me. This is the hard stuff. Was what happens in the prophecy of Daniel 9. All right, so if you want to read that ahead of time, um we'll go over that briefly uh next week to just to give you um some of our views on on why we think the way we do. Okay But the most important point though, regardless of what you think, I want you to read in verse 17. Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, in this last part, and thus we shall always be with the Lord That's what you got to hang on to. I don't care what you believe right here, when he returns, right, whatever that looks like, as a believer, you will be with him now forever. That's the comfort you want to walk away with, and that I want you to be encouraged by. Okay? Alright, does that make sense? Good? Lots of stuff, I know. Um, here's your homework. Write it down, put stomp. Obviously read chapter five, read it again, read it again. I I want you to research this question though, and I really want you to do it because it's really important. What does it mean when we say the day of the Lord? Many of your Bibles have um you know study Bibles or notes that take you to other verses, or just Google search Um, the day of the Lord. Bible verses that have the day of the Lord. And then go and study those. What characteristics are you seeing from that term? What context is it in? It's really important to understand that terminology. What does it mean when we talk about the day of the Lord? And there's even debate about that, I'll be honest with you. Okay Alright, so that is your homework. Um chapter five again, he's gonna kind of address this issue of um two pieces to it really is more about eschatology end times because they're asking the question. You know, when is all this going to happen? That that's a normal we all ask that, right? So he is going to address that. But then the very last part of chapter five is just packed full of Christian conduct. Do this, this, this, this, this. And you're going to see it's very familiar to passages that we've studied before. Alright? So read chapter 5, uh research the day of the Lord, that term, what does that mean, and keep memorizing Psalm 19, 7, and 8. We'll call on somebody new. Really, I I I'm doing it intentionally. I hope it encourages your soul. Right? The Lord's word will will do its work. It is active. Alright, let me pray.