All right. Um yeah, let me start with this and then we'll get into the schedule and then I'll pause to see if uh Diane has has any more. So for those who took part one, I I want to reiterate kind of my heart and why we're the format of this class, why we're doing it the way we are, so that it makes sense to you And then for those maybe here for the first time, you'll get a glimpse or sense of of why we're using this format and what the intent is. Okay? Um how many have heard of John Newton? All right, probably most notable for he wrote a pretty famous hymn called What? Amazing grace. That's how most of us know John Newton. What I didn't know though, um and just found out recently, he he was actually a very influential uh pastor, forty-three years you can see written on there. What he is really well known for is just his pastoral care and his pastoral letters. Over a thousand pastoral letters um written and and there are many that would come to him for pastoral care. And so there um there were a couple people in the the counseling movement that that we are a part of that have done some some study and dissertations on him. So I'm r reading a couple of those books and they're just fascinating uh for me, particularly on the doctrine of suffering. um is something that uh I've been using often in my counseling class and in my own life and so it's been very, very precious and we may get into some of that. But this this um description here in the middle, and I saw it And and I could not find it again to say who said it. Um probably one of these folks that I've been studying, but this was a description of John Newton. His passion in ministry is shepherding God's people through the teaching and counseling of the scriptures. And I just felt for me, if you guys want to know my heart, this is it. I I just get super jazzed up to be able to apply God's word and help people. Help people with their issues, help them apply it and have victory over their life here on this earth When we talk about God's peace and joy, I want that for people. I want people to live that way. So I get really excited about being able to apply God's scripture through teaching and counseling. I didn't know it, but that's why I'm drawn to counseling ministry. Alright, it's not the counseling per se, it's when I see people come in with sometimes some pretty drastic issues. Marriages that are one step away from divorce. Right? Um chronic suffering and depression, um uh struggling with anger and other vices. And and when we start to walk through God's word and they apply it And you see that transformation, it is just incredible. And and I'm the one who ends up being sanctified through all that. So I get a double blessing So I want you to know that's my my heart cry, if you will. I've heard people describe this class, oh Green's class is very practical. And it is, because that's the focus. Now, you will see, we're going to talk about it. In order to do that, we need to make sure we're handling the word accurately. We need to understand the meaning of the author. The author's original intent. We'll talk about that in a second. But I really like to drive towards, you know, the application. And that's an individual thing. And that's we're going to talk about the worksheet. That's what the worksheets are intended to do Alright, does that make sense? So now you know a little bit about me and what drives me. So that's it. Alright, when we talk about schedule, a couple things. Um There have been some some feedback to the elders that the time in between equipping classes and getting to the service, the sanctuary, can be a pretty busy time. It doesn't allow a whole lot of time for fellowship um getting kids into the classes they need to be in or back to them or using the restroom. And so we are committed to ending by 1030 Right, that's the commitment so that people can do what they gotta do. So that's the slight change there. The other thing is typically um classes are thirteen weeks, but we the way the calendar falls, we typically fall at the end of a month. For this year, don't know why, things got out of cycle. Maybe new moon, leap year, I don't know what it was. But if we were to stick to the beginning of of the month for the next quarter we would only be 12 weeks because we would start here. So this quarter we're actually going to go into the first week of March for that final thir uh 13th lesson. Okay? That makes alright So we do have a group on Hope Book. Often what I'll do is post the slides on PDF after the class and of course Diane will post the recording so if you had to miss a class you you can uh find the material there. Okay? Any questions about the the schedule? You see, next week we're going to be picking up. This is part two. You did not have to be here for part one to do part two, obviously, but we're going to pick up in 1 Corinthians 5. So If it's helpful to maybe look at some of the uh prior material, that's really the intent today is to kind of get you caught up to speed so next week we can jump right in. Okay? But those recordings uh from part one are there. If you need help with any of that, you can reach out to Diane or Joni or Marie. You're gonna see this chart a lot. And I know the part oneers are like, oh Chris, we're not again. Right, you're gonna see this again and again because it is so important. It's it's the simplicity, the basic of the gospel message. You you're gonna see Paul and we've seen this in in first, second Thessalonians, we see it already in Corinthians. He always is driving back to the simplicity of the gospel message. That's what he w was uh appointed to do, to preach the gospel, to share the gospel. All right? And he's always trying to bring people back to the simplicity of the gospel. This is very typical of what we do in the counseling room. What I want to share with you though And that quote from from the top there is from that red uh the red book that Gabe put together, The Heartbeat of HBC. This is really important. The gospel is more than what we believe to be saved from God's wrath. The gospel is foundational truth. for a living. So let me explain. We often think when we when we think of preaching the gospel or sharing the gospel, we think of what? Evangelism. Right? That's how we came to be saved. Absolutely. It is the power of salvation, Paul says. But do we often think of it in our sanctification? We need the gospel preached to ourselves each and every day. And here's why. The gospel starts with who? You can look at the bubbles if you want. God. It starts with God and and here's what I'm saying. We every day need to be trying to cultivate a really high view of God And when I say that, I say every time you open the Word of God, I want you to be thinking, what does this say about God's attributes? What does this say about his holiness, his justice, his righteousness? So often in life, when circumstances hit us, what do we do? We bring God down to our level. Right? And we start trying to work problems ourselves. When we do that, we're bringing God down to our level. versus resting in the magnitude of who God is. So that's going to be a really large emphasis of this class is continually renewing our mind. Who is God? In all of his attributes. And I'll show a slide on here in a second. The second piece of that, or part of the gospel, is what? Who is man Anthropology, right? The study of man. And it starts with who we are in our sinful nature, who we are at birth, who we were before God grabbed our heart and regenerated it. How often do we get into a conflict because somebody has wronged us, right? And we become bitter and angry and we are not quick to forgive And if you remember the state you were in when God forgave you, right? That's why you need the gospel every day to help with those relationships. So remembering who you were, dead in your sins, hostile to God. You could not pursue God. He had to pursue you. Why? Because he is holy, holy, holy, and you are sinful, sinful, sinful You are dead in your sins. You're trapped. Right? We need those reminders. And then the precious gift, remembering what what Jesus did in the work that he did, right? His life. You gotta include his life His perfection, so he could be that substitute for us and now sits at the right hand of God. And that last bubble is maybe As important, more important for today, and and this is something I often deal with in in the counseling room or just ministering to people is Reflecting, remembering, meditating on who you are in Jesus Christ. Remembering those promises. Who is inside of you as a believer? The indwelling of the Holy Spirit. You have the mind of Christ. You have the Spirit of Christ. Do we live like that? So when I talk about practical application, that's what I'm getting at. Are we living in the power of Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit? And we'll talk a little bit more about that. Okay? So again, you're going to see this slide again and again because it is so important for our daily walk to remember the gospel. And when you minister to others, your brothers and sisters, when you disciple them, take them back to the gospel truths. Right? That's a great place to start. Alright, if I'm going too fast, you guys just jump out with questions or comments, especially part one, or as you know my style, just jump in and hey Christopher, mention this. This was a good point or what have you Alright, so when we talk about God, um I hung this on the part one hopebook. I'll I'll do it. I know it's a little bit hard to see. I'll hang it on the Part 2 hopebook so you guys have it too, but it's just a really nice concise list of all the different attributes of God So on your worksheet, you're going to see there's a space there to highlight in this particular passage what attributes, what characteristics are you seeing about God, and so that you can write those down. Now don't get caught up in the color scheme. Over on the on the side, this is from Grudom, uh uh Grudum Systematic Theology, and he He makes this definition between communicable attributes, meaning those attributes that God has that he communicates or communes to believers and incommunicable meaning those are only his. And and there's a debate so for example, omnipresence is um is colored blue, I'm sorry, is blue, which would be which would make sense, right? That's only God. Um omnipotence, all powerful, is in red And so you'd really have to get into his head or or read the systematic theology to understand why he said, we have some of that. Okay? Don't get caught up in the color scheme. What I want you to do is use this as as a reference to continue to be thinking about all of the different attributes of God. And here's the key point. God is not sometimes uh righteous, he's not sometimes just, he's not sometimes loving, he's all of that all the time. He is fully holy, he is fully righteous, he is fully just all the time. That's the complexity of of who God is. That's the preciousness, the magnitude of who God is So you can't read an Old Testament scripture and say, oh, he he's just being wrathful here. No, he's wrathful and he's righteous, he's just and he's love all at the same time. Right? That's what we're trying to cultivate. Does that make sense? Okay. So that'll be a reference. I'll hang that for you. It's a it's a good place map for you to look at. Again, hope be colorblind to this chart. Okay, so um we're going to talk about some theology terms. Um that's not important. What's important is what they mean, and again, this is gonna apply to the worksheet that you have. So let me Let me build out the terms. Alright, so this first one, indicative. Have you heard that term before? Indicative. What's an indicative? Indicative Indicate, yeah, I like that, right? It is going to describe, like it says here, what God has done, uh what he's doing. It's really statements of fact. And I'll give you an example of that in a second. That's what indicative is. It's God saying something, displaying something, making a statement of fact. Typically, when you see an indicative, there is an imperative associated with it. What's an imperative? It's a command. It's something we are expected to do as believers. Right? So God says something, we are to respond in a certain way. Typically, I shouldn't say typically, what you'll see Paul do in many of his epistles is the first part First many chapters of the epistle, it's a lot of indicatives. It's God's truth. This is what God has done. This is who you are in Christ. And then the second half of that epistle is what? In light of that, this is how you are to live. A lot of imperatives, right? It's not always that formula, but that's typically what you see. We want to understand those imperatives. as they're tied to those truths. Alright? And then the last part of that is what? The individual application. It is not enough for us to to understand to have knowledge of God's Word. We need that. We need to understand. the purity of it. It's not enough to understand just the commands of those words. Right? We need to be doers of them, specific to our life, and that's the application piece. And that's very contextual for the individual. But I want to challenge you, in this class, and in part three, two, Paul is often speaking to the church as a body. Alright, and we're going to get into maybe some of the presuppositions we have about a church, especially here in America. Alright? So we'll talk about that Alright, let me give you an example. We covered this in 1 Thessalonians. So an indicative in 1 Thessalonians 4-3, and we're going to cover this in another chart, because I love it. For this is the will of God. I love that. It doesn't get clearer than that. Oftentimes people are, well, I don't know what the will of God is. And we'll and we'll I'll give you um an example of how there's a couple ki different descriptions of the will of God. But in this case it means the desire. The desire of God is what? Your sanctification. What is sanctification? Really connected Say it Nicholas loud. Growing in Christ-like Christmas. That's it. Growing in Christ-likeness. Being conformed more and more and more and more into the image of God. Daily. That's what sanctification is. Alright? Is that a suggestion from God? You know, God's will, his purpose for us is our sanctification for his glory. Now, the imperative right after that. For this is the will of God, your sanctification. That is, that you abstain from sexual immorality. So that's the command. Now, 1 Thessalonians, the church in Thessalonica was a model church Alright, if if you were to compare all the epistles of all the churches, Paul can't say enough about the work, the evidence of their behavior in Thessalonica. And yet They are still dealing with some issues. He doesn't go into detail on what this is specifically. We're going to see in contrast with the church in uh Corinth, very different. Very, very different. In fact, next week we're going to address this issue of an event that was happening in the church around sexual immorality. Alright? But it's still there. But you kind of see the flow And then the application, and this was just for an example, um, if someone was dealing with sexual immorality, there there's kind of two paths that have to take place. There's this I'll call it radical amp amputation to to um flee those lusts. And that might be uh putting software on your computer, that might be getting rid of some devices, that might be you know, not putting yourself in uh uh temptation, if you will. But that doesn't get after what? The heart issue. You gotta understand the root of what's happening, and so that's the second piece of that So this was just an example. You could do the radical amputation, getting rid of some of those things, but you have to also be looking at what might be some of those temptations or heart issues. And that's where counseling, being in the word, prayer come in. So when I uh deal with somebody that's struggling with that, that those are the two paths we take. We need to take both. We can't just do, hey, stop doing this, because you're not getting at the heart of the matter Alright? So that would be an example of application. Now, I I want sometimes what we'll do in class is hey share with me what are some of the indicatives you saw, what are some of the attributes of God What are some of the imperatives? I will never ask you to share your application unless you want to, unless you think it would be edifying. But this is for you. Make it personal, be be vulnerable with yourself. And here's the worksheet. So you'll see at the very top that first block in in every uh week you will get a blank sheet. So you'll get to start over. And that top block is really any notes you want to take about the character of God And then we talk about the indicatives, the truth, and then the next, the imperatives, the commands, and then that last block is for application Right as a child of God. I am really, really stressing the importance of you challenging yourself on that last block. Right? This is you will get the most benefit out of this class by doing this worksheet for yourself Okay? The right-hand side is just general notes. You know, if there's something I say during the class or you see something that is helpful, an opportunity for you to jot notes. And then maybe the most important is at the bottom the homework All right, so you can write down right now on your sheet the homework for next week is First Corinthians chapter five. I want you to read it. on Monday, and I want you to read it again on Tuesday and again on Wednesday. Really, really helpful guys. This is not rushing through the book, it's meditating, it's cultivating your mind And I uh literally it will take you three minutes to read that entire chapter. If that. Right? Three minutes of your day. But guess what? You're gonna be thinking about it throughout the day and about the week. And as you continue to read on it You know, th the Holy Spirit's going to illuminate your mind into some of that meaning. You may find yourself going and and wanting to study certain passages. Um with all the resources we have today, many of you probably have a study Bible in front of you, right? You can look at the notes, you can look at the references. You doing that ahead of time before you come to class is going to be the most beneficial thing you do all week. I guarantee it The other thing we like to do is memorize particular scripture passages that are applicable. So I'm going to extend one more week The the verse that we had last um last quarter was Jeremiah 924. So in 1 Corinthians, in the first several chapters, Paul talks a lot about boasting Boasting in man, boasting in themselves, and and the counter that is no, we're supposed to be boasting in Jesus Christ. But did you hear what he said? What are we boasting in Let them boast in this, that they understand and know me. What a privilege, what a blessing that we can know God. Does that mean we know Him exhaustively? Absolutely not But can we know the mind of Christ? Absolutely. Paul talks about that in 1 Corinthians. We can know because we have the Spirit. So you can write that on your homework. 1 Corinthians chapter 5 and memorize Jeremiah 9, 24. I'm going to pick another verse for you guys, but I wanted to extend that since we're in kind of a just an overview. And my part one class knows, man, I'm I'm gonna call on you guys each and every week. Okay, maybe maybe not totally true, but Really, it is so beneficial. And and let me say this, it's not me trying to just get you to memorize scripture. I'm very intentional about the verses I picked and that one proved very fruitful as Paul talked about boasting again and again and again. But I think sometimes I and me included we take uh for granted the fact that I have the mind of Christ. Right, that I have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit when I seek wisdom and discernment Um he will answer that prayer. Alright, any questions on the worksheet? Does that make sense, Raymond? Alright. So I talked earlier, you know, I'm really big on on the application. I I want it I want to make sure that we study the word well, that we understand the meaning. That's my job. to really do that well. Um I'm growing in that effort to do that. I think we all are and we all will be until the day we're taken up in glorification. But I wanted to talk real quickly about this idea of of hermeneutics. And you see the definition there. It really think of it as a science and an art. The science piece is There are some some rules or frameworks that need to be used when when you're reading God's Word to understand it, but there's also how you apply those. There's a bit of art that is required to do that We at this church would affirm what we call a literal grammatical historical hermeneutic. All right? And when we use the term literal, it means using normal language rules So when you're reading scripture and you come across poetry, you treat it as what? Poetry. When you come across passages that um are are allegorical, you treat them that way Alright? That's what that means by literal. But then grammatical, really understanding the Hebrew, the Greek, the grammar, and that's where, you know, I I'm not a a student of Hebrew or geek or Greek I am a geek. But um there are so many resources out there now to help um with that and and that's my challenge every week is to make sure I'm I'm in those study guides to help um work through some of this. But I would tell you this too, there is a real blessing and a benefit to not rushing to those those aids, if you will, and that's why reading the chapter again and again and again, you're going to get new insights. You are. Right? That's what the Holy Spirit does. He's going to take you to different passages. You're going to look those up. So I encourage you to wrestle through the scripture on your own, then go to those study aids. Don't rush to the notes in your your study Bible. Wrestle with it first. Right, and see where the Lord leads you. It's really um encouraging when when you when you uh do that and you come up with an interpretation and then you read some of the study notes and like, oh yeah, it matches Now let me make this note. Um well let me do this in a second. So so down below um when we think about um evangelical circles and specifically those with a uh reform theology specifically in soteriology, which is salvation, right? There there is lots of agreement. The two basic camps that you'll see though is what I'll call dispensationalist and covenantalist And the big difference is how um they interpret prophecy. That's typically where you'll see um differences. And um we have folks who who have I'll call it covenantal theology tendencies in this church. I have dear brothers and sisters. We went to a PCA church during one of our military moves. um drawn to the reform theology. Dear brothers and sisters, let that not be uh a point of disunity. All right, is my point. And what was I was informed by someone to say, hey, we use we use literal as well. So I want to point that out. It's just to what degree Right, even within the framework of of applying literal a hermeneutic, there there's an art to it, right? There's some gray area. And so typically if uh if you are labeled or claim to be a dispensationalist, you will use this hermeneutic, literal, grammatical, historical. We absolutely believe in a distinction between Israel and the church. We believe that there is a prophecy, future prophecy for a distinct nation of Israel. We believe that God works in what we call these dispensations. That's where you get dispensational. And again, it's just administrations, the way that the the Lord works with his people during a certain time frame. It is not a different way of salvation. Alright, don't be confused by that. And the purpose, the focus is really on God's plan, his glory. And you can see the distinction um with those from a covenantal theology. Um they believe that the church is is the new Israel, right? Those has been transitioned, that now those prophecies, those promises are for the church. A belief that the covenants are fulfilled in this present age and really a focus on salvation So I I only say that to say we as Hope Bible church would probably tend more towards dispensationalists for sure And my goal in bringing this up, it was really important in 1st and 2nd Thessalonians because we talked a lot about eschatology. Right. There were some issues about end times and so we had to establish this framework. If you were to look in our our doctrinal statement on what we teach, there's a br very brief statement on dispensationalism And it says, you know, um, God works in different administrations. For example, you had the law, grace, and then the millennium, right? We don't go into depth further than that And I would encourage you, maybe that's not where you want to go anyway, right? Just stay at that level. And it's really a continuum. There are those that are probably hard right on covenantal and hard left on dispensational And and many people though are are somewhere along that continuum. Alright? Any questions on this? Again, I don't want to be I don't want this to be a division. We brought it up last time primarily because we talked about eschatology um the end times and that really does make a difference on what camp you're in here on what you believe. But you remember when we talked in Thessalonians The issue wasn't, hey, are you a pre-mill and you're an a um mill? I that was those weren't even terms back then, right? Their their issues were what? Do you remember? Nope. When it came to end times, what were the Thessalonians worried about? Oh, right. Yeah, people that already died, were they gonna miss the coming of Christ? And so we talked about that. What was the other one? When? When is he coming? Right? So so we didn't need any of this to talk about that, but it was important to understand. And what I the view I gave you is simply what we teach You know, this class is not meant to be, hey, here's every view. Where that's important, like this, I do want to highlight. But I want to be clear with with what our teaching is, what we believe. Okay, is that fair? If you have questions about any of that, please you're always free to to come up um like somebody did about hey we we think literally too and so we that was a good discussion to have but okay so but I go back to here's what I would tell you I encourage people, know your humor hermeneutic first and foremost. What often happens is you you establish this belief in a doctrine, and then what do you try to do to your hermeneutic? You try and fit it so that it supports your doctorate. Go the other way. Make sure you understand your hermeneutic and then apply that consistently, would be my recommendation. Okay? All right. Why, Christopher, why'd you title this, you know, missionary journey, if you will? What I love to do always is put things in context. And so um to follow Paul on his journeys and try to to understand what was he dealing with, what was going on, how had he dealt with these various churches And then see how that flows through time. That was really the intent of why I set up this class. And so to to see him go from his second missionary journey to his third, that was really the intent, but with the intent of diving into those particular books. Now These are some some neat charts that display a couple different things. And and I got them from two different sources. So you'll see that in some areas there's not a hundred percent agreement on when these books were written. So let me start with this. You know, we talked about the beginning of your New Testament, you know, the Old Testament pointing, prophecy and everything pointing to a Messiah. And then we see in the New Testament, of course, we're going to talk about the coming of the Messiah. So you get the Gospels. And then you get Acts. Who wrote Acts? Luke, he gives a great historical um overview of the beginning of what? The church. Alright, so you see a a really nice summary of Paul's missionary journeys, probably up until the time of Rome here. Giving that history of that early church, we get a lot of information about this new dispensation, I'll call it. God working through the church as his his means of carrying out his plan of redemption What's the other big aspect that comes out of Acts? We talk about the church. What else? The Holy Spirit. Right? We see in the Old Testament, Holy Spirit's always there, but how he is working in the lives of individuals um is really a lot of the the examples you see is a a d indwelling for a certain amount of time and typically associated with Israel's leaders, right, to carry out God's plan specifically But you could lose that. King Saul, great example. David after his sin with Bathsheba, Lord, don't take your spirit from me. Alright? What changes though in Acts that we see clearly is that when you become a believer, you are indwelt with the Holy Spirit, you never lose that. That's permanent. Remember that last bubble I had on the gospel? Who are you in Jesus Christ? Don't forget you have the Holy Spirit and you can never lose it. Alright, so I think that's a fun fact, but so you get the the historical precedent of what's happening here. Now The way this chart is written, I really like it. These show the books that Paul wrote on these particular missionary journeys. And that's why on his second missionary journey we covered 1 and 2 Thessalonians. And now we're going to cover 1st and 2nd Corinthians as he goes into his third missionary journey. Now I'll point out the one book that you get a lot of debate on is when was Galatians written. You see here that whoever put this chart together, there's a belief that Galatians was written during his first missionary journey. Over here, though, you see it's at a later date. So Galatians is is one of the books that really gets debated as far as the timing of its writing. Okay, so I just wanted to point that out Another fun fact, when you look at the organization, um in my part one class you can't answer this. When you look at the organization of your New Testament You know, obviously goes the gospels, then Acts. What follows Acts? Romans. When was Romans written? Right, you can come over here around fifty-eight. So they're not in a chronological time order. We know that. So how are they petitioned? And I know this is hard to read down here, but for Paul's epistles, this is how they're grouped. So these are his think of it in two chunks. The epistles to uh the churches and then to individuals Right? That's how that's partitioned. And the order, can anyone guess why you have the order of Romans down to the 2nd Thessalonians? Why are they in that order? Part one class you can't answer. Not because we're told not to. Oh you don't remember. I'm a terrible teacher. Terrible. So what what I have seen in some of the research that I've done is their order by the size of the book So Romans being the largest down to 2 Thessalonians. That's why they're in the order that they are. Okay? And then like I said, then they chunk it out into books to the the individuals. Now um the book of Acts, like I said, takes you uh to um after his third missionary journey, um and I gotta speed up here. This is all just good stuff. Um into Rome and this is where you get uh what's called the prison epistles. So these four epistles, Ephesians Philippians, Colossians, and Philemon were written in his first prison, which was really a house arrest, right? It wasn't a prison like we think of prison today. He gets out and he writes First Timothy and Titus and then he's brought back to Rome and no kidding put into like a cave type cell and and he knows when you go into that Death is imminent, right? You're just waiting for your sentence. And then his last book written was Second Timothy. Okay And I'll just note, you guys know John, obviously the longest living, and it was several, you know, decades after the the death of of Paul that John wrote John 1, 2, and 3 in Revelation. And he was the only apostle uh believed to have died from natural causes, the rest were martyred. Okay? So chief uh character in our our story here is obviously Paul, and I think you guys are all familiar with Paul I'll leave this up here for a second. What's interesting to note is he was born around the same time as Jesus, right? So he was about the same age. Yet scripture doesn't seem to show them interacting. Where's confrontation between the two um or or intermingling in that sense. We do know that Paul was the chief persecutor though, right? He was he was zealous for persecuting the church. And on the flip side, now a believer, he is zealous for preaching the gospel. Alright, so that's his heart's cry. But his his he is the chief architect really, obviously working through the Holy Spirit of establishing that church age. So his missionary journeys as we'll talk about, is really about establishing churches throughout the region. Alright, so his first missionary journey around forty seven forty eight, and he was one of the he did most of his ministry initially up in Antioch. Okay, with Barnabas, versus Jerusalem, uh where James, the the brother, stepbrother of Jesus, was primarily the chief pastor down there. And we'll talk about that in a second. So he starts from Antioch on his first missionary journey, and it was really to this region of Galatia. Alright, so you can see all the churches or areas he starts to establish. What happened when they got to Purgo, though? Do you remember? What was a key event that happened in Perga? Somebody was with them and said, I'm going back home. No. John Mark. Alright, this is where the dispute starts to happen with John Mark. Alright, so keep that in mind. So he was with um Barnabas and John Mark. Alright, so that's his first missionary journey. His second missionary journey. Um let me go back one. So where did he end up? He starts in Antioch and where does he end up? You can say it. Antioch. Right, he returns home. Alright, so keep that in mind. So his second missionary journey actually starts from Jerusalem. What brought him from Antioch to Jerusalem? Council. Church Council, right? The Jerusalem Council. That's basically the the first recorded church council. What was the big issue there? Do you remember the Yeah, say it real loud. Right? So there were those that were trying to add back to um the salvation message that salvation wasn't in Christ alone, you had to add some works, and particularly circumcision. Right, going back to the the uh Judean laws, if you will. Right, so they they had a church council to solidify and pa and Paul was one of the chief you know, uh proponents of no, we just need the purity of the gospel. And so they wrote a letter and then that's what was now distributed um around the region Alright, so Paul goes off on his second missionary journey, and again, what does he often do? He goes back to those churches that he established. Why? He wants to encourage them Continue to exhort them. We're going to see this theme in how Paul treats the churches. We see it in Thessalonians, we see it in Corinthians, we'll see it elsewhere, but this terminology of he exhorts them To exhort is to come alongside, right? To reaffirm and encourage, but to come alongside, not be overbearing over the top. He um implores them, he encourages them, he admonishes them, stern warning. We see him do all of these to the churches. Right? So we want to highlight that. Guess what? Do we do that in our parenting? Absolutely. Do we do that sometimes in counseling? Absolutely. Sometimes I have to admonish. When I know somebody's a believer, when I know it, but they're not following this. I sometimes have to admonish because why? I love them. I love them dearly. Alright? So we use all of those and we'll see that application of Paul. And Paul's going to say to the churches, Imitate me So that's the application for us. How are we imitating Paul's behavior? Alright. So he goes through Asia Minor, which is Turkey Um he goes up in here into Macedonia and he spends very brief time in some of these churches. Why? Nope. Persecution. Somebody said it. He was being heavily persecuted by the Jews in each of these regions. So again, there's a mix of Jews and Gentiles. and he's being persecuted. So how long did he spend in Thessalonica? Part one is you can't answer. You probably don't even remember anyway. That's what I'm gonna think. Alright, part one or less than a month. Right? We know that he preached in the synagogue uh three weeks. We don't hear about the fourth week, so um most commentators believe it was a very short time, less than a month. Okay. But there preaching, teaching. And and so what happens is he goes on and at some point he leaves Silas and Timothy. So Timothy is uh he probably met Timothy during his first missionary journey He brings Timothy along as a as a mentee, if you will. Paul goes on ahead of them and I think ends up in Corinth and actually spends about eighteen months in Corinth And this is important because he's now spending a lot of time. He probably knows this group really, really well. What happens though is he sends word, he tells Timothy, go back to Thessalonica I go back. I I need someone to encourage them. I was there such a short time. I'm paraphrasing of course. And I need them to be encouraged. I need to know what's going on. Timothy comes back with this just stellar report of what's happening in Thessalonica. And not only that, but Paul is getting feedback from area churches, from the whole area of their testimony, right? So they really are just the model church. Alright. So if we if we pause there and say, okay, let's start digging into uh his letter to Thessalonica to the Thessalonians, this was kind of the format that we had. Again a prayer of Thanksgiving up front. You see though, chapters 1 through 3, just a celebration of their faithfulness He was so grateful for their testimony, their witness. And then what does he do? This is where we get the passage. You're doing everything right, but what? Excel still more. And this wasn't, hey, you haven't reached perfection yet. That's not what he's saying here. You you you're not good enough yet. He's saying you're doing everything right. Keep doing it. Keep excelling more. What is that? That's sanctification. Keep bearing the fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5. 22. That's what I would tell you all. Guess what though? As you mature in that, excel still more. Keep growing in that. We never stop. So that was his message. Now we we took a pause to say what what is a healthy church? How can we look at HBC and say, are are we fulfilling that? Are we that model? So there are a couple sources we looked at. If you're familiar with Mark Devers, Capitol Hill Baptist Church, there's a ministry called Nine Marks, and it's based on these nine marks of a healthy church. Because of time, I won't go into all of those, but they're a really good framework, I'll call them, for the type of elements you would want to see in a a healthy church to include uh expositional preaching. Let me pause there real quick. What is that? Anyone real concise? Yeah. It's um both let me frame it this way probably more accurate it simply means to explain. To explain the meaning of God's word. So you you uh exegete the word. That means pull the meaning out of it Right, using all that grammar and study aids and and all that good stuff. But then what do you have to do? You have to explain it to the people. Right? That's what it means to to exposit God's Word. Now, it typically manifests itself in a verse by verse, chapter by chapter format. Why? Because that adds context. If you go to our ministry philosophy document, Pastor Leek has a page and a half on This is What Expository Preaching. It's really good. It's really, really good. I encourage you to read that But so that's really foundational um to a healthy church and and certainly what we prescribe here. But I'll highlight some things too. It also includes being um Being wise about church discipline, right? It's about incorporating church discipline. Why? You want to protect the church. You want to restore the individual. That comes out in 1 and 2 Corinthians All right, so another um, I guess, framework we looked at is what? What we see in in the note to the churches in Revelation. And you can see some of the positives that were mentioned, their perseverance, their intolerance of false apostles and teachers, faith and endurance, but there are also some some negatives. Some churches were tolerating false teachers. They were spiritually dead. They were lukewarm. That's what we do not want to be. That's what we all have to guard against. But specifically for um the church in Thessalonica, this is what Paul um encouraged them with. What you have demonstrated, and I love the action verbs here, right? Your work of faith. That means your demonstration of faith, your labor of love. And we talked about that word labor is to almost to the point of becoming weary in doing good works Right, persevering, and then your steadfastness of hope. That's how they were characterized. He would go on to describe they were turning from idols, they were turning to God and waiting eagerly for Jesus' return. Oh, too much good stuff and not enough time. Alright, we talked specifically about the will of God. In in general, and you can break this down further, but in general, when we talk about the will of God, you've got to understand Um there's the word uh I think it's uh Genomai, to come into being, right? To to make happen. So when we pray Our Father who art in heaven, thy will be done. It's meaning his prophecy, his proclamations come to pass. The other will that you see is this the Lima, which means desire or purpose And so when we see in these statements, these are clear statements in Scripture, the will of God is, the will of God is, it's this desire or purpose. So we talked about this first one His purpose or desire is our sanctification. Alright? We obviously play a role in that. That's a synergistic work, the work of the Holy Spirit and ourselves. And then this other one we see we see two of these four actually in Thessalonica or in Thessalonians. And the other one is saying thanks. And this Psalm 37:4 is what? Delight yourselves In the Lord, and He will give you the desires of His heart. Right? If you want God's desires in your heart, you delight yourself in the Lord. How do we do that? We're in the Word. We're praying All right. The other important thing we talk about, and again I've been hitting this often, is um the work of the Holy Spirit. The Bible, the New Testament says a lot about the work of the Holy Spirit. We have to be careful about some of these terms, especially some that have come from maybe a charismatic or Pentecostal. You know, our enemy is always trying to defraud the word, defraud the authority, confuse people. And this is one area where when we think about the Holy Spirit, we can come from backgrounds where we're looking for an experience. Right? It's not an experience, it's a truth. So really quickly, baptism of the Holy Spirit, what does that mean? You're baptized in the body, you're being positionally placed into the body, the church, the universal church That's what baptism of the Holy Spirit is. There's no command to be baptized in the Holy Spirit. It's a work of the Holy Spirit. Upon your salvation, you are placed into the body. The indwelling is the effect. We now have the permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit and He seals us. Somebody brought it up, think of in the old days when the the letter was written and they would seal the letter and put the wax on there and the king would put his ring on there saying, This is mine And don't open it. Right? That's in effect the analogy that's being used. We are permanently sealed until that day of glorification. That's a wonderful promise and hope. And so the only place we do see a command associated with the Spirit is what? Being filled by the Spirit. What does that mean to be filled by the Spirit? That's it. To submit, to be controlled by, to be led by. That's what it means when you see the command be filled by the Spirit. Okay? Really, really important. Can we quench the Spirit? How do we quench the Spirit? Disobedient, not being filled, right? Not listening to the leading of the Holy Spirit. Don't grieve the spirit. Don't quench the spirit, right? The spirit is a person, the third person of the Trinity. And then we know Jesus when he was about to leave told his disciples, I'm going to send you a helper. That's who we have. And that helper does what? Encourages, admonishes, convinces us of our sins, pray, intercedes for us. testifies with our spirit that we are his children. That's why we cry out, Abba Father. We couldn't do that. We really need to cultivate and know and understand the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. That's the power that we have. And so as an exercise, what do we do? We went to Romans 8. I love, love, love Romans 8 because it reinforces these truths of who we are in Christ Jesus It starts out with what? No condemnation. We are not condemned. We are what? We are justified, declared righteous, free from the bondage of sin. We are new creatures. So what? Now our minds can be set on the things of the Spirit. We talked about we are adopted children now. That's what it meant when we were baptized into the Spirit. As a note, though, the path to glorification runs through suffering. This world, again, the enemy wants to try and and teach people suffering is bad. You want to overcome it as quickly as you can. You want to go to vices to make yourself feel better, right? That's what the the secular world will tell you about suffering. God has a very different view on the biblical understanding of suffering, and we need to understand that. He uses that for what? or sanctification. That's how we grow. And I often joke, my wife hates it, but it's true. Marriage and children, the great sanctifiers I have seven which meant I needed a lot of work. Really, it is an incredible blessing. Um you guys have heard me say it I am not the man I am today if it wasn't for those two truths. And love, love, love my wife and my family. It's precious. In love with what the Lord has done to me through them. Alright, the other practical application that we talked about now is new creatures, and I don't have time to run through all of this Again, I will post these slides, but this is really important when we go back again to our sanctification. Ephesians 4, this model of what are we doing? We're putting off the old self. I just told you we are new creatures in Christ This is a hard lifelong journey though, isn't it? To put off the old self. We want to put on the new self. We're new creatures, but what happens in the middle of that? We have to renew our mind We do that through classes like this. We do that by being uh under good uh expository preaching. We do that by serving, being part of the body. We do that by praying, by being in the word. Right? That's how we renew our mind We need to put on the new self. The other application, Philippians 4, another verse that I or passage I really love, and it ties back to the will of God is what That we are a thankful people. What does this say? Again, you'll see a lot of the same language in 1 Thessalonians 5. Rejoice always. Be praying with thanksgiving. Does this come naturally? Absolutely not. It needs to be cultivated. It's a spiritual discipline. What's the promise, though? The peace of God that surpasses understanding will what? Guard your hearts. That's the promise of cultivating. What are you doing? Think about this. What are you actually doing when you are thanking God in the midst of a trial? Lord, thank you for this chronic illness, this thorn in the side that I've had to dealt deal with for years. What are you saying when you say that? You're saying God's in control. I trust you. I trust your sovereignty. Alright? That's what you're saying. Now, life is hard, isn't it? Life is really hard. So learning how to lament, God gives us a precious, precious example of the ability to cry out to a holy God. Right? That's what we see when we lament. And again, I don't have time to go through all this, but the pattern is basically you're addressing God, you're complaining, or I like to call it groaning, honestly, openly before the Lord And then you have a request, in this case, Lord, I need to be encouraged. Right on your child, I need to be encouraged. And then you'll see these turning points. But then And you're going to notice a third of the Psalms are lamenting Psalms. You're going to recognize this pattern as you start to read them. What does it turn to? But I trust you. Right? I trust you. And you start to remember how the Lord has provided for you, His steadfast love. We can't stay in that in that state of complaining and groaning though, can we? Right? That's simple. We need to move we can be open though, but we need to move to this point where we say, I trust you, Lord. I don't understand it But I trust you because you're sovereign. Back to his attributes. That's why his attributes are so important. Alright, we go to Paul's third missionary journey, which is where we're at now And what we're going to see is he's actually, um, when he's at Ephesus, this is where he's actually writing the letters back to uh Corinth. All right? Um and we can probably go over I'll cover um these background slides on um Corinthians when we meet next time. So it'll give a good grounding before we start. There'll just be a couple few quick slides. So Um all right 10 30 let me close us and we'll be on our way. Brack