Alright, let's go, if you're not there already, to Second Corinthians uh chapter five is our chapter today and just another exciting Exciting um chapter. But before we get there, does anyone want to give our memory verse a try? Second Corinthians five, seventeen. Diane, thank you. Excellent. Well done. Good, good, good Well done. Excellent. Good. So we're going to cover that today, right? Being chapter five. Just a wonderful, wonderful truth. So all right, everyone else, keep memorizing. Great job, uh ladies. Well done So here we are, chapter five. Um just a heads up next week I'll be actually in the new members class um um as we try to rotate the elders through there. If you all remember when you went through that class, one of the purposes is for uh the new members to give or potential candidates to get to know us and for us to get to know them. So it's a privilege to to go through that class and it's um it's brim and full. There's like twenty plus people in the new members class. Yeah, it's it's a big one so exciting to be there. But uh Randall Hartman will be uh providing the the uh class or facilitating the class next week. Um no big change here. Again, we're in that first section one through seven where um again Paul continues his defense of being a minister of the new covenant. Remember this is not about defending himself as an apostle. He's d he's defending the fact that he has been called to be a minister, as we all have, of the New Covenant. And his emphasis is on what criteria is used to deem a person adequate. Remember, we've been talking about that. He's going to talk about that again in chapter five. Is it the outward appearance as some uh in the Corinthian church were advocating, or was it something that was happening in the heart? So that's where we're at. All right. In your Bible, let's go to um to prove my point, 1 Corinthians 5, 12, and we'll come back to this, but we are not again commending ourselves to you But are giving you an occasion to be proud of us, that you may have an answer for those who take pride in appearance and not in heart. So again, this confirms the context of what Paul is doing here. Right? He's trying to change their their mind, their framework, if you will, to be looking at the heart. And we're going to see as new creatures, this is how they're supposed to be examining brothers and sisters. This is how they're supposed to be examining people. Are they in the Lord or not? This isn't about defending Apollo's apostleship. It's about defending the gospel and the fact that he has been called as a minister of the gospel. And it's wonderful, and we'll see this again today, in the midst of this defense, Paul masterfully displays the truths of this new covenant through word pictures, logic, rhetoric, and really just simple, concise speech That's how Paul speaks. No trickery, no deceit like we talked about last week. Just the basic gospel Right, so that's the context that we have to keep in mind. So let's start with going back to chapter 4 starting in, uh let's pick it up in 6 17 For momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison. While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not are eternal. So again he has this eternal perspective of what's happening Remarkable that he calls all the suffering he categorizes as what? Momentary light affliction Have you guys ever felt that way? It's craziness, right? But we know suffering is the path to glorification. We see that in Romans 8. We talked about this in week one and I want to pop it back up there. This doctrine of suffering. so contrary to how the world thinks about suffering, right? The world says I want to get rid of it, I want to minimize it, I want to I want to um numb myself so I can't feel it And the Bible is quite different. God's instruction to us is quite different. I won't read through all of these, but um in this probably is not meant to be exhaustive. But it certainly covers a large portion of the benefits of suffering. God's plan for us as believers to suffer. Anything on here that that you want to talk about or shocks you? Right, it is to become less sufficient on ourselves and more sufficient on Christ. It's all about being transformed into the image of God, in the image of Christ. That's what suffering, the trials, the tribulations help us do. Sometimes the third one from the bottom, it's to reveal hidden sins. Sometimes our suffering is the consequence of our sinful action. And yet our loving Father does what? He brings it to our attention so that it can be dealt with, so we can seek forgiveness, so we can have reconciliation. Through that suffering, we know, and Paul talks about this, our ability to comfort others. I know many, again, through counseling, that have gone through just very chronic illnesses that they are uniquely positioned to come alongside others um that are dealing with similar situations So, this idea of suffering is is biblical, and we must make sure we embrace that. Alright, let's pick up in chapter 5 now. So in this first section 1 through 10, Paul further describes this tension between our current state in mortal bodies and our future eternal state in the glory with Christ. So let me read one through ten and then we'll come back and dissect some of that. For we know that if the earthly tent, which is our house, is torn down, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For indeed in the house we groan, longing to be clothed with our dwelling from heaven. Inasmuch as we having put it on shall not be found naked. For indeed while we are in this tent we groan, being burdened, because we do not want to be unclothed, but to be clothed in order that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. Now he who prepared us for this very purpose is God, who gave to us the Spirit as a pledge Therefore, being always of good courage, and knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For we walk by faith, not by sight. We are of good courage, I say, and prefer rather to be absent from the body. and to be at home with the Lord. Therefore also we have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to Him. For we must all approve before the we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may be recompensed. For his deeds in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. So go back to the beginning, verse one. For we know. This is Paul emphasizing something that they already know. Right? He's not giving them new instructions. He's saying we already know this. And what is that? For we know that if the earthly tent, which is our house, is torn down, we have a building from God. He's talking about resurrection here again. Now you remember this was an issue where Fifteen. First Corinthians fifteen. That's the main theme of that chapter is the resurrection. And and Paul being the masterful debater, right, being trained in logic, some were saying there is no resurrection. There is no resurrection of human beings. And he says, okay, if that's true, if that universal truth is true, let's pull that thread. If there's no resurrection, what does that mean about Jesus Christ? That Jesus Christ was never resurrected. And he says, if that's true, then we're all wasting our time All this is for naught. All the suffering I've gone through, all the preaching I've done wasted, we might as well just go out and party. Right? So he's re-emphasizing the importance of what we celebrate today the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So he they know this already. So he's making this contrast. Now this idea of the earthly tent, kind of like the earthly vessels. Do you remember what those were like cheap pottery Right, they would put garbage in human waste, and that's what Paul compared himself to, an earthen vessel, right? Just this this you know no nonsense pottery that cracks and chips but is never destroyed, right? Pressed But never destroyed. Same idea here, this earthly tent. Metaphor describes our frailty in our moral bodies Anyone feel a bit frail in their their mortal bodies? You youngins are like, what are you talking about? It will come. It will come. I feel it every day. We're decaying. Our bodies are decaying. That our sojourn in this world is brief. It depicts instability and thus vulnerability. That's the idea of this tent. In contrast, in the tense is what? It is torn down. It refers to death. Death remains the feared enemy. And yet Paul did not fear physical death. Why? Because he knew that Christ's death and resurrection had exhausted its, meaning death's power. Christ defeated death when he was resurrected. Once and for all. We don't need to fear it. Instead, what do we have? We have a building A glorified body waiting for us in heaven. A building in contrast to a tent, something um a tent made something by hands, like I said, temporary, impure, incomplete with something made by God, enduring, incorruptible, and finished. That's the contrast that we have here. Okay? That's what is awaiting us when we um finally reach that day of of being glorified with Jesus Christ in heaven Alright, picking up in verse 2. For indeed in this house, meaning this tent, he calls both now and where will bat be is a house, but for indeed in this house, currently where we're at, we groan. Longing to be clothed with our dwelling from heaven. What does it mean to grow? What is Paul talking about here? Longing for growing. Longing for. Good. Okay Let me read this uh a portion of the commentary because I think it it states this really well. The translation grown, the Greek word stenazo. Does not imply here despair, agony, or mournful dejection as reflected in the psalmist lament over his strength failing because of iniquity and his body wasting away. That's a reference to Psalm 31. Right? It does not mean that. It does not mean despair, discouraged, like I'm I'm at wits end. Paul's groaning expresses hopeful longing, like Jeff just said. He does not groan from a sense of hopeless futility, but from an earnest desire to receive the culmination of our salvation that awaits us. One has said, I like this quote, one has said that sighs are the natural language of the heart. As believers, don't we long to be with the Lord? And the heavy sighs that we have sometimes when we're going through suffering is very natural. When our bodies decay, we hear the creaks and the cracks and The the joints and can't get up the stairs, right, we long for that day when we'll be in glory with God For Paul, sign is the natural language of one whose heart has turned toward God and hungers for God's final redemption. Our groaning expresses the tension between suffering and hope. Doesn't it? I was texting Pastor Gabe this week. There was a situation external to our church, nothing to do with our church, but a ministry. that was um in a little bit of turmoil and it just it it made me so sad. Right? I d I don't know the details. We didn't talk about details But just the the fallenness of human and the impact it had on on this ministry just made us sad. And I said, Gabe, I I just cannot wait until the Lord returns. And he said, Me too. Right? That's the sighing, that's the groaning that we feel sometimes. This is not the only place that we see this idea of groaning. Where else? Can you think of? Related to creation. Who said creation? Alright, where where do we see that Daniel My favorite chapter Roman Day. Let's go there. You should have known. You should have known. We're gonna see three instances actually of groaning. Yes. That's part of it. But let's go through this. So Romans 8, let's start in verse 17. Actually sixteen, because I love that one. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. And if children heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. So again that that's where I the path to glorification is through suffering. Verse eighteen. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us Very similar to um what Paul said, a momentary light affliction, right? The sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared. There's going to be so much more betterness in glory than what we're experiencing right now. But here we go. For the anxious longing of the creation waits eagerly for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not of its own will, but because of him who subjected it in hope That the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery for cor to corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groans and suffers the pains of childbirth together until now. So here we have a very clear example of creation groaning. What happened to creation at the fall? Curse. Cursed. It was corrupted. Right? Just like human beings were, all of creation. And we hear, we see here creation groaning, the same longing. For getting back to that time of perfection with the Lord. Right? So all of creation is groaning. Let's keep going. Verse 23 And not only this, but also we ourselves having the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our body. So again, this idea of we as Christians, we're longing for that permanent home, aren't we? We're longing for being in that state. It's not so much we want to run from this present world. Yes, we get tired of suffering, but we're not despaired. We're not discouraged. We have a hope. Our focus is eternal. That's what we're longing for. We groan. All right, let's keep going. Verse 25 But if we hope for what we do not see, with perseverance we wait eagerly for it. That's the hope that we have And in the same way, the Spirit also helps our weakness, for we do not know how to pray as we should, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. Isn't that marvelous? That confidence, that assurance that we have that as believers now, as as ones reconciled to God We have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. We have the power of the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit is interceding for us with this same longing. So God groans. That's what I just read. Exactly, Kirk. I I never thought about it that way, but groaning in such a way that We know that the Holy Spirit has emotions. We can grieve the Holy Spirit. Is the Holy Spirit groaning on our behalf? Right? Wanting us to be in that glorified state. Real quick Verse 27, let me read 26 again. And in the same way, the Spirit also helps our weakness, for we do not know how to pray as we should, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. Don't stop there. And he who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because he intercedes for the saints what? According to the will of God. That's precious. It's always in the context of the will of God, what is best for us. And we know Romans 28, God works all things. For our good, for those who are in Christ Jesus. But that's who's interceding for you on your behalf, the Holy Spirit groaning for you. I think that's precious. Alright, back to 2 Corinthians. We pick up in verse 5. So we talk about this groaning to be in heaven, to be in that eternal state. Now he who prepared us. For this very purpose is God, who gave to us the Spirit as a pledge. This idea of a pledge, as you guys probably know, is uh a down payment Um it's an assurance that we will someday be in heaven, be in that glorified state. That's the assurance that we have as believers. the spirit testifying with our spirit that we are his children. Let's go over to Ephesians 1 This is another one of my faves. Because in Ephesians 1, you see the work of the Trinity. in our salvation. And it it also talks about this idea of the spirit being a pledge. But I think it's um just a neat opportunity to to show ourselves once again the work of the Trinity. Let me pick up in verse three. So let's be looking for how does God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit work here Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ, just as he chose us in him. before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him in love. He predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself. So here we see God the Father doing what? Predestination. Not getting into this debate, but you see God the Father choosing. God the Father is doing the action here. Okay? Let's keep going. Verse 6. To the praise of the glory of His grace, which He freely bestowed on us in the Beloved. In him we have redemption. Who's him? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Through what? His blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. So we see the Son, Jesus Christ, doing what? If God the Father chooses, what does the Son do? He redeems. He redeems. He saves. Pop over to verse thirteen. In him you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed You were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise. Who is what? Who is given as a pledge. Same word. of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of his glory. This idea again of pledge, um, you know, back in the day when you had the kings and they had their signet ring and they'd put the wax on there and they would you know, seal it with their ring to say, this is mine. Right? This is protected. This is mine. Same, same type of sound uh concept. So we see God the Father selects, Jesus saves, and the Holy Spirit seals. That's what Ephesians 1 brings to us. Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. Alright, back to 2 Corinthians. So we're in this mortal body that's decaying. We have this vision towards this eternal state That's the hope that we have, that's the encouragement that we have, and we're encouraged. Why? Because we're sealed by the Holy Spirit. Right? We have a pledge of our inheritance. Verse 6 Therefore, always being of good courage, and knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For we walk by faith, not by sight. We are of good courage I say and prefer rather to be absent from the body and to be at home with the Lord. that we just talked about, because we know these truths, because we have the pledge, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. That's why we can be of good courage Even in this mortal body, because the Spirit testifies with our spirit, we are God's children. Because we know we have a future glorified body awaiting us. We are of good courage. Does that represent your life? Your demeanor, your disposition? Are you of good courage? We need to be Um obviously Paul says though I would rather be absent. How many of you feel that way? Absolutely. I'm ready. Lord come, Lord Jesus come. I am ready. Now I'm getting old, so I'm on the other end. Um, but but really I I am very, very ready for the for the Lord to come. Tara, plug your ears. I know you're not ready, but I'm ready. We we have a little joke at uh our home. I think it's funny. But I say 75. I'm going to seventy five. Now I joke of course but You know, I don't wanna get to that point where I can't move around, I can't do anything, or chronic illness or what have you, but um seventy-five, I'm ready, so I'm closer than many think. It's all good. Verse 9. Therefore, we see a lot of therefores um in this passage. Therefore also we have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to him. So if we now have this hope. Paul's saying, whether we are here now or we are in glorification, what is our motivation? To please him. Let that be our motivation. To please him. With this in mind, whether absent or home, we strive to please God. Why? Why do we want to please God? Alright. We will we will have a judgment. We'll come to that in a second. Even more fundamental than that. Why do we want to please God? Even more fundamental than that. Because we love him. Because we love him. And how do we show God love? By obeying, through obedience. Maybe even more fundamental than that. Nicholas. He's a great God, that is very true. He is a good God. I'm not trying to stump you guys, I promise. Jeff. Not his holy Elizabeth. Yes, to give him glory. Glenn. Because we are new creatures in Christ. We have a new disposition. When you were a slave to sin, what was your desire? Not God. You were hostile to God. You did not pursue God. Your desire was to fulfill the sins of the flesh. Right, so now we want to please him first and foremost because we have a new disposition. We have been regenerated. We are reborn. Doug and that fits the context too. Amen. And at the end of this chapter, when we get there, you know, this idea of being new creatures, that's the memory verse, right? New creatures in this idea of the ministry of reconciliation, something I don't talk enough about Um but we'll talk about it because it's super super exciting. So yes, first and foremost we have a new disposition. That's the whole point of repenting. We repent from this old sinful nature, slaves to sin to what? We are now slaves to God. We are slaves to Christ. That's what a bondservant is To do what? To um obey him. To that's the disposition that we have. But like Tara said, there is also an element, and he picks it up in verse ten, of judgment. Believers, did you know you will be judged? Let's make sure we understand that though. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. Two types of judgment at the end Right? There um uh I forget the the scriptural reference, but there talks about the books where all the everyone's deeds will be um accounted for. But there's also another book, the book of life. Right? And and the unbeliever will be judged for his unbelief, for her unbelief. Right? If your name is not written in the book of life, you will spend eternity in hell Believers, though, these other books will be opened up, and you will be rewarded for your good deeds. What happens to your evil deeds, your sinful deeds? They get burned up. Burned up. Like chaff. Do you remember we talked about this in let me get my reference. Yeah, First Corinthians three. Let's go over there. First Corinthians three. I know last quarter. Eleven, I'm going to start in verse eleven. First Corinthians three, chapter eleven. For for no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. This he was um admonishing some of the false uh prophets, false teachers that were trying to lay a different foundation, foundation based on works. And he says the only true foundation is Jesus Christ. Verse 12. Now if any man builds upon the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evident. For the day will show it because it's to be revealed with fire. So the day is talking about judgment, and as Raymond said, it will be revealed, it will go through the the fire, and what is true will remain And what is false evil will be burned up. And the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. And so this reference, um, as we discussed back then, um Yeah, so the contrast here is gold, silver, precious stone m most likely means the good deeds, right? That that will be um uh remained through the test of fire. What happens to wood, hay, straw when it goes through fire Right? It gets burned up quickly. So that's the contrast that is happening here. That's the judgment that we read about back in 2 Corinthians in verse 10. That's the judgment as believers we will all receive. But remember, we are no longer condemned. You know, God's not going to go through that book of accounting and say, oh On day, you know, April fifteenth, you you didn't file your taxes on time and what have you. Right? That that's all going to get burned up and what remains is your good deeds, and that's the reward that you will get Now, do we do good deeds for a reward? According to a pastor leaked sermon, yes. Okay, I get a yes. What do you think? Both. What do you mean, Jeff? Well there there is nothing wrong with anticipating You know, this wonderful state that we're going to be in and and the rewards that you will have because of that, um, that is not our main motivation. Right? Again, we have a new disposition. We want to please God I I don't think I can. I can't even begin to fathom what is it going to mean to be in glory with God? I I can't wrap my head around that And I think the Bible certainly gives us some indication, but we don't know the t totality of what that's gonna look like. Um I said this at the we had the equipping um Uh equip to council class that we're doing, the four-month thing, or four-weekend, uh you know what I mean And I said in there we were talking about marriage, and it said, you know, we the Bible says we will not be given in marriage in that eternal state, will we? Right? And and selfishly I I told everyone, I said, boy, I sure hope I recognize my wife. That would be a precious gift. Right? To recognize Kareem. But what is that state going to look like And to remind ourselves, we will be in the presence of Christ. That relationship will be preeminent. So I don't know what that's going to look like. I hope there's a special relationship with my wife Doreen, but I I don't know what that's going to look like. Yes, we there's nothing wrong with anticipating these rewards, but it's in the context of obeying the Lord, of pleasing the Lord, right, of loving the Lord, like you guys all talked about. Pastor Christopher Yes. I I was trying to think of an example of a in scripture of a man who was rewarded and actually deserved them and had handled reports and I first first that comes to mind is is Joseph that he went through quite a few trials and passed many of them, maybe not all of them perfectly And then he was uh constantly, because the Lord was with him, he constantly was assigned to a a position of responsibility Yeah. And even eventually given a given a wife and family and was given the responsibility to to save Israel From starvation. Yeah. So this was a person who had been tested through fire in the early part of his life. And For sure. Particularly with with responsibility. Yeah. And he could he could handle it. Yeah. It didn't go through his head. Right. And I think that's a good point, Kurt. We don't hear anything of him talking about Oh, I finally got my reward, right? We don't hear Paul talk that way either. What does he say though? I run the race to win the prize. Right? So he is looking forward, but you don't even hear Paul talk about here's all the rewards I'm gonna get. So you you don't hear people talk about that, and yet I I think it's okay too long for that in the context of being in the glory of the Lord Right, so. Alright, let's let's continue on. So he's going to reiterate in this next section the main theme of the letter. We talked about it at the very beginning, verse 12. But let me pick it up in verse eleven. Therefore, another therefore, I love therefore. Knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest to God. And I hope that we are made manifest also in your consciences. We are not again commending ourselves to you, but are giving you an occasion to be proud of us, that you may have an answer for those who take pride in appearance and not in heart. For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God. If we are of sound mind, it is for you. So knowing the fear of the law of the Lord, that's how he starts. Paul holds in balance the assurance of this hope that we've been talking about, and yet the warnings that his deeds will be judged. Right? You see that tension or that balance that's needed? There is still an awe and reverence for the Lord. There's still this idea that even though I know my eternal state is in glory with the Lord, there's still effort that is required here on earth. There's still work that I need to do. That's our sanctification, a synergistic work. And he holds in balance this fear of the Lord. Even though we'll talk later that we are reconciled to God. This idea of a father, right? It's an enduring term It's familial. It's intimate. It's personal. Even though there's this personal relationship now with the Lord through reconciliation, we still what? Have an awe and a reverence for the Lord. He says we persuade men in appeal based on the gospel truth. This was Paul in our charge as ministers of the New Covenant. Sometimes it's what? Through encouragement? Sometimes it's imploring. Sometimes it's admonishment. We see that in what? The severe letter that he had to send to the Corinthians. That was probably extremely admonishing he did that out of love though. He's persuading, he's appealing to them made manifest or remember manifest to be evident or clear to God. So what is he talking about here? He's saying their hard attitude, his motivation for what he does is made clear And his hope is that the same heart attitude is made manifest to the Corinthians. That's where he talks about we are not again commending our so I'm sorry. Yeah. That we be made manifest also in your consciences. The end of verse 11. That's what he's talking to. He's appealing also to the Corinthians. Right? Focus on our heart attitude. What is our motivation When it talks about um in yeah verse 13, for we are beside ourselves, it is for if we are beside ourselves, it is for God. If we are of sound mind, it is for you. Um this term can be debated, but um it is um sometimes meaning people might have thought that he was crazy or insane. Just his dogmatic um stance on the truth People thought that about Jesus Christ too, didn't he? I'm the king. They thought he was crazy. So that's that's what this means. And he he says if I come across as crazy, it's for God. It's for the benefit. I have no issues with that. He could. I think that's a great point, Doug. And and I don't know for sure. I I think we're gonna see later, um in twenty Maybe in verse twenty, where it might be a broader audience, right, that he's referring to, is he talking about him and And the other ministers that were with him? Yeah, that's a great question. And and I would need to dissect that a little bit more. I don't know. But there may be a a a shift here. Um to be sober-minded means to be uh or a sound mind, to be sober-minded and self-controlled. He's saying how we conducted ourselves with with you, we were very much controlled. We were very much sober-minded. We knew exactly what we were doing. And we communicated with very concise basic speech. Again, not trying to use any trickery So we get to the end here, this last section, um and it's a beautiful one where Paul is an emissary of Christ for reconciliation, this doctrine or this ministry of reconciliation Again, something that that I don't think I've uh emphasized enough and we'll we'll talk about that in a second here And I'll show up the the slide that we talked about, the old covenant and the new covenant. But let me read in verse fourteen, beginning in verse fourteen. For the love of Christ controls us, having concluded this, that one died for all, therefore all died And he died for all, that they who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and rose again on their behalf. Therefore, from now on we recognize no man according to the flesh even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know him thus no longer. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature or creation The old things passed away, behold, new things have come. Now all these things are from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ. And gave us the ministry of reconciliation, namely that God was in Christ reconciling the word, the world, to himself, not counting their trespasses against them And he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were entreating through us. We beg you, on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Oh, so much to cover here. So this idea in verse 14 controls us, or uh some of your translations might say to compel us. It means to be gripped. Pressure that causes action. That's our new disposition, right, as believers And this idea of died for all. Let me read this commentary. This one can get debated for sure. Verse 14, for the love of Christ controls us, having concluded this That one died for all, therefore all died. He died for all, that they who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and rose again on their behalf. So let me read this commentary. This is from John MacArthur, um, and I think you all know kind of his views. You you might frame this in the context of, you know, that term limited atonement. Again, I don't want to we could have a whole class talking about that. But let's just talk about what I think is being demonstrated here. This expresses the truth of Christ's substitutionary death. The preposition for indicates he died in behalf of or in the place of all. This truth is at the heart of the doctrine of salvation. God's wrath against sin required death. Jesus took that wrath and died in the sinner's place. Thus he took away God's wrath and satisfied God's justice as a perfect sacrifice. Then all died. Everyone who died in Christ receives the benefits of his substitutionary death. With this short phrase, Paul defined the extent of the atonement and limited its application. This atonement logically completes the meaning of the preceding phase, in effect, saying Christ died for all who died in him. Or one died for all, therefore all died. Paul was overwhelmed with gratitude that Christ loved him and was so gracious as to make him a part of all who died in him One could say in this way, and again, this can be this is debated, but but how I like to think of it, one could say Christ was substitute um Could say Christ was the substitute required for all humanity, right? Meaning there is only one path to salvation. He is the only vehicle that that humans have in order to be reconciled to God. Not everyone profits from that substitution or benefits from that substitution. You might call that limited atonement, but that's what's being described here. Any questions or comments on that? Yeah, yeah. I I've heard um different commentaries, different phrases We know, we know from the rest of Scripture, not everyone is saved. We know that. Okay? So what Paul's saying here is those who are believers, those who died in Christ are now alive. That's the benefit of God's substitution. His death on the cross, his resurrection were for those who are now alive in Christ. Specified atonement. Yep, I've heard that too. Specified atonement is the the term that was used. Limited atonement has a lot of baggage to it. Um I do like that term. Um button doesn't make So if we are now alive in Christ, what does it mean to live for Christ? Practically speaking, what does it mean? I want to hear from you. We live like him, okay? Give me some examples. Like loving people even if they're not um treating me well. Okay. Remember we talked um I think it was last week about First Corinthians thirteen, the love passage and all the elements of what did love mean? That agape, unconditional, sacrificial type of love. Those were actions, weren't they? Those were those were verbs that we make choices to do. So loving as Christ loved. Good. What else? Nicholas. Well, try to go off that praying for the Okay. Praying for those who persecute us. We saw that. Kirk? I was thinking of having a mindset that you're living with a long game in mind for life. And yes, we're able to enjoy the the visible things that are temporary and they're passing away, but we're all of that is in the context of okay the long game is the things that are invisible. Yeah. Which is which is my own heart and wanting to be sanctified and live in in accordance with God's word to walk with me uh walk according to the way Christ did. Yeah. So it's enjoying the short game, but keeping the long game, the things that are eternal and God's eternal purposes and his will and his coming kingdom. Amen. Amen. Good. Randall. If you love me, you keep my commandments. Yeah. Obey. Yeah. And my commandments are what? Not burdened. Not burdensome. Good. So in this particular context, when Paul talks about living in Christ, he has a very specific example in this context. Go to verse sixteen. Therefore, more therefore, I love it Therefore, from now on we recognize no man according to the flesh, even though we have known Christ according to the flesh Yet now we know him thus no longer. Therefore if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature. The old things pass away, behold new things have come. This whole context has been about what? How people are evaluating Paul externally. And as we are new creatures in Christ, what is he saying? We no longer evaluate people by the external. We evaluate them by the internal. What's happening in the heart. Right? That's what he is saying in verse 16. We no longer recognize or evaluate man according to the flesh, but rather as a new creature in Christ. So to live as Christ changes the dynamic of how we treat one another, how we interact with one another, especially in the church body. This idea of a new creature or creation, this is a quote from from John MacArthur, describes something that is created as a qualitatively new level of excellence. It's when we talk about regeneration or new birth. Remember last week we talked about what was wrong with the people under the old covenant. Their hearts were hardened. They could not pursue God. They had the veil. The veil needed to be lifted. The heart needed to be um malleable. That's what regeneration does. That's who we are as new creatures in Christ. That should get us excited. be new creatures in Christ. That is our status. Alright, verse 18. Now all these things are from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ. and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Alright, I have to read this commentary because it's really, really good. This is from uh Garland And just just listen, there's a lot to unpack here, but but this whole idea of this ministry of reconciliation Paul is the only New Testament author to use the noun reconciliation and the verb to reconcile. When the verb is used in the act of voice, Christ or God is always the subject. When it is used in the passive voice, humans are the subject. In other words, God reconciles, man is reconciled. Who's doing the reconciling? God. Reconciliation assumes broken relationships, alienation, disaffection, hostility. That was our condition before becoming a believer. We were hostile to God. We were alienated. That's the whole reason for the gospel. That's the purpose of it. The good news is because we were alienated from the Lord. The problem is not with God, as if God were some cruel taskmaster from whom humans rebelled Human sinfulness created the problem. The fall created the problem. And this sinful condition had to be dealt with before there could be any reconciliation. Sin incurs God's holy wrath, so it could not be treated lightly or swept under the rug. God can never be reconciled to sin. Sin has to be dealt with. Why? Because he is holy, holy, holy. But God does not turn away from sinners in disgust and leave them to their just deserves. Instead, while humans were still in open revolt, God acted in love to bring the hostility to an end and to bring about peace. This peace is not simply a cessation of hostilities or an uneasy truce. It refers to the mending of the broken relationship that results from God justifying us, making us right through faith and changing us from enemies to friends. It is important to recognize that sinful humans do not reconcile themselves to an angry God. Instead a loving God has taken the initiative in reconciliation. And our reconciliation and being put right comes through Christ's death and our being in Christ. Does that make sense? Is that not precious? That is the ministry of reconciliation. And and here's what I would say again. When we talk about we've talked about this, our status before God in our in our um since conception, right, is under condemnation. That legal term, we are condemned. The evidence has been laid out, the judgment has been passed, and the punishment has been declared. Eternity in hell. That is our state. Outside of God. When we were hostile to God. This beautiful idea of the ministry of righteousness or justification, we are now what? Declared righteous. We are clothed with His righteousness. And and what I often forget to talk about is, okay, that's our status. That's our state before a holy God. What does that then mean? Reconciliation completes it to say, what does our relationship now look like? Right? That's the beauty of reconciliation. What does it say? We're not hostile, we're friends with God. Now I don't mean to make that informal. You guys know what I mean. There's still an awe and a reverence there, right? Abba Father. Again, that term of endearment, daddy. Now let me let me caveat, um, because I I use this term in the Lord's Prayer on Friday, right? And I again I don't mean to bring down informality. I was trying to emphasize That through God's love we now have this very personal and intimate relationship. It's familial, it's intimate. Daddy. Abba doesn't literally mean daddy in Arabic, alright? But it gives you that sense So I say that with all reverence and awe. I don't pray to the Lord ever as daddy, I don't, but in that context, I was trying to emphasize this personal relationship we have through the ministry of reconciliation. Does that make sense? Doesn't the phrase of a father help us do that? Because when we if we say our f we call it our father's daddy, yes, we respect it and help it all so putting the two together Absolutely does, Randall. What I what I was not aware of is apparently there's a a daddy-father movement going around. I know nothing about it. I've never heard it, but I think it it makes it very informal and and that's not the intent here. Right. But to your point, um like most you know father-son relationships, it's an endearing, it's a respectful Right. And and I think um I think Jesus used it in the garden as well. Um I'll have to go back and check that. But again, this term of endearment. But that's that's the beauty of reconciliation. And again, who does the reconciling? It's God. Right? God does the reconciling. Now this idea of ministry, we uh the ministry of reconciliation. Um the word ministry, the Greek word diaconia. Dark enough, what is that? What term does that describe? Think Act six Deacon. Deacon. That's where we get the word deacon from. And what were the deacons to do? It it really gives us this term of waiting on tables, their service. Right? So to say you are a minister of something or the ministry of, that's all it's saying. We are servants. Paul's saying I'm a servant of This doctrine of reconciliation, the the doctrine of the new covenant, the the gospel message. And we all are, aren't we, as new believers. Again, from Garland, the commentary. The ministry of reconciliation therefore involves more than simply explaining to others what God has done in Christ. It requires that one become an active reconciler. Like Christ, a minister of reconciliation is plunged into the midst of human tumult to bring harmony out of chaos, reconciliation out of estrangement. in love in the place of hate. Right? That's the the life on life, the day to day reconciliation that happens between believers. That's why that's so important. But it's why we have small groups, it's why we have fellowship, right? It's Life on life. It's not just sharing the gospel. Right? It's investing our time and talents into our brothers and sisters and to a lost world. It's running a 5K on a Saturday Justification, being declared righteous, not only changes our status before God, but also changes God's relationship with us. That's a point I I often don't emphasize, but I'm going to start. Right? That really completes the gospel message. Remember, the problem was what? Our relationship with God in a fallen state. The solution is we need to be reconciled, and we do that through Jesus Christ. To be reconciled most likely refers to the universal appeal to be reconciled to God. Reconciliation is a divine gift, and we are to be ministers of proclaiming this gift. Alright, we got just a minute. Let me close um with a couple points about these last couple passages. It's uh verse twenty Therefore, we are ambassadors, meaning we are representatives for Christ, as though God were entreating through us. We beg you, on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. So God obviously using human beings by his design to appeal, to appeal to the lost, to be ministers. This idea though to be reconciled to God, don't get the thought that, um, and this is where we talked earlier about the we, this might be a universal plea to all, to be reconciled. You need to be reconciled to God Right, this letter um would have been read in the synagogues and and maybe reached a broader audience. Paul certainly is not saying you can lose that reconciliation. Big R I'll call in Right? But do we sin? Do we need to be reconciled to God when we sin? Little R. Do we need to be reconciled to each other when we when we have those conflicts? Little R, yes Okay, but this idea of being reconciled, it's this appeal, right, to share the gospel, to share the word of reconciliation. And then he ends with really the gospel message in 21 He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Now this idea of to be sin, did Jesus actually become sin? No. Absolutely not. It really means to bear our sin. It really this is where we get this idea of imputation. Alright? His sin is imputed to his account, credited to him, tied to him. He was never sin, he never became sin. He can't. Why Because he's God. Because he's holy, holy, holy. There's nothing about his essence or being um that can that can be sinful. Okay? But but he took on and that was the the the propitiation. I love this word and I don't mean to throw out a big word at you, but it's so packed with meaning. It means he was the perfect substitute And and that points to his life. Right? His life. He had to be perfect while here on earth, even in a um also having a human nature Um in his life, but then his work on the cross, his death, his burial, and his resurrection. Okay. That was it. Good, good stuff. So this idea of the ministry of reconciliation, I really want you to be encouraged by that. And I I want you to think about, yes, there's this beautiful thing that our our status has changed As new creatures being regenerated, our disposition has changed. But that also changes our relationship with a holy God. He is Abba Father. Let's pray.