All right, before we jump in, anyone one that hasn't already wanna give Philippians two three a try. Glenn, you want to give it a shot? So excellent. Excellent. And that really, you know, we like I said, we're being very intentional um because that really gets at the heart of of being a Christian, doesn't it? We're gonna talk a lot about that today. So all good. Alright, if you have not done so already, open your Bibles to 1 Corinthians 13. Before we do that, a little background. What what did we study last week in chapter 12? What was what were some of the main principles there? Spiritual gifts, what about 'em? Okay, they're for the body? To serve others, right? To edify, to equip the body. Glenn. To consider others better than yourself. Amen. That's it. That's it. What was the issue that Paul was addressing? What was the Corinthian church? Let's start with this. Characterize the Corinthian church. Use a couple um adjectives. Out of control. Prideful, arrogant, puffed up, very self-centered. Right? We see that throughout the chapters that we've studied in 1 Corinthians so far. Absolutely. And so what were they doing with spiritual gifts? Competing. Competing. They were using spiritual gifts as a a measuring stick to measure how spiritual people were. That is what the issue was. It wasn't that they were using spiritual gifts. Paul was saying you need to be using your spiritual gifts, right? That's not the issue. And we'll talk a little bit later about cessationism. I brought that up last week, but we'll talk about that um a little bit. That's not the issue Paul is addressing, whether the gifts are still applicable for today. That's not the issue here in 1 Corinthians. It's how they were using their spiritual gifts. It was for selfish motives And he starts chapter twelve by saying, No no no, you gotta go back to the very basics. Anyone who is a Christian is spiritual. Right? And the use of your gifts, like Joni said, is for building up the body. I'll show you that chart again at the end, right? We all have special gifts that we bring. That's why the church body is so important, because we have to be using those gifts together. That's the point that Paul's trying to get them to. Okay? So he ends at the very end of chapter 12, he says, but earnestly desire the greater gifts. We talked about this. He's going to explain to them what the greater gift is, and it's really chapter 13. And I will show you still a more excellent way. So that's what we're going to discuss today. Alright, chapter 13 Um, I have to say this, you guys know I love Romans eight, right? Romans eight is just so precious because of um the truth we find in there of who we are in Christ. That is so critical for us to be living out our lives in the the boldness and the courage of who we are in Christ, in the humility of who we are in Christ Um but but 1 Corinthians 13 is probably absolutely right up there because it is at the very core of who we are as Christians and how we are to act. Alright, so really, really important chapter Just a note here on the schedule next week uh Miss Corrine and I are going to be in California visiting one of our daughters. So Carrie Kane will be teaching 1 Corinthians 15. So just an FYI. Alright, so here we are. We're coming to the closure of this section. You know, Randall started it with, you know, talking about specifically order and how they were behaving within the specifically the worship um service, the the assembly of coming together, but you could really say their life writ large um in the body. We'll talk about some of that today, but We're going to close the section. So Randall talked about respecting the headship, the order that God put in place, you know, during the worship time, and we're going to hit that a little bit today Um the Lord's Supper, how they were uh abusing that again, what was their their heart motivation? Selfishness, right? It was greed, it was it was self-focused And then we we have talked about the spiritual gifts, how they were using those gifts. Chapter 13, we're going to talk about this underlying foundation of a heart attitude of love. What does that mean? And then he's going to re-address this idea of the spiritual gifts. So we'll close in in chapter 14 addressing some of the gifts that he was talking about. Okay? And then we're getting close to the end here. Alright, uh 1 Corinthians 13. Before we do that, uh let's see, I don't want to get ahead of myself. Yeah, let me read the the summary because I thought it was a really good one from the the commentary that he used. Chapter thirteen is a call to a way of life that addresses real problems in every church. Paul's purpose in this context is to dethrone self-centered spirituality. That's what we talked about last week. And to exhort the Corinthians to pursue love. If any extol their own particular gifts as the highest and best, Paul demonstrates how devoid of the value these gifts are when they are not practiced with love. To seek personal distinction by showing off one's spiritual prowess in some way in a self-defeating exercise that destroys fellowship Experience proves that a man, after opening his heart with faith to the joy of salvation, may soon cease to walk in the way of sanctification. shrink from complete self-surrender and while making progress in mystical feeling become more full of self and devoid of love than he ever was Paul reminds the Corinthians that love, not spiritual gifts, is the marrow of their Christian existence. I love that last line. Here it is. Paul reminds the Corinthians that love, not spiritual gifts, is the marrow of their Christian existence. We're going to see, don't treat love as another spiritual gift. Alright, it is at the very core of who we are. And we're really going to dig deep into what does that mean. And so chapter 13, this will be kind of the outline that we have, the prominence of love. the perfections of love and the permanence of love. And we're going to spend a lot of time on the perfections of love. That's where we actually go through the list of love is, and then there's a list of 15 I'm gonna give you the bottom line up front. They're verbs. They're not adjectives. They're not adverbs. They're verbs. Okay, let me read. Before I do that, let's jump in and let's talk a little bit about the types of love in the Bible. Give me any Before I jump there. I heard Agape, okay. Agape, Phil, and what's the other one? Yeah, Eidos, Edos, whatever. Alright, good. You guys are rocking it. So here's I'm sorry that it's hard to read, but I took it from my notes. It's important to understand these. So agape, unconditional sacrificial demonstration. It is an action Right? And it is unconditional. It is sacrificial. We see in John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. That's the type of love described in John 3. 16. Okay? It is an agape type of love. Where else do we see that? Think of the Great Commandments in Matthew 22. Okay? We are to do what? What's number one? Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, and soul. Where does that come from? Deuteronomy, the Shema, right? Deuteronomy 6. 5. Now, if you go back and take a look at that, it's a Hebrew word, but the Septuagint, what is the Septuagint? The Septuagint is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. In that Septuagint, the Greek word used there in Deuteronomy 6. 5 is what? Is agape love. It's the same type of love. What's the second great commandment? Love your neighbor as yourself. That same word love is guess what? Agape love. That's how we are supposed to be acting out In the church body. And we're going to go into great detail. What does that look like? And let me say up this, right? It is unconditional, it is sacrificial, it is a command for us, it's not a suggestion And guess what? We're all equipped. When you become a believer and you have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, we're going to go through the list and you're going to be like, Christopher, that's way too hard. That's nonsense. You've been equipped to love, and we have the perfect demonstration of what this look uh love looks like through God and through Jesus Christ. Right, John 3. 16, the perfect demonstration. And we're going to pull an example to kind of make this uh a bit meatier. Alright, so that's agape Phileah, Phileo is um that's where you get Philadelphia, the city of brotherly love. It's a brotherly love, a deep friendship. We see that between David and Jonathan, don't we, in the Old Testament Pastor Gabe just brief um just preached on this, John 11, 3. The sisters therefore sent to him saying, Lord, behold, he whom you love is sick. That's the type of love described here, this deep devotion, this deep brotherly love between Jesus and Lazarus. Okay? And then there's Eros, a a physical or sexual love And you see that in the Song of Solomon. I won't read all that, but the you know there is love um mentioned there, but the whole the whole passage there is really this idea of a physical or sexual love. And it's a beautiful thing. And it's meant for our pleasure in what context? In the marriage relationship. Alright, when that gets taken out of context, that's where you have all kinds of problems that Paul has been talking about with the Corinthian church. It's a sexual immorality. I don't know, uh I saw this from a couple commentators, I don't know that you'll see arrows in the New Testament, but I can't verify that. Alright? Uh it is used sparingly, of course. Alright, uh what do you not see here as far as a description? I know I'm kinda lean you guys, but Um when we let me say it this way. When the secular world and even we as Christians sometimes think about love, what are we often talking about here? Feelings. Emotions. Now, do we have feelings and emotions? Why? That's how God made us. Right? So when we are demonstrating agape love, when we are are demonstrating Philae uh or Eros love, are there feelings, emotions? Absolutely. That's that's a I'll call it an an outcropping of demonstrating this kind of love. But it's not part of the definition. Okay, that's the distinction. Often what happens that becomes the controlling function. There are some times when I'm in the counseling room with a married couple And you know, the first couple times I'm meeting with them, you know, what do I hear sometimes? I don't love my spouse anymore. What they're saying is they're describing the feelings. I don't have these feelings I used to have And what do we do? We take them to 1 Corinthians 13. Say, let's define love, how the Bible defined love. Right, that's the key to this. So yes, I I don't want to negate feelings. Feelings are a wonderful part of that experience of love, but what often happens is that becomes the The preeminent determinant in a relationship is the feelings. And you've got to go back to the core. What does the Bible, how does the Bible describe love? Okay? Alright, so let's read verses 1 through 3. If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but do not have love, I have become a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. And if I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mounts, but do not have love, I am nothing. And if I give all my possessions to feed the poor, and if I deliver my body to be burned but do not have love, it profits me nothing. So Paul is is I think in some instance um um not all commentators agree. There's a a little bit of hyperbole here. So for example, um It speak with the tongues of men. Now remember we define tongues as what? It's a it's a foreign language, right? Foreign to whoever is speaking it, but it is a language that is recognized on the earth Um tongues of men and of angels. So it it might be that, you know, even if you could speak the language that the angels speak, you know, he's trying to show even if you have the maximum use of this gift But you don't do it in love, it's worth nothing. That's the point here. If you have the gift of prophecy and you know all the mysteries, you have all the knowledge, it's complete. But you don't exercise that in love, it's useless. Even if you are uh a a martyr and you are burned, and that certainly happens, so there's no hyperbole here, is there? Um that happened, but you don't have love It profits you nothing. That's the extreme that he's talking about here. So there's some contrasts and implications of utilizing our spiritual gifts without being grounded in love. Paul specifically touches um in this instance on the speaking gifts. Why? Remember from last week? What did we talk about? Building up the church. Yeah, but why is he t why is he addressing the speaking gifts specifically? What was the issue? Those were the ones that they Yeah, yeah. Those were the ones that they thought were the most glamorous. Because in in the church assembly, why, if you could speak in a foreign language Boy, you were primo. If you could prophesize, you know, that really put a spotlight on you. So I think specifically we'll see in chapter fourteen he again goes back to prophecy in tongues. I think that was the specific gifting that he was addressing. Right? And those were the gifts that they were they were after because that really put them in a high status in their minds. Right. So you see him continue to address this idea of the speaking gifts Second, Paul is demonstrating how useless, devoid of virtue, and limited these gifts are without love. Love is not depicted as another spiritual gift. That's really important. Okay? Only when they are exercised with love do they become fruitful for building up the church. You remember the passage uh one chapter over in twelve seven? You're going to turn there, I'll read it. But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit. So we all have these gifts for what? For the common good. That has to be the motivation, is for building up the church. And so the pattern you'll see in verses one through three says he uses the extremes, but basically it says, I produce nothing of value. That's in verse one Again, if I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but do not have love, I become a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. You musicians, you know what this sounds like, don't you? Not only is it um not of value, it's actually a distraction, a huge distraction Second, in verse 2, I am of no value. If I have the gifts of prophecy and I have all the faith to remove mountains, but I do not have love, I am nothing. No value. And then in verse 3, I gain nothing of value. If I give all my possessions to feed the poor, and if I deliver my body to be burned, but do not have love, it profits me nothing So I produce nothing of value, I am of no value, and I gain nothing of value. That's what happens when we use the gifts without love. Okay? Alright, so that's the the first section of that. The um let me go back, the prominence of love. We're gonna jump into this section now, four through seven, the perfections of love. And let me read it, and then we'll come back to uh this chart here and we'll start working our way through it. 13 verse 4. Love is patient, and let me pause here again and make an emphasis. These are action verbs. You can read that as love is patient to people. That's the grammar, that's the the verbiage there. It is not uh an adjective, it is not a um guideline, it is a command. It's an imperative You know, on your worksheet, you're looking for imperatives? You can list all fifteen that I'm going to share with you right now. Love is patient. Love is kind and is not jealous. Love does not brag and is not arrogant, does not act unbecomingly, does not seek its own, is not provoked, does not take into account a wrong suffered. does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth, bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. And we'll stop right there Three items stand out in verses four through seven. First, the list is not a bunch of adjectives like I just said, but rather verbs. Love is dynamic and active and action-oriented. That's what you're reading there. The list does not describe an inner feeling like we talked about, a sentiment or emotion that is fleeting. At the core, it is agape. A demonstration of love. An unconditional sacrificial demonstration of love. Number two Paul doesn't break from his discussion of spiritual gifts and say, okay, let's talk about love now. So it's not this isolated hymn of love, but rather an integral part of Paul's exhortation to the Corinthians. Paul is pulling a thread, and this is the central theme. This entire list is completely contrary to how they are acting. You could take this list, and and the reverse of that is really the Corinthians And and Paul is isn't he just so subtle and gracious how he admonishes the church at Corinth. Okay, and I will I will post these slides, so don't feel like you have to write them all down, but He was he was basically saying love is patient, you guys are not patient. Love is kind, you are not kind, and you can just go down the list. That's what would characterize the Corinthian church. And then thirdly, this entire list corresponds directly with God's own gracious saving activity. This list, guys, is the gospel. If you start working your way through this list, it really is the gospel on display. And it is only possible by those who have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. So again, you might look at this list and say, Christopher, man, I can't do all that. Baloney. You can and you must. And you only can because you have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. So I I want to see if we can't set up an example to kind of flush out a practical application in the body of the church. You don't have to turn there if you can if you want. Ephesians 5. What does Ephesians 5 um have some clear instruction on? Husbands and wives, your specific roles and responsibilities. I'm gonna pull the thread with the husband, but we can include the wives in this too, so wives don't sit back sit back all cushy everything Um but but real quick, you know, wives, submit to your husbands, how? As to the Lord. And then in in Ephesians 5. 25, husbands, love your wives just as Christ also loved the church. and gave himself up for her. Man, let that sink in. That is a command to husbands. That is a responsibility. And guess what? It is unconditional. It doesn't say love your wives if if they're doing everything right and they're sweet and they're precious and they bring you coffee in the morning. Right? And how are we to love our wives as Christ loved the church and died for the church? Glenn, did you have a comment? I think for myself, I I looked at it from the aspect of sacrifice. Dying for my life as Christ died for the church. So I I looked at it and say, Yeah, I'll I'll take a bullet for her, I'll say it for her, that kind of thing. I'll I'll But I for what I forget a lot of times is that that command is every day in every action in a different way. I need to be sacrificial. I need to dial it myself. Yeah Yeah. Yep. So great point, Blanett. It is a continuous daily action. Um and And what does that look like? You know, often in the counseling room again with couples, this is where we start. Let's go to what God has said about your roles and responsibilities. And let's focus on that. Because often it's, hey, if you fix this, Bubba. If you fix this scale, we'll be good. And I gotta bring him back to no, let's focus on your roles and responsibilities. So this daily so I so we often cover this verse, Ephesians 5. 25. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Got it. What does that mean? What does that look like practically? I love to then take them to 1 Peter 3. 7. 1 Peter 3. 7, you husbands likewise, live with your wives in an understanding way. Do you want to know how to love your wife specifically? Live with her in an understanding way. What does that mean? Live with your wife in an understanding way. He said, be attentive to her needs. It means you get to know her so intimately Her ins and outs, her joys, her fears, everything. That's what that means in understanding way. You spend a lifetime studying your wife. Like you would um music or any profession. Right? It becomes your life goal to know your wife. That's the intimacy that that word means Yeah, I I have one fresh example. We we were talking about this during our Valentine's date yesterday. Is there there was something that I said somewhat publicly last week It was just kind of jabbing my attempts to be humorous. Mm-hmm. And I was later reminded, okay, this is a very sensitive topic that you're making. And so it it was just a kind of cold reminder that okay there's some things that I may consider is spare game and it's humorous, but It's not understanding. Yeah. So Kirk, great, great example. Um it it is to that level of sensitivity that this particular topic Because I'm understanding, I'm hearing my wife, I know that this is sensitive to her, that's going to now dictate my actions. That's a perfect example. Let me give you guys another real quick one Me personally. Um I'm an engineer, which means I love to solve problems. I'm good at solving problems. Um long story short, seven kids, seven young kids at home. I'm at work all day, Kareem's with seven kids all day. She comes home, she wants to have a discussion with her husband. She wants to talk. She starts talking, what do I hear? I hear problems that I'm gonna fix. Alright? You know how that turned out. Um we have a joke, especially being in the Air Force, you know, she she's flying her planes around, I want to land the planes, right And so the the Lord really worked on me, right? This idea of understanding your wife and I said, I got it man, I I'm just gonna listen. I'm just gonna be say nothing. Because she just she she just wants to talk. Gentlemen, I was still not understanding my wife. She didn't just want to talk. And guess what? That kind of shamed her a little bit. She didn't want to just blow steam She was revealing what was in the inner heart, right? Her joys, her fears, her anxieties. That's what was coming out. That's what I needed to listen to And it wasn't until I got to that point that I was truly starting to understand my wife and the example you just gave, Kirk, now how to practically love my wife. Does that make sense? Alright? Now guess what? Am I still learning? Am I still on that journey? Absolutely. And that's going to happen until the day I die. But I'm grateful for the Lord showing that. But does that make sense? So that really gets at the heart, man, of how we are to live with our wives in an understanding way. And we don't have time to go over it, but that verse specifically has a condition to it at the very end. Do you remember? Do you know what that is? If we don't live with our wives in an understanding way, our prayers can be hindered. The wives don't have such condition, but we do. So that's very uh something important to be thinking about Alright, so let's pull this thread a little bit. And let's specifically look at, so we can look at any of these attributes in the context of being a husband Living with your wives in an understanding way. Um let's talk about some of these. We don't have time to talk about all of them. You see some of the meaning or definition, and I took this from some um uh biblical dictionaries, some from commentaries, so hopefully they make sense. But if you have comments on any of them, we can talk about that or you can uh talk to me after class. But let's Let's pick on a couple of these to really pull them out. I want to take this one kind of in the middle here, not take into account a wrong suffer. Yeah, a wrong suffer. And you can see the the distinction there, right? Keeping record of wrong in order to pay back injury. That's a really important distinction. And so if you were to um harbor those historical sins of your wife in this case. And you were storing them up so that when you get into your next fight, you're ready to pull that armor out and start jabbing. Right? That's the the vision here And I made that sound very malicious. I think oftentimes we just do that naturally, right? But that's what this is getting at when it says take into account, not take into account a wrong suffer. Um any experience, questions on that, comments on that? It's very prevalent. I see it often in the counseling room. Let me read this while you're thinking about that. The statement can be misconstrued to mean that love simply ignores the wrong. On the contrary, love is painfully aware of evil that of evil but tries to overcome it with good and does not keep a record for the purpose of getting even and returning evil for evil. Keeping tabs on wrong, wrongs done to us presumes that we are the ones who get to repay the wrongs. Love absorbs evil without calculating how to retaliate. On the other hand, keeping tabs of wrongs allows us to take advantage of another's guilt. Right? Really, really important. Any thoughts, comments on that? So I'm trying to figure out how to say this. I won't bring it up. But sometimes you need to talk about something but then you have to check your heart and make sure. I said I have to make sure first that I'm not trying to get back with you is what I'm trying to say. So it's more of which he understood. Um it's more of why are you bringing something up? Is it because it's going to benefit you if you know about this, it's going to benefit our relationship. Or is it more of like when we first got married, if I was young and inexperienced, it's more like this is what you did, or I've done that in the past And the Lord by God's grace has worked on me. Um so there's a difference between the two. Yes. Your motive and are you actually showing love by talking about something Or is it something that you just need to let it go? Yeah, so I'm really glad you brought that up. That's perfect. I don't know if you guys could all hear Margot, but there's on one sense there's this You're you're you're overlooking and you're not necessarily just overlooking you're absorbing. You know, sometimes those words are cutting and they're painful, especially when it happens again and again and again Right? It's painful to absorb that. But when when do you confront it? You know, is it wise to just let that keep going? It requires discernment, doesn't it? Um I brought in this pamphlet. It's uh we have it in our counseling rooms from Ken Sandy. You remember the conference we had on on biblical reconciliation, Gabe And uh others teach that class here sometimes, but there's a neat chart in the middle that gets at this spectrum of of when do you engage? Right? When is it the proper time with the proper heart attitude to confront? And I like what's written here. It starts with overlooking an offense. That's kind of what this is saying Many disputes are so insignificant that they should be resolved by quietly overlooking an offense. And even overlooking is a cost sometimes. It's painful sometimes to do that. A man's wisdom gives him patience, it is to his glory to overlook an offense. Overlooking an offense is a form of forgiveness. And involves a deliberate decision not to talk about it, dwell on it, or let it grow into pent-up bitterness or anger. If an offense, and now you're you're moving on the spectrum, if an offense is too serious to overlook or has damaged our relationship, we need to resolve personal or relational issues through confession, loving correction, and forgiveness. So you see the distinction there? If you start to see repeat it and it's damaging are good criteria to say, no, we need to address this. And address it how? With love and grace and kindness. And you start by what? By praying. Check your own heart first. Do you see that distinction, right, of of not keeping a record of wrongs? And guess what? Isn't that the gospel? Isn't that what God do you can you imagine if God kept a record? We'd all be back to our sinful state again. Right? That's the example we have, though, of agape love. That's what God did with us in John 3. 16. That's what we are commanded to do here. But it doesn't preclude you from confronting a situation when it's repetitive and it's damaging your relationship. Does that make sense? Is that fair? Yes, Glenn. Because in the gospel it's not that God forgets in a sense of ignores sin, but he pays for it, he takes care of it. It's not so much it it's it's an overlooking from our standpoint. Yeah. But it's he paid for it and his standpoint. So And I think that's that's the the centering that we have to do to get our focus back on Christ. You know, especially in these uh close relationships like a marriage, right? It's so easy to to stay horizontal and we gotta get back vertical. Right? That's what renewing your mind does, being in the Word, praying. Um, and and knowing you've been equipped to carry this out. This is a lifelong journey though, folks. Right. Um where else do we see this agape kind of love as far as characteristics we should have as Christians? Hint hint Galatians. Galatians 5, right? The fruit of the Spirit starts with what? Love. That's agape love. That's what that's talking about. And so we are all given the fruit, those fruits, those nine fruit that are characterized there, we are all given those. We need to be increasing in those. That's the sanctifying journey that we're all on. Okay, good. Alright, let's see uh maybe one more. You know, does not brag, arrogant. Again, the Corinthians were were heavily characterized by being puffed up, and we can get in that way in our marriages. Right? It becomes us me versus her. And it creeps in, doesn't it? It can be so slight. Um patient. You know, down here, this idea of bears all things really means to cover it. It has no limits, but I love what is written at the end there. It doesn't mean that you're gullible either. It doesn't mean that you're you're putting up with abuse. Let's be clear about that. You know, back to what I just said. There is a time when confrontation has to happen, right? When it becomes damaging, repetitive. Morgan. Yeah, so great, great question. What Morgan is saying, and I think this meaning is really important to believe all things is you're trusting in God's promises Right? To say that I I'm gonna believe everything this person says, that's where discernment, that's where love, that's where patience, that's where some of these other elements come in. So let's say for example you have someone um let's say a child that is going through a spell where they're just continually lying to you. Is is this the instruction is first and foremost, I'm going to believe them. No, of course not. Right? You are using discernment to say I I'm having an issue right now. Do you still love them? Do you still show them kindness? Are you patient with them? And by patient, you're bearing the burden of their their continuing to lie, but it needs to be addressed, doesn't it? And there's ways to address that Um sign up for the parenting class. We'll show you all about that. But but that's a really good point is that that to believe all things is really a vertical trust. It's a vertical relationship with your trusting God's sovereignty, uh his love for you, the gospel. Um that's what you're believing in all things. When it comes to personal relationships, it requires wisdom and discernment. Sometimes you are being patient and you are bearing up, you are persevering under difficult relationships. Sometimes you've got to confront. And oftentimes some of us we don't like confrontation, so we don't confront. That's sinful behavior too. But you're not confronting when you should But you do that with patience and kindness. Does that make sense? Is that fair? Okay. Alright, we could spend the whole session on this, but I gotta keep going Um so if you got questions about that, hopefully this really makes sense and is driving home the points of, okay, husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church Well how do I do that? Live with her in an understanding way. Get to know her really way, really well, because guess what? That's going to give you specific insight to do this. That's the thread that I just pulled through you guys. Okay? All right, let's keep going. Uh the permanence of love, 8 through 13 And let me um yeah, let me read this. We won't have time to read all of fourteen, but let me read uh thirteen, eight through thirteen. Love never fails. But if there are gifts of prophecy, they will be done away. If there are tongues, they will cease. If there is knowledge, it will be done away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part, but when the perfect comes the partial will will be done away. When I was a child, I used to speak as a child, think as a child, reason as a child. When I became a man, I did away with childish things. For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully, just as I also have been fully known But now abide faith, hope, love, these three. But the greatest of these is love. So what Paul's basically saying, and just let me read some of the my notes here In the concluding paragraph of chapter 13, Paul emphasizes the permanence of love. We see that in verse 8. Love never fails. What it means is it is never abolished. Even into eternity, you know, love will be preeminent. It is be foundational. Although eventually at the believer's resurrection the gifts will be done away with. There there's no need for the gifts anymore. Because they were uh we'll talk about that in a second, um, a reminder of what especially the miraculous gifts. But what Paul's saying is right now while we're here on this earth, we we have these spiritual gifts, but they're incomplete Aren't they? We use them in part, we're growing in them, but they're incomplete compared to what will happen when we are in glorification. When we are glorified, when we are with the Lord The gifts are are given now only partially. They are not complete. For example, the knowledge. We don't have full knowledge The partial will eventually be done away with. Prophecy will be fulfilled. Partial knowledge will be obsolete. And it really is an eschatological focus that Paul is talking about here. Again, our journey now and then when we are in glorification or glorified. Paul uses the analogies here of a child Uh right once when I was a child there were there were things that I did that were foolish, but now as a man, you know, I am complete in in my thinking and my reasoning. In a mirror, right? A mirror um i is he talks about a dim reflection. When we are in glory, we will see Christ face to face. Right, it will be complete. Um one commentary used the idea of a photo too. You see a photo of somebody very different if you're standing face to face with them. Right? That's the distinction. What remains is faith, hope, and love. And you know, all three of those, and again, we don't have time to go into the there are different opinions on some of this, but But Paul, I believe, is saying, faith, hope, and love are present now and they will remain in the future. Many of the gifts we have will not, because they won't be needed. Right? Faith will be perfected. The realization of hope will be realized. Um, and love, like I just said, will continue to permeate throughout eternity. Right? This agape type of love Okay, so the permanence of love. Alright, now Paul's going to jump back into 14, chapter 14, so move over to 14, and he's going to complete His discussion about prophecy and the tongues, right? I want to show you again this chart that we brought up last week At the top is what we have written in what we teach and break basically make this distinction between when we talk about these spiritual gifts, we break them into what we might call miraculous gifts. And think specifically of healing, um tongues, prophecy. Right? Those were you know, kind of the the um defined scope of what we mean by miraculous gifts and then the ministry gifts, right, which all of us have And then we saw the list of the different um gifts. Again, these were not meant to be exhaustive. Think of these as categories. And um just a note, we talked about it last week, but we You know, these gifts of healing tongues that we see in First Corinthians, and you can see the timeline, you know, you you don't see those mentioned in in later epistles from Paul. Potentially a sign that those were already starting to diminish during the apostoc uh age? Maybe. Again, we at Hope Bible Church would um have the belief of the sensation of gifts. So we would be sensationist, meaning we believe that these miraculous gifts And you can see they were assigned to confirm the authenticity of the apostle's message. Those who were appointed as messengers of God, these miraculous gifts were used as a sign to affirm that appointment. Right? We don't believe those those um uh um positions are are valid for today. You know we don't have apostles today, so those gifts, those miraculous gifts um are not needed Do sensationists believe that God works miraculously today? Absolutely. Right? Don't don't be careful about that distinction. Every time a person gives a testimony of how they were saved, that is a miraculous work, a supernatural work of God All right? Um I know there are instances of people being healed. I I have an aunt, I think I shared with you guys, had cancer, lymphomic cancer throughout her body Went in for surgery, they closed her back up, said it's just spread throughout, we can't do anything. She was completely healed of that cancer. Does God use medical and people to um exercise these these supernatural gifts? Absolutely. But the difference is is that wasn't necessarily a sign to um confirm her appointment as uh a deaconess or apostle, right? That's the difference. That is what it did is it contributed to her testimony of God Right. So yes, God absolutely continues to work miraculously. The di the different definition here, the bounding though, was these particular gifts to affirm the authenticity of a messenger of God. That's what we would believe has ceased. Now, specifically the gift of tongues, you know, we mentioned a supernatural ability to speak a foreign language, a language that was um in place somewhere else in the country, or in the world, if you will um that now this speaker who shouldn't know the language is able to speak it. That's what that's what they were after. That was the the cool gift to have. Because it meant you were really spiritual if you could speak speak in tongues. So that's what Paul is addressing here. um in fourteen. He's gonna go back to this contrast between prophecy and and tongues because that was the focus That was probably the focus of the letter that they gave to him. That was certainly focus of the gifts they thought made them really spiritual. So that's the context. He's not saying prophecy and tongue of all this list, you know, that's the greatest He wants to get away from this debate of the priority of gifts. Right? His main point is you've got to exercise gifts and loves. But he's going to give instruction now Of these gifts that you're using, and he says, I want you to use the gifts. They were present back then. He's not saying don't use the gifts. Use the gifts. But it needs to be grounded in a spirit of love So in chapter 14, 1 through 25, and again I'm gonna at a very high level because we don't have a lot of time, just kind of give you the high-level thoughts of what's happening here He's going to again continue this comparison between tongues and prophecy. Paul returns to the focal point of his discussion, their misuse of spiritual gifts. specifically in the worship service. So that's the context here. The problem is not the gift. Paul speaks in tongues as well, more than all of them. Look at verse 18 real quick. Verse 17, for you are giving thanks well enough, but the other man is not edified. I thank God I speak in tongues more than you all. However, in the church I desire to speak five words with my mind that I may instruct others also, rather than ten thousand words in a tongue. Paul isn't boasting about, I speak more tongues than the rest of you. He's trying to say, I have the gifting too, and I use it, but I would rather not use it if it didn't involve the interpretation of that tongue as well. Right? That's what he's going to be talking about. The main point, the speech gifts that are intelligible to all, including outsiders, are the most fruitful and should be the most valued, like prophecy. So prophecy was an audible word getting a message from the Lord and it was spoken in the language in the context of the Corinthian church. People could understand it That was the point. Tongues needed what? An interpreter. So what Paul is saying is if you just speak in tongues That does nobody any good. You've got to have an interpreter along with you. That's the emphasis. So he's saying prophecy, in this case, prophecy is better because everyone understands it Right? That's kind of the gist of what he says here. Let me read a couple passages real quick. Verse 1. Pursue love, yet desire earnestly spiritual gifts. So again, he's saying the gifts are okay. But especially that you may prophesy. For one who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men, but to God, for no one understands, but in his spirit he speaks mysteries. But one who prophesies speaks to men for edification and exhortation and consolation. One who speaks in the tongue edifies himself, but one who prophesies edifies the church. Now I wish that you all spoke in tongues, but even more that you would prophesy. So again, he's encouraging the gifts, but do you see what he's saying here? Which one is more profitable for the body? Prophecy. And greater is one who prophesies than one who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, so that the church may receive edifying. But now, brethren, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what shall I profit you unless I speak to you either by way of revelation or of knowledge or prophecy or of teaching? Yet even lifeless things, either flute or harp, in producing a sound, if they do not produce a distinction at the tones, how will it be known? And he goes on Right, that even a musical instrument has to hit the right note for for it to be understood. Otherwise it's just it's a loud noise. It's a cacophony. Alright, does that all make sense? Right, so that's the emphasis that he's putting on here. Alright, let's flip over to the last section here, because I want to make sure I get to you women You women, it's a difficult passage. So let's start in um it's verse twenty-six. So twenty-six through the rest of the chapter is really gonna he's now gonna give them some instruction on how to be orderly Right? With this main point of what I just talked about, Paul points toward prophecy as the more profitable gift because it is profitable to all. Only prophecy when compared to tongues can convince outsiders of the truth of the gospel. Look at um I don't have time to read it. If you look at twenty through twenty-six It talks about um tongues are really uh need to be understood with um interpretation But for an outsider, for a believer, and an outsider who comes into the church, they all understand prophecy. Go down to 24 But if all prophecy and an unbeliever or an ungifted, ungifted here means um maybe not um having the gift of interpretation Man enters, he is convicted by all. This is prophecy. All are convicted by all. He is called to account by all. The secrets of the heart are disclosed. And so he will fall on his face and worship God, declaring that God is certainly among you. Right, this is the gospel message going forth And an unbeliever comes into our church and hears the gospel message, we know that the word will not return void. I'm not saying that person automatically becomes a Christian, but It says the Holy Spirit runs the world, if you will, convicting the unbeliever. Right? The word, the inspired, authoritative word of God will pierce their heart. That's what's being said here. That's why prophecy is more important. Alright, back to 26. Paul wraps up the entire section from chapter 12 through 14 with an emphasis on orderliness. specifically in the context of corporate public worship. He provides three criteria to control their worship service. For what purpose? Because God is not a God of confusion but of peace. Verse 33 Alright, so three criteria. One, edifying others becomes the foundation for determining the fitness or profitability of everything that is done during the service. Especially uh one commentary used radical individualism to describe the Corinthian church. Right? It all comes down to how do we best edify the body, what is most profitable. They were to speak one at a time And in limited numbers. So we see this in I don't have time to read it, twenty six through thirty two thirty-two. He says, if you're going to speak in tongues one at a time and maybe just a couple of you and make sure there's an interpreter. If no interpreter, don't speak in tongues. Same with prophecy. If you're going to speak prophecy, one or two of you And take time afterwards to really um examine what is being said to make sure it's true, to make sure it aligns And this is going to be important for the third criteria. They are to do nothing that offends with improper or disgraceful behavior. Need to distinguish the biblical, and in this context, we need to distinguish the biblical principle from the cultural context. So let's go to verse 34 through 35 and we'll wrap up there. Ladies, this is where you come in. Let the women keep silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak, but let them subject themselves, just as the law also says And if they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home. For it is improper for a woman to speak in church. All right, let me pray and close. All right, really, really important chapter and and I This is obviously um debated. Um I want to share with you what I read from this commentary. Um I I believe it really aligns well with what we know about Paul and how he writes. So I will just share some of that. Yeah, so the context is keep in mind that what is being described here just prior to that is is prophecy. So let's go in thirty-one. For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be exhorted. And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets For God is not a God of confusion, but of peace, as is all the churches of the saints. So that that phrase in thirty two And the spirits or prophets are subject to prophets. Is this examination? So um someone gets up in the assembly and and gives a prophecy they take time to examine that. So the prophets are examining what was just said. That's kind of what's being discussed here. So you can't think of necessarily um um the church order looking like we do on on a Sunday morning at Hope Bible Church, right? They're in their homes. It might have looked a a bit more informal than what we do on a Sunday morning. But it looks like there was a discussion that was happening after a prophecy was given. Okay? That's the context when Paul now writes about women and how they are to act in that context. So let me say this real quick. There are three major views about this passage. One is what is called an interpolation. Sometimes in Scripture you'll see things in brackets, not parentheses, but brackets. What does that mean when you see something in brackets? Potentially. There's debate about whether that was in the original manuscript. Some translations put brackets around this. Very convenient, eh? I don't see that in the Nas V. I don't think that's in the ESV. I we don't hold a lot of weight to that one. Okay? Second view, um You know sometimes Paul specifically is addressing something that was written in one of their letters. So we've talked about where do we see quotations And where do we not? So the second view is that Paul is maybe addressing a quotation that they were making the statement, you know, women are not to speak. And he contradicts that I don't think that's the case either. There's not a good case for that. So the third view is a concern for a court and the relationship between husbands and wife. Go back to what Randall talked about, right, on this topic of headship and and um wearing the head covering. You know, what was the main theme of that? Christ is ahead. There was an order there, right? But there was a respect that was being shown to this husband-wife relationship in the church assembly. Right? We talked about what are some practical ways we do that today. Wear your wedding uh wedding ring, um how you dress, how you talk about your husband. You know, there's lots of practical ways. That's the cultural application for today. Or yeah, in that case. But we have a very similar idea here of I think Paul is getting at um the husband-wife relationship here. Because notice what does it say in verse 35? And if they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is improper. This would be um disgraceful. For a woman to speak in church. Now, again, we have to understand the context. So the context most likely is This discussion is happening about prophecy. There's they're either trying to affirm it or um apply it, what have you Let me just read here. The situation that best fits the adjective shameful is one in which wives defy convention by publicly embarrassing their husbands through their speaking. In the context, it is likely that Paul imagines a wife joining in the process of weighing what is being said during the congregational scrutiny of prophecy. She either raises questions or contradicts her husband or another male relative. By doing so, she compromises her husband's authority over her and appears to undermine the good order of the household. Does that make sense? This is really important that we get this. And let me say this. This passage is debated, but I think this interpretation makes sense on what we know of Paul, how he's been writing The context here is they're they're examining prophecy, and can you imagine the husband says something and the wife says, Oh, I don't agree with that at all. I think you're wrong I think, you know, fill in the blank. It's that type of shameful behavior that Paul's getting at here. That's the emphasis I think that he's pointing at. You can imagine in a classroom today if um Uh I'll use myself. Crean and I are in a in a class, we're sitting where you guys are, and I say, you know, I I want to make a point. And and Crean jumps in, no, that's wrong. This is what it really means What would that you guys would all be aghast, I would think, I would hope. Right? That's the type of behavior that that he was getting after here. It was shameful and it it um you know got after this Relationship that is supposed to be happening that represents Christ in the church by God's design. That's what he's getting at here Right, I think that's really important because I think we misapply the context of this passage in so many, you know, different con contexts today. I I I um I think in their culture it was It was um a woman speaking up like that was sort of de facto being dishonorable to her husband. That's not the case for us today. Correct. Yeah. So w the way you describe it is exactly how we would be offended. I would be offended if my wife Yeah but I I wouldn't be afraid if she just spoke. Absolutely. But in their culture that would be just dishonorable. So it 'cause it's kinda like why was she speaking and not you? Yeah kind of thing. Yeah. You should be the one speaking for your family. So Glenn, I think you're absolutely right. There's some some culture and we see some of that today in in, you know, certain in certain countries in the Middle East and what have you. I suspect that was some of it for sure. We we know some of that history of how women were treated So I think there was certainly that element, but I I do think that this was very specific to this context of of prophecy um in and how the woman was shameful by treating her husband that way. I don't think it was simply that she spoke up. You know, think of we gotta be mindful, uh, Priscilla and Aquila Right, that was a a wonderful ministry team um in Ephesus and is that to think that um uh aquil who's the lady Priscilla. Priscilla was, you know, relegated to never saying anything. I I don't think that's true, right? In a small group fellowship, I'm sure she brought a lot of wisdom in insight, godly wisdom and insight to that that setting. Does that make sense? So I think it's really important we Um we know women you are made in the the image of God just like us men and you bring so much insight and wisdom and that's the complementary nature of a of a you know husband-wife relationship But God has designed an order. And what he's talking about here is order in the worship service. You know, how you use these gifts, how women treat their husbands. We talked about that in chapter eleven. So he's just um You know, emphasizing that theme. Let me close because we don't want to miss the very end of this, thirty-nine and forty. Therefore, my brother, brethren, desire earnestly to prophesy and do not forbid to speak in tongues. So again, he's emphasizing use your spiritual gifts. But But let all things be done properly and in an orderly manner. Why? Because that most edifies the church. That's the underlying principle. So if you take anything away from today, let it be 1 Corinthians 13, right, 4 through 7, right, and our emphasis on what is agape love. And how are we to demonstrate that? Okay, let me close. If you got questions afterwards, don't hesitate to come ask me. Again, I apologize for this is a lot of material Um but that's where we're at. Let me pray