So uh basically I'm gonna tell you what I'm gonna do here. We're gonna do uh re a refresher and introduction. Um uh we're gonna look at I I can tell you right now, we'll we'll go through this at a level, but I am going to focus on uh really verses three and four are big. We'll read through the text and I want to spend some time with that. Now I really want us to uh get your thoughts and and all. I wanna I I wanna engage you uh a as we go through this. So we read the text and okay, so Then we have to s pull back and say, okay, so uh what does that mean? How does that apply to us? So let's start with the the uh introduction. Uh and this is Excuse me. So the city of uh Thessalonica, right, it was situated with the uh it was right there in the aging city Uh it was a chief seaport uh for the Roman province of Macedonia, which is really the Greek mean for the Greek province, right? Testing the NYCA seaport with rank and importance and this is think about this with corn and with Ephesus. So it's a major shipping area The city also enjoyed commerce, right? Uh when the Great Romans Road uh uh ran right through the city, the Ignation Way. Um the road was the main road. That connected Rome all the way to the Orient, right? It it connected up with the uh Appian Way Uh so Cessamica uh was a great seaport, it had a major highway position. Uh it was uh it was strategic for Rome, right? Uh there uh conquering lands or whatever and uh so so there's also a military presence there. I so we always go through those facts. So let's think about it You got a lot of soldiers, you got a lot of sailors, you got merchants going through there, there's commerce, and you got a road, a major highway running right through your city. Now what kind of environment would that kind of be? Uh well it'll be really nice and everybody meets Really good. And it's pretty typical of of uh w you know, and we sometimes we do this. I do this. So, you know, we tend to think of the early church Oh, you know, they had the the the Apostle Paul and this and that. They were in they they were in the same c nothing changes, does it? It's the same environment we have today, different technologies This is not a family-friendly city necessarily, is it? And so so keep that in mind while we're reading through this. Why are these guys struggling with this? Um so the city also enjoyed a company. The population was approximately two hundred thousand, consisted mostly of Greeks but also had many Romans. There was a Jewish population, was robust, and this is indicative of that time for cities that boasted a flourishing commerce. Typically Jewish businessmen would flock uh to these cities for commerce. The one writer I wrote, the Jewish synagogue and and Justin Rica uh inf was influenced, had many proselytes. So again, let's think about that. Uh one of the writers I read, and and I saw this before when I when I did a study on Zechariah. Zachariah, um A little off task, but think about it. Zechariah is when the Israelites came back from Babylon, right? The captivity. They really went over there as is an agricultural society They really came back as merchants, as businessmen. Things changed. And if you see in Zechariah and you see this dovetail with uh revelation, uh they they Zechariah has some strange imagery. If it wasn't for the commentaries, uh you know really it's hard to decipher. And you think, what in the world was it? But one of the things he talks about is this this um this woman is is going to be put in this is b basically a basket and there's gonna be a lid over and she's gonna be taken back to Shinar, which is Babylon. Well, the imagery is all about commerce. It's like a bushel basket. It's a weight. It's a measure. You get a bushel of corn, a bushel of You know, whatever. The lid was really the same thing as a uh a tal uh a weight, a measure for a talent. That's all economic stuff. And of course it's a woman and she's being carried off as unclean birds and she's going back to Babylon and seated there. And r Really what he was saying was is that this is going to be taken away from you guys. You be he knew there were gonna be merchants And we saw that. You see that all throughout society. A lot of societies hated the Jews because they were they were good merchants. They uh they were bankers, they had a lot of money And you see that persecution that happens over and over again. Revelation 17 and 18, particularly 18, he talks about destroying Babylon, but it's it's submerged. It's the uh it and and the merchants are not bad in themselves, but if you look at if you read the details in in uh Revelation It's always fine gold, fine it's it's it's things that aren't necessary. Everything was precious. It's the wealth, it's the luxury. And so you see that, uh the the Jews were there, they had a big synagogue. And um So Thessalonica, like other Greek cities, was morally decadent, uh adultery, of course. Uh they were worshippers of this one one I I'm sure there were other deities, but one of the big ones was this Kar Caveri, Sumasy pronounce it. And it was a deity uh Sambathra It was a uh deity for protect the seafarers, but is also like other deities, had a fertility god aspect to it. So they were immoral but not as immoral as corn, which you're gonna see uh when you get there. And you're also gonna see how the people Look at the contrast of how these people were going to see and you saw this in chapter one or uh 1 Thessalonians 1. Look at the contrast between them and the Corinthian people The Corinthian people he's correcting all kinds of stuff, right? They're suing each other, you know, they're uh the whole gamut. And he's talking about homosexuality, don't do that anymore. Um You know, somebody has somebody's mother's wife, uh, you know, th they were having trouble. The culture they just couldn't get it out. He and he's talking to saved people, talking to saints So in the second letter of this, Paul is for uh the Thessalonians, Paul he heard the report, he probably heard it from the messengers who delivered the first letter So Paul wrote uh commendation uh for their faith. We're gonna look at this faith and love and perseverance, right, and and persecution He also needed to correct them, right? Uh coming days of the Lord. We're going to look at that in chapter 2. And then in chapter 3 you see some people stopped working, right? If nobody works, don't let them eat Well they were waiting, I guess, for you know, they thought the immediate yeah and that that was we Chris talked about this a little bit in the last couple of weeks. They were looking for Christ to come immediately And that's what we're supposed to do now. Unfortunately we don't do that now. We Maybe you do. W but we tend to think okay we kinda know more about when the second coming. We've learned about that eschatology or whatever And so, uh, you know, things have changed, but having really think about it, why do we think Christ is gonna come back immediately? I don't want to be doing anything that I don't want him to s you know what I mean? It helps us in our own mind. Live like he's coming back today. And he's really here in us, so we we're we're forgetful. So you got a quick thing on the salutations. So Paul wrote this letter, included uh Sylvanus or Silas and Timothy. Uh notice how Paul uh says the church was in God our Father. Um it's nice, it's personal. Right? Instead of God the Father, it's like the Lord's Prayer, our Father. You know, think about that. Rem we're reminded, we are children of God, right? Uh we are uh uh we are in God the Father. This is a personal address, see how grace First John three one. See how great a love the Father has bestowed on us that we would be called the children of God, and such we are. And then uh first uh John 112 But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe in his name. Jesus Christ is also parallel to God the Father If any of y'all do any in have done the inductive classes, what's parallel is equal. It's in a parallel thing and right it's guy then he he's making them equal with God. He's calling 'em God Um you know a lot of lay people, a lot of uh non-believers don't see these things. But of course we know it, all right? God has revealed it to us So let's talk about Christian peace. All right, he tells you peace. Um the Christian uh peace is a cessation of hostility with God Now obviously with any of these things we're not gonna uh unpack peace all the way, but let's think about it at least for a minute. Christ's death paid the penalty for our sin for those that believe, right Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through the Lord Jesus Christ. That's huge. Uh I I know that different audience I'm talking into, especially church like this, I know a lot of you have been It's not save immersed in the gospel and and and and the God thing I can tell you from somebody who lived forty two years and purposefully indulging in things that I wanted to indulge in without trying to get too caught up in 'em. At least somehow God put that on my heart not to get addicted to But you know, they the one thing these people have, I don't care what they say, I can tell you, they don't have peace. There's a certain anxiety And we take that once we get saved w a lot of that peace we take for granted. But remember it's one of the gifts we got. We we were hostile to God, right? We're gonna read this in Romans. And but don't let the world lie to you. Trust me, one thing you know, you think about your witnessing to somebody or anything else, you don't really always have to hit 'em right with the gospel. Sometimes you just kind of need to find out where they are. An and one of the things you can keep in your mind is if they don't really know God, I guarantee you, there is a anxiety of peace that we have that they do not And everybody wants that, right? They do. Okay. Yes. Um I think they have to do primarily with uh the eternity with death. the finality of that and so uh for them that's the end and so there's usually anxiety of uh you know the act being out of control and not being out of control things right that's coming and Oh and so we have such a hope that it takes away that anxiety. Again, and and there there is that aspect and that's one aspect, but there's also an aspect of day to day. You just have an anxiety about decisions, about things that we have we can have anxiety too, right? And that's why I want to harp on three and four because i if you look it's a foundation for their commendation. Uh but um we can have anxiety too. Oh I got pressures, I got deadlines, you know. Um I gotta Get up and talk to a class. I'm gonna talk to you guys. You don't know me. Uh you know, I want to have something to say. I don't want to sit up there and and give you nothing. Uh but So yeah, there is that, but w w what do we do to rest in it? I mean and and that's why I wanna wanna talk about this, but what do we what do we do to rest in it? We do have those anxieties, what do we do with it? Any ide anybody have any Yeah, exactly. And trust though. You know, sometimes we'll ask for God is like It's like that who was that commercial had the easy button. I love it. We just hit the easy button. Take two verses and call me in the morning. You know, but storming night. You know, it's more than that, isn't it? There's a discipline and a process to it. We gotta own it. Um you know? And so that's where um that's where I'm going with this. You can see where where my heart is right now Alright, so let's look at this one. But uh God demonstrates his own love towards us and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. That's the other thing. People don't I think non pe uh uh non-Christians wouldn't articulate this and they wouldn't even you know even think about God. But I think God n I think part of this anxiety is God maybe intuitively, maybe s I think guy they know they're not right with whatever's going on. That they know the world's not right. They know there are problems. And that you know, that kind of wraps up uh the w the wrath of God. The ra obviously the wrath of God, like Glenn was saying, will come ultimately when we depart from this body and move into the next age, the next realm, right? Whether we go to heaven or whether we're separated Uh for if while we were enemies we were enemies. If f for if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through his death, uh through excuse me, through the death of his son Much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved. Again, such familiar verses and yet uh You know, let's be honest, we're we're this needs to be front and centers in our mind. So and I I we're not gonna read it right now because I want to go through some other long passages. I assume most of you are familiar with Uh, Romans eight thirty-one is where Paul Paul starts with, you know, if now God is for us, who can be against us? You know, neither rulers are powers or principalities or you know It's a reassurance. It's because we're in Christ. Now that has to be faith and trust because really Mm, all this r really is future, isn't it? In the meantime, you're gonna be living down here and you may be like the Thessalonians who were having heavy persecution But we but you got but ultimately isn't that what's one of our great pictures We know where we're going. We know that there's so many hours second minutes, whatever, in this life But where we go, we we get to just pass through and go on. We know like Glenn was saying, we've got eternal life. But we have to appropriate that Saving peace with God, he be pours out various circumstances in her life. Uh he uh For we know that God is for us, uh and the trials and oppositions of life cannot take away the inner peace. But again, this has to become has to come with a discipline Um, when I first got saved, trust me, I mean uh we were read I was reading through the Bible, but I didn't know any theology. I I couldn't put it together I I I essentially knew that Jesus Christ wa was true and and and that that's what uh I really believed in. Uh but my theology was I was a baby. I I didn't know any of it. And and I was in even at unsaved church I was we were reading through the Bible in a in a program they called discipleship 'cause they realized as the nine Methodists they realized that people didn't know the Bible. So it was like thirty two weeks you read most of the Old Testament and all the New Testament. And I went I did that and they wanted me to be a facilitator. Because you show you where the church is, who's an unsaved guy's who's gonna be a facilitator. But in the process, you know, God was w you know, uh you get immersed in the word, God w is working on you Faith. This is um the defin so let's let's read through the text before I go any further Uh somebody want to volunteer so 12 verses. Somebody want to read First Thessalonians chapter one? Second Thessalonians, yes. I'm sorry. Paul, Sylvanas, and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians and God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing. Therefore, we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring. This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering, since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who have When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels and flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will suffer the punishment of material destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might. But he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints and to be marveled at among all who have believed. Because our testimony to you was believed. To this end, we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power. So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. And I don't know if you've read this before, but you can see there are a couple really uh deep phrases in here that that um uh you know, being in Christ, glorifying in Christ is uh but here's what I want to focus on. Um l let's start with uh verse three. Um And again, uh we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brethren, as is only fitting because of your faith It's greatly, overabundantly enlarged, and and the love each one of you has towards one another And I'm just going to read just part of four real quick right here. Therefore we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God I'll stop right in the middle of that. They're commended because they're look at what they're doing. They're not just knowing it, they're exampling this So let's let's unpack this a little bit. So their faith is increasing abundantly. It's uh hooper agano. Uh the hooper is super It's a compound, right? Th the there just he's adding uh uh you know superlative to it. Oxano just means to grow. So he said what he's saying is you're growing in an abundant way Uh you see this w word in in uh uh this hooper, this prefix and in uh other words. You know, your cup overflows, it's super abounding. It's it's it's that It's not just this is out of the ordinary. And so basically you can see this. People are witnessing this. You're you're a light to the world with this So it it means uh this this word means immeasurably, exceedingly, above ordinary. Uh Constable says that faith is the root of love Uh he's uh I have it in a footnote. Uh you can get these notes. I they are posted by the way if you go to the uh uh Hope book and you know you're you're if you're registered you're on here the notes are in the files you you'll be able to access 'em Uh he's a commentary uh for Bible Knowledge commentary series. Um Ruth Faith is the root, love is the fruit. Think about that, and and and not put down here now, I'm out on the ledge here, so you can solve me off if you want, but This is me. I would argue that faith is the route of salvation and all that goes with our relationship to God. I I taught this in in uh Leviticus and how were people saved, okay, you know Leviticus. How were people saved in the Old Testament Yeah. Yeah. The faith in the revelation that they had, faith and and they did not have the revelation we had about Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection They um they were maybe looking for a messiah, but you know, uh so yeah, it's faith. Sometimes it complicates things. The real faith, right? You believe in it and we're trusting in it. So now faith is the insurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen, for by it men of old gained approval. By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the Word of God. Think about that. We believe that by faith we understand I mean you're talking Hebrews, um what, sixty, sixty something A D A D They didn't get it either. The same for us now. We all this information people have. They don't understand the world was prepared by the Word of God. We know that. We believe that Because our faith, God's grace, we didn't get there intellectually, did we? We did not Um we c uh so they gained approval. By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the Word of God so that what is seen is was not made out of things which are visible. By faith, Abraham was uh he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he had received the promises, uh was offered um Offering up his only begotten son, it was he to whom it was said, and Isaac your descendant shall be called He's considered that God is able to raise people even from the dead, uh uh from which he also received back uh uh he received him back as a type So faith i is the essence and uh this is what um what you believe He offered up Isaac. He he didn't just believe it intellectually. He went he actually went through and did the did the action, didn't he? That's that's m you know meditate on that for a minute. I know these are these these are so familiar. He he did it We we see fac faces kinda well you ever been in a situation where you weren't really sure about trusting God You are you know maybe s maybe something was laid on your conscience and you're like, Yeah, I probably should do that. That's gonna be hard, I don't really want to You ever been in that situation? I have. I don't know. I couldn't believe I was going to seminary I really couldn't. I argued I remember arguing with God in my shop, I'm going, I can't do this. Um, you know, I I'm sure you all have had battles with this But I you know, it's it's it's a trust. He was told and he did it. Uh, I'm gonna put myself in that face cat. That's safe. That's that's huge, isn't it? I mean hand the knife in the up in the air, right? Think about that He acted on it. We are commanded to grow in grace and knowledge, but growth in grace and knowledge of our Lord Jesus, excuse me But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord Jesus and uh oh the Lord. Let me read it instead of trying to just But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. That's 2 Peter. When we first receive salvation, we like newborn babies or craving nourishment, right? Like and this is uh 1 Peter, like newborn babes long for the pure milk of the Word, so that by it you may grow and respect to salvation, if you have tasted the kindness of the Lord The writer Hebrew um admonishes uh the people, right, with the the same thing. Um For though by this time you are to be teachers, you have need for someone to teach you the elementary principles of the oracles of God It's almost a oracles is kind of his word, but it also has a uh connotation as the promises of God. Um It's debatable, but I but I've but I've heard uh I had a professor who who was uh uh who thought that and uh Anyway, and you have come to need milk and not solid food, for everyone who partakes only of milk is not accustomed to the word of righteousness Okay, you get that? Y you can see for we're we want to be righteous, and which is why we need to grow, for everyone who partakes only milk is not accustomed to the word of righteousness. For he is an infant. But solid food is for the mature who because of practice have their senses trained to discern good and evil. And here's one that really speaks to me. I remember focused on this a while back and um you know how you have certain themes that you that you're like wow you know This is something I need to keep in mind. So the and this is in s uh uh 1 Corinthians, the very last verse in chapter 2 And then it goes into chapter three. Remember it's talking about the uh natural man in chapter two. The natural man can't accept the things of God because he's not even able to. You remember that If not, go back and read, it's great. Because you got you remember the natural you we can't logical into intellectually or anything or persuasively get somebody they their mind has to be open. They can't accept the things of God. God opens our eyes, right For who has known, this is the last verse in chapter two, for who has known the mind of the Lord that he will instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ That's huge, isn't it? We have the mind of Christ. It's a God in us. We are in Christ. Christ is in us. And I, brethren, could not speak to you as spiritual men, but as the men of flesh As to infants in Christ, I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. Indeed, even now you are not able. Not yet able For you are still fleshly, for since there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly? Are you not walking like mere men? And this is the point, see? These he's talking to saints, he's talking to believers. They ha he has to be addressing believers, non-believers, that then they're not gonna it's over their head. They're not keep they they can't comprehend this W which is why this is why I'm harping on this, because these Thessalonians, their faith and their love for one another were were evident and they were a model for the other churches. That's huge. Let's face it sometimes. Sometimes we're not a model for other churches, are we? We gotta own it. You know? Uh I do deal with jail ministry, you know, and uh you do a lot of talking but uh in the in the I'm doing it primarily on the counseling side. Uh it's supposed to be guys for addictions and all that but You know, even counseling. If you talk to the people who went to the counseling classes here, counseling is discipleship. It's it's you might tailored towards a specific trial that the person's dealing with, but at the end of the day what's what it is is discipleship And the number one thing you you deal with is step one in any AA program or celebrate recovery or whatever name you want to call it, denial You gotta see what your issues are before you deal with them. If you don't own them, there ain't no way you're going forward. And it's amazing. We're blind to it It's why we need a body. We have different gifts. We sharpen each other. Somebody can say, you know, look I really love you know, especially in a good relationship. I know I love you, but yeah, you know you're doing this I got time for this. I uh I tell the story. I I heard Paul Meyer. I used to listen like I said, you heard me listen to Christian radio He was on a a program with a counseling program, was on uh on the radio. Paul Meyer was one of these guys that was really smart. He had I don't several masters degrees, maybe two PhDs and and they used to joke about him and say, Man, you just you know, he's just obviously good at school So anyway he's talking about he was uh leading a small group and one woman said, you know, you're you're you're strong willed. You you you don't you don't really listen to people And so on the way home, you know, of course he's mm a little offended with this now, 'cause this guy with all these PETs and everything else. His wife and he says something to his wife, his wife goes, You know, you really are Kind of strong willed and and here's about the conversation went and he goes, No I'm not She goes, Yes you are. No I'm not. Yes you are And the reason I tell that is the it really cracked me up is because really, sometimes we're right back there in elementary school in some ways, aren't we? You know, it's our nature. It's the things we deal with. They're foundational, primary. Can you see, you know, where you're blind or where you aren't I quoted this from uh gotquestions. com. I don't know if you all ever look at that. It's I like it. I mean it's like anything. Like I said before, you you have to uh lay things, you know what I mean? You can't you don't just take it verbatim, you you have to uh test it out but I find them to be pretty good. If you want a quick answer and an overview of of questions you could put your question in there and he he's got thousands of them that he's answered So the analogy between a human baby and a spiritual baby breaks down when we realize how each uh baby matures. A human baby is fed by his parents and growth as natural, but a baby Christian will only grow as much as he purposely reads and obeys and applies the word to his life. Now this this next phrase I'm about to read is it's question. Growth is up to him, to the individual. Now, it's both I mean so uh I think Christopher told you about the Theodicy class. Um they have a really good book. You should read it. It it's actually readable. It's not over overly thick and he he deals with some real deep issues in a way that's understandable. Um if you look uh I meant to to give you the name of it but uh Anyway, it's it's good. So there are Christians who have been saved many years, but spiritually they are still babies. They cannot understand the deeper truths of the Word of God You know, um I'm not gonna read it, I'd like to. One of my favorite passages is the Exodus Moses bringing the people out, they're stuck between the Red Sea, the Egyptian army's coming, and Moses says, Look look at people, watch that the Lord's gonna deliver you by the mighty hand, you're not gonna do anything Yeah, this day you blah blah blah, you remember? Uh Exodus fourteen, um, I forget what verse it's. Anyway, look it up. But the next verse is what I really like. The Lord said to Moses, why are you crying out to me? Lift up your staff, tell the people to move forward And that's it, it's both. And he and if he goes he goes on, he says, This is what you're gonna do. And he says This is what I'm gonna do. He says the Lord this for my part I will he says this is the Lord. I will harden Pharaoh's heart. So basically he's gonna bring judgment on him by having them go through right the dry land until it brings the sea back on. But it's bone. It's both. You know, God wants us to move forward. The bridge between faith and love and spiritual maturity, let's turn to 2 Peter. Chapter 1. This passage I think brings the two together. Second Peter Chapter 1 Simon Peter are a bond servant and apostle of Jesus Christ to those who have received a faith of the same kind as ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus Christ our Lord seeing that his divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness through the true knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence. For by these He has granted to us His precious and magnificent promises so that by them you may be become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world by lust. Lust is mm that word lusher, epithumia, it's just it's real strong desire It's neither negative or or positive. It can be Jesus said, I desire to drink this cup, same word. But it's a strong desire. It's our passions Now what do you have a passion for? Do you have passion for the world or passion for God? That's that's what Now for this very reason also, applying all diligence. So obviously, this is This is our part. He's not talking about grace yet, but you but but this is a discipline Applying all diligence in your faith, supply moral excellence. In your moral excellence Knowledge. And in your knowledge, self-control. In your self-control, perseverance. And in your perseverance, godliness. And in all your godliness, brotherly kindness, uh in your uh excuse me, brotherly kindness, and in your brotherly kindness, love Yeah, it starts with faith, you go to the disciplines, and then it's like love, you know. I'm going to talk about that. Where love is grace. We get love from God. But we get it as we practice. You know, and and back in Thessalonians what does he say? He says, You you have great love for one another, each one of you It's it's a lot easier to love God than it is other Christians, right? I know there are times that I am not that lovable, right? I you know, I do things that you know and it just it it's a practice. But it starts with faith, really believing, really trusting Trusting that God's gonna part the Red Sea when you're when He tells you to move forward. Uh right? Trusting that in fact all these promises that He's made are gonna come But they may not come right now. But our hope is in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven When we really believe in that and act on it, it you are your faith grows. Uh that's what I want my faith to do. I want it to be to to have that growth to it Uh we're all on a journey. We're it in uh yeah, and I tell guys this, uh especially in um In any any of these situations I'm dealing with with with uh counseling or this or that, jail ministry, right? They're they're trying to get rid of the major stuff that's you know, pretty obvious. They're blocking it's blocking uh even their secular life, never mind uh bringing them to God. Uh those are the obvious ones. Uh but we're all on a tangent. We're all getting rid of something. We're dying to self in one aspect or another. And and I like to tell 'em, I said, you know, you you guys that are drinking, y you know, you y you have to stop that and and when when you do It doesn't mean everything's going to become perfect, but you the other thing once you do, once you get a control of that, you're going to start to see, you know, wow, I'm I'm I'm not really patient I've got a lot of anger. You know? I i you just peel off we keep peeling all the layers. Coming to faith, coming to Christ, being in Christ is really about being cleansed, right? God is holy. We're not We want close fellowship. We are w to being watched by God is really how we get closer. So let's finish up this thing in in uh Peter, uh Second Peter. If all these qual um yeah, if verse eight, for for if all these qualities are your And are increasing. They render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. For he who lacks these qualities is blind and short-sighted, having forgotten his purification from his former sins. Therefore, brethren, be all the more diligent to make certain about his calling and choosing you, for as long as you practice these things, you will never stumble For in this way, the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be abundantly supplied to you. Discipleship practice. So Verses three and four, right, he talked about perseverance, right? Back in uh Second Thessalonians Okay, for we are to adversary, for we ought always to give thanks to God, our brethren is only fitting because Your faith is greatly enlarged, and the love of each one of you towards one another grows ever greater. Therefore, we ourselves speak proudly of you amongst uh uh of you among the churches of God for your perseverance and the faith in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure. So they're they're under it. They're under the pressure. So they persevere in persecution and trials. Uh the word for persevere is uh hufamane uh which is patience, endurance, steadfastness, uh remaining under the pressure. Excuse me. James 1, 3 and 4, right, counted uh considered all joys, experience, trials They have uh count it all joy for uh trials, uh knowing that the patient endurance, uh right, is it's going to cleanse you, it's gonna make you pure, it's gonna make you more mature in Christ Same word, it's it's it's staying under the pressure. Uh it's responding right to pressure. Uh I think Chuck Slindola used to say that uh Life is uh ten percent of the things that happen that happen to you and ninety percent of how we respond to it. I thought that was really smart. Some things we some things you you bring on yourself, right? Well certainly we know that. But there's other things that it's just life, right? Things happen And uh uh really the the Thessalonians were responding to the persecution correctly. They were staying under it And responding in in the way that they should. Now again The ability to do this, uh, i i again, it stems from faith. Uh you have to believe. You have and and and that faith as we grow in faith, God gives more grace, doesn't he? God gives grace to the proud but resist uh you know to uh excuse me. Reverse that. God gives grace to the humble but resists the proud And we're con ah, we're controllers. Look at how we control things. Parenting, it's hard, man. You know what your kids should do You know, you go, just do it. You know they can't. You know what I mean? They're gonna have to y you we you know Pastor Alan talks about this all the time. You want them to to want to do it, right? You want the heart change, not the uh outward actions. Right? We don't want somebody become a little legalist Verses five and six. So they're under severe affliction, persecution Uh verse five. This is plain indication of God's righteous judgment, so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which indeed you are suffering. After all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you. So it pray at first this this verse is a little hard. Um Yeah, I quoted this uh I put down here New Living Translation. Uh this puts a little different spin on it. Listen to how uh Uh this is obviously not uh literal, word for word. They basically interpret it and they paraphrase it, uh switch things around a little bit. And God will use his persecution to show his justice and to make you worthy of his kingdom, for which you are suffering. Uh, in his justice he will pay back those who persecute you. I don't know but I th I found that I like that. I like the way he said it because really that's what the commentators are gonna say uh in a W we're obviously not going to be worthy of the kingdom because of persecution, right? Does that make us worthy of the kingdom? If we suffer uh persecution alone, is that does that Get somebody into heaven. Yes, no, maybe so? Yeah, you know, it and so what he's that what he's not saying there You're gonna be worthy because you are persecuted for Christ. Is he what he's saying there is that it's revealing, right? It's revealing your faith in Christ. You're showing forth your salvation. You're showing forth your maturity. And he says he's but look at the promise, uh you know, and and um Verse 6, for after all it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you God is just. We have a just God. He's not blind. He sees what yes, I know what's going on. I know you're being treated uh unfairly. You may be mocked and slandered or somebody may say something about you. You know, may not be a physical thing God knows, uh uh, you know, we show forth Christ by responding in the right way. And it's hard, isn't it? I mean we kinda want to defend ourselves or go, you know, no, no or argue back or really we tend to look like the other person who's slandering us after a while. Uh yeah that that's horrible. See we I gotta stop that. Um I used to justify, you know, no, you know I was the youngest in the family, so you would have the youngest, they're spoiled, but they're also pff they're also pissed on. Y you got three people ahead of ya And they're gonna show you they're gonna remind ya. I had a brother and a sister uh that were uh who they were both uh, you know Looking for the the lead position, shall we say. And of course, uh oh Lord, I was caught in attention sometimes. So verses seven and eight And to give relief to you uh to you who are afflicted, and to us as well, when the Lord Jesus will reveal from heaven So with his mighty angels in flaming fire, dealing out retribution to those who do not know the Lord and to those who do not obey the gospel of the Lord Jesus So he's gonna give him relief. He's promising relief to him And he uh I have um I quoted another one. So he's gonna give 'em relief. They ha and and really, where's that relief come? Uh let's just look big picture before I uh we get lost in this. When the Lord will be revealed from heaven So it's future. We know how future was, they did not, but it was it was future. So they're looking again, it's gotta be fate because they're looking for the future. uh reward or the future of having this this thing, you know, justice being done. Uh this is what Young this is Young's literal translation. Um He what he does, he goes right from the Greek and he he gives it to you in a in a uh sometimes awkward wooden uh word by word. And also Greek If you're uh if you're familiar with languages, it's inflective. They can and they c so they can take and uh so the subject is in a certain form You could we go subject, verb, uh uh, object, right? They can mess they can mess with it because the subject's in a certain form, so sometimes they'll put it back here. Maybe they put the verb here up front, the for emphasis. Uh the point I'm trying to make is that Uh he uses this this text in in a kind of a literal way, but he also brings out some of the emphasis that Greeks will have Okay, because they w uh i the way they would speak is like uh you know, they put the verb up front, you know, suffering, uh you know, and then and then put the subject later. Uh Well anyway, in this verse he quotes it this way, and to you who are troubled, rest you see the pause that he puts there, rest with us in the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven. So he he's putting emphasis on there. I like it I th I think it's uh uh it's kind of what the uh uh commentator the the interpretation is rest. Uh y y you know, um Hebrews, right? Uh Hebrews chapter three. Uh we're talking about uh uh they didn't enter the land because they were disobedient the Israelites And uh they said to him, Why were they disobedient? Uh you know, uh they always vexed God. They didn't listen to them And at the end of that chapter, end of verse three he says, They did the and because of that the Israelites didn't enter the rest They didn't enter the land, right? Remember that a lot of them died. Came up a new generation, they entered the land. And he talked about rest in chapter four, but you there's still a rest available. So really he's he's looking beyond the land of rest in God And he says in the end of chapter three, why didn't they enter arrest? Because of unbelief. They didn't believe. Even though they had all that in front of them, it doesn't matter. He did not believe So we get to rest in the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven. See he is the text points that out there We're resting in God. You're resting in a future. Right? This is not our home. With messengers of his power and flaming fire, giving vengeance to those not knowing God and to those not obeying the good news of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look, there's two different two different groups here. I'm gonna have to speed it up because I'm running on time Do you notice that though? Um those who do not obey Uh uh let's see, verse eight. Dealing our retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ Um long and short, I uh you know, in Hebrews uh twel uh ten uh verse twenty six through twenty nine There's going to be a a a worse retribution for those who have heard the word and just plain out rejected it as opposed to those who never Jesus who I never heard of Jesus God's retribution. We don't want to underestimate that. I I put this quote because this always impressed me as I was going through Revelation To Revelation 14, 11, a description of the punishment of those who receive the mark of the beast. And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever. They have no rest day and night. Those who worship the beast and his image and whoever receives the mark of the beast Forever and ever, day and night, they have no rest, no peace R. C. Spohl said this and I I have to agree with him. Even your worst enemy after five minutes into that place you'd probably want to say uh let him out. Uh uh it This is we have such a gift. We are going to be with him in his presence, in in his presence of his power, his glory It it's it's incomprehensible, is it not? Forever No more bad knees. Bad eyes God's been good though, even in the midst of all this. He was blessed. Let's look at 11 and 12 finishes to the prayer. To this end also we pray for you always that our God will count you worthy of your uh your calling. And fulfill every desire of good of for goodness and the work of faith with power. And I didn't look at this before. We talked about this in a couple of places, but in tw in twelve so that in the name of our Lord Jesus so excuse me so that the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you and you and him according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. We glorify God. The the Thessalonians were glorifying God Because they were seeing love for one another, they were seeing strong faith, they were seeing good uh their persecution apparently, they were responding well to that. They were a witness. Non-believers, believers were seeing Christ working in them You know, we sing in songs and everything, you know. Uh you know, uh let let the world not see me but Christ in me or We d uh we glorify God by doing that. And it it's reciprocal when we glorify God We are being glorified. You remember when Moses went up and saw the glory of God, he was reflecting the glory of God. It it's that thing, this incomprehensible, it's spiritual, but we are being Wow, we get to participate in this. You know, I was talking with Pastor Leake about this and um Uh we were in a uh leadership class that he was doing. We were talking about uh We're in 1 Corinthians 15, you know, where Paul says, Not by the grace of God, you know. I've I've labored more, I did more than the others. Not by not me, but the grace of God uh through me And you know uh w it's neat sometimes when you're doing some type of ministry, whatever you're doing. with kids or with anything else. And you know, you're working with somebody and you see these people light up or come to God and you see something happen And it's neat because you get to witness it. It's not like you did it. You get to witness this thing. And there is there's nothing. Um it's a best joy, it's the most exciting thing. And I and I'm just kind of a Uh I I told you when I w w uh before I was saying it was kind of a thrill seeker, uh a joy seeker. Uh there was n there's nothing like it. You get to see it's like, wow, you're watching God work. You know it's it's not you, it's not nothing, it's God working in a person. It's so exciting. Well Thank you for your time. Uh next week read um chapter two. We're gonna we're gonna be dealing with a little bit about uh end time, eschatology. Uh I know in the church we have a lot of people on different sides of uh what that looks like. Uh read it word for word. Read it uh and think about what the order is. Think about Uh the English translation's good. Uh uh don't go to the commentaries first, but read it. What does the text say? Uh We uh read the text literally, grammatically and historically in this church. Uh uh and then you know, is it is uh it says what it says. We believe what it says. And