Here we are today. We are on chapter four. And this is our cool cartoon. Before I do that though, I know we have a lot of new people in the class from the previous quarter, so I do want to spend some time Talking about uh the spreadsheet or I'm sorry the worksheet that I've I've asked you guys to fill out. I would tell you guys again, you know, this is an equipping class And so my desire is how can I help best you in your process of equipping yourself? And that really is the intent of the worksheet. So I thought it might be helpful to just ground everyone and and maybe go through some examples of what that might look like. But before we do that, we have our memory verse And there's a couple in here that I know knows this verse really well because I heard it yesterday. So I'm gonna put them on the spot. And Andy, I'm gonna have you go first, please. So our memory verse is what? Second Corinthians three. Alright, care. Now, the reason again we're memorizing this verse is very intentional. That is such an important verse, right? None of the the adequacy that Paul claims that we claim as ministers of the New Covenant comes from ourselves. It all is from God Kirk, were you gonna memorize the say the verse or you had a comment? Yep. That's what I have, so go ahead. Not that we are adequate. Within ourselves, so as to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from ourselves. Yep, amen. So you'll see that term adequate or sufficient. And again, we talked about that definition last week, to be uh equipped, to be worthy Um and we all are as ministers of the new covenant, right? And we have to go forth with that boldness, with that confidence that we are adequate. Are we continuing to be sanctified and trained and matured? Absolutely But we are all adequate. Alright, if you have your your worksheet, pull that out. So I'm curious from last week, or you could use other weeks. And I'll I'll put up here the attributes of God and again don't don't worry about the color scheme. Um you know that causes controversy and I understand why so that's not important for us. This is a list, it's not meant to be exhaustive. But maybe a nice little artifact for you to use when you're thinking about this. But the first question we have on the worksheet is, what does this passage say about the attributes or character of God? And I would love for people to share. Right? We're all family here. Don't don't be uh bashful about it. When you look at chapter three, as we went through that, what are some attributes that really stuck out to you? So Joni says immutability. Yeah, explain that a bit. Yeah, for sure. So uh immutability unchanging, which is uh a a beautiful, wonderful anchor for our soul, isn't it? Is there anything, Joanie, if I can ask as you looked at chapter three that that really that really shouted out to you, if you will, his immutability. And if not, that's okay. Yeah, okay. Steve. I I would think of a saying just the idea that God needs nothing from us and our memory verse. You know, it's we we have no sufficiency within ourselves. Yeah. And God device. So that's excellent, Steve. Excellent. Good. How about invisibility? The the fragrance of God that stuff that he talks about is just a beautiful thing to me. Yeah, yeah. It's a beautiful word picture, isn't it? It's a beautiful truth of his attribute. Good. Kirk, did you have something? Yeah, I was thinking of um his Attribute or characteristic of being gracious. gives life. Amen. And God is God gave it for that reason. He's gracious. Yeah. Imagine if he stopped at the law. Right? Yeah. Good. Glenn, did you have something or you just Oh I was just thinking of but I'm thinking of uh wrath. And uh and we don't think of those kind of things. Jealousy, wrath, and we don't think of those things as being sort of of God only because we so much corrupt that they're so corrupted in us. And probably we don't realize how much love is corrupted in us. Yeah. But but just that there is wrath and and and and justice and that God will prevail in us. Things and that's that's very comforting in a world where justice seems m or Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yeah, that's a really important one. That's one I had. And and we think about his characteristic on here it's called unity. Meaning he's not um divisible if if you will. It's not sometimes he's love and sometimes he's wrath, sometimes he's all of those all the time And so, you know, to think about the old covenant and the the precious gift of the new covenant, right? He is holy. That's why we have the law. to understand how do we serve a holy God. This is a requirement. This is the standard. Why? Because He's holy and everything He does is righteous And yet he's also a jealous God, a wrathful God, right? There must be judgment for not meeting the law. And yet what does he do? To Kurt's point, he provides a uh a path of redemption a path of reconciliation. What a demonstration of love that is. So so again, do you kind of see what we're doing here, uh starting with as you read a passage, um and the idea here is this is the The exercise you do every time you read a passage of scripture is you're you're identifying these beautiful attributes of God. We're cultivating a high view of God. Okay, good. Alright, the next one. Key indicatives of the truths or promises what God has done, what he's going to do. Um anything that jumped out at you there. Kurt. If he calls you to service, he'll make you adequate Okay, good. Our memory verse, right? Three five is a critical indicative, a truth, that our adequacy does not come from us, it comes from God. Well that's a really powerful one to make sure you hang your hat on. That's why we're memorizing it. Um verses seventeen and eighteen uh talk about that he's transforming us into his image. Excellent. Right? So we're not left in the state that we're in. We we now have a a heart that is regenerated, but now the growth continues, right? We're maturing, we're being transformed. Good. Alright, let's move on to the next one. So now as we understand some of those truths, those promises, often those are associated with imperatives or commands or instructions. Did you see anything? And sometimes they can be implied. Right? As as you know, other parts of Scripture As you read some of these indicatives, some of the imperatives, the instructions or commands can be implied or tied with other passages. Yes. And I had um specifically back to verses uh verse three five um with that truth we should be bold. We should walk with confidence because our adequ our adequacy doesn't come from us. It comes from the Lord. So we should be bold, absolutely. Diane. Mm-hmm. So again, we can walk in confidence, right, because of that. Alright, good. Any other comments? You see the format, right, that that were flowing here. This, you'll get the most out of this class, any class, reading your Bible, following this kind of format Right? Um the real work happens probably outside of this class when you're meditating on you're reading through the scriptures. That's why I ask you to read it ahead of time. Right, so you can be working through that and having some of these observations before you even get into the class, and hopefully that's reinforced as we go through the class. So I'm not gonna ask for personal application. This might be the the most important step that you do is to take everything we just said and that you note it and actually apply it specifically to your life. If someone wants to share, I'm happy to hear that, but I won't force you to do that. Well volunt you to do it. I'll share um one of mine. Um You know, again I I highlighted some of the things that that, you know, the memory verse three five, I I just love that. That gives me so much confidence that um my confidence doesn't come from me, my value doesn't come from me, it comes from God. Right? That gives me just great confidence. It doesn't mean I do things well all the time, but it does give me a confidence. Um And so this idea of just being in the Word and studying the Word and going through all of that, to teach The material, the struggle I have sometimes is as I read the next chapter in preparation for teaching, um sometimes it's hard for me to just meditate on the work to just be still in the word. My mind is always thinking, how do I present this to the class? What's the what's the thread I want to pull? And it's not to be crafty, it's not to be a great orator, that's not my motivation I do want to make sure we're getting the main points across, but sometimes I struggle with I'm there just being in the Word and I'm already thinking about the presentation. Does that make sense And I don't know if if preachers struggle with that. I I'm I'm think I have to ask Gabe. I'm like, do you struggle with this too? But um you guys can be praying for me that that my time in the Word would just be time in the Word um and not focused on trying to present the material. There is a time for that for sure, but especially in the beginning of the week, um I think it's important to just to just be in the word, to just be still and to hear what the Lord is is putting on my heart. Does that make sense? Is that fair? Okay. Kurt. Pastor Christopher, one application And it's kind of indirect. And it's cumulative from chapters one through three. is the whole idea of Paul's suffering and the fact that he was a tent maker he was probably poor. His authority and apostleship was being challenged And but the the idea that a any pastor is going to suffer and is not immune to suffering. And that that helps me to just the idea of of normalizing suffering in the Christian life. Because you can get the idea that well if I attain to a certain maturity in Christ, I'm not going to suffer. Yeah. But to I I think of pastors who have suffered or are suffering at at Hope Bible Church and so when I encounter suffering, okay, this this is normal. Yeah. And I I'm not immune to it. Mm-hmm. And I'm called God is going to mature me and He has good purposes behind his suffering if it's not just random. Yeah, yeah. Kirk, really good point, and that's a really great tie-in um to what we're going to talk about today. So, you know, Paul, remember, is continuing this theme of dealing with suffering, because that seemed to be the biggest criticism of him as you pointed out. So Clem. So let's do that. Let's go into chapter four as we pick this back up. Um again, before Paul gets the joy he received from their response, we talked about that. We're going to see that in chapter seven. He will spend a good amount of time over the next several chapters. Laying the foundation for why he had to write such a severe letter. Right? He had to be very s severe with them. He was not afraid to confront the issue. in why he had such boldness to deliver this admonishment. We talked about some of that because his adequacy, he knows his adequacy comes from Christ. So again, the challenge for all of us, let us be good listeners how this might apply to us. today. You know, to Kurt's point, our pastors don't suffer like Paul did. Um, but they do suffer. And we'll talk a little bit about some of that. Okay? So we we need to be praying for them for sure. All right, before we jump in, I I did want to go back to um this contrast that Paul brought about the old covenant. and the new covenant. Um and and we went through this list, the contrast that he has, and this just this beautiful reality or or promise of the old covenant and the new covenant You know, the old covenant was brought forth in glory, wasn't it? The law is good, but it doesn't have the power to save Right? Without something else, we're all lost. What it does do is it points us to Jesus Christ. It points us to the need of a Savior. But I what I want to highlight and and make sure we understand is our status. Under the old covenant and the new covenant. And this is where we get that word condemnation that we saw in verse 9 and the ministry of righteousness or justification. Right, so I I want to make sure we spend a little time talking about that. Um especially this idea of condemnation. Um I I want to make sure that we understand the biblical definition of condemnation It's the Greek word katakrima, katakrima, meaning penalty, and is from the root katakrino to give judgment. Um just like justification, it's a legal term. Like we said, it it means to lay out all the evidence and you are found guilty and you are judged Right? Eternal damnation. That's our status or status when we are slaves to sin. You know, when we are born, that is our initial status. Versus justification. Now we see that term uh I'll back up condemnation. We often talk about Romans 8. 1, but we see it here in 2 Corinthians 3. 9. We'll see it again in 2 Corinthians 7. 3 So that term will come back again. But again, it's our status before God. Versus justification. Again, a legal term to mean declared righteous. And that happens because of imputation, right? Our sin being imputated to Christ's account and his righteousness being imputated to us. That truth is so, so important for us to live under if you are a believer. You are no longer condemned. You don't live under the weight of that judgment, that penalty. That is so freeing. Does that mean we never sin? We talked about that last week. Absolutely not. That's the struggle that Paul talks about in Romans 7. Right. But we we have that struggle under the status of being a child of God. That should give us such boldness and su such confidence, right, to live out our faith in this world because we are in a different status. Going from the old covenant to the new covenant. Um I would I would say that um no one goes to heaven without full and perfect adherence to the law. Yes. Nobody goes to heaven without um say that again. Full and complete full and complete adherence to the law. We can't do that in ourselves. Right. That's what the um the the shrouding of righteousness does. When God looks at us, he sees us through the righteousness of Christ. Right? That's the beauty of that blessing. And this is why Paul talks with such boldness. This is what he is a minister of. He's a minister of the new covenant. And we all are, if you are a believer sitting here today So we need to be bold. We need to be courageous. All right, a little bit of background. I'll leave that up there as we now dive into chapter 4. So if you're not there, 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Paul will continue to address, like Kirk said, his suffering, as the topic was apparently a significant contributor to why some believed he was unqualified to be an apostle. He'll paint a picture of the contrast between a physical body that contain continues to decay and an immaterial soul that continues to transform, being made more and more into the image of God. One is temporal, the other eternal. So that's the contrast that he's gonna provide. Verse 1, therefore, since we have this ministry as we receive mercy, we do not lose heart. So his confidence is in the eternal perspective and promises of the new covenant. And because of that, he bookends this chapter with the phrase, we do not lose heart. We're going to see that in verse 1, and we're going to see it again in verse 16. This idea of losing heart, it's a strong Greek term which refers to abandoning oneself to cowardly surrender. Right? He says we're not going to surrender. We're going to stand firm. We're not going to give in to this persecution, the suffering. We're going to see later that it actually brings glory to God through his suffering, through his weakness. But that's how he bookends it. He starts in verse 1, therefore. I love those words. Because what does it force us to do? To look back, what did he just talk about? He talked about being a minister of the new covenant. Now, in this particular case, though, he actually gives us the therefore afterwards. Therefore, since we have this ministry So he's talking about the ministry of the new covenant. Since we received this ministry and recognizing how they received it, how did he receive it? The mercy of God. It was a gift of God. Not by any merit of their own, not by any adequacy of his own, right? His adequacy comes from God The new covenant that we all have or under as believers comes from God. And because of that, they do not lose heart. They stand strong. Paul's open salvo contrasts three practices most likely attributable to these false, remember these super apostles that came on the scene, or peddlers like we talked about last week, right, trying to be crafty. or or to market it for money, which he described in the previous chapter. So verse two, let's read verse two But we have renounced the things hidden because of shame, not walking in craftiness or adulterating the Word of God, but by the manifestation of truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God So he renounces these hidden things, uh hidden because of shame is what it says, most likely condemning those who hide their true motives. Remember these super apostles, these false apostles You know, had sinful motives, and he was calling them out. He's saying we're not. We're we're fully open. Second, he renounces their methods. What are their methods? They're using craftiness, um, deceitfulness. This was a um actually a business term where folks would dilute the wine with water, right, so that they could they could make it extend. They were deceitful. Trickery to accomplish their dishonorable purposes. And thirdly, lastly, he repudiates any misuse of the word of God, diluting and twisting God's word for his gain. Right, so that's what was happening with these superapostles, these false teachers that were coming in and infiltrating the Corinthian church. That's who he was calling out Paul contrasts these actions with what he does. What does he do? He boldly proclaims the gospel of Jesus Christ. When you see this term manifestation But by the manifestation of truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. It's simply to make evident, to make clear. It's a demonstration, if you will. That's how he commends himself to the Corinthians. Remember, he was challenging those that were asking for, hey, we need letters again. We need letters of commendation. And and what were his letters of commendation? Do you remember The people. He wrote the gospel on their heart. He ministered to their heart, appealed to their heart. So not through letters, but by appealing to their conscience, through plainly preaching the gospel. Paul is always bringing it back to the simplicity of the gospel. We see have seen that throughout the epistles. The preaching of the gospel presents people with a crisis of decision Remember, uh last week we talked about what? A fragrance. Think of the gospel as a fragrance. To some, it's what? A very sweet aroma. To others, it's a stench. Right? It it it will not go without some force of power. So you will have to make a decision when you hear the gospel. To the perishing, the gospel is veiled. They are unable to comprehend it, not because of the method of presentation. Right, needing trickery or deceit, but because of the God of this world, Satan has blinded their minds. They are unable to see the light. So let's read three and four And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing, in those in in whose case the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving that they might not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. who is the image of God. So we talked last week, and we see it here on the chart about this this veiling. And I think it was Nicholas that pointed out. Really what we're talking about is being blinded Right? You're unable to comprehend the gospel because your heart is hardened. Hardened by who? What does it say here? The God of this world. Who's that? Satan. Right? Satan. Blind to their minds, they are unable to see the light. Go back to chapter 3. 14 But their minds were hardened, for until this very day, at the reading of the Old Covenant, the same veil remains unlifted. We see in Romans 1 24 through 26 you don't need to go there, but um this idea of of harden, who does the hardening? God gave them over to the lust of their hearts They exchanged the truth of God for a lie. God gave them over to degrading passions. So what's happening here? Who's doing the hardening? I hear a lot of God. He's certainly a player in all this, Joni. So this this is a hard thing I think to understand that I'm trying to grasp some of these truths now about hearing them, but so is it God allows them to harden their have their hearts hardened by Satan? Um I think it has to it has it has to be within his things that he allowed his love. Because he can control all that. Um that he and like even when we saw with um when we studied Pharaoh, uh Pharaoh's heart was hardened but God used that for his glory. Right. So somehow he Hardens people or hardens or allows people's hearts to be hardened. I guess Satan does that with God's permission, like he's meant he did to Job and you know, he did to sparrow or you know the things that he allows to happen. Does that getting too the idea Yeah, Joanie, I think you're nailing it. When we think of especially if you look at the beginning of Romans, I think it really explains this pattern. Yes, we're all born because of the fall in this in this sinful nature, right? Um We we are a slave to Satan, the prince of this world. And what we hear in Romans, though, is that we exchange truth for a lie. Right? We go down that path naturally and and what we hear in Romans again is that God gives them over. Right? So so and what does he say also in Romans the beginning? We are without excuse because of that. Right? So we know with general revelation we we see through creation we recognize God in in some of his invisible attributes, but we're also given a conscience Right, so we will be without excuse. So ultimately we're we're the ones are that are acting to harden our hearts because we exchange truth for a lie. And God gives us over to that. Hardens our hearts. Does that make sense? Is that fair Yeah. So because of that we are unable to lift the veil. Right? That that's the truth. There is no one who seeks God. We are all hostile towards God. We are unable to lift that veil. If we stay with the old covenant, we are unable. The law is unable. It has no power to lift that veil. What do we see, though, in 314? Because it is removed in Christ. So Christ is the only path that allows that veil to be lifted. That's the the beauty of this truth. But the veil the veil is lifted by Jesus Christ. Go to verse 5 in chapter 4. For we do not preach ourselves but Christ Jesus as Lord and ourselves as your bondservants for Jesus' sake. So that's why the gospel is so important. The veil is lifted by Jesus Christ. They are not trying to glorify themselves. He's saying we're not trying to preach ourselves. They are simply preaching Jesus Christ as Lord. And their role? What's their role? They're bondservants. To whom? Certainly to Christ, but what does it say here? To the Corinthians, right? Our our service is to you. We're ministering the new covenant. Um our our role, our responsibility is to do that for you. We are bond servants. That that term means a slave Right? We are in service to you as bond servants. For what reason? For Jesus' sake. It always points back to Jesus Christ. Verse 6, for God who said, Light shall shine out of darkness, is the one who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. So Paul draws them back to God who created the physical light. Um that's the reference um Yeah, that reference is from Genesis, so he's he's taking them back to God the Creator, created the physical light. He's also the source of what? The supernatural light that is required to regenerate our hearts that lifts the veil that we might now understand. So the bottom line in this first part um that Paul describes in 1 through 6 We don't need to be crafty or deceitful. We don't need to be charismatic or polished orators. It's not about the presentation, but rather the message that he's defending. And it's the work of God that makes the light to shine forth in your hearts. We need to be faithful simply with ministering the word, don't we? We had our our counseling fundamentals weekend this weekend. We're on week month three or four, so we got one more month to go. But we often reinforce this idea when you go into the counseling room. Um it can be weighty because you want to see lives transformed You want to you want the hope that you are sharing to see transformation. We don't control that, do we though, as counselors? Our job is simply to be faithful with ministering the Word of God and then let the Holy Spirit do his work. But what Paul is defending here is there are some that are challenging, again, his adequacy because of all his suffering, or he's not a great orator, or or the style, if you will Paul's saying that's not what's important. We're not coming after you with craftiness like some of the others are. We're just simply giving you the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what he's defending. That's what we have to defend. Bill are you are you trying to say that in verse sixteen? 316, right. 316. But whenever a man turns to the Lord, so you're trying to say the man is taking the action to turn to the Lord. Then the veil the Right, then the veil is lifted. So you're saying who's doing the action here? Is that what you're you're asking? No, I'm just saying the order was take place The order. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's what I mean. Yeah. Right. So one turn to the board, and then after one turn to the board, the fellow takes a turn So I think I understand your your question, Bill. Um and and here's what I would say. We so whenever you see a a what looks like a contradiction or a paradox in in scripture, right? You need to pause and say, okay, let's examine this one. So what do you do to answer that question? What would you do? To the class, what would you do? Context. Context, really, really important. Okay, good. What else? Other scripture. Other scripture. So we you we have to bring in other scripture. What other scripture might apply here? What can you think of? Okay. Alright, so it it's God who does the saving. Other passages? John ten. John ten? Colossians. Yeah, Colossians, Ephesians 1. Um so what I would tell you, Bill, there are lots of verses that describe I'll call it uh the the order of salvation and how that takes place. Right, and and we are dead in our trespasses. We are unable to reconcile with God. He must take that action. Now we are we need to do what? We need to believe We're given the ability to do that even though that is a gift of God. By grace we have been saved through faith, through Christ alone Right? So we can talk after class if you want to give you more clarity. But what I would tell you, the method, number one, you see that contradiction, address it. And you do that by understanding the context and bringing in other scriptures. Okay? So let let's do this. This is a a really good topic. It's an important one. It's a foundational one. I want to keep going with with the chapter we have here, but I think what I wanted to make sure is we understood the method of getting after answering that question. And we'll keep pulling that thread if we need to. That's that's a really big question though, Bill, about salvation, right? And and it's we could talk probably many lessons on that particular topic So I I don't want to push it away. I'm not saying that. I want to keep going, but we can talk offline if we need to. Fair? Okay, good question. Alright, let's pick up in verse 7. So why all the suffering? He's going to come back to suffering. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the surpassing greatness of the power may be of God and not from ourselves We are afflicted in every way but not crushed, perplexed but not despairing, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed. um that that we have and certainly some of our pastors, maybe not like Paul did, but it certainly comes in these forms. So we start with this idea of earthen vessels Greek word that means baked clay. Um these were just normal pots that would get chipped and cracked and thrown away, um, often used for holding garbage and human waste. I mean they were just They weren't precious days that that people really protected. They were nothing. That's how Paul describes himself. Man, I'm I'm just a throwaway Absolutely nothing special about these pots and totally expendable. So why? Why does he describe himself in that way? That there would be no mistake the power of salvation comes from God and not from any power of the messenger. Right? Back to the memory verse. The adequacy, the power, everything points back to God. That's God's design. That's why he's using us as broken, weak vessels. Why? So that he gets the glory. Why? Back to his attribute of holiness. Right? He doesn't share his glory with anybody. Quick commentary from John MacArthur. The messenger's weakness is not fatal to what he does. It is essential. Remember that was the criticism. All this suffering that Paul is getting, how can he how can he possibly be adequate? Quite the opposite, right? It's because of his suffering that it is essential to bring glory unto God. We talked about Paul's now going to give four contrasting metaphors to emphasize how this weakness did not cripple him. And we're going to see in later chapters how it actually strengthened him. So we we see the contrast here. Afflicted in every way. You can think of that as just being hard-pressed, right? Being hard-pressed, but never crushed. Never to the point of being crushed. If we went back to uh chapter one, what did we hear? Paul was under some kind of persecution, whether it was persecution or illness to the point of death. I mean he was being afflicted, he was being hard-pressed, but he was not crushed. Uh perplexed, um this means at wit's end or stressed out, but not despairing. So one commentary uh said it this way. Um stress, but not stressed out, right? Not to the point where you're not even functional anymore. Persecuted And even by those that he loved, right? The Corinthians and several of the churches, the Jews, he was a Jew, but not forsaken. Who was forsaken? Jesus Christ on the cross by God the Father. He was struck down, uh means to be laid low by a blow. or an illness. So we talked about that in verses one and eight. Um did Paul ever s ever receive a blow? Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. I I can't you know Paul talks about being persecuted. I I this is an area I cannot understand. I cannot sympathize, empathize, I can't understand that type of persecution Right? It's just unbelievable. And yet we're going to see what he says about his persecution in a couple passages So that's the contrast that he gives describing, hey man, I'm afflicted, I'm perplexed, I'm persecuted, I'm struck down, but I'm never crushed. I'm never to the point where I'm just in total despair I'm never forsaken, right? That's the anchor to our soul, and never ever destroyed. Paul's suffering was constant. Right? He was constantly afflicted, perplexed, persecuted, struck down for what? For the sake of Christ. Verse 10. Always carrying about in the body the dying of Jesus. That the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our bodies For we who live are constantly being delivered over to death for Jesus' sake, that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh So death works in us, but life in you. Paul is emphasizing the attacks against him are actually attacks against Jesus. Right, that's ultimately what's happening. When you are persecuted for the gospel, you're really persecuting Jesus Christ. And that should not surprise us. That's the life of a believer Through Paul's weakness, Christ was put on display. That's the beauty of his suffering. The super apostles or false apostles claim that Paul's suffering was evidence God was not with them. And he was a fraud. That was the criticism. Paul contends quite the opposite. His suffering was the badge of his loyalty to Christ and the source of his power. Remember a couple weeks ago we talked about the doctrine of suffering. How does the world treat suffering? Something to get rid of. Something that is interrupting my happiness, my joy, something that is a stumbling block, something we need to minimize. And Paul and Christ and the gospel has a very different message about the doctrine of suffering. Jason. semi-historic perspective as well. Suffering in that case is also derived from a opinion belief that they're under the the Um being afflicted by these minor gods please these gods in some way. Yeah. Therefore we translate that over to a monotheistic standpoint. displeasing the holy god. Yeah. Which you can see today if it is through like the prosperity gos uh gospel. Blessing you have to for you when you're suffering. And it's the exact opposite will be doubt. Yeah, Jason said that's great. Historical context. Because especially in Corinth where there was such a pagan culture, numerous gods, and we see that throughout, right? We've talked about when Jesus healed the lame man. Well, who sinned first, right? um in some loose. But that's great um concept. Say again? Joe, absolutely. Yeah we talked about that. Yeah, you must be sinning, right? Because of your suffering. And that's the culture they were coming from, right? Uh that probably would have been very prominent. So good context. Love it. Paul faced death every day, yet he was willing to pay that price if it meant salvation for those to whom he preached. Right? His focus was on serving the Corinthians. Verse 13 But having the same spirit of faith according to what is written, I believe, therefore I spoke. We also believe there also therefore also we speak. So this reference there it's probably bolded in your Bible is a reference to Psalm 11610. So Psalm 116 is, in in my Bible, it has the title, Thanksgiving for Deliverance from Death. So the psalmist was going through some type of persecution, maybe even to the point of death. Um and I like how the ESV translation reads, I believed, even when I spoke, in parentheses, I am greatly afflicted. So even in the midst of great affliction, he is giving thanksgiving to God. I'm believing, I'm trusting in you, Lord. That's what's happening through his affliction. In the midst of this affliction and suffering, Paul maintains an eternal perspective. Let's read 14 through 18 and we'll dissect that a little bit. Knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and will present us with you. For all things are for your sakes, that the grace which is spreading to more and more people may cause the giving of thanks to abound to the glory of God. Therefore we do not lose heart. There it is again But though our outer man is decaying, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day, for momentary light affliction is producing for us eternal weight of glory, far beyond all comparison While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, and the things which are not seen are eternal. Look at verse seventeen. For momentary light affliction Wow, that's how Paul describes his his persecution, his suffering. Momentary light affection. You don't need to go there. Romans 8. 18 For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. Alright, so we see Paul again Why? Because the glory that he sees, his focus on that eternal perspective, so outweighs anything that is happening to his mortal body right now. That's the perspective that he has. That's the perspective we need to have. What tenth of those does, right? Yeah. We do not apprehend Christ in the way that Paul does. Okay. Every injury Yeah. Yeah, Scott, thank you for sharing that. That's a great I'll call it observation um in your in your own personal life, but I think for many of us, right? I like I said, I I can't I can't sympathize with Paul. I've never had that type of persecution. And yet do we get consumed with like And not to minimize, like Scott said, the paper cuts in our lives as we compare it to what Paul went through, as we compare it to what Jesus went through. And and to fix that, what do we do? We focus on Jesus Christ. That's why we have to be immersed in his word. Each and every day. Right. We need to study the life of Christ. We need to study the attributes of God. Glenn? Yeah, along that line is what Paul is saying, he's not trying to minimize and try to you know, glibly overlook the the suffering and the pain he's gone through. Nor should we, but it's the really just obviously making that comparison. It's just trying to raise God up and and saying, look how So if you're suffering bad, yeah, that hurts. Yeah. And and we all can we can, you know, have it. Uh sympathy toward you, but there's this even you know this unbelievably greater thing that's awaiting us. So that is a great comfort to those Yeah. So this this last section we're done with with going through this chapter. I I did want to spend some time, you guys are already there, but just kind of some application questions. How does a how does a verse or the passage like we just went through today How does that encourage you or challenge you? We we've heard some of that. Um but but other comments. Andy. Like you know, he starts by saying this is through the mercy of God that he has this ministry and he's to him is suffering then proclaiming God only. And and the look at it that you know our situations are if we God, this is where we would put, this is what we need to do. It's through the mercy of God that that we do these things. And just to look back on that and see why we're in why we're doing what we're doing. Good. So as we were reading through his description of the explicit in every way, but oh gosh, I was just thinking about how he must have had his focus on the face of God too. Like how through every trial that he faced, whether it was like going to playing the gospel or whatever came along with that, like he saw time after time God's faithfulness. Yeah. Um and so I think a way I guess that we could practically apply this is that when we um um have trials in our own lives to to remember that the Lord is faithful. Faithful to accomplish his purposes that are for his glory and also just thinking about having like I guess it goes back to how we have this treasure yards of clay. So what are what are we here for? Like the I think it's the Westminster catechism says the We're made to glorify God. Yeah. And it's it brings even more joy to know that we can take part in that um through our trials and so um yeah just being reminded that God is faithful and looking for his Amen. Let me let me comment on two points. I I meant to read a commentary um when we were talking about the earthen vessels, but you you brought it up, so let me reemphasize that Viewed as a whole, the hardships that Paul lists in his catalogue have, as it were, cause cracks in him as an earthen vessel But the vessel itself remains intact. The vessel is held together by the power of divine adhesive, and the light that shines through these cracks is none other than the light of the life of Jesus, right? To glorify God in these earthen vessels. And back to your point, um I don't know if it was in this quarter class yet, but we've talked about it before, this idea of lament Um so when we look at the doctrine of suffering, right, from a biblical perspective, we we understand the biblical mandates of the goodness of it, and yet it's hard, isn't it? Suffering is hard, and yet God gives us this venue through lamenting to be able to cry out to a holy God with through our suffering. But that pattern of lament is you you number one you address God, you cry out with your groanings, if you will, you have a request, but what is the end of a lament? Praise, trust, thank you, Lord, for what? For all the things that you did. You're starting that that scroll, if you will, of all the ways that the Lord has provided for you through these trials and tribulations. That's the pattern of lament. Yes. One more comment I was thinking um that as we go through these trials, like I think we can just see probably through the writings of Paul how much he was conformed to the image of Christ. And so um the goal of Paul if I'm understanding properly, the goal of um like suffering or something good that can come out of it I guess is conformity to the image of Christ. Amen. So without suffering We're not well, I guess we can be, but I guess suffering kinda like forces us away to grow in ways that we would not achieve Chosen to do so individually. So God is wiser than us and puts us in this situation so that we can grow and then that gives him glory that he used Yeah Heather you nailed it and I'll pull up the slide next time uh we meet, but part of the doctrine of suffering is just that, to conform us into the image of Christ. Absolutely. You know we talked about in uh Romans eight That the path to glorification is what? Through suffering, because that's God's means often of transforming our lives. Right? Yeah. That's it. That's why we we have to really recage our mind with a biblical doctrine of suffering. Right? That's it's so contrary to what the world has told us our entire lives We've got to get back to the biblical truth of suffering. Right? It is for God's glory. It is to conform us. It is to make us less reliant on ourselves and more reliant on Jesus Christ. Yeah, a as I look back, our family has been at Folk Bible Church for like twenty-five years. And I look back at one of Pastor Lee's sermons And it was very it was very encouraging and very challenging and it was on First Peter chapter one that he was exhorting us to actually not be ashamed of seeking a reward and going through suffering, going through uh obedience to to Christ, but as one aspect of being motivated toward righteousness is to know that your inheritance is imperishable. It's incorruptible. It will not fade away. And it will be graciously given to you. So that's that's one aspect of motivating Seeing uh to to endure suffering and to endure it with um in in faith, yeah. In obedience. Yeah. Amen. Amen. That's the motivation. In that sense, it becomes a momentary and light affliction to compare it to eternal rewards. Yeah. Yeah, good, thank you. I think I shared with you this with you guys bef um before. When I we were in Massachusetts, we were at a church and and there was a guy there that I knew Um and he just he was suffering with so much illness. I mean it was just one thing after another. I mean just chronic, chronic illness that was really um, you know, disrupting his quality of life. And I I just I've never had to deal with that type of chronic illness and it it must I know it's so debilitating. So debilitating. Um and the encouragement the Holy Spirit put on on my heart to speak to him after we we built some trust was you know, to to walk him through some of these doctrines of suffering, to encourage him with that, but to to reinforce, you know, Larry, this is the season of life God has put you in. And and his his cry was like, Lord, if you could just heal me, I could do so many more things for you. And the encouragement was, he's got you right where he wants you. And you are able to minister to people you never would have come in contact. You know, think of all the medical community. That was a real encouragement to him. Did it take the suffering away? Absolutely not Absolutely not. But it's it's changing our perspective. It's getting our perspective back on eternal things, back on Jesus Christ. Good? Alright, new memory verse. So write this down for your homework. You're gonna read chapter five, second Corinthians chapter five. And the new memory verse is actually in chapter 5, 517. Therefore, if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature. The old things passed away, behold, new things have come. Let that be your encouragement. Now, several of you um are really good about giving your memory verses We're going to call on other people in this big class, so be prepared. Alright, let me pray.