Okay, I I was here yesterday experimenting with the video, so I think I got it working. We'll see. Just because I said that, you know it's not gonna work, but So here we are, we're near the end. I can't believe we're already coming in uh near the end of uh our our quarter here, but as we've described, we're in the book of 1 Corinthians, uh written on Paul's third missionary journey. And the first four chapters really do dive into this issue of division. And so that's where we're at. That's where we'll finish up, and then we'll pick it up in the this part two, if you will which will start in early December. Um before I forget, before we leave today, I want to take a poll from you guys. Don't let me forget. So Diane, I'm gonna I'm gonna hold you accountable. Christopher, make sure we do the poll. Okay So here's where we're at, and here was a reminder of the major divisions, the five major divisions of 1 Corinthians. And again, we're in those first four chapters really addressing this idea of division Um and you remember, right, that division, that schism that was happening within the church. Why? Can you guys remember what what was the big issue of the division that Paul was addressing Idleness, why? Why did why did he call it idleness? He didn't actually use that term, but what we did we did and it's correct. Why? What were they idle worshipping I am of I am of right you remember the the the format the you gotta go back to that video we watched on on my little computer here of the culture Right, we gotta understand the culture in Corinth was so driven by being a good orator, by being able to have good rhetoric, being able to debate Right, to get that worldly secular knowledge. Knowledge was so important to them. That's the culture they came from when they became believers Now, is it is it not surprising that they revert back to that? Of course not, right? We we all go through that. And that's why I say this whole part two, part one and part two and part three, we really need to keep in mind our own culture. And what are some of the presuppositions we bring because we live in the West, we live specifically in America. We have them guys, trust me. We have them and we need to challenge those. Right? We need to understand those so we can deal with them. So you might think, well, well boy, we don't run around saying I'm of Pastor Gabe, I'm of John MacArthur, I'm of although sometimes that happens, right I wouldn't say that characterizes our church, but there are other ways that divisions can happen, right? It just the little seeds can work themselves in. I was listening to a podcast, Crean and I teach the um the second parenting class, I'll call it, so toddlers to teens. Um and this idea of gentle parenting, right? There's different parenting uh philosophies out there that I would say are not biblical and it just so easily creeps in to our culture and even our our Christian faith. And those are things we have to watch out for. Okay? Alright, let's see If we can make this happen. Paul's first letter to the Corinthians written to a church community that Paul knew really well. Corinth was a major port city in the ancient world and had lots of temples to Greek and Roman gods. It was a big economic center. So Paul strategically came here as a missionary. He spent a year and a half there getting to know people, talking to them about Jesus, and a whole bunch of people became followers of Jesus and formed a church community. You can read about all of this in Acts chapter 18. So after a while Paul moved on to start churches in other cities, and he started getting reports that things were not going well at all back at the church in Corinth. It was plagued by all kinds of problems, and that's why he wrote this letter. It's broken up into five main parts along with a final reading. And these five sections correspond to five main problems that Paul is addressing. And so the letter reads like a collection of short essays on different topics But there are these core ideas that unite all of the pieces together. So here's what he does in each section. He describes the problem, but then he always responds to that problem with some part of the story of the gospel. Which is the good news about Jesus. And he shows how they're actually not living out what they say they believe. And so this letter is all about learning to think about every area of life through the lens of the gospel. So let's dive in and see how he does that. In chapters one through four, the problem is that there are these divisions in the church. There's some other teachers who had come through towns since Paul left, a guy named Apollos and then Peter. And people had picked their favorite teachers. And then became groupies around that leader, and then started to talk bad and disrespect people who favored another leader. And so Paul, his response to this is kind of sarcastic and sharp. He says, You have to be kidding The church is not a popularity concept. The church is a community of people who are centered around Jesus. Its leaders and its teachers are simply servants of Jesus. So while you might prefer one leader more than another, it's not worth dividing over and certainly not speaking poorly about each other. The center of the church is Jesus and the good news about who he is and what he's done. In chapters 5 through 7, Paul addresses some problems related to sex. There were a number of people sleeping around in the church, one guy with his stepmother, a number of other people still worshiping at the local temples of Greek gods, and sleeping with the prostitutes who were Not only that, but there were people in the church who were saying that this was all just fine. They said, hey, we're free of Christ, that's great, they spot on this right. Paul says it's not fine. And with the gospel in hand, he shows just how wrong headed this kind of thinking is. He says, remember first of all, Jesus died for your sins including the ruin of broken relationships caused by sexual misconduct. And so if you're a Christian, sexual integrity is one of the ways that we Paul also reminds them that just as Jesus was physically raised from the dead, so our bodies will be raised from Which means this. If your body is being redeemed by Jesus now and in the future, then what you do with your body matters. It matters a lot. And it's not yours to do whatever you want with. Paul being super clear, being a follower of Jesus involves no compromise when it comes to sexual integrity. In chapters 8 through 10, the issue is about food, but not just food preferences, like do you like or dislike a certain food. The issue the Corinthians were divided over is meat. that came from animals sacrificed in the local temples to the Greek and Roman gods. And there was a split between the Jewish and non-Jewish Christians about how to respond to this issue. And once again, Paul appeals to some core ideas from the gospel. He says, our allegiance, first and foremost, is to Jesus as Lord, not to any other God. And so if you're in a situation where there's meat that's been dedicated to another god, and there are people around who might watch you and come Oh look, hey, Christians worship Jesus and they can worship other gods too. Paul says the best scenario, don't eat the meat. Your loyalty is to Jesus and You should love those people more than yourself and not mislead them. But Paul quickly qualifies this and says, as Christians, we believe God is the creator of all things, including that man And the temple idols, we believe, are just pieces of wooden stone. So if there's no one around who's going to misunderstand your actions and you're hungry, yeah. You're free as a new human in Christ to follow your conscience in these kinds of things. So what makes it okay in one situation to eat, but not in the other? The core principle is love. Love will deny itself and look out for the well-being of other people. People and love, God's love, is at the core of the gospel. It's what Jesus did when he died for us, so Paul says it's what Christians should do for us other people. In chapters eleven through fourteen, Paul moves on and addresses problems in their weekly worship gathering. There were some people who were having really powerful spiritual experiences in the gathering, and so they would start praying out loud in unknown languages. There were other people who might start sharing a teaching or a word from God, and then someone would get up and interrupt them because they wanted to share. And it all was really chaotic and it was distracting people, especially visitors So in these chapters, Paul helps them think first of all about the purpose of this gathering, to help them see what kind of behavior is are appropriate. He says the gathering is a place where God's spirit should be working through everybody, and it should happen in a unified way. So he develops this cool metaphor about the church as a human body. It's one, but it has all these different parts. And each part serves a unique and important role. So he goes on to name a whole bunch of things. That the Spirit does through all these different people, all for the building up of the church. That's the key phrase in these chapters. And Paul concludes that the highest value in the gathering should be a concept central to the gospel. God's love. Love is a key word in these chapters too. Love will compel each person in the gathering to use their role to serve and seek the love So Paul applies all this to the Corinthians problems. Some people think the purpose of the gathering is to have intense spiritual experiences or to get a chance to speak their mind. Paul says, listen, I'm a big fan of powerful experiences of prayer, but if it distracts other people or freaks them out, I should stop it. Because I'm loving myself more than I'm loving those people The gathering around Jesus should be orderly so everybody can learn and sing and worship and hear God speaking to them. The last problem Paul addresses is the issue of Jesus' resurrection and the future hope of Jesus' followers. There were some people in the church Who are saying that the idea of resurrection is ridiculous and doesn't really matter to being a Christian. And Paul reacts to this big He begins by saying that the resurrection is an indispensable part of the gospel. We believe in it because of the hundreds of eyewitnesses that saw Jesus alive in a physical body after being being publicly executed by the Romans. If Jesus didn't rise from the dead, Paul says, then his death was meaningless. We are all still lost in our sin and selfishness. We should just stop being Christians Paul then shows in detail how the resurrection was Jesus' victory over death and evil, how it's a source of life and power for us now in the present, and how it's a promise of future hope for the whole world. It's because of the resurrection that we have a reason to be unified around Jesus. It's the reason we have motivation for sexual integrity. It's the source of power for loving other people more than ourselves, and ultimately it's our hope for victory over death. And so, Paul concludes, we do believe Jesus was raised Which means this. The gospel is not just moral advice or a recipe for private spirituality. It's an announcement about Jesus that opens up a whole new reality And that's what First Corinthians is all about, seeing every part of life through the lens of that gospel. Okay. So I I did this. I forgot to do our homework, our verse. Why not? Boom, alright, let's hear it. Um this is what the Lord says Um let let not the man let not the wise man vote in his wisdom, let not the strong man boast in his strength, let not the Um excuse me. The um is that the the rich hand boasts and his riches. Um rich and his riches. The less hand both boasts and this that he understands and knows me that I am the Lord, that um um that I am I'm doing NIV. Um oh and and exercises, kindness, justice, and Righteousness from on earth. In these I delight. Anyone else want to give it a try? Okay. Sing it. Don't let The wise boast in their wisdom or powerful power. Let the rich boast in their riches love. He who wants to boast. Let him boast in this alone That he truly knows me and understands I am a boy who loves straight for failing love bringing life That's awesome. I love that. The movie That's great. Now let me let's do this. Um as you guys know, I'm I'm always very intentional about why I have you do certain things. But so let's go through this real quick. But let him who boast boast in this This is what he's gonna boast in. That he understands and knows me. Let that sink in. We're gonna talk about it today. Today's lesson is super super exciting. And based on that video, we have so much to go through just in the first book of Corinthians. So first and second Corinthians has got a lot of stuff in it That he boasts in this, that he understands and knows me. So we'll talk about that a little bit later. Think about that for a second. We can understand the Lord What an incredible privilege. And what does that truly mean? Are we omniscient like the Lord? Of course not. All right. So let's make sure we understand what that means. Um that I am the Lord who exercises and I and I love this spectrum here. So loving kindness, God is a loving God. He is also just though Right? And and kind of bringing those two together is through righteousness. He he is always right. What he does is right. Uh for I delight in these things declares the Lord. So that's why, you know, this whole idea of we'll talk about it today. We have the mind of Christ Right, and to boast in the fact that we can know the Lord, the the mind, his spirit, right, the indwelling that we have is an incredible gift. an incredible power that we must administer in the context of what we're talking about here, right? So great, great job. Everyone else keep working on it and we'll take turns next week. Um, I love the video that we had there. Uh he said it early on and he kind of brought it at the very end. Paul is always drawing them back to what? The gospel. the simplicity of the gospel message. And you guys are gonna get sick of me talking about this chart, but I I want to keep pounding it home because it is so important. We often think of the gospel in the sense of evangelism, someone being saved, and that's absolutely true. But it is absolutely critical for day-to-day life as a Christian, right? Because of the components, right? To know God. We're constantly trying to Cultivate a high view of God. That's what the worksheet that you have in front of you. That's what that's intended to do. His attributes. And then to not forget who we were when we were in bondage to sin. Right? Not to forget these beautiful little children we have are born with a sinful nature. They're not born good and we need to train the goodness in them, right? We need to lead them to Christ. Always It's a daily gospel message to our children. But then the wonderful, and we focus right on the work of Jesus Christ. So when we do baptisms, I love to to make you know proclaim that phrase the work of Christ, to include his life. Right? His life is is critically important because he had to be that perfect substitute. Right, and then his death, burial, and resurrection like we just read. But that is the only means that allows us to now be new creatures. And what gets me super excited, especially about the lesson today, because we're going to talk about the Holy Spirit Um and and this doctrine of the Holy Spirit, what does that mean for us? Right? How does that shape how we live day to day? That is super, super exciting. Alright, so I'm gonna leave that up there for a little bit as we go through our lesson today. Alright, so if you're not there already go to First Corinthians chapter two. Um I'll have to look it up. And I Joni I forgot I was supposed to get you the other one. So I'll I'll make a note. I will make a note to uh to send out both of those so I apologize. Yeah. Um the cartoon video, he's got a bunch of those, right? And and so they're they're concise but really get to the to the point in a fun way. So I will send that out. So in chapter 1, you remember, Paul again reminds them of that last bullet or bubble here, who they are in Christ. So what did he say? He says, you are sanctified, you are set apart. It says you are not lacking any gift. Right? He's trying to encourage them that you've been given everything you need to live a holy life. And he ends with what? God is faithful Right? He is going to bring to fruition everything that he promised. Those are very encouraging truths. So Paul is always trying to bring it back to the message and the importance of the gospel, which is why you'll keep seeing this chart again and again and again. It's so critically important. Alright, let's jump into chapter two, and we'll start with that context. Again, we're in chapters one through four is really, you know, he's highlighting, he's going to highlight this issue of division. And you remember at the very end what we want to do is uh keep a running track of all the the issues and the topics that he's going to talk about. I'm not going to add anything today because he doesn't bring up an issue. This is really about encouraging them, reinforcing them in the idea that they they have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. What does that mean, right? So that's going to be the focus of chapter two. Alright, verse one. And when I came to you, brethren, I did not come with superiority of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God. So again Verse 2, for I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Alright, he speaks it very plainly. I came for one reason To preach Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Because you remember, um part of the issue was His crucifixion and also His resurrection, and we'll get to that in chapter 15. So again he lays out it very simply. I am here to preach the truth. Now, how did he proclaim this truth? Do you remember what was the culture in in Corinth? What was the big deal? Yeah, orators, being able to to have this eloquent speech, to speak very lawfully, to be experts at rhetoric and debate. So that's what Paul's up against. And what did he say? He says, I did not come with superiority of speech or wisdom. I didn't come with pervasive words, persuasive words, and wisdom. Verse 3, it even says that he came with weakness and in fear and much trembling. So he was going up against this culture that put such a predominance on the ability to speak. uh to win people over with your speech and and he's saying I I didn't come that way. Right? That's that's not the method that I use. So a direct contrast to the cultural focus of their day. Remember we talked about the sophists? Remember who the sophists were? These were people that would travel around and actually get money to teach people how to to be good orators. Yes, Glenn. Yeah, Glenn, that's a great point. Again, that's why it's so important from a hermeneutical standpoint is to understand the context, right? What was what was driving their thinking So so again we know here it's you know how you present yourself is really, really, really important. And Paul's saying, hey, I I didn't come with whizbang, you know, uh abilities. I'm a I'm a pretty simple guy. Alright, so that's what he's up against. And even to the to the intent, you know, I love how Paul's pretty real. I I came with fear and much trembling. He knew what he was up against in that culture. And yet, Paul did preach a wisdom, didn't he? The wisdom of God. And that's what he's going to compare and contrast here. And this idea, I guess the big takeaway, you know, that wisdom that he's going to preach can only be understood by the believer, those who are mature, it says. So let's let's read a little bit here in chapter or verse three. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling, and my message and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom. but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith should not rest on the wisdom of men, but on the power of God So in his weakness, what is he demonstrating? The power of God. We see that throughout his epistles. That your faith should not rest on the wisdom of men, but on the power of God. Verse 6 Yet we do speak wisdom among those who are mature. So again, that that word mature is is in reference to believers, those who are new creatures. those whose hearts have been regenerated, that can now understand. Continuing to verse 6. A wisdom, however, not of this age, nor of the rulers of this age who are passing away. But we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages to our glory. The wisdom which none of the rulers of this age has understood, for if they had understood it, they would have crucified the Lord of glory. But just as it is written, things which eye has not seen, and ear has not heard, and which have not entered the heart of man, all that God has prepared for those who love him. Right, in my Bible that verse nine the majority is bolded, which means what? It's referencing an Old Testament scripture. Alright, you guys if you have a study Bible or study notes, you should have a reference in there. What um what Old Testament scripture is Paul referring back to? Isaiah. Isaiah. Right? We mentioned I think last week that Paul I think it's Paul that references Isaiah the most in his epistles. So let's go back there. Let's go back to Isaiah. Isaiah 64. And as we mentioned, um I think I mentioned it last week, you'll see when when some of these New Testament writers refer back to the Old Testament, it's not always a word for word. Sometimes it's a paraphrase. And what we have to make sure is we understand what is the purpose of the New Testament writer bringing in that Old Testament scripture. Right? Is it to add understanding to the meaning of the Old Testament scripture, or is the New Testament author using that to demonstrate the significance or an application? Right? That that's what we have to determine. Alright, 64. Let me start um let me start in verse one. So I'm in Isaiah 64, verse 1. O that thou wouldst rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might quake at thy presence, as fire kindles the brushwood, as fire causes water to boil, to make thy name known to thine adversaries. That the nations may tremble at thy presence. When thou didst awesome things which we did not expect, thou dost come down, the mountains quake at thy presence. So there's a demonstration of God's power that you see in the first Uh three verses there. But verse four. For from of old they have not heard nor perceived by ear, neither has the eye seen. So one of the commentaries These words from Isaiah 64, 4 often incorrectly thought to refer to the wonders of heaven. Kind of that you see in verses 1 through 3 However, they refer rather to the wisdom God has prepared for believers. God's truth is not discoverable by eye or ear, objective empirical evidence, nor is it discovered by the mind, subjective rational conclusions. Right? It is only discovered by our hearts being regenerated. That's the emphasis that Paul is trying to make here. You can't you can't listen to somebody, you can't get a sign. Um And and there's nothing wrong when we see science start to collaborate some of the evidence that we see in the Bible, right? That's fun, that's exciting, um, but but that is not the way to salvation. We cannot understand special revelation, there's only one way. That's through God's Spirit. Alright? That's what's being emphasized here in this passage. Does that make sense? Alright, good. So again, this is Paul bringing back those words of Isaiah, and this all goes into that theme of of knowing the mind of Christ, knowing the mind of God. God it has the ultimate wisdom. Right? Um what does he say to Job? I think it's uh chapter thirty-five when he finally speaks. You know, w were you there when I created the heavens? Were you there when I created everything? Were you there to give me counsel? No, absolutely not. God is that ultimate source of wisdom and power, and it can only be understood by being transformed. Okay. Verse 10. For to us God revealed them. So this this is the answer, for to us God revealed them, talking about these things, the wisdom of God. Through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. So we're going to see that that God reveals his wisdom to believers. And just stop and think about that miracle. Right? You go you go back to this chart here. You didn't have that ability before you became a believer. You could not understand. General revelation, yes, we could understand there's a God. He gave us a conscience to know. What does it say about the Spirit? I think it's John 16. Right? He convicts the world of sin, and that's a reference to unbelievers. Right? We we we feel we understood the guilt that we have, the separation of a holy God. And what do we typically do? We suppress that, right? We hear that in Romans. But that's who we are. That's all that we can understand. And general revelation, as you know, doesn't give us the specifics of salvation. We don't know how to reconcile with the Holy God outside of special revelation. But to understand special revelation, our eyes must be open. We must become believers. So he does this basically in three ways, and we'll see this in the next few chapters He does this through revelation, through inspiration, and illumination. All right, so let's talk about, we'll see Revelation in verses 10 through 11. For to us God revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. For who among men knows the thoughts of a man except the Spirit of the man which is in him? Even so, the thoughts of God no one knows except the Spirit of God. We must have the Spirit of God And when we do, we just heard it in Jeremiah, we can understand him to a degree. That's precious. So that's revelation. Inspiration, verses 12 through 13. This is the inspired word of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God that we might know the things freely given to us by God. Which things we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit. And I love the end of this verse. Combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words So in in this case, it is possible that the we that he's talking about is actually the apostles, the writers of Scripture. And I love this last part. When we think about the inspired word of God And the uniqueness of God using um you know human beings to to bring this forward, you know, what does it mean to be inspired? I I like this thought, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. Right? Isn't that the inspired word of God brought to Word, brought to the Bible? Spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. And it's a bit of a paradox. You know, how how can you say, you know, who wrote 1 Corinthians? Well, Paul wrote it. Well, the Holy Spirit wrote it, right? It's those two working together and the uniqueness of you know, the various author um authors of the Bible and the uniqueness that they bring, um, in different styles of writing and poetry and song and narrative and it's just it's a wonderful, wonderful blessing. But make no doubt it is all inspired, but you kind of get this visual of what that might look like. Spiritual thoughts from the Holy Spirit transfer to spiritual words that we see in the closed can. Alright? So I thought that was precious. All right, and then we have the illumination, verses fourteen through sixteen. And this is what we were talking about. But a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. Him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. But he who is spiritual appraises all things, yet he himself is appraised by no man. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he should instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. So let's just pause there for a second. Again, what are some of the key attributes that you you see here? What how does it start in verse 14? What's the contrast there? The contrast is the world does not have the spirits, but it has to serve God. Yeah, the natural man. That's the the man, the woman born in our sinful nature cannot understand How does that impact um someone that you're having a discussion or debate with? Unending compassion. No, seriously. They genuinely do not know and it's not I see people get annoyed at these people, but if we were all in that place, we were all the lefturin at one time, we were all the person that we had no idea. So when we speak to them it is to understand that they don't actually have the deeper, they don't have the Holy Spirit to guide them But all of that with a good understanding that they're not going to comprehend it fully without the Holy Spirit's guidance. Yep, no. And that that is so important, Seth. Some are I'll call it gifted in um or have a a a strong inclination for debate or confrontation. Not a bad thing. I I think that can be a gifting of the Lord if used in the correct way But the debate becomes the objective versus sharing the gospel and what's happening with this person's soul. You know, you've got to go back, and this often happens in the counseling room We have to start with what is the spiritual condition of that person's heart? So usually our first meeting, that is, hey, share your testimony with me. I want to hear that. Share the gospel with me. And and you can pick up in that dialogue where they're at. Now sometimes they don't articulate that very well and you have to keep keep pulling at that Um some sometimes you may they may say the right words, but you start to get inclinations later on because what happens is once you make that determination, that that counseling session might turn into more of an evangelistic meeting Yes, you can continue to share principles to help them, kind of common grace type of principles, but you're constantly bringing them back to this in everything you do. Because that's the love, that's the compassion. They don't know Christ How can they be expected to carry out these commands if they don't have the Spirit of God? Right? So having that compassion, that love is so, so critically important. Good. Yeah. Dana, that is such a great testimony. I I wanted to bring it up and I forgot, but bringing in the family is probably the the most realistic example you guys will have of this struggle and I and I love the contrast between those two, right? We we talked about Paul how in Thessalonians. How did he address believers? Sometimes he was exhorting, sometimes he was encouraging, sometimes he was admonishing um in the counseling room, once I know that they're believers, alright, that can change the tactics. Because if you say uh you're a believer, this is what we're going to And there are times when when we have to admonish, and it hurts. But I love that example. Right in your own family, there's one who claims to be a believer, so okay, this is the standard, and sometimes that means admonishing Does that hurt sometimes? Absolutely. But but are you trusted in the Lord to work that reconciliation in the beauty of that reconciliation afterwards? And yet you have someone o over here where You don't give up. You keep sharing the gospel. And that might be words, that might be actions. Right? And all that comes together and works together through the Holy Spirit. That's a great example. Love that. Thank you for sharing. Any other thoughts on this? Yeah. Sure. No, you just you know, and and this is something that we have to remind ourselves as um counselors. And and let me say it again, I I like to trick the class, you know, who's a counselor and everyone thinks uh certified counsel, we're all counselors, right? So when I say counseling, these are principles we all bring to bear. Um At the end of the day, you know, you can get discouraged when you see a counseling not not progressing. And at the end of the day, we have to remind ourselves: have we been faithful in ministering the Word of God? Have we been faithful in sharing the gospel? If the answer is yes, right, we keep praising God and keep moving forward. And we let the whole we remind ourselves it's the Holy Spirit at work here. Okay? And it requires great wisdom and discernment, right? You go to the mall and you hand out tracts. You might get folks that just they want to debate. And you'll recognize those people really quickly. What do you do? You show them love. You show 'em compassion. But there may be a time it's like, all right, here's the track, have a great day. We gotta move on, right? It takes wisdom and discernment. So Alright, good. Alright, so let's let's talk a little bit about this verse 16. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he should instruct him? Again, old in my book. Any guess what Old Testament scripture he's referencing? Isaiah. So let's go there. Isaiah 40. Let's go to Isaiah 40. I want to highlight a couple things here that that should jump out at you before we get to the passage that we're talking about, and not to be exhausted, but go to Isaiah 43 A voice is calling, clear the way for the Lord in the wilderness. Make smooth in the desert a highway for our God. Who is that referring to? John the Baptist, right? So it so again you see these references back to prophecy that I think are are just so precious. Um go over to the end of um Isaiah 40, a very familiar passage. It says, yet those who wait for the Lord will gain new strength, they will mount up with wings like eagles, they will run and not get tired, and they will walk and not become weary. uh to wait patiently for the Lord, right, to mount up on on his strength. But let's go to our passage directly, Isaiah 40 verse 13. Who has directed the Spirit of the Lord? Or as his counselor has informed him? With in verse 14, with whom did he consult and who gave him understanding And two ha who taught him in the path of justice and taught him knowledge and informed him of the way of understanding? Obviously a rhetorical question, right? Nobody Right? It all originates. Um that's who God is from from um e eternity past. Right? He just he was And that's the the foundation. So to say we have the mind of Christ, you know, put that in the context of of the overpowering gravity of God's wisdom. That's the mind that we have now. And it can only be understood through the spirit. So again, I want to emphasize this is not trying to say we are now omniscient. No, there's nowhere that we get that indication. But I think I think the other side of this is true. What often happens with us is what? We think too little of ourselves here Right? We get caught up in the world, we get caught up in the angst, we get caught up in world philosophies. That's what Paul is addressing here. We forget of the power that we have in the Spirit. And so I I want to spend some time talking about this this concept of um pneumatology. All right, that's the the doctrine of what The Holy Spirit, Numa. That's what that means, a spirit. And so I want to do it in this context. On the left hand side, uh, you guys have heard of the order salutis. What is that Order of salvation. Order of salvation. And I'll be very honest, some people don't like this because it can turn into a a timing debate. Whether this happened before this and this, don't get caught up in that Why I like this framework, I want you to just think about it logically, and what it does is really points to the work of the Trinity in our path of salvation. Okay? We're gonna focus on on what's here in the brackets, if you will, but but let uh let me get my pointer What I want to show you, and um this is why I love Ephesians 1, because what does it say? God the Father predestined you know, God or Jesus through his work or yeah, his life, death, burial, and resurrection, you know, allowed us to be saved. And then the Holy Spirit seals us for the day of glorification. So you're going to see a lot of this doctrine of the Holy Spirit in our sanctification. Alright, so obviously to be regenerated, that's the work of the Holy Spirit. Alright, up here. So in order to even um uh be be uh respond to the call of of God Our hearts need to be regenerated. All right? We know that. And we respond in faith and repentance, but that is a gift from God. Even that is a gift from God And then we are justified. I love that word. That's that legal term that says we are now declared righteous. Why? Because of the double imputation. Right, Christ's righteousness imputed to us, our sin for past, present, future imputed to him And that allows us to now be adopted into God's kingdom. Now we go through where we're all at today through that sanctification Those who are called will persevere to the end, and then that final state of glorification. Alright, so that's the order, and you can see the work of of the Trinity and all that. But I really want to focus on this idea of the Holy Spirit in this area of you know after that point of justification when we are adopted and then sanctification. And here's a lot of terms that you'll see. Alright, baptism of the Holy Spirit. The indwelling of the Holy Spirit, the sealing of the Holy Spirit, being filled by the Spirit, quenching the Spirit, and the Helper. These are really, really important concepts to understand. When we were in uh Columbia this year over the summer, um a lot of those those uh um people that were in the church came from either a Catholic or a charismatic upbringing. That's what's really big in Colombia Alright? And so um this idea of the Holy Spirit gets pretty distorted in the charismatic movement. Right? It's all about the experience. And so we really want to make sure we understand these terms and can apply them to our situation. So I am taking a conglomeration of several notes from what we teach to what we did in Columbia, so bear with me as I go through some of this. But I really want to just make sure we have a good understanding of these terms as we go forward. Right, does that make sense? Does that context make sense? Alright. This is so so important. I get super excited about this. We talked about this in Acts, didn't we? Acts is this uh historical document That gives us a lot of clarity at what? The beginning of the church, the church age. All right. That's where we also get the summary of Paul's missions. Mission His missionary journeys. So we get a good overview of what that looks like. But another piece of Acts that we often overlook is um a different manifestation of the Holy Spirit Right, in the believer and in the church. And so that's why we really want to understand this idea of the doctrine of the Holy Spirit. Alright, I'm just going to cover some highlights. Please pause me if you have any any questions, but we'll run through this. You know, I want to start, and you guys know this, right? You know, the Holy Spirit as part of the Trinity. So the Holy Spirit possesses all the attributes of personality and deity. He is the third person of the Trinity Meaning what? He is co equal, co substantial, um in in his essence, if you will, and co-eternal. So he was there from the beginning When we talk about wisdom and the creation, you know, the spirit was there. We see in Genesis, right, this the spirit was over the waters. So he is definitely part of the Trinity, right? We have to start there. It is the work of the Holy Spirit to execute the divine will with relation to mankind. So you often see the Holy Spirit does not put an emphasis on himself. Who does he often point the glory to? Jesus Christ specifically, right? That that is his you know you think about uh the Trinity which is equal and yet they each have distinct roles and responsibilities. Just like uh a man and woman in a marriage relationship Very distinct roles designed by God. And the Holy Spirit does all of these things starting with the regeneration of our heart, but it's always pointing back to Jesus Christ, back to the gospel. Alright, so we establish again the Holy Spirit is one of the three persons of the Trinity. So equal in essence. We also know, let me see here Ah, being a person and not an impersonal power, he has intellect, emotions, and will. Where do you see the emotions of the Holy Spirit? Yeah, he's grieved. We can quench him, and we'll talk about that in a second. So yeah, he's a he's a personal um uh uh being. He's a personal God. Okay, let's talk a little bit about some of these terms. Anyone want to take a guess at what does it mean the the the baptism of the Holy Spirit? Okay, he comes to live with us is what uh Elizabeth said. Glenn? Covers us. Covers us, okay. Okay. Let me share the notes. A unique work of the Holy Spirit in this age began at Pentecost. So again, we go back to Acts in the beginning of the church when he came from the Father as promised by Christ. to initiate and complete the building of the body of Christ. The baptism of the Holy Spirit is simply to place the believer into the body of the church So you can think of that as a covering, but think of it as it as a positional act. When we talk about the baptism of the Holy Spirit, it simply means We have now been justified. We are now adopted. That idea of being adopted does what? Brings you into the family. That's what the baptism of the Holy Spirit does. It brings you into the church family, the body, the body of Christ. Okay? Are we commanded to be baptized in the Holy Spirit? Because who does that? Who brings us into the body? It's the work of God. It's the work of the Holy Spirit. You're gonna see we're only commanded to do one of these things on the list here, so I'll give you the answer. Alright? When we get there. We are not commanded to be baptized into the Holy Spirit. That is the work of the Holy Spirit. Roseman. Yeah. It's the same same idea, right? We we are now you know, sharing all those things with Christ because we have brought been brought into his family. Yeah, that's exactly it. Um The baptism of the Holy Spirit is not a second work of the grace given only to some believers who seek it. So it was not an extra thing that had to be done once you were a believer. Right? It is given to all the moment they receive Christ as Lord and Savior. Let me read this commentary. 1 Corinthians 12, 13, and so we'll get there eventually, records the normative doctrine of spirit baptism. stating that it results in a new position in the body of Christ for all Christians at the moment of faith in Christ. The church, the spiritual body of Christ, is formed as believers are immersed by Christ in the Spirit and united with all Christians beginning with Pentecost. Holy Spirit baptism is not an experience to seek, but rather a salvation reality for which to thank God. Right, we go back to what is the will of God that we are thankful. This is one of those. Thank you, Lord, that I am baptized by the Holy Spirit, meaning I have been brought into the church body. Right? Again, we, Crean and I Team I came from the Catholic Church. Um quick story, my mom became a believer and then and then moved into a charismatic church. And that that's pretty typical that I've known a lot of Catholics that do that. So that was our first experience Uh first military assignment. We went to Oklahoma and the first church we went to was a charismatic church. And so this experience was really important. To be you know, to be baptized every Sunday was was the experience, but that's not what this means. Right, it means simply to be positioned into the church's body. Alright, how about indwelling of the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit indwells every believer permanently from the moment of salvation. John 7, 38-39. He who believes in me, as the scripture said, from his innermost being will flow rivers of living water. But this he spoke of the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive The Spirit was not yet given because Jesus was not yet glorified. So you see this contrast between how the Spirit moved in the Old Testament. You certainly see at times the the presence of the Spirit on certain men. Think of King Saul, right, for a time. If you we don't have time to exhaustively look at that, but it often had to do with leaders of Israel that the Lord was trying to do something specifically. And even David, after sinning with Bathsheba, was concerned, Lord, don't take your spirit away from me. Alright, so you didn't see a lot of evidence of this permanent indwelling like you do now. That's the change that we see in Acts Right? And as believers, we now have this permanent indwelling. So, so so important to remember. You never lose the spirit. Yeah, so let's talk about this idea of being filled by the spirit. I'm sorry? We are. We're gonna come back to ceiling. So I I wanna talk when we talk about the permanent indwelling. So if we're permanently indwelled by the spirit Um, what does that now mean to be filled by the Spirit? So all right, let's do this. I'm gonna read it to you. If you want, you can go to Ephesians 5 fifteen through twenty-one and I I'll read it. Therefore be careful how you walk, not as unwise men, but as wise, making the most of your time, because the days are evil. So then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. What do you think that means then to be filled with by the Spirit. I just told you that as a believer you have a permanent indwelling of the Spirit. Diane. That's it. To be controlled or to yield to the the prompting of the Holy Spirit Alright? This is really, really important. This is not you you cannot um lose the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, and now you need to fill it back up. By praying, by doing good works, that's not what this is saying. Just the contrast there is with what? Getting drunk. What happens when you when you drink alcohol in excess? What controls you? The alcohol. Right? You're doing things you shouldn't be doing But in this say um sense, and it's command. This is the one time that we have a command in reference to the Holy Spirit. Be filled by the by the Spirit. That is a command from Paul, from the Lord And think about it. Every day we're we're uh we have um decisions we have to make And and you're prompted by the Spirit, you're like, Oh I know I should do that and then you don't. Paul talks about that struggle in Romans seven, doesn't he? Right? The things I don't want to do I do, the things I do I shouldn't do Right? It's a struggle. But we make a choice every day and in in this case it's saying be filled, yield to control to the prompting of the spirit. Glenn, did you have a comment or question? Yeah. Come in. Morgan, yeah. And and here's the tie I would make, Morgan. You're making a really good point here. We go back to um having the mind of Christ. How how do we have the mind of Christ Being in the Word. You know, we we talked about in Thessalonians, right? Um for example, can we know what the will of God is? And and the will in that definition is his purpose, his desire for us. We covered two of them in Thessalonians. Right? His will is that we are sanctified. His will is that we are thankful people. Right? So now we know his purpose now And and now it's do we carry that out? That's the command of yielding to the Spirit because we have the power to do that. Thank you. Right? We have the power now to do his will Um so that's the connection, absolutely. The word, yielding, filling, are all interconnected. Love that time. Diane's keeping me honest here with time. Alright, so let's talk quickly about quenching. Though the Spirit is grieved and quenched by sin, yet he never leaves the believer. We were in Ephesians 5 there, we talked about being filled. Ephesians 4. 30. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. We covered it in 1 Thessalonians 5. 19. Do not quench the Spirit. So remember we talked about the Spirit is an emotional being, right? We can quench, we can grieve the Spirit. By how? By not following this command. That's what happens when we quench or greed the spirit. We're not following through with this command. Is God a patient God and a forgiving God? Yes, right? So we we seek forgiveness of when we sin and that can be an omission or a commission. Um and and we repent of that and we get back up on the saddle and we go after it. Right? That's the process of sanctification. But it's it's really important that we understand that we don't lose that indwelling of the Spirit. It is permanently there. And we can know the mind of Christ by that's why it's so important to be in the Word. What's Psalm 1? Blessed is the man, right, who does not seek the counsel of the world but delights in the law of the Lord. Um what was Psalm, was it Psalm 37 that we covered? Delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart. Right? What's that meaning is your His His desires are being put into your heart. So they're all absolutely connected. Alright. Good golly, this is such good stuff. Alright, let me cover real quickly and then we'll get to our poll I wanted to cover real quickly this idea of the helper, right? We've talked about there that before. Para kletos. Kletos meaning calling for a specific purpose. Para coming alongside So again, Jesus says to his disciples, you know, the Last Supper, I'm going away, but I'm going to send somebody, the helper. And this is really, really important when you think of what the helper does. He's an advocate, he's a comforter, he's a counselor, he's an intercessor, he's an encourager, he's a helper. Think of the very best friend you could have in this life to walk alongside you, to pray for you. To encourage you, to admonish you with God's will, and being perfect and right every time. That's who you have in the Holy Spirit. That's what the indwelling of the Holy Spirit gives you. Okay? I wanted to read this commentary. The Father and the Son call the Spirit to the side of the disciples in order to comfort, admonish, teach, and guide them. In other words, in order that in any given condition, the paraclete may finish whatever help is necessary. That's the friend that you have in the Holy Spirit. Whatever is necessary in your time, in your season, that's what the indwelling, that's what the power of the Holy Spirit. So for us to say we have the mind of Christ Man, don't skip by that verse. Underline it, understand it, meditate on it. You know, back to Jeremiah 9 while we're memorizing that verse. That's what we get to boast in, that we can understand our precious God. That's beautiful, is it not? That's exciting. Okay. Alright, quick poll, and then I'll let you guys go. No, go ahead. The way that I try to simplify it and I I want your help with this, like I go to Jeremiah thirty one thirty one, where it just talks about that new heart with a new desire. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Exactly, the new covenant. Would that be kind of almost describing this whole process in of itself where we have now that we were terrible, we had a heart of stone flesh. Yeah. And then you just see that no one will have to teach them. Right. They will know it. And made it simple. Spot on Spot on. That that's the heart attitude that is described in the New Covenant is what we have as believers. Right now, today. Okay? Good. So let me close.