To be honest with you, chapter sixteen, Paul's going to kind of close up this letter. And so there are certainly some things we want to talk about. It may not take the the whole hour. It might, it might not But I'm hoping we have some time at the end, and I mention this because I want you to be thinking about it. As you look back over, you know, fifteen, sixteen chapters of First Corinthians I want you to be thinking what what stood out to you? Was there something that you now have clarity on that maybe you didn't before What insights do you have to Paul and how he writes and his love for the church? Just be thinking about some of that as we get to the end of this. Okay? Is that fair? Okay. As mentioned, we've gone through just um a number of topics, but we are at the very end. So he's gonna he's gonna close things up here in chapter 16, so we'll walk through some of those those topics that he brings up. Before we did that though, I wanted to go back to chapter 15 and just looking at the notes that Kerry presented, it looks like, you know, that was a long chapter Um with some pretty difficult topics and it looks like at least from the notes, I didn't listen to the audio yet, but from the notes he did a a pretty exhaustive job of covering you know, some of that material. I did want to go back to um this idea of the resurrection. You know, I I've shared this chart before and we can see there's the evidence there, right, of him uh Jesus revealing himself after the resurrection to To five hundred plus people, in addition to um the apostles, and then eventually Paul, which didn't happen until several years later. Right? That was the purpose of this chart. But so let's go back, open your Bibles to chapter 15 And I wanted to go back to um verses twelve through nineteen. And again, I'm sure Kerry covered this in in great detail, but uh it was very interesting. I was listening to a quick podcast by R. C. Sprohl. on this particular topic, um, this section of scripture. And R. C. Sprohl, uh for those who know him, I I mean he is steeply trained in logic and debate. I mean that's how he thinks, right? That's some of the the logic. So he gets really uh fired up when he sees Paul use these these um logic type of techniques. And and as you can imagine, Paul was probably as steeply trained as RC Spro was right as a as a Jew underneath um the rabbi you know Paul knew how to do this he he knew how to craft a conversation really well so let's pick up in verse twelve Now, you remember what Paul does with now, right? That's how he often introduces a topic that was being debated or an issue that came up. Now, if Christ is preached Which he has been, that he has been raised from the dead. In the earlier part of 15, there's evidence that he has been raised from the dead, right? How do some among you say there is no resurrection of the dead? So Paul's going to use this technique now of appealing to their logical debate. So if there is this universal principle that there is no resurrection of the dead, that's what he's going to pull on now. Right? If that's what you believe to be true, then then let's go ahead and pull your argument all the way through. If there is no resurrection of the dead, but if there is no resurrection of the dead, not even Christ has been raised Right? You can't have one and the other. You can't say that there is no resurrection of the dead, but then say, well Christ has been resurrected. Right? If we're going to pull this universal truth all the way through, then Christ has not been raised And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain. Your faith also is vain. Moreover, we are even found to be false witnesses of God, because we witness against God that He raised Christ. God said he would raise Christ to hold to this principle, you're saying Christ was never raised. So you're calling God a liar. Against God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if in fact the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless. You are still in your sins. Complete hopelessness now, right? We have no hope of the gospel. Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If we have hoped in Christ in this early in this life only, we are all men most to be pitied. Alright, so Paul is saying everything that I've risked my life for, all the persecution, the beatings, the shipwrecks, the snake bites, all of that is for not. Because if we hold to your logic None of that is true. Christ is not true. Right? Salvation is not true. Our our eternal state is death. Alright? So I love how he pulls this argument all the way through. And then later on, what does he say? You know, you fools. for believing such a lie. Right? And again, how Paul just wonderfully crafts sometimes he's admonishing, sometimes he's encouraging, sometimes he's imploring. I mean just Lots of application for us as we deal with with individuals and we deal with God's truth. But I just thought that was um pretty neat how he pulled that thread all the way through and uses you know, these different techniques to appeal to the Corinthians and to appeal to the different churches. Um let me pause there. I you know, remembering what Carrie thought. Any other thoughts on on that particular section or I'm assuming he covered that. Kirk. Yeah, I I was thinking that there there's always foundational theology that if you get that wrong, then the rest of your doctrine. It it could be the Trinity if you don't have a a pretty good grasp on three persons, one God. Yeah than the rest of your thought in and Christ being God himself. Yeah. Then then the wherever you go and you don't have that foundational doctrine. Yeah. No Kirk that's a really really good point and and often why we stress you've got to start with a good hermeneutic, right? The art and science of studying your Bibles I often tell people, you know, let's say I'm they're struggling with eschatology, I say, let's start with your hermeneutic. You know, what what do you how do you study your Bible? And then from there that's gonna guide as you work your way through all these, you know, scriptural truths. Now, it's a journey, isn't it? Right? You gotta be patient Um I know for myself the whole topic of eschatology, I mean it's been a long journey to get to you know where I stand right now However, as I read this for me, as I read scripture now, it just seems to jump out. It seems to be very clear. Um that's for me. Okay? And I I know there's differences there. But another reason why we spend so much time um in the members class going through our doctorate So that it is really clear on what we believe so that you can make an informed decision. Is this the church for you? Right, can you come underneath that type of uh that teaching, that type of doctrine? But really, really good point, and that's why we have to continue to be good stewards of God's Word. And that's why for homework, you know, I try to have you read the chapter ahead of time. I want you to be studying God's Word and bring questions, bring observations um to the class and see if we can't get clarity on on some of these topics. So good point. Alright, any other comments or questions on that? Carrie did cover that, right? Okay. Same thing or Everyone's like that was last week or something. Yeah, sorry to be much talking in the room, but the the other part is the term that I learned a few years back called personal eschatology. And it's it's what happens to you in the future is promised. Including the the redemption of your pro your body. Yeah. That it's sown in weakness. Yep. Good. All right, let's move on to chapter sixteen and I'm going to throw up this chart of Paul's third missionary journey. So it might be hard to see, but he is, let me get my pointer. So he is where writing letters to uh the Corinthians? Ephesus, right? So he is currently on his third missionary journey. He's currently in Ephesus And he this is where he's getting feedback, he's hearing things and he's now writing um a letter to uh the the church um in Corinth. And we'll use this as just kind of a reference for today. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. For sure. Now I think he was at Ephesus I want to say close to three years. Um so he was there for quite a while. But all right, let's start in verse sixteen. Or I'm sorry, chapter sixteen, verse one. Now, concerning the collection for the saints, as I directed the churches of Galatia, so do you also. On the first day of every week, let each one of you put aside and save as he may prosper. that no collections be made when I come, and when I arrive, whomever you may approve, I shall send them with letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem. What do you notice? Very first word. What does that tell you? Yes, thank you, Hong, right? We we now know this pattern with Paul. So as you study the epistles You know, this is one of the one of the things you want to put in your tool rucksack, if you will, that you know that Paul is now addressing um another topic. Now As we've talked about, many of these topics are intertwined, right? He's just not willy-nilly all over the place. Um but we don't always know the direct connection And this is one of those where it it just seems kind of um not necessarily connected to all the rest that he's saying, but it is clearly probably tied to a letter that um he would have received from the Corinthians asking about this collection. So we know that the topic is the Corinthians are seeking instruction on how to organize the offering for the saints in Jerusalem. That's what's going on here. And what's interesting is you don't see them pushing back. They're not like, well, why do we got to give to Jerusalem? That's not what's being said there. They're asking, how do we do it, most likely You know, you we know you've given instruction, we know there's a need. So to their credit, they're asking, how do we do this? Paul, w what do you want us to do? All right, so that's the instructions that are given here And he says, I'm giving you instruction on how to do it as I have the other churches in Galatia, right? So this is, you remember his first missionary journey was up in this region. And what is Paul's strategy? when he goes on his second, third missionary journey. Yeah, but what does he do? He travels back through those churches that he stood up. He's very strategic in, alright, I stood up these churches the very first time Second, third missionary journey, he doesn't just automatically go over here. He goes back through those churches. He's trying to encourage them, build them up. All right, that's the strategy And so he gave instruction to these churches as well in Galatia on how to collect funds for the church in Jerusalem. Um we don't know exactly what was happening in Jerusalem. Uh was there an urgent need? Was there a critical need? There must have been, right? But um we don't have a lot of insight. That's okay But Paul's clearly giving instruction to the churches in Galatia and he's trying to give them the same type of instruction to the Corinthians. The grammar in these first three verses clearly suggests the topic was in regard to financial contributions, so we know it is the collection of funds. And it was for a sacred purpose. Again, it was for the church in Jerusalem. As mentioned, we don't know the specific reason, but it seems that they were eager to help out. Again, they were not pushing back on this uh suggestion. And Paul is not ordering them here. Again, the the language is such that he's proposing, right? He's recommending this is this is what you should do. So all of this is very positive um compared to some of the other admonitions in Corinthians. As you see in verse 2, Paul provides important principles of giving applicable to the church today. Let me read that again. On the first day of every week, let each one of you put aside and save as he may prosper. that no collections be made when I come. So what do we see? First of all, it's regular. Regular. He's asking them to be regular, systematic in their giving, right? The first day of the week Who is it to? Is it to just the leaders of the church? What does it say? Each one of you, right? So this is this is proposed to the entire assembly. So it's universal. So he's saying be regular, let's be universal, and it's systematic. Put aside or save up. And it's proportional. What does it say? And save as he may prosper. So uh back in the day they didn't necessarily have a salary job like many of us have, right? We don't have this consistent income. It would have been trade, it would have been as they work Um they're they're um getting s um funds, if you will. So he's saying, as the Lord blesses you, you give in proportion to that. Okay And then freely. No collection was required when he when he came. So by doing this ahead of time, Paul wanted to um probably not get in a situation where he showed up and there's this urgent need and people felt compelled and maybe they're giving from their you know two cents if you will. He's saying if we're doing this along the way, right, it it's really up to you how much you give based on how the Lord has prospered you But be intentional about it, do it regularly. This is a um a proposal, a request for everybody um in the church. So a lot of neat principles here. I want to pause here and and ask you guys, what application does that do these principles maybe have for our church today? And let me start with this. What is HBC policy on giving or tithing. Policy, I want what is the written policy on giving or tithing? Have you guys read that yet? There's no demand. There's no policy? We don't have a policy on that. Trick question. Jad knew she was smiling at me. She's like, my dad would never let that happen. There there I joke, but there's no policy, right? What about even that word tithing? Did we just read tithing? We didn't Okay? There's that's probably a whole nother discussion about you know tithing that word. I think as you see in we see a lot of that in the Old Testament, we see amounts, you know, ten percent Some um suggest if you look at all the ten percent plus you're up to twenty percent. In the two New Testament, though, you really see a freedom of Give what's on your heart. Give in proportions how the Lord has blessed you. That's really between you and the Lord. And that's how that would be our policy here at HBC. All right, there's no written policy, there's no um you must. Um it really is and and our church is extremely generous. You know, I prayed this morning for those who are there You know, I am just so grateful. We have three staff pastors at this church, right? And we can afford that because of your generosity. Um I'm super excited this week. Um they're going to be going to the Shepherd's Conference. That's something that uh the Master's Seminary, John MacArthur's um church and the Master Seminary put on every year and it's just thousands of men come together, you know, men that are in the ministry to just be encouraged and being equipped and and um you know the network of who they know to meet up with friends is just gonna be a sweet time. All three of them are going together. Right? They're all staying in a a uh VRBO together. So pray for them. But I think it's gonna be I'm just so grateful. It's gonna be a just a sweet, sweet time of fellowship for all of them, so we're excited for them So uh again, thank you for your generosity. Um how about this? For some of you that have been here for a while, how did we used to collect giving What did that look like? I don't know. I tell me. Pass the plate, right? How many grew up in churches where you pass the plate? Right, lots. Should we pass the plate? We don't do that today. Why not? COVID. No, that's exactly right. When when COVID came, many, many churches stopped passing the plate. Now, post-COVID, we made a determination not to reinstate that. What are your thoughts on that? Should we pass the play? Should we not? Raymond. Yeah. So let let's pause there for a second. What are the methods that are available to specifically our church to to give? So you mentioned one, you can do it online. Right, there's a box. Right, there's boxes that are out front. What else? Who? Male. Mail, yeah. My car is out on the side, you can just so I I can't remember if I actually have seen this or if I've seen like, you know gifts and stories and stuff. But I I have been in churches that where people gave unintentionally, so I've seen the you know the lake come down and and the guy was getting out of his water and Sure. And it's whatever they have in their wallets. It hasn't been thought about, it hasn't been creative or anything like that. And then there's the guys to pull out this one hundred, you know to prize. Yeah. So I really like the ideas to make it intentional and in its secret You know some places have offering envelopes, so you can put it in an envelope, you can stick it in the box and or you can do it online. And I I think that that's probably better for our Good, good. Kirk. My my church in my college town when I first became a Christian, you would march up to the Really? And then march back to your seat. So there there was a high degree of compulsion there. Yeah, for sure. Wow. That's crazy. Any other sort of a counter argument, I I miss the a aspect of the the action or the um intentional action of worship in giving. Yeah. And the blessing that comes in that So you guys are are bringing up a lot of good points. So you bring up a couple uh points. Number one, the intentionality of it, right? By passing the plate, there there is certainly an intentionality to it. But Joanie, like you said, are you preparing yourself ahead of time or are you you know, flipping out your wallet real quick? That's not intentional. Um Diane, you brought it up. What is giving? What are we doing? We're worshiping the Lord. It it is a form of worship to God to say everything I have is from you and I want to be a good steward. And it starts with giving you the first fruits of what you have given to me. Right, so it absolutely is a form of worship. And you know, back to your point, Glenn, sometimes when you're passing the plate, it is a reminder, right, that I'm worshiping the Lord. All right, in the absence of that, what can you do To be more intentional. What about this first part? It says the first day of every week. Certainly there's the the regularity of it, there's an intentionality behind it. There's a reminder. Should we be giving every week? Or once a month or what do you think that looks like? It doesn't matter, but maybe if you want to be reminded, like maybe set a calendar reminder to maybe like pray once a week about your timing Okay. Any other thoughts on that? What is our policy see I'm teasing I know that whenever we get paid is when we tithe. Okay. So it's kind of a thank you Lord for giving us this you are providing for us and for our family in ways of fighting financial means where we can feed ourselves, close ourselves, shelter ourselves, but also we get to give back to you in regards that we can continue to shelter That I don't think necessarily that there has to be a plate to be able to do that or a box or 'cause I know some people don't like to pay online because it's just it's like a paying of a bill. Right. Right. Like that you lose the uh intimacy of doing that. Yeah. But you know, coming from the South, only ten percent. Not a penny more, not a penny less. Good. Barbara. I think it's what Training for our children. You're raising them if they're giving their allowance or however you do it that they see at that time, that's what they do Yeah, Barbara, that's a great um thought and and they could still do that. They could still put money in the bucket. I know some parents have their kids put the envelope in the uh what do we call it The box, thank you. Told you I was tired. I'm tired today. Um the collection box. So yeah, th there's you know you can still be very intentional. And I and I think as elders, you know, we we've discussed this a little bit. Um But but really it is an individual thing. But we uh Tara and I we're at our church in in Utah when we were there. We had a gentleman who wrote a check every week, you know, put it in his Bible So that that Sunday it was a his reminder and it was important for him to do that weekly, right? That that um I'm worshiping the Lord, that's how we did that. It might be many of us get paid um every two weeks Right? That might be a perfect time or reminder. Um I'll tell you personally I do it monthly. Uh I do it online, but I get an email, right? Every time that the the money goes through, that's my reminder to stop and pause and just That's my time to worship the Lord and be uh just grateful for all that He has has done for me. So Raymond. Yeah, yeah. Lots of opportunities, uh lots of needs throughout the world for sure. But I I think there's um I guess bottom line on this subject, there's there's no policy. Um we want people to give from the heart. We often you guys know we don't spend a lot of time from the pulpit or the announcements talking about it, but it's okay to talk about it once in a while. We do want to make sure, especially as we get new members, new believers, that they're understanding the importance of it because it is a form of worship. Right. It it is a recognition that Lord you've given me all this. So there are there there needs to be opportunities where we do talk about it um once in a while. But yeah, so no policy. Diana. That that's a great example of how somebody new to the faith just maybe didn't grow up in the church environment, so so we need to train them up. Yeah, yeah. I still don't, but I I got you. The rest of my family can't, but not me, yeah. Um Yeah, so good discussion on that. Let me let me end up this section, verse three, and when I arrive, whomever you approve, I shall send them with letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem. So think about what's happening here Um this church in Corinth, yes there were Jews, but primarily a Gentile church. And and they are being asked and they want to give to the Jews And so Paul's going to write these letters of accommendation just to show the unity of now the Jews and the Gentiles. Right? This is significant. To say the this Gentile body is giving to you, Jews. I mean what what a a declaration of unity in the church. So that's part of the letters. And then he leaves it up to them. You decide the emissary that you're going to send Um and it would have been very dangerous to to send a lot of money. So just some of the commentaries talked about how they might, you know, sew gold coins in their their tunic if you will and and put on money belts or what have you. I I don't know, but you can imagine it would have been pretty dangerous. But um just neat to see how these These other churches around the area were making collections for the Jewish church primarily in Jerusalem. And and Paul obviously is going to write those accommodations to highlight that fact, the unity of the church. Alright, let's move on. We're going to get now into Paul's, I'll call it Paul's Travel itinerary and that's why I have the the chart up here. Let me read that. Verses uh I'll start in four, four through nine And if it is fitting for me to go also, they will go with me. But I shall come to you after I go through Macedonia, for I am going through Macedonia And perhaps I shall stay with you, or even spend the winter, that you may send me on my way wherever I may go, for I do not wish to see you now just in passing For I hope to remain with you for some time, if the Lord permits, but I shall remain in Ephesus until Pentecost Paul, what what's your plan? I'm gonna come to you, but maybe, only if the Lord permits, but no, I'm gonna stay in Ephesus, but but no, I'm gonna go through Macedonia first. You know, it sounds like he's all over the place And so I want to share, this is actually a commentary from uh John MacArthur that I thought was really good. Um, and I'll label it doing the Lord's work in the Lord's Way You guys know Paul by now. He's not willy-nilly, right? He's actually very intentional. And so you can see the four major points there that we'll go through. Paul was a strategic planner You know, you just we talked about it. Look at his first missionary journey, his second, his third. He's very intentional about the cities that he goes to. Many of the cities were were crossing routes of trade right that would have spread the the word out um um to maximum efficiency. He would go back to the churches. He would uh make sure he's training up leaders in all of the churches. He was very strategic Paul outlines his travel plans, intending to spend time in Macedonia before visiting Corinth. So Macedonia is up here, remember? Up here in this region. So his intent was to go through Macedonia and then down to Corinth is what he's saying. before visiting court, demonstrating intentionality in his m uh ministry. We're gonna see though in 2 Corinthians, um we're gonna it's gonna reveal how his plans actually turned out. So you gotta come back next quarter if you want to find out what happened. Just putting a plug in there. So yes, Paul was a very strategic planner. Uh verses five through six. But I shall come to you after I go through Macedonia, for I am going through Macedonia That's very definitive, isn't it? I'm going through Macedonia. That's the plan. And perhaps I shall stay with you or even spend the winter that you may send me on my way wherever I go So verse 7, very purposeful, right? Paul was very purposeful in his ministry. His goal is to spend meaningful time with the Corinthians, not just a passing visit. which shows his commitment to pastoral care. For I do not wish to see you now just in passing. He didn't want to do a flyby. He wanted to make sure he he stayed there. Um, he could provide the pastoral pastoral care that was necessary for this church. Especially after receiving maybe this letter that we've gone through in First Corinthians. Right? There's some hard hitting truths in there that that Paul has to give them um and I'm sure he wants to spend some time just caring for his church. You we've heard it in in Corinthians how Um he just his heart is is so burdened by the churches that he is standing up. Right? His heart is so burdened for the gospel to go forth. So he wants to be very careful about how he pastors and shepherds his flock. Verses 8 and 9, but I shall remain in Ephesus until Pentecost. For a wide door for effective service has opened to me, and there are many adversaries. So perseverance through adversity Despite the great door and effectual ministry in Ephesus, Paul notes there are many adversaries, showing that obstacles are often part of God's work. So do you recall? Do you remember, I think it was his second missionary journey. Um hard to read, but he's up here in Troaz. Where did he want to do? Where did he want to go? Initially he wanted to go south. I believe he wanted to go to Asia Minor. When that didn't work, he talked about going north. That didn't work either. So he had one way he could go. Which way? West. What prevented him from going south? Or who prevented him from going south? Do you remember? The Holy Spirit So sometimes it's God blocking that door. You got a plan? Sometimes it's the Lord. Why? Because He knows what is best Romans 8. 28. He knows what is best for you and he knows what is needed for his kingdom. I think it was second I it was definitely in Thessalonians, but his second missionary journey. Um I believe while he was down here he had desires to go east, I believe, and he was thwarted. Who is he thwarted by? Satan. Satan in this case. Sometimes it's the enemy who's thwarting his travel. Right? So Paul is very aware of the adversity that can happen um especially when when you're trying to share the gospel. Sometimes it's the Lord, sometimes it's the enemy. But Paul is able to work through that. He's able to work through you know, the the suffering, um, the trials, the tribulations, the pauses, and he just keeps pressing on Look back at verse 7 though, for I do not wish to see you now just in passing, for I hope to remain with you for some time. What's the end of that? If the Lord permits. Right? It's always in the context of I got a plan, but I don't know ultimately if that's the Lord's will. I'll be able to carry out that plan if the Lord permits So his his sovereign dependence. Paul expresses a desire to visit if the Lord permits, emphasizing that all plans are subject to God's will. These are some some pretty neat principles for our lives and even us as a church, right? Our ministry. I asked you guys this, and I'm going to ask you again, be honest with me, raise your hand Who has gone back or originally listened to the congregational video? Remember we had the big snowstorm? Alright, we got more. That's good. That's good. Um I'm gonna make this plea again. If you have not done so, I I strongly encourage you, I implore you to go back and listen to it. Why This is our attempt to share with you the vision that we have for the church and the ministries, if the Lord permits. Um I want you to go back five years almost to this time frame. We'll be celebrating, not celebrating, but um remembering the death of our founding pastor, right? Pastor Leek, it's been five years. Through a series of events where elders were called to to different vocations, I mean we quickly got to a point where there were two elders of a 400-plus person church And only one of them was a staff pastor. Right? It was Gabe and Allen. Gabe and Allen And and um to both of their credit they really stood up and just carried water. But I imagine they were surviving Right? They couldn't provide the oversight to so many ministries we were surviving as a leadership team. We joke now, um we talk about plurality of eldership, there was a thin line of plurality Uh Pastor Dave often joked about that, right? And now we're up to six pastor elders and potentially two more. So the Lord just has really blessed us. And and like I said, for for some time we were we were just trying to keep our head above water, right? We were trying to keep things going. And now we're at a point where we can be very strategic about what we're trying to do with the church. And for the last couple years, you'll notice during these congregational meetings, we'll share, hey, this is going to be kind of our focus for the next year, right? You know the the basics never change. You know, we want to be Christ-like, we want we want to continue to equip and and shepherd the the body, but we really want to focus on these areas. A couple years ago it was um you know completing the staff Right? Getting all the staff patterns pastors. We had a vision for the size of our church and the oversight that was needed. We really felt like we needed three staff pastors Now, did we necessarily have the full budget to support that? It was close. But you know when you're building a church budget, what's the un the uncertainty? The income. Right? We it's not a salary where we know every two weeks we're gonna get this much money. You just don't know. We see the patterns. Um and to be honest with you, there was a little bit of of faith stretching to say, boy, three pastors, this is going to push us outside of what we currently have But can we manage that within a margin of uncertainty? That's kind of how we handled it. So there was an element of stepping out in faith a little bit, but not so much that we're putting at risk the church Right? That's never our goal. And the Lord has provided faithfully. So that is just an example of how we had this very intentional vision of where we wanted to go, and the Lord blessed that Um what is one of our our focus areas going into twenty twenty six? Fellowship. Fellowship, thank you for those who watch the video Right? It's fellowship. We want to be very intentional about um creating this environment of fellowship within the church. Now So that was the first potluck. For those of you that were were at this church at the very beginning, Kirk and others, you guys know, they used to have a potluck every Sunday after service. Now, much smaller church Right? That you can do that with a much smaller church. As it grows, the logistics become difficult. But for those that participated in the last one we just had, it was precious. You know, it was precious to have the body there together fellowshiping. Now, the goal is to do that maybe quarterly But what we're trying to do is emphasize that from I'll I'll say the pulpit. You know what I mean by that, from the leadership. But where does where does fellowship happen? Right? It's you inviting somebody over that you don't know real well. It happens at small groups, it happens at you know a myriad of other places. So I want to encourage you, yes we want to promote that from the pulpit, I'll call it, but we really want that to be an organic capability. Right, that that is welling up from the bottom up if you will. Does that make sense? Right. But again, that's our focus to to kind of create that environment for fellowship. So again Um, I encourage you to to watch the congregational meeting. You know, Gabe does a really good job of walking through 2025 and just what the Lord has done, and he's done so much so so much for this church and then what's happening in twenty twenty six already happening, it's just really neat to see. Really neat to see. So again I encourage you to to take a look at that. It's not meant to just be a here's the status of the church. Right? We try to be very intentional in communicating um to all of you to be strategic planners, to be purposeful with our ministry. Always caveat it in what? As the Lord permits. Kirk. The Holy Spirit opens and closes doors by his word working in the hearts of people. And maybe in as an example to raise the level of giving who trust the Holy Spirit is working in the parts of the world. And then that allows strategic plans to be fulfilled. Absolutely. Or another way is through give to people within the church using actually using the gifts to absolutely to its maximum. And then that helps to fill out the the strategic Yeah, yeah, it's all connected. It's all connected. Absolutely. Good. All right, let's keep moving. I said I'd leave you time at the end, but I'm just burning it up. Good discussion though. Alright, so now he's gonna talk about um Timothy and Apollo. So so let's see specifically what he's talking about in verses ten through twelve. Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without cause to be afraid. For he is doing the Lord's work, as I also am. Let no one therefore despise him, but send him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me, for I expect him with the brethren Um, you know Timothy was a very trusted um confidant or ministry partner with Paul. Um I think they connected in the first missionary journey is when he might have first met Timothy, but he was certainly there for um the second part. Remember Timothy is the one that brought the good news from uh Thessal Thessalonica So trusted, trusted um partner. I I know, especially when you look at um the books of Timothy, that there might be this impression that uh Timothy was this young, timid, you know, there's some commentaries that that don't necessarily paint that picture. He was a very trusted, dependable uh ministry partner. In fact I think I remember that anyone under forty was considered young. So to say that Timothy was young, he wasn't necessarily like in his twenties. They believe he was just under 40 when Paul wrote that letter to 2 Timothy. So he's a trusted confidant, if you will. Now Timothy is going ahead of Paul potentially with this letter, and there's some hard things in this letter, right? So it might have been a caution of You know, hey, he's going to deliver this letter, but I I want to remind you that, you know, he comes as a an agent of the Lord. Right? So treat him as such. Let's go back to chapter 4 to emphasize this point. 1 Corinthians chapter 4, where it is first mentioned about Timothy coming back Let me start in verse 14 of chapter 4, verse 14. I do not write these things to shame you. Remember, we're uh chapter four, we're talking about division, right? Some some I'm a Paul, I'm about Apollos. They were idolizing, they were worshiping these sects these uh human teachers, if you will That's what Paul was admonishing or condemning them for. I do not write these things to shame you, but to admonish you as my beloved children. For if you were to have countless tutors in Christ, yet you would not have many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I became your father through the gospel. I exhort you therefore be imitators of me For this reason I have sent to you Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, and he will remind you of my ways which are in Christ. Just as I teach you everywhere in every church. So we get an understanding of of Timothy's purpose for going back, right? It's to spread this message um and some of it is harsh, but also to remind them of the example of Paul. So I think Paul might be simply trying to make sure they receive him well. Yeah, this verse talks about how Timothy should be received without fear, recognize him as an agent of the Lord, not despised, take seriously his messages from the Lord, so that he might be sent in peace. Alright, so Timothy's going to deliver a trusted agent, if you will, ministry partner, and Paul's simply commending them to make sure they receive that well, as if from Paul, as if from the Lord. All right, let's go to twelve. He's going to talk about Apollos now. Um again, Apollos was was a very um A prominent figure in Corinth. He did a lot of ministry there, was well thought of. But concerning Apollos, our brother, I encourage him greatly to come to you with the brethren. And it was not at all his desire to come now, but he will come when he has opportunity. So basically Paul is saying, hey, I don't think Apollos is coming right now, but he will eventually That's the bottom line. He is r likely to return in the future, but not the near future. And it Some commentaries believe that Apollos might have been trying to avoid, you know, worsening the fac the factions that were happening. Remember, that's what we studied in chapters one through four, the division that was happening What did Paul say? I planted the seed, but what did Paul Apollos do? He watered, so it's likely that he was there ministering after Paul. Like I said, you know, well thought of. In fact the the concern was some were treating him as, you know, they were idolizing Apollos. That was the issue. So for whatever reason, you know, again, thinking of the strategic planning, Apollos was not going to be returning anytime soon. Alright, we're getting close to the end here. So Paul, end of his letter here, it's pretty common to have uh some of these summary exhortations, and we see a number of these in thirteen through fourteen. Be on the alert. Stand firm in the faith. Act like men. Be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. Beyond the alert, um potentially an eschatological or end-time reference to the imminent um nature of the Lord's return. And the the The um encouragement here was conduct themselves in a way that would prepare them for the Lord's return. Right? So be on the alert. Stand firm in the faith. A military term, really, to hold your ground. Contend earnestly the faith. You know, we read that in Jude 1 through 3. Act like men. He he wasn't specifically talking to the men here. He's saying be strong. Be uh what was the charge to Joshua? Be strong and courageous. That's what he's telling them all to do. Stand up. You remember the the admonishment, you should be eating meat right now, but but what? You're drinking milk, you're babes Your babes in your thinking, your your babes in your conscience. Be strong, be like men. And then and then you know, First Corinthians thirteen, do everything in love. That was the foundational principle that everything Paul was talking about. He reiterates that critical crucial foundation of letting every motivation be rooted in love. And how do we define love? We go back to 1 Corinthians 13, 4 through 7. That's the biblical standard for love. Alright, let me do this. Um, because we're getting close and I want to get some of your feedback. Let me just cover in verse so the the rest of this um he talks about Stephanus um talks about some of the brothers let me go to verse 17 uh and I rejoice over the coming of Stephanus and Fortunatius and Acacius because they have sub um supplied what was lacking on your part. Paul's not being critical here. It's simply a reference to I love to be in your presence And we can't be together, these men kind of fill that gap. Right? So that's all that he's saying there. And then verse twenty-two Kind of the the last parting shot, if anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed or anathema or excommunicated Again, the protection of the church, applying that church discipline, if you will, to make sure the church is protected. All right, just a final reminder. And then my love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. All right. So any we got we got a couple minutes left. I would love to get your thoughts on First Corinthians Again, anything that that might have stood out to you that you didn't realize before or didn't have clarity on, any insight into Paul, just any of your thoughts And let me do this. I don't want to drive your thinking, but if I were to summarize Paul in First Corinthians, it it might be this chart here How often did he go back to the basics of the gospel? I mean that was his passion. You remember, um, as an unbeliever, he was the chief persecutor of the church. Right? And now he's what? The chief advocate of the gospel. He was always pointing back to the b uh the gospel. We had our um counseling fundamentals class yesterday and again this is a a fundamental uh foundation of if you are counseling, discipling somebody, even yourself, it's bringing yourself back to the gospel. Yes, the gospel for salvation, but as important for daily living Right? It's a constant reminder. How do you forgive somebody? How do you love somebody? How did God forgive you? How did God love you? Alright? So constant constantly, constantly, constantly drawing the Corinthians and us back to the gospel. As a saved person, I I love this summary of what does our freedom look like in Christ And he had to deal with that, right? In the middle chapters, they were still engaging in their freedom, they were still engaging in those those secular pagan activities. That was the concern. And I love this. True freedom is More than freedom from something, right? So I I don't have to listen to my parents anymore. I'm at college now. Um freedom to do as one pleases. Well I get to stay up till three in the morning now. That's not true freedom. True freedom is the freedom for something. And in this case, it's the freedom to glorify God. It's the freedom to take um your finances and worship the Lord as as you see fit before the Lord And then lastly, like I just said, everything is rooted in love. And this was simply the list from 1 Corinthians 13, 4 through 7. These are actions, aren't they? These are commands. These are how we are supposed to demonstrate. being new creatures in Christ. We don't always feel like it, but these are the actions and we have the example of Christ demonstrating this type of love to us. All right, so with that said, any thoughts, comments? Kirk. Yeah, I know for me it was really enlightening to go over a computer. But to consider that I'm I'm actually the the weaker brother and I need to be really testing each of my choices as to whether at the root of it it's it's actually idolatry. Yeah. Since you're pointing out that that was the the purpose Paul wrote that was to really turn from idolatry. And so each of us we we shouldn't be considered thinking of ourselves as a we as a stronger brother. Yeah. And then other people in the church, they can't do those activities Yeah. But uh I need to be discerning of my choices. Good. That was a really important section that we covered, and it was uh certainly added more clarity for me because that had always been a pretty confusing Alright, I want to hear from a lady. I knew you wanted to. Um so I was just contemplating near the end of what you were Talking about Paul's dedication to knowing the gospel and applying it to all these different situations. I was thinking it being a little bit bit older now, just how who I am is sort of the same as I've always been. And we we kind of add to that and we hopefully um uh expand on or develop the things that we're good at and maybe even think help it strengthen our weaknesses at the point. But thinking about all being um he was um high in the church and he knew all the rules and regulations he had studied the Bible alive And that was his that was his thing he was devoted to. But then when Christ came into his life it kind of completed the picture of all the things that he had studied I guess. So he had that I often think about a Jewish person coming to the Lord. Yeah. And how they have the whole picture because they learned the s the old scriptures, but then they understood what they were all prevent for. So I can't even imagine, you know, the the energy and the determination that he approached Yeah. And it kind of explains to me how he could keep going under all that adversity that Yeah, yeah. That's a really good point. And I and I think I would just share I I f I feel like um I got to know Paul a lot better through going through this study and and to your point some of that that passion and intentionality. Um it's hard to fathom, really it really is. But yeah, good. All right. Elizabeth. Um I like the after 14 the love chapter and um I took a dating class on this and talked about love is healing versus love is an action. Yeah. And had a debate with somebody about that. And like back then I think know how to say. Yeah. Um, but I thought we love it for action. Dying to solve the sacrificials. I think we've seen that in the Bible and you talk Good, yeah. That's important. Good. All right, let me close this in prayer. It's been um just It's a true blessing the whole quarter to be with you guys. This has just been fascinating really to to get to know Paul, to understand some of these really hard principles, and I think Second Corinthians is going to be just as packed with goodies. So um but again you guys total freedom um to go to any class. There's a lot of good ones out there. Um do you guys remember so there's one on um this whole idea of marriage, I think divorce and remarriage. Pastor Allen and Gabe are gonna do that. That's gonna be a really good class. Obviously this will be part three. I don't know what's else what else Genesis? Alright, we're starting up uh or is that a continuation? Continuation. So I think Pastor Rob will finish that up. Decision making, yeah. Carrie Kane is going to do um one on decision making That's going to be an excellent class too. Maybe I'll go to that no one too. All right, let me pray. So again I encourage you to sign up just so logistically we can we can uh make preparations