All right, so we're gonna be in Second Corinthians if you want to open the Bible, your Bible there, but um I as typical when we start a new quarter, I do want to do some introduction because we do have some some new folks in the room. And so we'll kind of lay out it's really important to set the context as we study God's Word. And let me see if I have it. Alright, you all should have a sheet that Marie gave to you that is blank and I will explain what that is and why. There's there's an intention about why I'm using this format. And for those of you that maybe like to do things on the computer, I can certainly send you that uh sheet or I'll hang it up on the on our group page on Hope Book. Okay And for some of you that have are now with me for three quarters, I apologize you've probably seen this intro a couple times, and it doesn't hurt to go through this a couple times, but I I think I want to reinforce a couple things I came across um when I was studying uh some counseling stuff on on suffering and and pastoring, uh came across um some literature on John Newton and this individual did his dissertation actually on John Newton. And I just thought it really hit home for me and I think gives you a sense of of my motivation And this is it. I I really am very passionate about shepherding the flock here at Hope Bible Church, but it's really in the form of teaching and counseling. In counseling, not necessarily s in the sense of formal biblical counseling. As you all know, we are all counselors. But really, really getting after the application. Right? So we absolutely need to understand what is written in God's inspired word, but it's not good enough for us to just have good knowledge. Right? We have to be able to apply that. So that is my passion. That's my motivation. And you'll see that's kind of how I conduct the class Um, you probably know that he wrote Amazing Grace, one of the most famous hymns we have, but he was a a very influential pastor back in the day um often sought after for just his pastoral shepherding uh type of care. So that really resonated with me. But again, that's that's my motivation. Convenient that 2 Corinthians has 13 chapters, and so we'll go a chapter a week as we always do, and we'll finish up 31 May. And then, as you guys know, the elders rotate through the new members class. So I will uh I'll have my one lesson on 12 April, and Randall's going to fill in for me on 12 April. But we'll follow this through. Now, this is important and you'll see when we get to the sheet that you have. You clearly know now the the path that we're taking. And so you can be reading ahead, and I'm going to strongly encourage that as we go through the class that you're reading the next chapter so you can come prepared. We'll talk more about that in a second. The really neat thing for those that have been in this class as we've gone through 1st and 2 Thessalonians and 1 Corinthians. What have we learned about Paul? We're getting a lot of really good insight about Paul, and one of those is man, he is locked in on the gospel. I mean he is locked in on the gospel. That is his purpose. Every every way, shape or form he's always bringing them back to the gospel. And as we've talked about, we often think as the gospel needed for salvation. Of course it is. It is needed for every day of our lives, right? It is the key part of our sanctification because of the truth And those truths, remember, we we start the gospel with what? Who God is, a focus on God and his attributes. So again, you'll hear me say it is really important for us to cultivate a really high view of God. as important to understand um and have a biblical view of man, both in our sinful nature and as children, who we are as children of God. Right, to make sure that we are living in the boldness and courage of being a child of God. And you're going to see some of that in Paul, especially in 2 Corinthians. Where where he is being questioned, right? His authority, his apostleship is being questioned. How does he handle that Okay, so we're we're going to constantly be talking about uh the gospel because that's where Paul takes us. And then as we talk about the attributes of God, I will hang this up. Again, a little bit hard to read, but it's a great little placemat, if you will um to look at several of the attributes that uh described uh of God and to be praying through those, to be noticing those in Scripture, again to be cultivating a really high view of God. And don't worry about the colors. We don't necessarily have agreement with how that's broken out, but the placemat is what's more important, the topics there. Alright, um you're gonna see if you want to pull out your sheet, you'll see that number one, we talk about what? The attributes of God. So as the intent um is to capture some of this as you're going through uh the the course um on your worksheet. Um next we talk about the indicatives. Those are simply the truths, the promises that we see in Scripture. Really important for us to capture those. to understand those. What is God saying? Right? What is truth in His inspired word? And then often with the indicative there is an imperative This is a command or an instruction or an obligation. Based on this truth, what are we supposed to do with that? What instruction are we given? And Paul is often giving um imperatives. You know with many of his epistles the first half of the book is what? A lot of indicatives? And then what do we do with those? How do we live with those? A lot of imperatives. And so we want to know and understand those. And then like I said, we need to go to that last step, the application. What does that mean to you personally? Don't leave this room with just a lot of good head knowledge. Right? We need to be applying it to our lives. That is the sanctification process. So I walked through a little example here when we were in First Thessalonians. I I love this because we often ask what it what is the will of God? Well it's really cle clear in a couple cases And again, this word will in this particular context means God's desire or purpose for us. Okay? For this is the will of God, your sanctification. Doesn't get any clearer than that, does it? Right? That would be an indicative. The imperative is the statement right after that. That is that you abstain from sexual immorality. So that would be a command or an instruction. And then the application, I just took some some ideas down there and the idea of sexual um immorality. Often when we're talking about folks who are struggling with that or if if you're struggling with that, kind of two courses of action. Right, one is radical amputation, I'll call it. You know, if your eye is causing you to sin, carve it out. He's not talking literally, of course, but Um, we talked a little bit about this on our counseling round table yesterday. What are the guardrails you're gonna put up? All right, you're gonna put software on your c computer, you're gonna get an accountability partner, you're gonna make sure the computer faces a certain way. You know, you get the idea. That's not good enough though, is it? You gotta go after the heart as well. Right? So in this case it would be a two-pronged approach to make sure you're getting after the the heart or the root of what's happening with this sexual sexual immorality But that would be an example of pulling that thread all the way through from indicative, imperative to application. Does that make sense? Okay. Alright, so to your worksheet. Um that's how we've laid that out. It starts with attributes of God, the character of God, and you just simply take your notes as you're going through or maybe after class, you know, really make this a meditation exercise. um to to highlight those attributes. You know, cultivating a really high view of God is so, so important It was a critical part in in my sanctification for sure. And then as we talked about, indicatives, um, imperatives, and then that personal application. And and again, um this is often true in the counseling sessions too. Where is the real work done when you're counseling somebody? Is it in that one hour session one-on-one No, it's what happens outside of that session, right? The homework that is given, the scripture that is given. You will be most blessed by what you do outside of this class. And it's really up to you what you want to do. But that would be my strong encouragement. So don't rush through the personal application. You know, take it home after class, think about it, pray about it. um in and really apply it. And then on the right hand side is just an area for general notes. Sometimes there's a some neat trivia that uh we bring up or questions or observations or what have you. It's just an opportunity for you to write some notes down. And then at the very bottom is homework. And this is just a reminder for you to be preparing for the next class. So you guys can write this down in the homework already in the bottom right-hand corner there. So what do I want you to read next week? Second Corinthians chapter two. Now, you might say, but Christopher, I I already got so much going on. I want you, not right now, but I challenge you to go read um 2 Corinthians chapter 2 at home and let's see, it is 17 verses. If you were to time yourself, I bet it's less than two minutes. Don't tell me you don't have time to read the scripture. And what I'm going to push you to do, outside of what you normally do, devotional daily reading time, I want you to try to motivate yourself to read this chapter once every day If you can't do that, shoot for three times a week. Right? There is a blessing in reading it over and over and over. Because guess what? You're going to read it once and you're going to plow through it pretty quick You're going to read it the next day, and what's going to happen? You're going to start to meditate on it. You're going to start thinking about this. You're going to start asking questions. Why did he say that? Why is this happening? Then you're going to start to research it Okay, you're gonna start praying through it. So I really encourage you, read the same chapter once a day, if possible. All right, and we also are going to work on some memory verses. And so what I have done is we'll pick a memory verse to start working on and we'll spend several weeks on that and I'm going to ask some of you if you're willing to um to to recite that in class as a motivation. There's some really cool prizes you get. No, I'm just eating that. Yeah, Elizabeth, like, wait a minute, why? So you can write this in Second Corinthians three, five. And before we end today, make sure we go over that. It's a short little verse. It should be fairly easy, but a really important one. Alright, any questions about the worksheet that you got in front of you? Pretty clear? Again, it's very intentional as to why I'm using that format. And so if you got recommendations on how to improve that, let me know. But that that is really the the intent of that. Um while we're while we're on this topic Again, we were in our counseling roundtable yesterday and we listened to a teaching video that was really, really encouraging. And um the gentleman's name is Randy Patton, pretty, pretty well known in the counseling world, has been counseling for 40 plus years. I mean just really wise And he had this epiphany once and he told this story where in the role that he had, he would often be um going around to several different ch uh churches in the Indiana area. So Faith Lafayette, if you've not heard of them, are are pretty well known in the the counseling world. They have a big counseling center, a lot of training. So he's associated with this group Um and as he would go around to some of these churches, he would either run into people that he has counseled or in dealings with the pastor would get feedback on people he has counseled in the past. And he found a couple things were happening is um one he would run into people that after they were done with his counseling just flourished, right? They did really well. Their marriages were solid. They were in the word. Everything was just going great. And then he would run into others where total opposite I mean marriages were just broken, there was divorce, um, sexual immorality, it was just a disaster. And that really bothered him Right, this is a counsel that you're you're bringing people through really tough issues, you're trying to equip them. At some point you have to graduate them and you're trying to have wisdom and discernment to say, they're ready. I I can let them go now And then you get that feedback that some are doing well and some are are just crashing and burning. And so he went back to his assistant and said, I want you to pull the cases I've covered for the last nine months And and he did a a pretty in-depth study and he said, Lord, show me. Show me where I can do a better job of equipping these folks. Um the title was, you know, Hope for Lasting Change How can I equip these folks to do the sanctification process and do it successfully? And he identified six spiritual disciplines for providing hope for lasting change that I thought were really encouraging. I'm gonna read them out to you. They won't shock you. You'd be like, duh. But but I think his point was how do I take these these six disciplines and make sure it is part of my counseling process to make sure people are uh um equipped Right to to uh have this lasting change. And these would be applicable to all of this. And I'm going to share them because I I want you to show how it ties to what I'm trying to do here So the six spiritual disciplines providing hope for lasting change. One, systematic Bible reading. We got to be in the word. It it is often, not all the time, but it is often when we are in a counseling session that One of the primary concerns is they're not in the word. And and you guys know when trials and tribulation hit and and you're in despair and you're um despondent and um what often happens? What goes by the wayside? Right, your time in the Word. It's very natural. So building that discipline now is what's going to carry through those really tough times. But it's um the intent here with systematic Bible reading is to do this process Right, as you read the word, you're studying God's attributes. You're making sure you understand his truths. You're understanding the commands Because where do we have joy? How do we show love to God? By obeying his commands. Alright? And then applying those to our lives And so that's what he meant by systematic Bible reading. Number two, meaningful scriptural memory He actually uh when he supervises um counselors in training, he makes them memorize I think it was eight or nine different uh verses that you know every counselor should know in the counseling room to be able to uh address those pretty quickly or reference those pretty quick quickly. And so again, we're we're working on meaningful scriptural memory and and I'm intentional in the ones that I I grab and I'm asking you to memorize because what do you do when you are memorizing scripture? You're meditating on it, you're praying through it, you're applying it. Um and then when you need that in the moment, um you're ready to have that at hand So that was uh number two. Number three, pertinent theological reading. And what he meant by this is supplemental reading material. Some is better than others Right, but but picking up um additional reading material that complements of course your Bible reading, helps you better understand it, helps you better understand the issues Um I'm excited to say that we should be opening up our refreshing reads uh bookstore within a couple months. Alright, we are really close to opening up that big bookstore. There's going to be a ton, I mean a ton of great resources in that in that uh uh reading room. So I'm excited for that. Number four, church attendance and sermon application. You know, it's part of what you're doing right now. You're here early on a Sunday morning to be equipped. That's why we call them equipping classes And of course, again, as you listen to the sermon this morning, it's it's all about understanding, but then applying. How am I applying that to my life? Being a part of a church body And you guys have all been through the membership class. You know the importance we put on as far as being a member of a church body. Why? Because it's scriptural. Right? That's that's what we're commanded to do. That's how the body works. That's um God's plan of redemption in this church age is through the church. And then I guess it's number five, loving deeds and acts of service, right? Not just being hearers of the word but doers of the word, understanding your spiritual gifts and applying those. And if you don't you're not really sure what your spiritual gift is, just jump in and start serving. Right? Don't wrangle your hands over making sure you're applying the the exact gift to the the service. But that's why we have small groups, right? The intent is to be serving meeting those immediate needs, those those real hard needs of the people in your church. And then the last one is fervent focused prayer. Right, there's there's power in the prayer. It's not, boy, all I can do is pray in this situation. Boy, I get to pray. Right? Prayer is extremely powerful. But guess what? It doesn't come naturally, does it It's all of these are disciplines that have to be trained, cultivated. Right, so again, that that is my intentionality with the format here is to be able to work through you know, to to really emphasize you know your Bible reading, the application, uh, memorizing verses and and hopefully application through serving. So thought that might be uh helpful Um in the way he defines hope, which I thought was really good, again those six print um uh disciplines were were for providing hope for lasting change. the way Randy defied hope was, the optimistic and confident expectation about the future that demonstrates trust in God and His Word. Thought that was good. The optimistic and confident expectation about the future that results or manifests itself in trusting God and His Word. Right? That's what true hope is. Do you have a list of resources that you're using for preparing? This class? Yes, and I can give that to you. Cool. Or I'll I'll hang it up. Thank you Um I'll I'll tell oh I don't have it here. Um it's particularly uh a commentary by Garland is the name. And then I use some of J Mac. Those are probably the two Mary two primary John MacArthur, sorry. Um those are those are the two main resources that I use. My I had a couple kids that went to the master's university and they they call them J Macs, so shouldn't be so informal. Apologies. All right, I do like to highlight um this idea of hermeneutics. Um I'm not going to cover it in great detail. This was important when we were studying 1st and 2nd Thessalonians Um even a little bit of First Corinthians when there was um a lot of discussion about eschatology or end times. Um but you know, the fundamental element of a good hermeneutic, which is what? It's just the art and science of studying your Bible. Um it's really important to make sure you have a good solid, you know, foundation when it comes to your hermeneutic We here at Hope Bible Church would affirm a literal, grammatical, historical. And when you think about literal, it's really it's utilizing those literary techniques Alright, so when you're reading poetry, you're recognizing it as poetry and you're you're treating it with those those rules, if you will. But even that has some gray area, doesn't it? Right? That's why I say it's an art as well Um but that's what we mean by literal. And I only make this distinction here to say, you know, the the big contrast that we typically see in our circles is in especially with reformers, is between this idea of dispensational in Covenantal and you can see the words there. The big difference is you know how um Covenantalists um typically treat prophecy specifically. They tend they tend to spiritualize it a bit more than we would as dispensationalists. Alright? Good? Okay. Again, as we look at the timeline, and if we don't get through all of chapter one today, that's okay. We'll pick up the the the pieces next week. Not a whole lot there, but I think this context is important. Um I won't say too much on this chart. I've used this before and I I want to show you a couple things is number one This chart was taken separately from this one, so you'll even see some differences. Not everyone is always in agreement exactly on the timelines. And one of the big differences has to do with the book of Galatians. Right, some think it was maybe one of the first books written uh by Paul, and this chart says no, it was written later. So there's debate about when Galatians. But the rest of them uh pretty much fall into line. And and I wanted to show you this simply to say, you know, the approach that I was taking was, I want to study Paul. I want to study him as he goes on his missionary journeys, what books did he write? So that's why we've used the format we did. Taking 2 Corinthians. I'll be honest with you, since I got Doug in the room, my initial goal was to do um I wanted to go through the prison epistles, right? Which is which is what? Ephesians Philippians, Colossians, uh Philemon, and Doug's like, no, I'm gonna do Ephesians. I'm like, ah, I can't I can't do that. I gotta scrap that. So we came up with this approach, but I really enjoyed it. Um As you guys know, I've always struggled through 1 Corinthians and 2 Corinthians. They're tough books, but we've learned a lot, haven't we, as we've gone through 1 Corinthians, especially about Paul I feel like we've really got good insight into how Paul is thinking. But that's been the approach is to uh kind of tie together his second and his third missionary journey going through these four books. I think that's all I want to say there. So we talked a little about Paul. I know you know who Paul is from the tribe of Benjamin, just like King Saul. Again, important fact, he was he was born about the time of Jesus' birth, right? So they were peers in a sense, and yet we don't see much interaction outside of the event at um on the road to Damascus, do we Right? We don't see them intermingling, if you will. You know, Paul um heavily studied under um uh a prominent rabbi here. So Paul was at the pinnacle of of this Jewish leadership, if you will, right? And you know he was a staunch persecutor of the early church, maybe the staunchest. W and so you see this complete contrast between um Saul and Paul, I'll call it, obviously converted on the road to Damascus. And as we talked about last quarter, this was three or four years after Jesus' um ascension up to heaven, right? That he sa he had this encounter with Jesus. And so what we want to make sure we highlight, and I know you guys know this, but But Paul went from being, you know, the this probably the leader in persecuting the church to the leader in spreading the gospel. And I think I really want to hit that point home again because you see this common theme constantly of Paul taking them back to the basics of the gospel. Right? That is his true motivation Rooted in what? Love. That was the fundamental core aspect of how he treated a lot of the aspects that we talked about in 1 Corinthians Okay, so if we take a real quick look at his three missionary journeys, uh what did we learn about Paul last week? I'm going to talk about his journeys. Right, so he would go back to the churches that that he established. So what did we learn about Paul? He's very intentional. He's strategic. Um he went after certain cities for a reason And you can see the first missionary trip took him primarily through the region of Galatia. And you can see all the churches there And then on his second missionary journey, he went back through those churches, like Elizabeth just said, to shore up, to see how they're doing. He was um very Um it was heavy on his heart to make sure these churches that he started were flourishing. You know, back to uh what I talked about earlier. How do we how do we equip them to make sure they're flourishing and and not going the other way So he worked his way through Galatia, then up through Macedonia, Achaia, and then back to Jerusalem. Now what I've done here is circled. These were probably the four most prominent hubs um in this region during during Paul's time. So obviously Jerusalem, Antioch where where Paul was primarily based out of with Barnabas. And then you have Ephesus and Corinth. We know that um Paul spent I think eighteen roughly eighteen months in Corinth on his uh second missionary journey. That's where he primarily encountered the the church at Corinth and and established that further, setting up leaders. And then went through Ephesus, and then in his third missionary journey we'll see or read that he spent nearly three years at Ephesus. So a long time building up those hubs We're also going to see that he spent a lot of time corresponding with Corinth, maybe more so than some of the other churches And as you know, a lot of issues at Corinth. We we talked about a lot of those uh last quarter, and yet he had a deep, deep love for the church at Corinth. Alright, so here we are now on his third missionary journey, and again where he's at right now is at Ephesus. So that's where he wrote 1 Corinthians And um I'm I'll probably gum back to this map when we talk about a particular aspect But most likely where we are at now with 2 Corinthians is he is up somewhere in Macedonia. Many believe that he might have written 2 Corinthians from Philippi. I don't think it's definitive, but um clearly he is up in Macedonia. All right, and then he will spend some time um in Corinth again. Alright, now uh Corinth. Corinth again, let me go back. You see it down here, it was um a major hub trade route as far as ports and land masses. And and here's why. It was in this location. It's called an isthmus, which is simply describes this bridge of land between two major bodies in two major areas of water. So you got two ports that would have been there, you got land masses. I mean it was just absolutely a a crossroads um which is what? Why Paul chose Corinth uh as one of the major hubs. It was also a an extremely secular city, wasn't it? Just full of pagan worship, um uh idol worship, and that was one of the big issues that Paul had to deal with. These these Christians that became Christians came from that culture. And so they were constantly struggling with having one foot in Christianity and another foot in their old way of life. Because so much was driven their business, their their social status was all driven by this culture. And so that was a a big pediment to their their growth and many of the issues we talked about uh that Paul addressed were because of this this contrast, if you will. And the challenge for us was and still is, I think, to make sure we're we're also challenging our presuppositions. Right here in America, the land of the free and the brave, the independent, a lot of the same issues. We may not want to admit it, but it's true. Alright, I am now gonna try and show you a video. We'll see if we can make this work. Is it gonna work this one? So this is just a short fun little cartoon, but I think it does a really good job of giving us an overview of Corinthians. So we'll see if we can get this work. Paul's second letter to the Corinthians. Even though it's called second or two Corinthians in our Bibles, there are multiple clues within this letter that it's not the second thing he ever wrote The Church of Ancient Corinth. Paul started this Jesus community in Corinth some time ago. On one of his missionary journeys, you can read the story in the book of Acts, chapter 18. And after moving on, Paul got a report. That things were not going well there. So he wrote the letter that we call 1 Corinthians to correct these problems. And it appears that many in the church rejected Paul's teaching in that letter and rebelled against his. And so we learned in this letter that Paul had followed up in person with what he calls the painful visit, and after that he sent a letter which he says was written with anguish and tears. And so after all these measures, most, but not all of the Corinthians realized their arrogance and they apologized to Paul. They wanted to reconcile. And so Paul wrote this letter to assure them of his love and commitment. The letter's been designed with three main sections, each addressing a distinct topic. So Paul first finalizes his reconciliation with the Christians Then in chapters 8 and 9, he addresses the topic of forgotten generosity, and in the final chapters, Paul challenges the remaining Corinthians who still reject him. Let's dive in and you'll see how it all works. So Paul opens up by thanking the God of all mercy and comfort who brought peace and encouragement to him and the Corinthians during this time of division and dispute. He acknowledges that things have been tense since this painful visit, and he makes clear he's forgiven them, he wants an open and honest relationship. But why had they rejected Paul in the first place Well we discover later in this letter that the Corinthians had disregarded Paul as a leader. He was poor, he earned a meager living through manual labor, he was under constant persecution. Suffering, he was often homeless, and to top it off, he wasn't a very impressive public speaker. And so once the Corinthians were exposed to other more wealthy, impressive Christian leaders they started to think less of Paul. They were actually ashamed of him. So Paul responds first by showing that their elevation of these leaders simply because of their wealth and eloquence is a betrayal of Jesus. It shows a totally distorted value system. True Christian leadership, Paul says, is not about status or self-promotion. Paul depicts himself and the other apostles as captive slaves to King Jesus, who's leading them on a procession of triumph. Paul's job isn't to be impressive, but rather to point people to the one who is Jesus. He then alludes to the recent demand of the Corinthians that he provide some letters of recommendation to prove his authority and credentials. And this is ridiculous to Paul. Their church wouldn't even exist if he hadn't started it. And so he says they are his proof of genuine leadership. They are his letter of recommendation. He cleverly quotes from the prophets Jeremiah and Ezekiel, saying that God's Spirit has written his letter of recommendation on their hearts as his new covenant people. The Corinthians shouldn't need any more proof than that. Now the mention of the New Covenant leads Paul into a long comparison between the old covenant between God and Israel that was mediated by Moses and the New Covenant. between God and the Corinthians, mediated by Jesus and the Spirit. The old covenant made at Mount Sinai, it was truly glorious. It made Moses himself shine with God's glory, but that glory eventually faded. Not to mention the fact that the laws of that covenant were ineffective at truly transforming Israel. But the new covenant, by comparison, is even more glorious because the resurrected Jesus is the very glory of God and he lives on forever. And it's his spirit that's now transforming people to become more faithful, just like Jesus Christ. Now this all sounds amazing. I mean who doesn't want to share in God's own glory? But Paul goes on to show how the paradox of the cross turns upside down the Corinthians' ideas of glory and success. After all, Jesus' glorious exaltation as king took place through his suffering, execution, and death On the cross, Jesus revealed God's salvation. He died for the sins of the world to reconcile people to God, but the cross does even more. It reveals God's character He's a being of utter self-giving suffering love that seeks the well-being of others. The cross also reveals a new cruciform way of life. And Paul's goal is that his life and ministry imitates the cross. So although his apostolic career has been marked by humility, suffering, by poverty, it was all to serve the Corinthians And so when they disapprove of Paul's poverty and suffering, they disapprove of Jesus too. Paul's way of life and leadership is actually the proof that he authentically represents the crucified and risen Jesus. Paul really wants to reconcile with the Corinthians, but he won't let things lie until they've been transformed and embraced this upside-down paradox of the cross. After this passionate appeal, Paul moves on to address the topic of forgotten generosity. So the Jewish Christians back in Jerusalem, they had fallen into poverty due to a famine And Paul was raising money among the new churches that he started, full of mostly non-Jews, they would all send the relief gift as a symbol of their unity in the Messiah Jesus. And so many of his churches, they were thrilled to give, but the Corinthians, in the midst of all this conflict with Paul, hadn't saved up for the gift. And for Paul, this isn't just about money It's another sign that the Corinthians have not been transformed by the gospel about Jesus, which at its heart is a story of generosity Paul says, You know the generous grace of our Lord Jesus the Messiah, that even though he was rich, for your sake he became rich He's telling the story of the gospel through financial metaphors. Jesus gave up his glorious honor or wealth, and he lowered himself to die like a poor slave. so that other people who are impoverished through sin and death can be exalted and become wealthy through the riches of God's grace. To be a Christian is to let this story sink deep into your mind and heart, letting it transform you into someone who's more generous. More willing to share your life and resources to help others. In the final section of the letter, Paul focuses on the main source of his conflict with the Corinthians, that group of impressive leaders that he sarcastically calls super-apostles. So they came to Corinth, promoting themselves and bad-mouthing Paul as a poor, unsuccessful leader. And at the risk of sounding self-promoting, Paul says, do these guys really want to compare credentials He can totally take them on. Are they Jewish Bible experts? Well, so is Paul. He was a Pharisee, for goodness sakes. He has the whole Bible memorized. Do they want to brag about their superior knowledge of Jesus? Paul has actually seen and hung out with the risen Jesus. He's actually had visions of Jesus' heavenly throne. But more importantly, Paul has given his entire life to the mission of Jesus. He sacrificed comfort and stability, and he never asked the Corinthians for money. Unlike the superapostles who charged a lot, Paul earned his own living. But Paul said, he refuses to brag about these accomplishments because these aren't the things that really matter as a Christian. Instead, what he'll brag about is how flawed and how weak he is, because it's in those inadequacies that he discovers the love and mercy of Jesus. Or as Jesus once told Paul, my grace is sufficient for you My power is made perfect through weakness. Paul concludes the letter with a sober warning to the Corinthians. They need to check themselves. Their contempt for Paul, his way of life, their love for these super apostles. It all shows that they don't grasp who Jesus is on a fundamental level. They're not living like transformed followers of Jesus, and so he invites them once again to humble themselves before the love of Jesus. 2 Corinthians gives us a really unique window into the life of Paul and the paradox set before us by the cross of Jesus. The cross challenges our values, our ways of seeing the world. We value success, education, wealth. But God values humility and weakness because his love and power were made known through the suffering, death, and the resurrection of Jesus. The cross also unleashes the transforming power and presence of the Spirit to empower Jesus' followers to take up his cruciform way of life and make it their own. And that's what 2 Corinthians is all about. So I'll come back to the map. So what we're going to do is I'll use this chart as and I'll I'll show you with the green circle kind of where we are as we go through time. Um hopefully you got a real good understanding. We saw in 1 Corinthians, right? What was what was part of the issue, uh chapters 1 through 4? What caused the divisions Right, they they were idol worshiping these other ministers. Um that was a really big deal for them. Um I didn't show it on Oh this chart so this these sophists that would go around and they would train people on how to speak on how to be good orators for money. That was a really big deal to them So from a secular perspective, they were very much, you know, um, they prized these charismatic, these these well-groomed, these um high societal status folks uh versus the humility, the suffering, um, what have you that Paul talked about. And so that's going to be a common theme as we go through 2 Corinthians' him Appealing back to, you know, the cross, the gospel. Right? So you're going to see that common theme throughout. Alright, let me go back to the map. Okay, again, we're we're a little bit short on time, but uh we don't have to rush through chapter one because it sets a good context. We'll be able to to finish some of that up um next week Um b-up but um read all that. Okay, let me do I want to give you one more context. This is from um John MacArthur's um commentary and it's just the introduction that I wanted to read Because I believe, yeah, it's going to talk a little bit um about Paul's correspondence with the the church at Corinth. We talked before Um scholars believe there were actually four letters that were written from Paul to the church at Corinth. Two of them are in your Bible. And if you think of it as letter A, B, C, and D, letter B, the second one, is actually 1 Corinthians, and letter D is actually 2 Corinthians. Okay? So with that for context, Paul's association with the important commercial city of Corinth began on his second missionary journey. when he spent eighteen months ministering there. After leaving Corinth, Paul heard of immorality in the Corinthian church and wrote a letter, since lost, that would have been letter A, to confront that sin. that he then referred to in 1 Corinthians. During his ministry in Ephesus, he received further reports of trouble in the Corinthian church in the form of divisions among them In addition, the Corinthians wrote Paul a letter. So we know that the Corinthians were also writing to Paul, so there was a correspondence. And in 1 Corinthians, we know he often was addressing the issues that they brought up. In addition, the Corinthians wrote Paul a letter asking for clarification of some issues. Paul responded by writing the letter known as 1 Corinthians. Planning to remain at Ephesus a little longer, Paul sent Timothy to Corinth. Disturbing news reached the apostle, possibly from Timothy, of further difficulties at Corinth, including the arrival of self-style false apostles, the super apostles we just saw in the in the video. Okay? That's what was influencing and infiltrating uh the church in Corinth To create the platform to teach their false gospel, they began by assaulting the character of Paul. They had to convince the people to turn from Paul to them if they were to succeed in preaching demon doctrine. Temporarily abandoning the work at Ephesus, Paul went immediately to Corinth. So it's not crystal clear, it's certainly not written on this map, but But many of the commentaries that I have read believe that while he was at Ephesus and he gets this report after he wrote um First Corinthians Now you remember what happened at the end of 1 Corinthians 16. What did he describe? He described his journey. I plan to come back to you Right. I'm gonna go up through Macedonia, um, hopefully I can and spend the winter with you guys, but I need to stay at Ephesus right now. You know, that was the plan. He was very intentional It is believed that he made a short-term urgent trip from Ephesus to Corinth. That's what's being described here. And then back. Because it was painful, right? Because there was there was danger there. Um so I it's not crystal clear when you read uh maybe the history in Acts. You certainly don't see it on the maps But every indication is that he made a quick trip to Corinth and then back to Ephesus. Okay? Temporarily abandoning the work at Ephesus, Paul went immediately to Corinth. The visit, known as the painful visit, we'll see that in verse 2. 1. was not a successful one from Paul's perspective. Someone in the Corinthian church, possibly one of the false apostles, even openly insulted him. Saddened by the Corinthians' lack of loyalty to defend him, seeking to spare them further reproof, and perhaps hoping time would bring them to their senses, Paul returned to Ephesus. From Ephesus, Paul wrote what is known as the severe letter, that would have been letter C, and sent it with Titus to Corinth, leaving Ephesus after the riot sparked by Demetrius. You see that in Acts 19. Paul went to Troas to meet Titus, but Paul was so anxious for news of how the Corinthians had responded to the severe letter that he could not minister there through the though the Lord had opened the door So he left for Macedonia. Alright, that's his region up in here. Remember Troaz is right here. And so now he's in Macedonia. Um So he left for Macedonia to look for Titus. To Paul's immense relief and joy, Titus met him with the news. that the majority of the Corinthians had repented of their rebellion against Paul. Wise enough to know that some rebellious attitude still smoldered under the surface And could erupt again, Paul wrote, possibly from Philippi. It's not super clear, but possibly up there in Macedonian Philippi. Um This is where he wrote 2 Corinthians. Alright, so that's what we're going to jump into. So a little bit more context and history of where we're at and where Paul is on his journey. Does that make sense? Right, so that's uh again I think um um reinforces the fact that that Paul was really trying to invest in the church in Corinth. It was a major hub Um, and a lot of pain pain and anguish, a lot of, I'm sure, different emotions dealing with this crazy church in Corinth that was so caught up in its secular surroundings Right. So let's go to Second Corinthians now. And Paul always starts with a greeting, so we read in verses 1 and 2, Paul, an apostle of Christ, Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother to the church of God, which is at Corinth, with all the saints our throughout Achaia. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. So it's really important to note here. I I think sometimes when we read Second Corinthians, just within itself, it feels like Paul is defending himself. And I I think what I want to reiterate and foot stomp as we go throughout this, Paul's not not defending his right as an apostle. He's defending the ministry. He's been called to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what he's defending. That's the credentials that he has And he starts with maybe a subtle note, but Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. What are the two major criteria to be an apostle? See Jesus. See the resurrected Jesus Christ. Did Paul see Jesus? Resurrected? Absolutely. What's the second criteria? Miracles, works. That would affirm your calling. So yes, I I might label that as number three. You're given some some miraculous gifts, but what's the second criteria? Nicholas. You have to be called. It's not a it's not a boy I feel called to be an apostle. I I think I'm gonna quote be an apostle. You have to be willed by God to be an apostle. Alright, so that's the authority that he has. He saw Jesus Christ resurrected, and he was called specifically by God. to be an apostle. Again, I don't think don't get the intent he's trying to stand firm on this is who I am. I have authorities here. He's appealing to them that I've been called to carry the gospel forward. And I'm gonna defend that to the death. That's having a boldness and a courage with the authority he has been given. But the focus is the gospel. Alright, we're gonna see that theme. throughout. Alright, in the next section, and and maybe we'll stop um after we cover this, in verses 3 through 11, he really he now focuses on this idea of suffering. And comfort. And what did we hear in the in the video we just saw? Why? Why is Paul talking about suffering? And comfort. Before we get there, some in Corinth, as you heard, may have cast doubt on Paul's sufficiency as an apostle, because he was a victim of such great suffering. Remember, how how what was their criteria for someone who was who was called? They were charismatic, they spoke well, right, maybe uh high in the society. That was their criteria. Paul's trying to reframe, recage their mind uh into what is the criteria of a true Christian. Think of um we have history of this, right? Of of people thinking, boy, if you're going through a lot of suffering, um you're you're just caught up in sin. Right? Think of Job and the the wisdom he the wisdom he was getting from his friends. Right, talking about, well this might be because of your sin. What about the lame man that Jesus healed? What was the question that the the Pharisees asked? Who sinned? Was it him or his parents? Right? Their first thought was was um you know, sin or something uh wrong. We're going to read with Paul, if there was anyone who suffered, it was Paul. Right? And we're going to see that list when we get to chapter 11. Five Jewish floggings. Each flogging had what? 39 lashes. 39 times 5. Three Roman beatings with rods, one stoning, three shipwrecks, lost at sea, hunger, cold, imprisonment, and we'll read later a thorn in the side. If anyone suffered, it was Paul. And so he wants to make sure they understand why that is important. Why start this letter with suffering and comfort? Paul wants to show them that his suffering actually produces an abundance of comfort. Right? This is the true test of who a disciple is. Paul brings to their attention the severe suffering they endured in Asia. Let's read a little bit of this, starting in verse three. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction. So that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. So as we go through suffering, and we're going to talk about the doctrine of suffering here in a quick second Right? One of the the benefits of the suffering that we go through is what? That we can comfort others. And we see this beautiful example of as we go through suffering, who comforts us? God. God is our our ultimate comforter. With the comfort which we ourselves are comforted by God. Verse 5. For just as the sufferings of Christ are ours in abundance, so also our comfort is abundant through Christ. Um where do I have it? Yeah, I'll get to that in a second. Um verse six, but if we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation. Or if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which is effective in the patient enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer. And our hope for you is firmly grounded, knowing that as you are sharers of our suffering, so also you are sharers of our comfort For we do not want you to be unaware, brethren, of our affliction which came to us in Asia. So he's going to talk about another instance of suffering, that we were burdened excessively beyond our strength So that we despaired even of life. Paul brings to their attention the severe suffering they endured in Asia. Despaired even to the point of death Alright, that Greek word despaired literally means no passage. Total absence of an exit Now it's not clear the circumstance. We don't have a lot of detail on what was happening here. It was either severe perse of persecution or it might have been some kind of physical ailment Um indeed we had the sentence of death within ourselves in order that we could not trust in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead. who delivered us from so great a peril of death and will deliver us, he on whom we have set our hope, and he will deliver us. And so whatever it was, it was extreme to the point that now again remember all the things I just listed that Paul went through. In this particular case, he feels like we're gonna die. I mean that's how severe it was Severe, severe suffering. Paul is intentionally changing the narrative from a secular view to a biblical view of the criteria of the adequacy of a Christ follower. Right? That's what he's trying to do. He's trying to recage their brains. We know from Romans 8 17, you don't need to go there, but it reminds us what? If we are children The assurance that we are God's children, then we are heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with Him in order that we may also be glorified with Him. Ladies and gentlemen, the path to glorification goes through what? Suffering. Right? It's really important to understand what is happening with biblical suffering. So we know That there's this contrast, there's this huge tension between how the world views suffering, how does the view s view suffering? To be avoided. To be avoided, right? It's a stumbling block to what? Making me happy, my plans. It is an irritant. How does God view suffering? Right? There's a whole doctrine on suffering that we see in Scripture. This list is not meant to be exhaustive, but it's a pretty good list. Starts to do what? This path of going through suffering towards glorification to strip us of self-sufficiency. Right? We go through trials and tribulations. Um God ordained Sometimes we're going through those because of the consequence of our sin, and yet God still uses that for our good and his glory. But what does that do? Right? It strips away our self-sufficiency. And make sure we're turning towards the sufficiency of Christ. It weans believers from the world. In the church in Corinth would be a prime example of having to be weaned from the world It reminds us this earth is not our home. Heaven is, so it gets us heavenward, our our focus. To do what? To conform us into the image of God. That might be primary, our sanctification. That's what suffering does. To perfect our faith and strengthen our trust, you know what happens when you're going through suffering? We must rely on God so it builds our trust. It perfects our faith. Reveals hidden sins. Again, sometimes we're we're going through consequences. The trials are brought on by ourselves. God will use those to to highlight our sin, to repent of our sin. To reconcile, to seek forgiveness. And as we talked about, as Paul just talked about, going through that suffering allows him to serve others, right? To comfort others. Sometimes we are all counselors, right? And we are fully equipped. We don't have to go through a situation in order to counsel God's word. However, you guys know when you sometimes personally go through a trial or a tribulation, you have maybe a a unique opportunity to really share some of the the struggles, the emotions that one might go through in a particular instance. So we need to see that as being sanctified to potentially serve others And then to rejoice, to not just gr get grit through it. Right? We're commanded to do what? To rejoice always. To be thankful. We saw that in 1 Thessalonians 4. Or five. To be thankful people, always. So, you know, I encourage you, when's the last time you thank the Lord for your suffering? That doesn't come naturally, does it? That's what we're commanded to do. That's the imperatives that that's the indicative and the imperative I talked about on your worksheet. Okay? Alright, I'm a little bit over. I want to stop there before we get into the last half of chapter one. There's not a whole lot there, but but we'll cover that in detail. So again, I want you to see what Paul's doing here, the context. He is um his worth is being challenged. Um he's not this charismatic, this this big nice looking guy who stands up there and is a great orator. Right? Um many people felt like he was unimpressive, he didn't speak well, and yet he is laser focused on you know promoting the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's where he's trying to get their head All right, and he starts this with this idea of of suffering as part of the credentials, um the criteria that is needed. Paul is intentionally changing the narrative from a secular view to a biblical view of the criteria of the adequacy of a Christ follower. Alright, so let's go to your memory verse. It's 2 Corinthians 3. 5, and it's a short one, but here's what it reads from the Nasbi. Not that we are adequate in ourselves. to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from God. That's just what I talked about. That's what Paul's trying to hit home. Right, so that's going to be your memory verse. Again, work on that, and I'm going to look for some volunteers, voluntolds to uh to share your verse next week. Okay? Alright, let me pray and we'll wrap this up.