Well uh once again for those of you that don't know me I'm Randall Hartman. Uh Pastor Christopher asked me to fill in for him while he's in the new members class. I did this once before and thankfully this topic's a whole lot easier than talking about head coverings for women. I'm very thankful for that. Before we uh get into the into the passage today Um let's uh let's go back over our homework. He asked me to remind you all that. Remember we're memorizing Second Corinthians five seventeen and he he called on people last week to uh to share from memory if they want. I'm not gonna call anybody, but does anybody, one or two people want to share that? I guess I should share it because I've been working with any man is in Christ He is a new creation, behold things old things are passed away, behold, all things are uh have become new. I think that's a combination of King James, NIV, ESV, and LSB by my bomb. Okay. Well he asked me to have you keep working on that as well. Also, uh please go ahead and use those sheets that uh Diane has for you that he gives out every week. Those are just fantastic ways of studying a passage. Now read through it once uh get the get the whole overall context and then go back and read through it and look for what does it say about the character of God And then what does it say about uh the indicatives what God has done or what is true? And then the imperatives, what God is commanding us to do. I just I've just found that to be a really good way to prepare uh coming in each week Alright, so here's our outline that we've been going through. We are on April 12th. We're getting close to about halfway through here. And uh You'll recall from this uh cool little graphic that um we're in the section, the first section uh chapters one to seven where um Paul is uh reconciling the process of reconciling with the Corinthians. And so today We are going to consider chapter 6 is going to go all the way up through actually the first verse of chapter 7. And uh this whole section again, as we saw in that last uh picture, is that Paul is reconciling with them. Um there are two themes that Pastor Christopher has been talking about that I want to uh make sure I mention and we'll see them again in this uh in this chapter, uh the defense of his ministry, uh where he's uh defending himself against these folks that come in with their rhetoric or their strong appearance or haven't suffered or etc Uh so he's having them to focus on the heart rather than on appearances. And then the second concern that we've seen through this and even back in the first letter, I believe, uh is the concern about the Corinthians association with idols and uh separation from that. The context here of of this of this chapter of chapter six before we read it is uh building on what he mentioned in chapter five, the ministry of reconciliation. I really appreciated the quote that um Pastor Christopher gave us last week. Sinful humans don't reconcile themselves to an angry God. A loving God reconciles himself to sinful So that is the ministry that Paul has been given as an ambassador to uh to be God's minister of reconciliation. And what we'll see here is that uh chapter six carries that forward. And so uh overall I've given uh I've got an outline here of what I see as the uh framework we're going to talk about today. The overall subject sentence, if you will, for this chapter is Paul reinforces the results of reconciliation for the redeemed. And in doing so, he does it in four ways. He pleads, he commends, he appeals, and he commands, all because of God's grace. So in the the first the first division we'll talk about first two verses are where he pleads urgently with them. Then he spends an extended time where he goes back to that theme of defending his ministry and he commends his ministry on a number of bases. Uh he appeals then on the basis of that of of his uh the validity of his ministry as pleasing to God for their affection. And one of the ways then he asks for their affection is to uh show their love his love for them excuse me, to show their love for him by actually responding and obeying through separation from idols. So that's the outline we're going to follow Alright, so let's dive into uh verses one to two, Paul's urgent plea not to receive the grace of God in vain. Let me read that for you. And working together with him, we also plead with you not to receive the grace of God in vain. For he says, At the acceptable time I listen to you. And on the day of salvation I help you. Behold, now is the acceptable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. So Pastor Christopher has talked about connecting words, therefore and because and things like that. And the word and here at the beginning of uh verse one really is another one of those connecting or tran uh uh c connecting or transition words that tells us uh that this relates to what came before. So you see the parallel back in verses twenty and twenty-one of the prior chapter He said, so then we are ambassadors for Christ, as God is pleading through us, we beg you on behalf of Christ to be reconciled for God. to God. He made him to be who knew no sin, to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him And working together with him. So he's our ambassador for Christ, God's pleading through him, and now he's working together through him. So what is the deep desire here? What is his deep desire? What does he beg? Well in verse 20 we uh we saw that he said, We beg you on behalf of Christ. be reconciled to God. And so then his plea is based upon that that begging is a follow under that. So let's talk about what his plea is. And really his plea is the whole message, I think, of of verses one to ten. And that is, don't receive the grace of God in vain. Probably a colloquial way to say that would be, don't fail to respond to the grace of God. And so let's let's talk about what what that means uh in in uh context of him addressing these Corinthians So does he mean that you can receive the grace of God in vain, but then lose your salvation? Clear clearly not, right? Scripture is pretty is very clear on that. Um I think it's worth reiterating a couple passages that just show the certainty of our salvation. John 6, 37 to 39, Jesus said, All the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will never cast out. Later on he said in that passage, All that he has given me, of all he has given me, I lose nothing but raise it up on the last day. I myself will raise him up on the last day. It stands on Christ. Yes Right, the the the the point you're making is that um the appearance that we only God truly knows someone to save. We can look at the evidences of it, but God is the one who knows and someone they claim to be saved. may even show evidences of it but quote fall away and we know that if that was the case they really truly never were saved. But from our appearance it looks that way Yeah, right. Yeah, so here I was I wanted to be sure we were focusing on the assurance that we can have as we have professed our faith and we know the Holy Spirit working in our hearts that we are we are saved. Um I don't I I want to just give you another another verse there from Jesus in John 10 where he says, I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish ever, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. No one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. So our salvation for those who are truly saved rests on the power of God and His holding us, not us holding Him. So if it doesn't mean that, then what does it mean to receive not to receive the grace of God in vain? Well 135 I think gives us a little clue. We'll come to that in a few weeks, where he says, test yourselves to see if you are in the faith. Examine yourselves. So I think he's calling them here to to uh examine themselves. And I think there are perhaps two aspects that are of view. The first one goes right to what we just talked about. Uh those who there are those who are not saved, he's calling to turn to Christ. There are some in this church, there's some in every visible church that are not part of the true church. that are not truly saved. So he's got this ministry of reconciliation where he's calling people to be reconciled to God, which first and foremost starts with trusting Christ. Um and so this is why we see our pastors every week when they preach. You know, they're primarily preaching and expounding the scripture to those of us who are saved, but they never fail to call people to Christ. ask you to examine yourself and say if you haven't accepted Christ, you should do that. So I think that's perhaps one uh meaning of this it would truly be to send under the grace of God and hear the message, uh as he the passage he cited, which I think was in Hebrews, and and yet ultimately disdain it and not accept it But then for the large majority of these folks who are believers, and I think for us, what he's also saying is here is to live in light of the grace we have received. Don't receive it in vain in the sense you say, okay, I'm saved, I'm going to heaven. I'm gonna go ahead and live the way I want. In the Corinthian context of idolatry, I think that that might be uh what he's getting at here. Remember that was the big issue again. pervasiveness of this pagan culture uh through all of society and how they likely could have been uh drawn into that either unwittingly or uh in compromise. We'll discuss that more when we come to the latter part of the chapter. But then there's also this urgency here that Paul gives. He says, now is the acceptable time. Now is the day of salvation. That comes from uh he's quoting Isaiah 49, and there's a few verses there I wanted to I wanted to read to you. It's 49, uh the specific verse he's quoting from is verse eight, but I want to start with verse five. So now says Yahweh, who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to return Jacob back to him, so that Israel might be gathered to him, for I am glorified in the sight of Yahweh, and my God is my strength. He says It is too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to cause the preserved ones of Israel to return. I will also give you as a light of the nations so that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. Thus says Yahweh, the Redeemer of Israel and its Holy One, to the despised one, to the abhorred one by the nations, to the servant of rulers. Kings will see and arise, princes will bow down, because of Yahweh who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel who has chosen you. In an acceptable time I have answered you And in a day of salvation I have helped you. So this is a passage. There are several passages in Isaiah that are called servant songs, which are ultimately referring to Jesus, the suffering servant, the Messiah. MacArthur uh comments that this tells of the servant's mission and spiritual success. And so what is that mission? Well he's called to restore Israel. So then how does Paul apply this passage to Gentile Corinthian Christians, uh Israel? Well you you see it right there. uh boldly in verse six, is it too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and cause the reserved ones of Israel returned. In other words, is it too small a thing that the only ones that benefit from you being the Savior are the Jews? And he says, No, I will also give you as a light of the nations, so that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth So right there in Isaiah 49, Paul is telling them, Look, God has said through Isaiah, now is the acceptable time, now is the day of salvation for you too. You need to receive the grace of God that He has given you through His Messiah. So there's an urgency that Paul is conveying here. What applications can we take from this? I think there's there's two that I saw. One is uh just receiving the grace of God. Don't receive the grace of God in vain. um as we study Second Corinthians, as we are in other equipping classes, as we're studying the scriptures in our small groups, as we're sitting in the uh in the auditorium today and hearing First Corinthians thirteen expounded. Um we can we sh can and should pray for an open mind, an open heart, and a submissive spirit to receive the grace of God that's communicated to us through his word and apply it in our lives. I think that's the the overall big message you say here. When you hear God calling you to come to salvation, come. When you hear God calling you to live in light of the grace I've given you, live that way. The other application I see here is pleading. Paul's pleading with them. He's got an urgency. And um, you know, sometimes it's pretty easy to go through life and worry about getting your uh bills paid and your job done and the lawn load and all the other uh tasks in life and uh it's a key thing to remember that part of our job is ambassadors for Christ, just as Paul was. Just to plead with others to come to Christ and to plead with our brothers and sisters if we see them falling astray to live for Him. Any questions or other observations on these first two verses? Haven't gone very far here. And go back the prophecy we to to see it there and even go back further, go back a few thousand years to Abraham. For the pro part of the promise, part of the covenant uh given to Abraham is that he will be a light for the nations, that all the nations will be blessed through him. thinking forward to how uh God would extend salvation through the line of Abraham the Messiah Okay, let's uh just uh would you say it's true that we as Christians can take the the grace of God in vain and not really live out what Commands, exhortations of scripture laws. And then also the the unbeliever hears the the gospel and just It's it doesn't register and it's not paid attention to, so it's in it's in vain. So are those two categories included in this exhortation? Yeah, I I I'm seeing it that way since it's not clear to me that he's Focusing on one or the other exclusively. So just knowing the nature, the mixed nature of the visible church that he's He's calling out uh folks to receive Christ if they haven't. So that would certainly to hear that message and reject it would be to have received the message of the grace of God in vain. But I think also from the the passage later where he calls us to examine ourselves and where there are lots of exhortations and other letters about uh uh gro growing sanctify sanctification, putting off old things, putting on new things that we can uh be lukewarm right and and not um not be pursuing the full benefit of the grace of god which is ultimately living to to honor him and glorify him and please him and do. So that's what I was I was taking for that. I I can't be dogmatical either one, so given that it it appeared the passage wasn't Focusing on one versus the other, given the whole context, I I think we can consider both, especially as they show up in other parts of scripture Okay, let's move on to uh verses three to ten. So here Paul commends himself, his ministry. And his devotion, his sacrificial devotion to faithful ministry. We talked about that being a theme of this book, and he starts off that way in verse 3. Where he says his ministry is giving no cause for offense. Let me let me digress a second here. In my Bible, there's a dash at the end of verse one and a dash at the end of verse two And what you see there is Paul Paul tends to do this, he digresses. So in this case, he's digressing to uh to To say what he means about don't receive the grace of God in vain, he quotes scripture to support that. He's saying Don't receive it in vain because now's the acceptable time. But his thought that he goes back to is he's working together with him, pleading with you not to receive the grace of God in vain And doing it, verse three, by giving no cause for offense in anything so that the ministry will not be discredited. So he's working with Christ He's pleading uh pleading with them and he's doing it in a way that is not uh intended not to give offense Let's go on now and and look at the various evidences that he gives. He gives a lot of evidences in 4A. He talks about uh with the with the commending with commending himself as ministers of God And uh then he gives three lines of proof of his faithfulness as a minister of God. So uh four uh B through five. Let's look at those. Those are where he shows himself to be persevering through hardship. So four B I'll just start with the beginning of four. In everything commending ourselves as ministers of God, in much perseverance, in afflictions, in distresses, in hardships, in labors in sleeplessness, in hunger. So all these things are some form of hardship or suffering. Recall that he was being criticized by the super apostles and by the Corinthians for uh suffering various types of hardships as that somehow showed his weakness and showed that he wasn't qualified. And in fact he's saying persevering through all these things is is how we show our faithfulness in ministry. Verses six and seven then talk about the virtues of this ministry. And six, in purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in unhypocritical love In the word of truth, in the power of God, by the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and the left. So here he's uh he's going through a number of positive virtues, not defending himself, but the positive virtues of his ministry. His ministry isn't based on sophisticated rhetoric or deception like these super apostles, but it's based on, as he says here, the word of truth and in the Holy Spirit He dealt with this also, you might remember, a couple chapters ago, um in uh in chapter two where he said, we are not like many peddling the word of God, but as from sincerity, but as from God in the sight of God we speak in Christ. So he's commending himself again based on The suffering he's done to be faithful based on the virtue of conducting his ministry in a way that pleases God and is designed to Gat Garner God's commendation. And then finally, back to the the the idea of looking at appearances versus substance, uh the external versus the heart, he talks about emphasizing those things. This is in verses, eight to ten. He puts he calls these antitheses, or I'd say the uh MacArthur calls these antitheses, or our commentary does that we we read from uh two things that are kind of opposites. Um so verse eight, by glory and dishonor, by evil report and good report, regarded as deceivers And yet true, as unknown and yet well known, as dying, and yet behold we live, as punished and yet not put to death. As sorrowful but always rejoicing, as poor but making many rich, as having nothing, yet possessing all things. So Taken together, what we are seeing with these is that he takes something that looks like, well, this isn't really a characteristic of faithful ministry. But in actuality, it is. I've received dishonor, but there's glory coming from my ministry. I have evil reports against me, but I'm looking for the good report of God I'm regarded as a deceiver, but yet I'm really telling the truth. I'm regarded as not really well known by some of you, but yet I am well known I'm regarded as dying and suffering, going through all these things that look like I'm really not being commended for what I'm doing, but yet I'm not being put to death. I look terribly sorrowful because of all this stuff, but I'm really rejoicing because I get to do this as an ambassador for Christ. So So again, three different lines of proof here where he gives us extended defense of his ministry. And so we talked about self-examination, right, just a few moments ago. To some extent I think this is Paul's report on his self-examination examination. Think about it. He's looked at his himself and he said I'm going through all the stuff, but the reason I'm doing it is to be an ambassador. I'm doing it Am I doing it in my own strength? Am I doing it with my own talents? No, I'm trying to do it from the Word of God, in the Holy Spirit, doing it in the right way with the right virtues being emphasized And I'm not worried about what I look like. I'm worried about what the substance is. So how do we apply these things to ourselves. Well one thing while I'll do that is I'll put up Pastor Christopher's head again with as we've seen Paul talking about his sufferings throughout this book A a biblical doctrine of suffering just as that a reminder for you. Does any aspect of our lives cause offense other than the offense of the gospel. Does anything we say or do discredit our witness or our testimony? Or is it consistent with it? Do we persevere faithfully despite the circumstances? I can look in a mirror and say I've struggled with that on many occasions. Do we prioritize faithfulness to God's word and holy living? Paul was doing it in the word of truth. And do we keep an even keel of contentment? We're all familiar with Philippians four, uh, where he talks about wanting to be content in everything. Everything. Is there anything from uh going back to um verses uh four to four to ten, anything in those verses that we went through that resonates with you Anything either in the category of suffering or in the category of uh faithfulness in in how you conduct yourself or anything in the category of uh appearances versus substance that anyone would like to share or uh that happened to speak to you if you looked at this passage. Um I like the mention of great endurance. Um I read Revelation recently and mentioned reading the endurance of things and revelations also just like a theme whole book of Bible. So you see you see the great endurance that's required when we get to Revelation, and that's that's really speaking to you right now. Thank you. Kirk. Yeah I I think of missionaries who they're they go into a choosing and they know that they're going to live a pretty meager life And yet that's not their motivation. It's that they're going to bring uh richness and salvation and blessing to to see that it's you know it's a choice to say uh there there's some So that those who serve as a as a full time ambassador for Christ and often far from from where they they're from are definitely uh Sacrificing and doing so willingly. And you have a first hand example when you're home. This somewhat ordinary person is choosing a life that very few would would choose to choose that. But it seems like she's doing it for the for uh for God's honor and not for what she can get out of it. Although there's a lot of joys that she derives from that Yeah, Paul talked later in those virtues about um sorrowful but always rejoicing. So there was joy. even in the midst of the sorrows. I think the other good point you make there is that um this is not for just for people who are called to full-time ministry. It's for us too Um our we we have doing uh do we commend ourselves to those around us, our neighbors, our family, our friends, by how we bear up in suffering? By the faithfulness and uh integrity with which we live and conduct the ministry that we're engaged in. Just look at these con this list of contrasts. Yes. Um I like that word. That contrast is a much better word than a tempestise. Uh yeah, you pay less money for the word contract. The uh It's you know, the one that drew my attention is unknown and yet well known. And I I think because to me that's just like, wait, what? But it occurs to me that Being known is being known by God here. Um I I can be unknown by the people around me, the people that I'm trying to serve. They don't really understand the stuff God's Spirit does. And and Christ is advocating for me before the Father. And there's a a closeness and a a relationship is there with God that that Paul has that bears up. And then if you take that same idea. I don't know if it stretches to all of them. I was trying to do it and and ask the question, does that fit to all of them? Is it this is the way you guys are doing me, but this is the way God is doing me. um what, there's a saying or something like that, no one does meet like I don't know the term. Anyway, we don't want to go there. But but the thought the thought is I'm And and it follows that I'm dead or dying, yet behold we live. And we're alive in Christ, and we're poor, but we're rich in heaven And and stuff like that. And there's a spectacularness about the truth of of who we are in Christ that exists in what Paul's saying here, I think. And that's part of his credentials. Yeah, I I appreciate that. So the for the sake of the recording, so the Doug's point is that as unknown and yet well known may actually be behind all of these contrasts that we're uh unknown to the outside world looking at us but the the the key thing is that we're known by God and that these reflect uh what the appearance on the outside is, but that being known by God enables all these other aspects Did I did I get that? Yeah. Thank you. Okay. So let's go on then to our next section Which is verses eleven to thirteen. So having defended himself having called them not to receive the grace of God in vain and having commended himself in all these ways, saying, Essentially I am sold out for this ministry of being an ambassador to uh for Christ. He He appeals to them. He says, Our mouth has spoken freely to you, O Corinthians. Our heart is open wide. You're not restrained by us But you are restrained in your own affections. Now in a light exchange, I speak as the children, open wide to us also. So MacArthur comments here that the evidence of Paul's genuine love for the Corinthian for the Corinthians was that no matter how some of them had treated him and mistreated him, he still loved them and had room for them and his heart in his heart. In fact, all the sufferings he endured to minister to them were some demonstration of that. And so he entreats them to show the same reciprocity to them, uh having poured out his heart in open, untransparent love uh affection He says in a like exchange open wide to us also. His attitude is one of their being their spiritual father. He says, I speak as the children. He's not calling them immature uh chronologically or childish, but he's he's their spiritual father. That's the the basis for this kind of appeal. And as recipients of the word of truth by the power of God, which we saw in verse seven, he calls on them to reciprocate. Again, this is part of this responding, uh not receiving the grace of God in vain. Uh and what we'll see is what he's going to do is call them to accept and obey the Word of God, the truths of the Word of God, and put that into practice in their lives. So this is really a a transition here where he's he's built on how much he loves them and how much he desires for them to uh urgently now act on the grace of God in their lives. Um he asked them to show that in opening wide to him, to reciprocating his reciprocate his love and affection, and to do so in just a minute we'll see by obedience From an application perspective here, how can we open wide our hearts? One thing we can do is um open our hearts wide to those who minister to us. Our pastors, our equipping class leaders, our small group leaders encourage them by showing them our affection, our unrestrained affection and support. Because they really are suffering in some cases. They're definitely sacrificing to prepare, to lead, to do all the other things of life and at the same time minister to us. So it really is a way we can encourage and show them love by responding that way to them So how about also toward those who mistreat us? Paul's sacrificial ministry to these folks who have, as we've learned, mistreated him, put him down, listened to others who uh were more showy and more impressive rather than the truth that he had given them. How do we mistreat others who mistreat us how do we treat those who mistreat us? What is the motivation of our response? Paul's motivation here was the commendation of God. That can be a good uh touchstone for us to say, what is how how will God be commended commend us? How will he be glorified in my response when people mistreat us And then finally, you know, Paul is doing this as a minister, and so we can also apply this to ourselves and how we serve in ministry through a variety of circumstances. Do we serve faithfully when we're suffering various hardships? Do we serve faithfully in trying to be true to the Word of God? Do we seek the power of the Holy Spirit uh and his his working in us as we as we minister? Do we persevere through the hardships? Uh do we ultimately seek God's glory and commendation as we minister, whether it's in music, whether it's in teaching, whether it's in serving, whatever way we do. There's a lot of applications here. Yes, ma'am, Andrew. Yes, so Andrew is asking whether um in in the course of studying this I focused on well how he how he might apply these things uh how we might uh I'm make sure I've got it right. Sure, just this list is unique to how to enduring on Okay, okay, so it's a a unique perspective on how to endure in conflict. And and did we s did they see anywhere else where this is fleshed out? in scripture. I did not pursue studying that uh specifically. Um I think we can see it in uh the life of Christ um where uh he even though reviled, he did not revile in return. Uh in fact I think I actually had intended to mention that scripture early on. Um Let me see if I can find that. And in my technological mess up, I uh I got excited and passed over it. Um Yes, it's it's in in 1 Peter, where he continued entrusting himself to the one who judges faithfully, who judges rightly, even when he was uh he suffered So that that is actually our ultimate example. In fact Peter says he he he did all this as an example for us that we should follow in his steps. Uh the whole the whole passage in First Peter there is about um us uh submitting to authorities, even to evil authorities, and calls us Uh absent being asked to sin, which we see elsewhere we shouldn't we shouldn't do that, but uh to submit to evil authorities and to follow Jesus' example of not uh responding in kind. And ultimately, um losing my thought here. Um Ultimately, what the the authority that we're submitting to, and that Jesus was submitting to is that of the Father. We're ultimately submitting to God's authority to live for Him, to do His will I'm aware of the time, so let's move on to our last section here. And this is where Paul commands them. not to be unequally joined uh in unions that are incompatible with being believers. Um the commentary points out that Paul's kind of doing a 180 here. He's had this whole appeal of my Uh I I want you to respond now to the grace of God. I've given all these things for you to do it. I love you. I want to have your love. And now he comes out and and Gives them a start command, do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. So he really has done a 180. And I think In reality, what this might be is Paul getting to the the punchline of what he means here by not receiving the grace of God in vain. And so perhaps this goes back to Kirk's earlier question was what is what is he what does this get to? And I think for them in this particular case that's what he's uh in in this part of the letter calling them not to do. He's calling them to separate themselves. So let's talk about real quickly about how do we apply this, um, how do we sort through the principle behind this because You know, we we heard at the marriage conference yesterday and rightly so, that this is often applied to the marriage relationship, uh that believers should not marry an unbeliever But this is not he's not talking about marriage here. He's talking about uh the Corinthian idol culture. So, uh how let let's let's talk through real quick what the principles are because maybe there's other places we ought to apply it as well. And I I I think there are really three key words here. One is the term with unbelievers. He's not saying that we should isolate from unbelievers. In First Corinthians he told us actually not to associate with the immoral in the church but not with from unbelievers. And Jesus of course ate with tax collectors and sinners because he came to reach those who are lost, not those who thought they were good. So the qualifier with unbelievers doesn't mean that we're supposed to disassociate completely from the lost, but there are situations where we are not to associate with unbelievers. So then what are those situations? Well, qualitatively, it's when those situations are resulting in us unequally associating with them Recall in the law back in Deuteronomy, and I think uh it was also quoted in places in the New Testament, there were lots of commands about not mixing things that are unlike uh seeds, don't plant two different seeds in a field, don't put two different kinds of fabrics together, don't put a a donkey and an ox in the in a yoke. Don't put old wine and or new wine and old wineskins, etc. Why is that? Well the the outcome is contaminated or the product is flawed or the inputs are conflicting Uh an analogy you know from what we think about. Try to take two north poles of magnets and join them together so they they don't go. Or try to mix oil and water. If you just put them together they they separate So there are there are some things that um really can't come together. And so the the adverb unequally here I think is indicating Things that are inextricably joined have to be compatible. And when they aren't compatible, they can't be inextricably joined. So there are common ways we're equal with unbelievers, right? We're Created in the image of God. We're sinners in need of the Savior. We're parents. We're workers. We have all these things in common. Nevertheless, there are some situations where we are different from unbelievers and we're not to be uh not to associate with them. So that comes to our third term, yoked. And the this is the nature of the union where we are not to associate. So a yoke, if you're familiar with it, is a wooden bar that goes across the back of two oxen and then it has a wooden thing that goes around under each of their necks so it binds them together. It's rigid and when wherever one oxen goes ox goes the other has to go. Scripture has a lot of analogies about being yoked. In Leviticus, it says that Israel was under the yoke of slavery. In Numbers, it says Israel yoked itself to the Baals. In the Jerusalem Council and Acts, the uh the church concluded that they uh were should not require Gentiles to be under the yoke of And then Galatians says that Christ says Christ has set us free from the yoke of slavery to the law. So from this little survey you can see that being yoked with something is to be uh almost surrendering your independent will to be uh bound to go wherever the thing you're yoked with takes you. By contrast in Matthew Jesus said his yoke is easy and his burden is light. So we have a different kind of yoke. So when I put these three terms together, um the principle that I kind of see out of that is that we are not to be joined in close, unequal relationships with unbelievers because our God, our nature, our priorities, and our destiny are incompatible with theirs. We are yoked to Christ. Not of all these other things. Yes. To me it seems like it's saying that don't put yourself in a situation where you can' You're going to be forced to do something you know is wrong or break your promise of follower who's being bound to some covenant something In some way. So you you sort of put yourself in a situation where you you're wrong either way you go. Right. You would could be bound and forced to sin. So um other examples of of this idea of being separate From the yoke of unbelievers. Very clear throughout the Old Testament, God did not want his people to engage in idol worship which they often fell into. So what did he do? When when they entered the the promised land excuse me He told them to militarily wipe out all the pagan cultures. Why? Because they would draw them astray from him. Similarly, with Israel's kings, he told them one of the commands in Deuteronomy of kings was not to take many wives, because their wives, if there were foreign wives, would draw them astray into idolatry. And of course we saw that's what happened exactly to Solomon. So with that principle in mind Paul goes on to give a couple illustrations that I think can help us in understanding this negative examples and positive examples. The negative examples are this impossible discontinuity between uh Christians and unbelievers. 14B says, What partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? What fellowship is light with darkness? What harmony is Christ with Belial, Satan, another name for Satan? What is a believer in common with an unbeliever? So this is is getting just to what we we just heard that um putting yourself in a situation where you're going to be drawn to something that's completely opposite uh from from who you are. And I should go on verse 16a. What agreement has the sanctuary of God with idols? We are the sanctuary of the living God, just as God has said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. We are the sanctuary of God. We shouldn't yoke into the sanctuary of Satan. There are positive examples he gives here also. In verses 16, second half of 16 on to uh 18. And I I read I I continued on that just now. I'll dwell with them and walk with them and be their God, and they shall be my people Therefore come out and be separate, and do not touch what is unclean, and I will welcome you, and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty. So we are new creations. The old has passed away. The new has come. Our our memory verse. So we're of a fundamentally different constitution than unbelievers, and we are totally new. Therefore we should not be uniting ourselves in ways that we can't extract ourselves with unbelievers And then seven one, he actually, I think, puts the capstone on this with a positive, okay, well how do we do this Therefore, having these promises, beloved, having these and again the promises we went through those positive things I will be their God. They shall be my people. I will welcome you. I will be a father to you. You'll be sons and daughters to me. Having these promises, beloved Let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. So we're to cleanse ourselves. 1 Peter 2. 11 says, as sojourners and exiles abstain from fleshly lust, which wage war against the soul. Perfecting holiness. First John 3. 3 says, everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself, just as he is pure. And I think uh Romans 13, 12 to 14 sums it up, among any other many other verses, but it says, the night is almost gone, the day is at hand. Again that contrast. Therefore, let us lay aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk properly as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness Not in sexual promiscuity and sensuality, not in strife and jealousy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh in regard to its lusts. We're getting down to just a couple minutes here, so I want to move into the applications on what it means real life for us to not be unequally yoked. We talked about marriage of course. Any other any thoughts that you all might have on personally, uh what kind of personal relationships might be unequally yoking? And I I would I was putting that under societal, but but there can be certain business relationships where perhaps it's a contractual relationship that doesn't allow you the ability to get out of it. And you so you you can notice in other words we see in the Old Testament people made of made vows to do things that were sinful So th that's a good example. Appreciate it. Uh do I see another hand? So the people in the church there are some in the church who are not Christians and you could end up in one of these relationships. Yeah. Well for the sake of time I'll I'll share with you the other things I thought about. Um I think and I I think on on this topic it does require us to seek God's word, to seek what it means to please Him, you know, the law of Christ written on our hearts. So I don't think we can necessarily make strict rules on every single thing for everybody. We need to search the scriptures, we need to get godly counsel We need to pray and ask the Holy Spirit to guide us. But um there might be uh things in the area of disputable things where we don't engage in certain disputable things uh because that would be to unequally yoke ourselves Um in in church it would be uh perhaps polluting our worship or our teaching or our fellowship with things that are not biblical. Uh it could be compromising what we do in church or in our lives to uh accommodate to the culture Certainly there's lots and lots of pressure of that these days. And in society, uh you know, perhaps there are organizations we can't participate in because that would be unequal yoking given and what their objectives are. Or maybe employment, maybe the nature of what the company's product is or how they ask you to achieve those results are areas where we need to consider. So we're getting close to our time and I want to be faithful uh with that. The recap then here I think is that what we see in in chapter six is the results of being reconciled to God for God's redeemed people. Uh don't receive the grace of God in vain. In other words, look at the last part. Don't uh don't be une unequally yoked with others. Persevere virtuously in faithful ministry. Paul, by his example, perseveres in hardship, in seeking God's commendation, and in reflecting the reality of what a transformed life is. Reciprocate love for our spiritual leaders. I think this church does a great job doing that and uh let's continue to do that. And then finally, perfect holiness And the fear of God. Uh one of the places God says really clearly what his will is, the will of God is your sanctification So uh we are at time. I apologize again for the little technical difficulty at the beginning, um, but uh let's uh conclude our time in prayer