Alright. Um there were two sheets you should have gotten today, so hopefully you got both handouts and we'll we'll see where we get today. Um chapter eight is a little bit um smaller chapter so I don't want to rush through this. This is a really important topic that we're going to talk about today and it's important that we have clarity. So um if we get through it, great. If we don't We can carry on next week. So I want to start with here's where we're at, first of all, right? We're on lesson number four. We're going to cover 1 Corinthians 7. And just in our timeline of how 1 Corinthians is broken out, we see the division there. We're kind of on the end of that second half in chapter 7 there. responding to moral issues. But it has really been, you know, Paul addressing um so just a little recap of last week, you know, really so far he's been addressing the church writ large Right? So the importance of the purity of the church, the witness of the church, the protection of the church, and we all have a responsibility, but especially the leaders And so a lot of what he has been addressing has been from a church con context. Um in chapter six we saw what was the big issue that started uh chapter six, do you remember? Lawsuits All right, it started with lawsuits and and the big deal there was these were trivial things that they were immediately running to this secular spectacle That's how they did the courts in the Greco-Roman era, was just out in the open. It was a spectacle, right? He says, how dare you bring your brothers and sisters into this spectacle And this incredible truth, what? From an escat uh eschatological standpoint, what's gonna happen? We're gonna rule with Christ. We're gonna be judging the earth. That's what part of ruling is. To include who The angels. That's just shocking. I don't know about you guys. That's just shocking, right? That we're gonna be able uh we're gonna be in that role where we judge the angels. And so he's telling them, you guys are equipped. You have been equipped. This is your training period to start judging, if you will, examining, help mediate those within the church. You are capable of doing that. And again, the context of this church is the Corinthian church specifically, many of the converts are Gentiles. There are some Jewish converts, but most of them are Gentiles. So they came from this very pagan sexual um very sexual immorality type of environment all right and that's going to play out as we see today So we did see in chapter six though is that he starts to make this transition to individuals and and that's where he does go back to this idea of sexual purity and he talks a lot about this in in many of his epistles Why? We saw because many of the sins, what did he say, are outside of the body. Sexual sin though is against the body. And we talked about this, it's a bit of a paradox, but this interconnectedness that happens between the soul and the flesh. Right? And we have the indwelling of the spirit. And to connect with a prostitute, in a sense, is your You're integrating that into that interconnectedness, right? That's the seriousness of the sexual sin that was happening. Right? So he constantly is going back to this idea of sexual purity And we're gonna see now that he's gonna pick that back up in chapter seven. But I I wanted to make sure we had all of that context because we're gonna see a a bit of a shift here in chapter seven where He now is going to specifically answer a question that they had. So I've mentioned before that um historically it is believed that he actually wrote four letters to the Corinthians. Two of those we have in Scripture. So again, if it was A, B, C, D, B is 1 Corinthians, D is 2 Corinthians. Right? In between there he had some letters. But we also get indications that what they were writing to him So there was a correspondence that was going on. And here we see now in chapter 7, um, he is going to directly address one of those issues and we'll see that in subsequent chapters where he specifically says now concerning right so we know that he is addressing um a particular issue that They were writing about or had questions about. Alright, so before we jump into that, so let me just say this up front. This chapter, um, how many of you uh I'm sure all of you are familiar, how many have struggled with chapter seven understanding it. Yeah. Right? So I I'm hoping we can add some clarity today. I will not stand here and say you're gonna walk away with total clarity on every issue. Right? There might be more questions, and that that's okay. That means we just continue to work through the chapter. And again, if we need to move into next week, we'll do that. This is a really, really important topic. And I'll say this again, why Not only for your own lives, but you are going to be put in situations where you will have to counsel on this subject. You will have to give wisdom to family members, to people within the church. young people. And let me say this what we'll cover today is singleness. We'll talk about marriage. We'll talk about divorce. We'll talk about remarriage We have all of those in our church. So this is a sensitive topic, and I want to be sensitive. But we simply want to pull out what we believe Paul is saying here in Scripture. That's what's most important And I promise to keep it PG as well. Alright? So just I want us all to be mindful that it is a sensitive topic. And every every situation there's a different context, right? And we need to understand that and pull that through. So I'm hoping we can have some discussion today. But I want to be sensitive to that too, right? Not asking anyone to share anything they don't want to. All right, so let's talk about uh I want to give you some overall observations like we have on the on the slide here before we jump in to the text. So like it's written here, Paul's going to address marriage, divorce, and remarriage and singleness, but it is not meant to be exhaustive teaching on the subject. This is really, really important. Now So let's walk through what are some of the purposes of marriage that we get in Scripture. What's maybe the most important? Ephesians 5 Picture of Christ in the church. I did not pay Tara to say that. She just walked in and boom. So so really, right, we get that from Ephesians 5, that it is supposed to be this image, this picture of this relationship between Christ and the church. That's what our marriages are to exemplify. I think that's a really nice systematic or overarching theme for this is what marriage should look like. Right, and all the the complexities of that, it should be this image of Christ in the church. Alright, good. What else? Procreation. Right? It is the vehicle that God has used for procreation. um to to have children. Barbara. Okay, so a helpmate, um sanctification if you will. Kirk, what what did you say? Enjoyment, pleasure. Pleasure! Yeah. Friendship. Yeah. So um so I think you guys covered them. Uh relationship between Christ and the church. We get that from Ephesians 5. Companionship What did the Lord say when it was just Adam? It is not good for man to be alone, right? He needs a helpmate. Procreation, you guys talked about that. Pleasure, I'll take it a song of Solomon I believe that's what that book is about, right? It's intimacy, the pleasure of intimacy in marriage. And then sanctification. Right? Our own purification, our own protection. And that's really what Paul is focusing on in chapter 7. So not the holistic view of of marriage. We know from other verses, other chapters. I just mentioned a couple, but Ephesians 5 Paul talks about roles and responsibility, the beauty of marriage and this beautiful relationship it's supposed to represent. But specifically in chapter 7, he is talking specifically about this idea of sexual purity. So you gotta keep that in mind when he's giving his instruction, his command, his wisdom. um regarding sexual immorality or what they perceive to be sexual immorality in the marriage relationship. Okay? So that's a really important context for us. Paul is always speaking with authority. If you don't have your Bibles open, open up to chapter 7. And this this um part it always been confusing to me, but I I think we have good clarity. So sometimes he's referring directly to the teaching of Christ and other times as is as inspired by the Holy Spirit. So for example, go to verse 10 and we'll come back to these. He says, but to the married I give instructions. Not I, but the Lord. So what what is happening here is Paul is referring back to something Jesus Christ specifically said And we have that written down in Scripture. Alright, so when he says, not I, but the Lord, he's saying, I'm taking this directly from what the Lord said. This is the instruction that he gave us. Verses, look at verse 12 But to the rest I say, not the Lord, that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and she consents to live with him, let him not send her away. The Lord didn't say this. I'm expanding on what the Lord said. I can't go back to a very specific thing, point of scripture that Jesus said. But Paul is speaking with the authority of the inspired word of the Holy Spirit, right? So we cannot, don't assume this to be his opinion. Right, everything written in here is God's inspired word. So he's simply saying at this point I'm referencing something Jesus said over here I'm adding to it, but I have the authority to add to it. Does that make sense? All right We can see that in verse 25 as well. Now concerning virgins, I have no command of the Lord. Again, he's not saying I don't have specific instruction from the Lord. But I give an opinion. And this idea of a of opinion is really here's my judgment or my wisdom on the matter. That's what that means. As one who by the mercy of the Lord is trustworthy. So he's saying, I have the spirit within me You can go down to the very end, verse 40. But in my opinion, there's that word again, or judgment or wisdom. She is happier if she remains as she is And I think that I also have the Spirit of God. So again, he's saying I have the authority to speak on this matter. This is inspired word of God. Does that distinction make sense? Okay So I thought that was helpful. And then a reminder, and I said this up front, they were immersed in a culture of extreme sexual immorality. I mean just Everywhere you turned there was sexual immorality, right? The pagan culture, the prostitution, the adultery, it was just rampant. Um and as I mentioned, as Gentiles, many of them came out of this environment, and that was the preponderance of the church in Corinth, were these Gentile converts, if you will. So there is potentially a level of ignorance. Right? They did not grow up with the law, those traditions. They don't have that underpinning as the Jews would have. So we'll give them a bit of grace, if you will, that um some of this was ignorant. But we saw in chapter 3, right, he says you're still drinking milk. You should be eating meat at this point. So there is an expectation that they would have matured to some point, but again, I think it's important to have that perspective. Okay? Any questions on kind of that grounding context or observations Alright, so let's jump in. Now again, I'm not going to try and exposit 40 verses in 45 minutes. I want to really hit and focus on this major theme of instruction um uh regarding singleness, marriage, remarriage, and and then if we again if we need to spill over we can if we get through it that's fine too Alright, so let's go verse 1. Now concerning the things about which you wrote, right? So we have clear indication that he is responding to something that they wrote to him. If you have the ESV, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. It's probably in quotations, isn't it, if you have the ESV I had the NASB, there is not, but there are many scholars that believe that should be in quotations. That he is quoting a specific statement from their letter. Right, they're stating it is good for a man not to touch a woman. And and I argued in chapter six that um there are some translations that had Um some of that in quotations and I didn't think it was. I think uh starting in verse uh I thought it was nine. Well regardless, I do think that quotations belong here. So he is specifically addressing this issue. What do they mean by good? You know, this is a debated term as well. It was most likely associated with them feeling Um when they say good, what is the the the most spiritual um um stance that I can take? How how can I become the most um spiritually the the highest spiritual state I can be in. That's what they meant by good. Alright, so they had this distorted view of marriage. They had this distorted view of intimacy within the marriage and they they felt like, hey, if Paul's telling me it's good, um you know I I I need to be separated from those who are immoral, from the world, right? Um that that to have um intimacy with someone who is an unbeliever is is sexual immorality. That's that's how they were thinking about this. So they had a very distorted view of of this you know concept of marriage and intimacy within the marriage And so they were making that statement, you know, in order for me to be spiritually good, I I need to separate myself from that unbelieving spouse. That was the thought process. But that's what they meant by good. And to touch a woman, it's a euphemism for sexual relations in the marriage relationship. So you can see that throughout scripture. But that's what we're talking about here specifically is sexual intimacy in the relationship. Marriage relationship. So bottom line, what Paul is going to be telling them is if you have the gift of singleness. Then yes, celibate celibacy is a good thing. Right? In fact, it's required for you not to have, you know, sexual relationships If you are single and you have the gift of singleness, that's a good thing. However, if you are married, you have a duty to your spouse to engage in sexual intimacy for the purpose of purity. Right? And we'll break this down now, but that's kind of the the overarching bottom line of these first several verses, is that yeah, singleness is great if you have the gift. Okay? If you don't have the gift, it's better to be married, is what he's saying. And again, it's in this context of sexual purity. It's not the the the broader concept of of what marriage is for. It's specifically in this idea of sexual purity. Alright, let's go to verse 2 But because of immoralities, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband. Let the husband fulfill his duty to his wife, and likewise also the wife to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. But likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. So again, if you are married, you are considered as one in Christ. Your marriage, as we've talked about, now represents Christ in the church, and we have a duty to protect the oneness of the relationship, to not do to not do so opens up sexual immorality. So what Paul's saying here, you know, they're saying that it's good for a man not to touch a body. And and he you'll see this later. He says, Yeah, if if you have the gift of signal this that's great. But if you are married, you have a duty. to have relations with your wife. Now some of this language is pretty strong, right? Um you do not have authority over your own body, but the husband does. And likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Paul's not saying you have this dominating authority over your spouse. Right? That's not the intent here. You have an obligation By to to love your wife as Christ loved the church. You have an obligation to submit and respect your husband. The norm is that you are coming together. Right, in sexual intimacy, for all the reasons we talked about, but in this particular case for protection, for purity. Alright, to prolong that intimacy that God designed in marriage opens you up to the schemes of Satan Alright, that's what he's saying here. Stop depriving one another, except by agreement for a time, that you may devote yourself to prayer. And come together again lest Satan tempt you because of your lack of self-control. Now, what are some of those times that um might require Um U to be separate to not have those relationships. Glenn. Certainly prayer. If there's a an agreed upon time in and I think specifically let's say fasting. If you're both like, hey, we want to fast for a couple days on a specific issue, you know, there might be an agreement that you just are totally devoted to that fasting period. So absolutely. What else? Sickness. Sickness. Sickness. Right? If um you know if your spouse just had surgery And you're you're the husband, you're like, hey honey, your body's mine, right? Good golly. That's not loving your wife. Right, so there there may be times where you're just Chronic illness or illness, the flu, COVID, surgery, you know, you name it where it's just it is not the right time Okay? Um how about grieving? There may be a loss in the family and just the the anguish is so deep it just it would be inappropriate, right, to to seek your spouse during that time. What should you be doing? Comfort, praying, right? You're thinking of the other person. So so Paul acknowledges there are times when that should happen. But that's not the norm, right? And it's important. But but I will share um I In some of my counseling sessions, you know, the length of time in between that intimacy is shocking. Months. Years sometimes. That Paul's saying that's not healthy. Right? That is not healthy to the relationship at all. Right, so that is there for your pleasure, it is there for your protection. So if that is happening where you have these very extended times, and again, every context is different. I get that I get that, but it may be something that you want to address because it is for your blessing, it is for your protection. Alright, does that make sense? Alright. Alright, verse six But this I say by way of concession, not of command. This idea of concession is better translated for awareness. So Paul is in in this particular case what he is referring to is marriage versus singleness. He's not commanding either or. He's saying both are good. Alright, so Paul is not commanding marriage or singleness. Both are good gifts from the Lord. And here we see in verse 7, yet I wish that all men were even as I myself am. So what was Paul at this point? Single. Was he ever married? I don't know. Some commentators believe that um he was a Sanhedrin and apparently to be a Sanhedrin you had to be married. I don't know Right now he's single. So if he was married, we we don't know what happened to his wife. Yet I wish that all were even as I myself am. However, each man has his own gift from God, one in the manner and another in that. So he's saying some have the gift of singleness. However, that's probably not the norm. Right? The norm is is most likely people have a desire to get married. People have a desire for sexual intimacy. That's a gift from God. There are some, though, that have been given the gift of singleness. And if you have that gift, then great. Singleness is a gift from God. And why can it be so beneficial? Let's hop over to verses 32 through 35. So we're going to skip around a little bit. But I want you to be free from concern. One who is unmarried is concerned about the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord. But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife. And his interests are divided, and the woman who is unmarried and the virgin is concerned about the things of the Lord. When he talks about virgin here, it's one who is betrothed or engaged. That's the context here. Is concerned about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit. But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how she may please her husband. In this I say for your own benefit, not to put a restraint upon you, but to promote what is seemly and to secure undistracted devotion to the Lord. So what we see with Paul, we saw this when we were covering 1st and 2nd Thessalonians. We see this now. I don't know if we'll have time to cover the verses, but there's a I'll call it an eschatological urgency, an end-time urgency that Paul brings forth. I truly believe Paul felt like Jesus was coming again in his lifetime. Alright? So when he talks about this this complete devotion to the Lord, it's in this context of the Lord is coming soon. So he's saying it's better if you can be in a position where you can completely devote yourself to the Lord. And he's simply contrasting in marriage, right, you also have to be considering what? Your spouse. You're divided somewhat. He's not in any way, shape, or form saying marriage is wrong. Or it's lesser of the two Right, so he's simply saying there's an urgency because the Lord is returning soon and we need our complete devotion to God Now I would argue just from not argue I would say just from experience my sanctification has been accelerated because I'm married and I have seven kids versus if I was single Right? But if I had the gift of singleness singleness, right, that might be different. That might be a different story. But does that make sense that contrast? I think that's really important to understand the context there. So he's saying both are good. But it's better if you're single because you can give your complete devotion to God. The other thing he talks about in these middle uh verses, and again I don't think we'll have time to get to it, is He's basically saying whatever position you are in when you become saved, stay there. Don't change it. Right? If you were circumcised, don't become uncircumcised. If you are uncircumcised, don't become circumcised. If you are married Right? If two unbelievers got married and one of you, we'll talk about this in a second, one of you becomes a believer, don't don't unmarry, don't divorce. That's what was happening Right? Um if you are betrothed, if you are engaged, don't break that off. Whatever position you're in in. Um so I wanted to pause here and let's talk a little bit about singleness. Singleness is clearly a gift from God, but does not appear to be the norm, like I said. To be called to singleness and yet to be constantly tempted to engage in sexual immorality will not be most beneficial For glorifying the Lord. So if you feel like you have the gift of singleness, you also should have the gift of self-control and restraint and those desires that are what? That are not burning Verse 9, but if they do not have self-control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn. Right, so again, if you feel you have the gift of singleness, God should also bless you with the ability to not have these burning passions. Okay But let's talk about singleness because that can be a real challenge. What do you do if you desire to get married? Right? You have these desires, but in the Lord's timing, that has not occurred yet Go online. Go online. Look for your mate. What are some what are some principles if you had a a um single young adult come And say, hey, I'm really struggling. I want to get married, but I have not found the man yet. What advice do you give them? So I don't know if you guys could hear Margot, but pray, right? Pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. Focus on what? Serving. Focus on serving the Lord Trusting in his sovereignty and his perfect timing, right? Can you share without naming your daughter what are some of the maybe the ups and downs that she went through in that journey Because it it's easy to do that, right? Yeah, it's it's hard. It's hard earlier on. So a couple great key points, you know, seeking mentors, um, being encouraged by by sisters um in the faith dealing with expectations, right? Understanding your expectations and and making sure those align with the Lord. And then this just beautiful journey of trusting in the Lord. Right, that's cultivating a high view of who God is and who you are as a child of God, that He wants the best for you. What are some of the the dangers of being in this situation? And I think of, so you're looking out at men, men in the church, right? There's got to be a guy in the church that's suitable. And that doesn't work out. What what is the temptation to do with your criteria? Right? You start to lower your standards. Don't do that. We have clear instruction here. Look at verse 39. And this is to I'll say to um those who um I'll say um divorce biblically, widowers, um Single people, a wife is bound uh as long as her husband lives, but if her husband is dead, she is free to be married to whom she wishes. What's the caveat Only in the Lord. That means marry a believer. So don't ever let your standard go below that that red line of seeking a a um godly man or woman. Glenn. I think we need to be careful not to say that your expectations, some of those expectations may be ungodly. Not necessarily immoral in any way, but they might not they might not be as important as you might think they are. Sure. And and that one of course Yeah. So they'd be a believer. And that's a good distinction, right? There's kind of the non-negotiable is what I would tell you, is that person must be a believer, right? That's that's scriptural mandate. When you go above that, so for example, if if I have some young daughters and and they want uh looking at a young man who is Godly of course, but man, he's a theologian, he knows his word really well. He's serving in every different capacity Uh he's making millions. I'm not saying this is their criteria, right? This is not true. But you understand how you can elevate this expectation that that is is probably not going to happen. It's not realistic You know, a young man is is young in the faith. You know, if that was my wife's criteria, she wouldn't be married to me right now. Right? We were both young in the faith when we got married. We were both brand new Christians And the beauty is we're on this journey together. We have been our whole life. So, you know, really making sure, and that's where having mentors, um, sisters, brothers in the Christ that can help you work through some of these issues To really get your focus back on the Lord, His timing, and just focus on serving, right? Treat yourself as maybe being gifted in singleness, and so you want to devote your attention to Christ. Yet it's okay to be praying for you know that spouse because that is your desire. That's okay. No, that's a great point, Randall, and I I go back to something we said especially with this Corinthian church Our culture puts an expectation on us though, right? I I will tell you, Crean and I, you know, we went to college, we met in college, got married shortly, you know, after I graduated And and to me that all my buddies were doing that was the norm. That was the expectation. So when I had you know seven kids, my expectation was they all go to college, they meet someone, boom. And that's not how it played out at all So the Lord was even working on me, and not that I had a a um like you must be married. We've never preached that, but I just had this expectation. I want that for my my children, right? It's a it's a wonderful thing And yet that's not how it played out at all. So it's been sanctifying for me too to work through um just praying for them, working, you know, uh coming alongside them through their trials and tribulations and struggles. Like Margot said, it's hard. It's hard on these these young people. They desire to please the Lord with all of their heart, and yet God's timing is perfect. Okay, good. Alright, let's keep going. Verse 10. We start to get into the meat of this. But to the married I give instructions, not I, but the Lord, that the wife should not leave her husband. Let's quickly go over to Mark 10. So this is where Paul, and there are other references we could go to, but this is a pretty concise one. Mark 10 and let me read 2 through 12. So this is this is um you know coming back to Jesus' teaching on this idea of divorce specifically Mark chapter 10 verse 2. And some Pharisees came up to him testing him and began to question him whether it was lawful for a man to divorce a wife. And he answered and said to them, What did Moses command you? And they said, Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and send her away. But Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart He wrote you this commandment. So basically, you know, Moses permitted them to divorce because of why? Their hardness of heart. It was a heart attitude. Verse 6 But from the beginning of creation, here we see this verse again. God made them male and female. For this cause a man shall leave his father and his mother, and the two shall become one flesh. Paul has referenced this several times, hasn't he, in the last several lessons that we've gone through? Really, really important verse. In what therefore God has joined together, let no man separate. And in the house the disciples began questioning him about this again, and he said to them Whoever divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery against her. And if she herself divorces her husband and marries another then she is committing adultery. So we get some you know clear instruction from the Lord and that's what Peter is referencing here in 10 and 11 Again, but to the married I give instructions, not I, but the Lord, that the wife should not leave. That word leave means divorce, her husband. But if she does leave, let her remain unmarried. or else be reconciled to her husband, and that the husband should not send or divorce his wife away. So very clear instruction from the Lord that you should not be divorcing your wife or your husband Alright, and if you do, the the command is to be reconciled. Otherwise you're committing adultery. Now we're going to talk about there are some exceptions that the Lord allows, that He permits. Alright, and we'll talk about that in more detail. Alright, verse 12. So now he he's going to expand beyond this teaching of Jesus Christ, but to the rest. Regarding the other situations, basically, I say, not the Lord, that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and she consents to live with him, let him not send her away And a woman who has an unbelieving husband and he consents to live with her, let her not send her husband away. So here's what's happening. Remember, these these converts, um, Gentiles, were um converted, regenerated, and now the um uh let me say it this way they are married as unbelievers Alright, so two unbelievers get married, Paul comes through town, starts up this church, and one of them becomes a believer Alright, so now you have a believer married with an unbeliever. And the the issue that they had, you know, back to the very first Verse was wait a minute, I'm a believer, I'm not supposed to associate with an unbeliever. Right? And for me to have sexual intimacy with this unbeliever, you know, you told me not to do that You know, that's the issue, and that's that's a legitimate concern. That's a legitimate question if you are not grounded in Scripture. All right? Paul's saying, no. You know, if you have an unbelieving spouse, you are to stay with them. Right? That's the command that he gives here And the key here is if they consent to stay. So if you have this unbelieving spouse and they are willing to stay in the marriage, right, what he's saying is do not divorce them. Do not separate from them. And a woman who has an unbelieving husband and he consents to live with her, let her not be sent away. Verse 14, for the unbelieving husband is sanctified through his wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified through her believing husband. For otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy. Really difficult passage to understand what's happening here. And let me read from a commentary. There there are a couple different viewpoints on this. I will say Those who I'll say affirm covenantal theology, this is one of the key verses that talks about this covenant relationship. What's going on here? So let me ask you this, for the unbelieving husband is sanctified. We talked about this word sanctified. To be set apart. Are we talking about this person can be saved if they're married to a Christian spouse? How do we know that? No is the answer. How do we know that? Through other scripture, right? We talked about Ephesians 2. What does it say? By grace alone, through faith alone, through Christ alone. That is the only way a person can be saved. So we know that that's not what this is saying. However, there does, I'll say it this way, there seems to be an element of privilege or protection that happens when you are married to a believer. An unbeliever married to a believer, right? Let me just read this. This is from John MacArthur, obviously a dispensation view This does not refer to salvation, otherwise the spouse would not be spoken of as unbelieving. The sanctification is matrimonial and familial, not personal or spiritual. It means that the unsaved partner is set apart for temporal blessing because the other partner belongs to God. One Christian in a marriage brings grace that spills over on the spouse, even possibly leading him or her to salvation. Um while I'm talking, so I I've heard one commentator say it this way. Um Think of it as the unbeliever, the children, the privilege that they have of now having a believing spouse, of the environment in the home Alright, so that's one way to think about it. As the believing spouse, think of it as um your direct missionary field, right? Your unsaved family, your husband, your children. is one way to think about it. Another commentator, because remember we talked about last week when we what we talked about the danger of having a a sexually immoral or sinful person in the church Right, the analogy was the leaven and what it did to the lump of clay. That little bit of leaven, we see this again and again in scripture, does what? It infects the rest of the dough. This is the exception, though. It's the reverse, is what's being said. In the this special marriage relationship, it's the believing spouse that has the dominance, if you will. Right? And it's the unbelievers that are affected by that, not the other way around. And it could be easy again for these um these Corinthians to be distorted in their view. Paul you just told us we need to separate ourselves from them And he's saying, no, no, no, no, no. In the marriage relationship, it's different. It goes the other way around. And so I will let let's do this. Let's go to uh parallel um scripture that's really important. Go to first Peter. 3. 1 Peter 3 has some really good instructions for husband and wife on how we are to live in the marriage relationship Obviously Ephesians 5, but I really love 1 Peter 3 as well. But in the first couple verses Says, in the same way, you wives be submissive to your own husbands, so that even if any of them are disobedient to the word They may be one without a word by the behavior of their wives, as they observe your chaste and respectful behavior. Ladies Believing ladies, do not underestimate the power that you have to influence your unbelieving spouse if that's the case. Even your believing spouse. Alright, that's what this is saying here. You can win them over, not by your words, but by your behavior. Your chaste and respectful behavior Submitting, being respectful. I think later on it talks about verse 4. You are characterized by a gentle and quiet spirit. Right? That's the pri think about this. That's the privilege that the unbelieving spouse has now being in this environment of a Christian one of the the spouses is believing. Right? Is that you now have this influence on them. This is how I grew up. This is the example that I have. My parents were raised Catholic. Married as Catholic, lived as Catholics, and then somewhere along that journey, my mom became a born-again believer. My father to this day is not saved. And so I grew up probably middle school on with this influence now of my mother being saved. And what was that environment like? Number one, you can think about um now let me say this that doesn't mean everything became perfect when she became safe. It's been hard for my mom Has she been perfect? Absolutely not. But part of my testimony is I got to witness someone demonstrating what I just read in 1 Peter 3. The submissiveness, the respect. Even when she was criticized, persecuted, right? I got to see that, what that looks like. My father benefits from that A wife is who is submissive and respectful, right? We didn't have a lot of you know arguing, fighting going on in our home. Right? There were benefits, there was a privilege for that. Second, that's who I heard the gospel from. Over and over and over it was from my mother. And I got to see it demonstrated in her life. My mom is a prayer warrior. She just is. And so I know she has been praying for her children forever Right, ever since she's been a believer. So I had that benefit of this incredible prayer life. And now we have just a sweet, sweet relationship being brothers and sisters in Christ So I share that to say I think that's a glimpse of what verse 14 is talking about is this you know, sanctification or privilege that the unbelieving spouse has now. So Paul is saying, no, no, no, no, no. Do not divorce them. Right, it is good for you to have these relations with your unbelieving spouse. Right? It is good, it is okay, it is for your pleasure, and there's an added benefit to them because they are now part of this you know Christian marriage. Does that make sense? Any questions on that, commas? Okay Now again, I I don't I don't have not studied covenant theology enough to give you a definitive on this, but I do believe they would say there's a almost like God is giving additional favor by being underneath that Christian spouse. There's probably a spectrum that could be debated here. There is clearly a benefit Paul is clearly describing a benefit, a good benefit, by being, by one of the spouses being a believer. Right? That's what I want you to take away from this. Okay? Alright, let's keep going. Verse 15. Yet if the unbelieving one leaves, let him leave. The brother or the sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband, or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife? So wait a minute, Paul, you just told me, 1 Peter 3, that you might be able to influence Right, the unbelieving spouse. And here you're saying if there's discontentment, if there's contention, let them leave. Right? Paul is saying, for the sake overall of peace, if you have this unbelieving spouse who is just persecuting you because of your faith, is is being critical, is being, you know, just think of this domineering atmosphere, and they're like, I want nothing to do with your faith. And they want to leave, it's okay for them to leave. This is one of those cases where you are permitted to have that divorce, right? When they abandon the marriage relationship. Okay, so this is one of those cases. The other one it's not addressed here being sexual immorality. Alright, and we'll talk about that in a second Right, so he's saying again, I'll I'll leave it on this and then I want to go to um the second handout that we have. So the one exemption that he's talking about here in this bond of marriage is if the unbelieving spouse does want to leave, they are allowed to leave. I have a counseling case where that that happened exactly. Um the Believing spouse, I've been counseling and just trying to encourage to think about this biblically to lament correctly because he's grieving, right? This is his best friend. I'm almost certain she's not a believer And so, you know, we've had to talk through that, but his heart still breaks as they go through this process, this journey, especially during the holidays. He's an emotional person you know, really gets into the holidays as a family and and that's broken this year. And so it's been really difficult. But I've been really encouraged by him applying these biblical truths, trying to think correctly and rightly about what he controls um in this situation. But again, this this don't think about this just about to your own personal life. You need to be able to counsel others when these situations come up Okay? Alright, we got like five minutes. What I want to do is go over the handout I gave you. Um but I do want to come back next week and and maybe have some discussion if there's you know certain contexts or things you guys want to talk about. Because I think it's really important. Okay. The second handout, I think I told you guys that the elders have have gone through a process of um Revamp revamping is the wrong word. Tweaking the what we teach statement, our doctrinal statement. And that doesn't mean any wholesale big changes, you know, we're not uh Arminian now, we're not uh congregational church, we're not That's not what I'm saying. Over the years though, we especially Pastor Allen has taken little notes of where we could probably use a different translation. Um Really beef up some of the justifying or supporting scriptures to make sure they're really hard hitting. Um making sure some of the language is up to date and then Probably the biggest change has been the insertion of this idea of marriage, remarriage, or marriage, divorce, and remarriage. That is currently not in what we teach. All right. So I think for us to be clear on on how we see scripture and really to be able to provide unity in our counseling, and for you guys to have a good framework for if you have to counsel on these matters. So that's what you have in front of you is the draft. The entire statement should be coming out um the beginning of next year. So you you guys will see some announcements on that. Encourage you to take a look at it, especially this section. And if you notice something that you feel like we got it wrong, uh please please come talk to us What I did do is I bolded um those references that are tied to either 1 2 Thessalonians or 1 Corinthians. And you see there's a lot of 1 Corinthians 7 that's bolded here. The chapter that we just discussed. really laid the groundwork for what we have written in our doctrinal statement. But let me cover this really quickly so that you guys can get the context. I want you to take it home. I want you to chew on it And we'll pick it up this topic next week to see if there's any specific questions, additional thoughts that you might have about what we read. Because again We flew through 40 verses. Really, I wanted to make sure we we hit this this topic of um you know marriage and divorce. So let me run through real high level Uh so item D marriage. You guys know God instituted marriage to be between one man and one woman for one lifetime. examples of polygamy among God's people are are included in the Old Testament to teach us the inevitable consequences of this sin while also demonstrating God's ability to accomplish his will in spite of it. So we kinda lay the grounda foundation for God's Blueprint for marriage, one man, one woman, lifetime. Number two, marriage is a covenant of exclusive and complementary companionship, care, and intimacy between one man and one woman in which the two become one, picturing what? The relationship between Christ and his bride, the church. We talked about that. A supplement supplementary purpose for marriage is the procreation and training of children in the context of family. Given the nature and the purpose of marriage, Christians should marry only someone they know also to be a genuine Christian. We saw that in 1 Corinthians 7. 39 God created sex to be enjoyed in the marriage bond, to promote the companionship between a man and his wife, and to provide for the multiplying of mankind on the face of the earth. Number four, any sex outside of this bond of marriage between one man and one woman, including fornification, adultery, pornography, and homosexual behavior is a perversion of the creator's original tent and is therefore both sinful and harmful to man. It is important to note, we'll get down there in the exemption. The word is actually this idea of sexual immorality. It doesn't use adultery. It uses sexual immorality. um dangerous you know use of pornography and in other things. Number five, marriage is not required of every man and woman Some men and women are gifted by God to live a single life to God's glory. So we talked about that. Some have the gift of singleness But Paul, you know, reiterated in our passage, it's it's not good if you claim to have the gift of signalness and yet you're always tempted. You're always burning, right? That doesn't glorify the Lord. So it may be time to to re-evaluate your gifting. However, like we talked about, sometimes you do desire, but God hasn't given that person. And so learning to just keep your eyes on the Lord Stay focused on service, get mentors, be praying, be in the word, and trust the sovereignty and perfect timing of the Lord. All right, divorce. God designed marriage to be a covenant between a man and a woman, lasting as long as both spouses are alive. However, recognizing there are certain sins that cut at the root of this covenant, remember it is a covenant. God permits I like that word. He permits divorce under certain circumstances. Detailed below is a judgment over sin and as a mercy for those sinned against. So I like the way this was framed because it recognizes there are consequences of this sin, but there's also consequences on the believing spouse, let's say Right? And so God still is a merciful God and provides avenues to care for that person. So number one, because of the hardness of people hearts, God permits an innocent spouse to initiate a divorce when the other spouse commits continues in unrepentant sexual immorality. Again, the word is not adultery, it's sexual immorality Sexual immorality doesn't automatically end a marriage, though. Every effort must be taken to establish repentance and forgiveness to restore the marriage. That's really critical. All right? Devastating to go through an adultery type of situation and yet it can be reconciled. It can be forgiven. So that's number one. Number two, God also permits divorce when a non-Christian completely forsakes his or her marriage covenant with a Christian spouse. And item number four kind of expands on that. If a professing Christian completely forsakes his or her marriage covenant, evidence, for example, by neglect, abuse Alright, this idea of abandonment of the covenant can look in in other forms other than an unbelieving spouse just leaving. Right, if they are they are uh totally abandoning the emotional needs, the physical needs, the financial needs of the spouse, right, those could be grounds for legitimate divorce. However, if it's a believing spouse, that sin must be addressed through the normal church discipline process. If that person refuses to repent by the conclusion of that process He or she must be considered and treated as an unbeliever who has forsaken his or her marriage covenant. Right? Do you see that distinction? So in there we're saying two believers, but if one is abandoning that covenant We would apply church discipline and then you treat them as an unbeliever and and carry on those principles. Number five, in all marriages, including cases of permissible basis of divorce Spouses must actively and patiently demonstrate a willingness to forgive, to repent, to seek repentance and forgiveness, and to pursue a God honoring marriage. Sometimes what I see in counseling is You know, the the marriage has gotten to a point where they're at the brink of divorce and they're looking for those exemptions. Right? What clause can I grab on to so that I can get out of this marriage? Versus What can I do to reconcile? Now, fortunately, a lot of times they get to that point, right? We get them off of the edge and we we get them starting to look at their particular you know uh responsibility in the relationship and that usually turns things around God can forgive an unpermitted divorce and any resultant adultery through the genuine repentance unto the salvation of an unbeliever, unto the sanctification of a believer. However, the appointment of a believer to church leadership following an unpermitted divorce will take a long period of time to demonstrate a new pattern of faithfulness beyond reproach. So this was added in the case where You know, we had a pretty prominent pastor fall last, it was about this time last year, Steve Lawson right, uh found out he was having an adulterous relationship. And, you know, him being able to go back into the pulpit, y you can imagine, you know, I I think many um believe that that is a permanent disqualification. God is a forgiving God, but to go back into the pulpit would have to have a long period of time of demonstrated faithfulness and to be characterized as above reproach. You know, that's what this is getting at here Okay. Boy, I can't go into that example. Alright, let me finish up. Alright, so remarriage. Christian widows and widowers may remarry another Christian. We saw that in verse 39. Christians may also remarry another Christian following a permitted divorce. So I don't want this to be a um well let me finish After an unpermitted divorce of two Christians, they should not marry someone else. They should remain single or else be reconciled with their former spouse if their former spouse has not remarried. Again, we cover that in verses 10 through 11. So I I hope what this gives you is a framework to now if someone comes to you with a particular issue or case you can use this as a framework This is not meant to be a checklist. It is not black and white. No situation is just black and white. There's always complexities involved. But this can be used as a good framework to help you know work through that conversation, understand godly principles. And again, realize what we teach, the doctrinal, this our doctrinal statement is not is not the word of God Right? Ultimately we use the word of God, but hopefully this helps put it in language that is easily understood. Um I I know we're out of time, but um let me ask this. I I do want to start with this as we pick up next week because um I think there's a couple context situations um that maybe it'd be helpful to talk through. But are there any burning questions that we you can ask the question and then we can all think about it as as we go over the next week. Kirk. God can forgive an unpermitted divorce. Meaning the divorce has already happened. Yeah. So let's say two believers just decide to get divorced. You know that would be an unpermitted um divorce. Can he forgive that? He can What happens if one of them get remarried? According to scripture, they're sinning. Can he forgive that? Should they get out of that marriage now that they realize that? Let's talk about that next time. That's a good topic to talk about. Okay? Glenn, I'll give you the last word. Yeah. So we'll talk about that next week. Did you guys catch that? Right? Um people divorce. Um this other spouse though remarries. You wanted to reconcile because you want to follow scripture, but this person already remarried. What do you do Alright, I want your thoughts when we come back next week. Let me close in prayer and then if there are questions or comments you can come up to me afterwards or bring it up next week. Okay? Woo