Alright. What I promise was here we are, we are on lesson number five already, beginning on the new year We are going to spend some time going back to Corinthians 7 because boy I threw a lot at you and I wanted to spend some time maybe talking through some scenarios, examples Why? Why is it important for us to really be grounded in this idea of marriage and divorce and remarriage and w and what does the word say about that? Why is that important? I'm not trying to trick you. Unfortunately this is frequent of a of an issue in our lives. Yeah. Even if we feel like we have a an okay marriage. Yeah. Okay, good. There's danger. Yeah. Aaron. Uh because it's an institution that God created the three that we talked about. Right. And because of its very fork purpose, the mirror the relationship between two channels Right. Yes, good, good. And and I would say it this way too, all of that is correct, but I don't want you to think about just your maybe your own situation, although it could be applicable Oftentimes though you are going to be asked to give counsel from family members, believers, unbelievers, uh friends, maybe friends of church, right? And being what uh you know really grounded in what the word says so that you can give counsel. Alright? So that's just as important. If um does everyone have the sh the the f the sheet, the draft language? If you do not, Marie has a copy of that can give you the All right, that's really important. Now again, what I gave you, I think I told you guys that the elders have have worked on, you know, uh clarifying some things in our doctrinal statement, what we teach is what we call it But we also added a section that wasn't there before. This whole section on marriage, divorce, and remarriage is going to be in the new what we teach that will come out shortly. Okay, so you guys get a uh early view of what that's gonna look like. But I I think a really nice concise again think of this as a framework for if you had to counsel somebody you could go back to some of these principles And what I did on this sheet, a lot of the bolded references, I put that in there simply because almost every one of them has 1 Corinthians 7. in the paragraph, right, as a reference, a scriptural reference. So, you know, really important chapter that we were on in chapter seven. So Again, you can keep that, use that. But what I wanted to do today is to um go back there and start there and let's talk about about a couple scenarios and I want to hear from you guys how how you might handle or counsel somebody that's in those situations. Again today what we'll do is I'll I'll let that go um if it goes till ten o'clock then that's fine, but we'll maybe cut it off there and then get into to chapter eight. Okay? If we get done earlier than that, we'll just jump into chapter eight. But that's where we're at right now And we're into these chapters now where we're going to talk about this issue of food, but I'm going to give you a heads up. It's not really about the food. And that's what we need to understand. Okay? Right, so what I did is I took this the sheet that you have in front of you, and I know some of this is hard to read, but I wanted to have this up here, and it's condensed So I took some of those paragraphs and just kind of highlighted maybe the first statement or what have you. But we can have this up here as we talk about some of the scenarios. Okay? Right, so let's do this. Let's walk through a couple scenarios. So a reminder, um in fact go to go to chapter seven. And it starts with, now concerning the things about which you wrote, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. And as we talked about, he Paul is uh obviously addressing an issue that they would have written to him about. So he got a letter from them. And he's he's saying that when he says, now concerning the things that which you wrote about, right, he's directly applying to something they wrote about. And if you have the ESV, um I'm curious, does the LSV have this in quotes It is good for a man not to No? Okay. Most likely that is a statement from the letter. Alright, so they are saying it is not good for a man to touch a woman or to have sexual relations. That's what that means. Right, so here's here's most likely what was happening. Um you had two Gentile unbelievers that got married. So they were married, okay, and then one of them was converted. Became a believer. Okay? And the question was, you know, because Paul was telling them, hey, sexual purity, right? You should not be um connected to a prostitute, right? The the interconnectedness that we talked about in in chapter six And so they're like, wait a minute, if I'm married to an unbeliever, if I'm having intimate relations, am I now defiling myself? That that's probably a logical thought, right? And he's saying, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not what's going on Right, we saw in chapter or in verse 14, there is a benefit to the person who is married How what that looks like exactly, I don't know. It's debated. Right. Some believe there is a special favor. Others it's more of just a privilege, a benefit of being under um you know being united with someone who has the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Alright? But there is definitely a benefit And so he's saying in this case, in the case of the church where you have a person who is being sinful, that's like leaven, right? It's a negative term. You need to remove that person The unrepentant sinner, because that leaven can leaven the whole lump of devil, right? In this case it's reversed. In the marriage relationship, he's saying no, don't get rid of that unbeliever Right, there is a benefit just through your behavior, through your actions to this unbeliever and your children. Right their concern was If we were having um intimate relationships then our children it wouldn't be holy either. So that's why that's the probably the context of what's happening here But then he goes on, so what he's saying is what? Is if you are single and you have the gift of signalness singleness, that's good Right? If you are married, that's good. Stay married. If you have an unbeliever and the unbeliever wants to stay, stay married. If the unbeliever, however, wants to leave Right, is is sowing discontent and is is just angry at your faith and wants to leave, they can leave. That's permissible. If there is unrepentant sexual immorality They can leave, right? That's permissible. And I think it's important, you know, the the word used as God permits. That was not his design for marriage, was it? Of course not. But he permits it. Why? Because we live in a fallen world. There are consequences of sin. And to show mercy on the one who is a believer Okay? But the ultimate, you know, um principles I think are at the end there. In all marriages, including cases of permissible basis for divorce Spouses must actively and patiently demonstrate a willingness to forgive, to repent, to seek repentance and forgiveness. And the last one, God can forgive an unpermitted divorce. and any resultant adultery through the genuine repentance unto the salvation of an unbeliever or unto the sanctification of a believer. Okay? So that was kind of the context. And again, Paul had, remember, Paul had at the time, I'll call it an end times urgency. He felt like Jesus was going to return soon And so for him to say, hey, if you're single, stay single. You know, if you're widowed, stay widowed. Why? What was the benefit of that? Yeah, you you could have complete devotion to the Lord. You weren't distracted by now having to care for another person or or what have you Again, it was in the context of this urgency that he had. He's not commanding one or the other. He says both are profitable, right? To be to be married and to be single. But you gotta have the gift of single singleness It does no good to to to say I have the gift and yet you're burning. You you have those desires for sexual intimacy. Right? That's what he was saying. Okay But he does give us some principles about marriage and divorce, and so let's talk about that. Alright, so you guys can throw out um a scenario, but I think one we heard last time was Let's say you have two believers, professed believers, we Lord only knows, right? And one of those believers commits adultery. some form of sexual immorality and they get divorced. Is that permissible? Under what we just put together? Is it's unrepentant? Is there unrepentance nothing? Okay, yeah. So unrepentance, sexual immorality, the adultery continues. It would be permissible in this case. Okay? What if um it it uh okay so let's talk about that. So what what Glenn said, you're saying this person is repentant Right? But this person is still seeking a divorce. Well how would you advise based on the principles we just talked about? Is this how you guys would count with somebody? Let me get out my checklist guys. You must forgive. Let me say this. And I I've never gone through it, but but this this is just disastrous. I I can't imagine having to walk through this. There's a no whole other subject we could have on forgiveness and what does that really mean? What does that look like? Yes, there's I'll call it a a type of positional forgiveness that you can give that person. I forgive you But the trust that has to be rebuilt for you is incredible, guys. I'm not trying to defend a divorce here. I I would absolutely be counseling that we need to be working through this, but it's going to take time. It's a sensitive issue. Okay? Here's the other thing I would tell you. This is me speaking. This is not Paul. This is not the Bible. Um There is nothing this person is accountable for this physical act, but this is that person's choice to physically make this choice But is there more going on in the marriage relationship that maybe exacerbated this? Right? So are there heart issues that have to be dealt with? It's all what I'm telling you is it's very complex So you might start with just let's have a conversation. Let me hear your story, right? Always be good listeners. And it might be, you know what, this one's really complex. Let's get you some good biblical counseling Right? So that's how you might frame all that. Are they both Christians? In this scenario, yes. Well then I I think yes. The guy or Yes, and this one is in the scenario of this one is repentant. So then the other I would be concerned about the other person's heart And there is there's a difference between trust being broken and then unforgiveness. Right? Yeah. So it's like I may have he may have broken my trust or I may have broken his trust Trust, that's one thing. But if you pair it with unforgiveness, that's a whole other problem. Right. That that would then that person I believe would need counseling of some sort. Absolutely. Because there's a bitterness And the scriptures are very clear with that. So I think if I was an elder of a church and I had a couple and one was saying, I did this, I'm very repentant of this, I understand that I've lost trust that with this person and that I'm gonna need to do a lot of things to earn that back. Right. And then the other person is saying, You can't do that anything. Yeah. That I would require as an elder, I think, counseling for both of them. Maybe not even couples counseling. Just what do you do? How do you accept forgiveness Yeah. So so absolutely. And I guess uh the point again, Carly, is very complex. There's hard issues happening on both sides to get to the point. But in the case where you truly have an a repenting believer, you know the the default is let's see if we can work this out Right, let's work on somebody's heart. It's gonna take time, right? But you can give them hope through the word. Alright, good. Alright, let's say we have um ask one question. Yeah, go ahead. So our world uses separate Okay. And I I do have some questions about is that a value thing. Uh so do you have any uh just you know considerations So Joni brings up um the idea of separation. Um is that acceptable? Is that wise? Is that I'll throw it back to you guys. What do you mean separation like? They're so married? So yeah. Yeah. And you know, to yeah, for for a short term. Um but I just wonder because some I feel like separation lots of times allows independence to to um form and that they see that oh we can get along without each other so fine we're just gonna get divorced but uh if there's a true heart for getting back together, the separation should cause a longing for each other So I don't know if it's a detriment or not. Yeah. Um do we have any scriptural principles? Let me start with that. Or mandates about separation. Right. Right? Like set like agree to take a break with the understanding that you will become Yeah. Right. So we covered that last week, right? We talked about there there can be a time, but but that principle was to do what? To pray Right, it might have been a a d a time of grieving or a physical ailment of some sort, but the danger was that that would last too long Right? That the idea was do that for a short time but you come back. So you guys put a context, right? You have to understand the context of the situation So um let me give you my thoughts again, these are my thoughts. I'm not these aren't coming from um the word To your point where you have two believers that maybe are are just not having uh are having a difficult time, and they say, you know what, we're just gonna separate so that we can get some time to think about it. I don't think that's wise. Because what you're now doing is the intimacy is gone, the communication is gone. You are simply on a path to this I've seen it. Seen it in the counseling room. Now, the one area where I think separation for a short time can be helpful is when there might be abuse or a danger in the marriage relationship. That's where you gotta get them separated from that so we can deal with the issues. Protection, security comes first. That might be the one area that that makes sense. But outside of that, you're just asking for trouble because it's it's only going to be the reverse of trying to bring people Together. Does that make sense? Okay. Alright. Let's say you have two believers and there's no permissible reason for divorce, but they decide to get a divorce. Okay? Oh my gosh. Get divorced. Um the one takes an equipping class and and learns, boy, I'm sinny. Right? I did this wrong. I I I want to ask for forgiveness. I'm repenting. Um they want to get back together. Okay But this believer, uh assume it's a believer, has gotten married already. Oh my gosh. What do you do? I've actually seen that happen a lot. Where the other spouse has got has moved on, gotten remarried, they don't believe it to have been sin and the other Yeah. Alright, so let's let's take this apart. What would you counsel this person that says, I I recognize we did this wrong. I sinned against my Lord and I'm repentance I want to get back together, but my spouse is already married. Can I get married? Should I wait? Should I ask them to get get another divorce so we can go back to the original? What are some principles you would use to maybe counsel this person? Okay. So so Morgan's saying, you know, this covenant that was now made needs to be honored. And I agree with that. Right? The the Lord brought them together. It's a messy, complex situation. But it would not make sense. It would actually go against principles that we see in scripture to say, no, you gotta get divorced now. No, this new covenant has been made. So I would believe that this one would now have the freedom to remarry Right? Even though that complex, crazy situation. Thoughts against that? Yeah. I'm just wondering if there would be and again it's situational, but if there would be any value in a person who recognizes this in and this repentance to say a letter or some sort of communication that we have spoiled to say, I'm I'm sorry, like apologizing asking forgiveness. them even though they're not trying to dissolve the new marriage or anyway, but just to um I don't know, kind of close the circle of the case. Absolutely. So you bring up a great point. If if you're now unrepentant and you are seeking forgiveness You know, who do you need to seek forgiveness from? To the Lord, of course, but your previous spouse, for sure. I think that absolutely would be a wonderful idea Right. Um and and being happy and recognizing and praying for them now. Praying that this this marriage relationship would would be solid, biblical marriage. Right. Now again. Now again. But the other part of it is that the church's responses I've seen churches response so poorly It's frustrating to me to to see that. There's a lack of love, so a lot more judgment and for sure. And I I I'd like to see a lot of sort of loving coming alongside, you know, helping Yeah. Right. Put yourself in that situation Yeah. So a couple good points there. Yeah. Number one, yes, something hard and complex might end up at the elders, but I want to encourage again, you're all counselor Right. You're all equipped with the word to start with some level of demonstrating that love. Start with just being a good listener. Right? Make sure you understand the context. Ask probing questions. Ask clarifying questions. so that you can fully understand. The reason that we inserted this into what we teach was to try and at some level of clarity about I'll call it a a guideline or a framework to be able to have those types of discussions, right? Because I think it is important. And You can read um something like chapter seven and and kind of get a checklist mentality if you don't understand the context. If you were just to read that at face value, it almost sounds like, hey, get married so you don't sin And that that's not what Paul was talking about. Remember, the the purpose is for marriage, number one, to be this representation of Christ in the church, but it's also for pleasure, for procreation, for sanctification And that's what you know he's really focused on the purity piece. He has been for the last couple of chapters, right, on on sexual purity and and how important that is So having these guidelines, you can help start that conversation. But Glenn, to your point, you know, realize it's complex. It needs love, it needs grace, but it also needs truth Right? Because you are this is representing Christ in the church. We should look different. And I say that I want to be very sensitive. There are people in our church, maybe you in this room that have gone through some of these scenarios themselves Right? Um God will take you where you're at. This is forgivable, but it has consequences. It has consequences. Um I do agree that the other spouse that we Yep, yep So back to uh Jan's point of apologizing, there might be kids in the next that that might help with that situation too. It gets even crazy. Yeah. Alright. Yeah, I was gonna say maybe you didn't intend this, but the person who's left behind, you kinda had an expression right in your voice that this person has urgency um they have an agenda to get remarried. No, I said if they wanted to, are they alive? Yes. Y yeah. And I the only thing I can kind of add to that or question that is their their motivation to to kind of have a period of time of really I don't know how long would be an adequate period of time. time but to really search their own heart as to why they're seeking re remarriage and to really make sure that that's honorable is is it a type of retaliation because you're your spouse got made and you you want to go back one up or what have you. So Kirk brings up a really good point of of yes unrepentant but but there still might be some heart issues that need to be dealt with And allowing you know, making sure you're counseling that person to deal with those. You know, my point was if this person you know didn't have to get the singleness and and desire to get married in the right way, could they? And and the answer was if this one was already married, I believe they have the freedom to do that. But Kurt, to your point You know, making sure we understand all the hard issues behind it and the motivation behind it is very critical for sure. And again, this gets really complex and crazy, doesn't it? Really quick. Alright. Um any other scenarios you guys want to bring up? Break. So I've had two situations where It was a believer who ended up being married to an unbeliever. Okay. The unbeliever was um didn't want to leave the marriage, but was verbally and kind of through action Didn't want a divor divorce and their actions were say that again. They were abusive. Yep. And their actions were antagonistic and putting down it would be called verbal abuse. Okay. I'm going to put that in quotation because define that. It's hard. It's a gray area. But but here so we have a couple principles, right? We have the believer, the unbeliever. Um Paul would tell you stay married. That's what he told us to do Um you have an unbeliever that wants to say, um, and yet they're having this kind of behavior. So the question I think that would have to be asked is is to try and ascertain have they have they forsaken the covenant, the marriage covenant? Right? For example, um the role, let's say this was the husband, the role of the husband is to nourish and cherish That's part of the covenant. Now I know that for a believer, but I would still hold that same standard for anyone who got married. To forsake the covenant would to abuse To physically abuse, you could say to um emotionally abuse, verbally abuse. It just gets really tough to determine the severity of that. Right? This is a tough one, guys So so maybe if it was actual physical, that's a little clearer? It can be clear just because you can see signs of that. Right. Right. The verbal it gets harder. So what would you do? What would you do in this situation? Hold on. Yeah, I just was trying to encourage them, I it was hard. Yeah. Wanting them to I didn't wasn't happy that they were In that situation? Sure. On one occasion I visited by a saw and heard it myself, on the other I didn't. Yep. But so let me ask you this. Let's let's break it down a little bit. How might you counsel the believer? I would give him the unpacking forgiveness. What let's say this is the woman And this is the man. I'll call it the husband, wife and husband. Um are there scriptures you could give this person? We've covered them. Remember 1 Peter, what's in 1 Peter 3, 7? What can the wife do? What power does she have? Prayer, but just her actions. Just her actions, right, can can win over a husband. Now just stay with me for a second. So you're taking them to their specific roles and responsibilities in the marriage relationship. You can go to Ephesians 5, right? Wives submit to your husbands Show them respect and honor. And and in 1 Peter 3. 7, you you know, you can win them over by your behavior is what it says. Right by having a gentle and quiet spirit. So part of the encouragement is do what you're supposed to be doing Now, I would never, ever, ever, and this is where you know churches have gotten into trouble, condone abuse Right? It's easier with physical abuse because there's signs, there's there's testimony of that. The verbal gets much harder Okay? Um but if this was extreme verbal abuse and it could be, you know, documented, you may have to bring in, you know, legal entities Right? Again, seeking the protection of the spouse. But part of the counseling would be, you know, continue to do what you're supposed to be doing Right? And then we need to deal with this. We we can't leave them out there hanging. We have to try and ascertain what's the severity, what does this look like Right? This one is much more difficult, I'll be honest with you. Does this theory of change is the Well let's do this. Because we gotta move on. Let's say the husband claims to be a believer and you have this scenario. What changes now? What can you do? Accountability, right? You can now get counseling and if needed you're gonna get a much better understanding of what this looks like and you can start to apply church discipline Right? What you get to the later stages of church discipline and how are you treating that believer As an unbeliever, right? That's the whole idea of church discipline is now that person is treated as an unbeliever. That's what's happening. Because if you are truly a believer and you're applying these kinds of actions You know, you start to question. And you if they say they're they're a believer, you can hold them accountable. That's the beauty of the Bible. You can now hold them accountable, but you get to the point where they're not making a change, you now treat them as an unbeliever Why? So that there's this direct contrast with the church. You're being pushed out to really drive you either to repentance or no kidding, you were not a believer. I think where it gets kind of sticky is when you counsel, it doesn't necessarily mean they come to your church. It could be friends that live somewhere else, or it could be someone in the community that needs counseling but it's honestly rare in my churches that actually enact church to agree. So that's what makes it kind of difficult is well I know you don't go to a healthy church that does not do discipline. So now what do they do? It gets super crazy, guys. I love that you brought that up. If you go to a church that practices diligently church discipline, rejoice. Right? We talked about the marks of a good church. That's one of them. And this is why. It's for protection. It's for the purity, the witness of the church for crazy situations like this. Now, I would tell you in a case like this It just takes a lot of time, a lot of counseling. So, you know, you want to be going to a church where the elders are addressing you. What if you have someone that does it? You can encourage them. You need to go to a church that is. You know, a lot of this counseling should be happening at their local church. For sure. But that's how complex and crazy it gets. Alright? Alright, we gotta move on. Sorry, this is a really good discussion. If you have um other questions or scenarios, we can talk about that offline, but you can see how crazy this gets. But but hopefully these guidelines start to help you know, add some clarity at least on how do you get your hands around how would I counsel somebody in a situation like this. And always the elders are available if you have questions with that. So um okay, good, good discussion. Let's go to chapter eight. All right, let me do this. Let me read the the whole chapter. Um it's just thirteen verses, and then we'll jump into um kind of running through that fairly quickly. Now concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge makes arrogance, but love edifies. If anyone supposes that he knows anything, he is not yet known as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, he is known by him. Therefore, concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that there is no such thing as an idol in the world, and that there is no God but one. For even if there are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords, yet for us there is but one God, the Father. From whom are all things and we exist for him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things and we exist through him However, not all men have this knowledge, but some being accustomed to the idol until now eat food as if it were sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled But food will not be will not commend us to God. We are neither the worse if we do eat, nor the better if we do not But take care lest this liberty of yours somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. For someone sees you who who have knowledge. Dining in an idol's temple will not his conscience, if he is weak, be strengthened to eat things sacrificed to idols. For through your knowledge he who is weak is ruined, the brother for whose sake Christ died And thus by sinning against the brethren and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ. Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will never eat meat again, that I might not cause my brother to stumble Alright. So this is often um a passage that we go to for I'll call it this traditional view, what I have on the top there. And this is from the commentary that I use Two groups in Corinth were knocking heads, so the strong and the weak, right, were knocking heads over the idle meat issue and appealed to Paul to hold court on the matter Again, so it's this idea of some are strong in the faith and and some are weak in the faith and um you are going the the strong will abstain from certain things um because they love the weak. Alright, that's kind of the idea here. That's how I was taught. Um there are certainly some some godly principles there. Um and they were assuming that Paul was agreeing with the position that eating is morally neutral and cannot spiritually harm a believer. Food is food, right? We we know that God said you can eat everything, right? You don't have to worry about anything. However, in certain situations it can become sin because you cause a brother with a weaker conscience to stumble. And it creates, um, these are my words, it creates a very dangerous heart attitude of us versus them. I'm strong, but there's my weaker brother over there, so I'm not going to eat meat. I'm not going to drink alcohol because of my weaker brother, right? That's the traditional view and one that that I'm accustomed to But this commentary adds an alternate view that I think is more plausible and really gets to the point. And what Paul is really doing is he is denouncing idol worship Alright, that's really the the crux of what he's getting at here, and so we'll walk through that in a bit more detail as to why I think that. But this is very consistent with Paul's message. Right? So let's do this. Let's go over to Exodus. Exodus twenty, which is the Ten Commandments. You know the the traditional view um and again what we're gonna be talking about here I don't want to get ahead of myself. Exodus twenty Good golly, there's so much good stuff here. Alright, in verse 3, and this is the beginning of the Ten Commandments, and I'll just read 3 through 5. You shall have no other gods before me You shall not make for yourself an idol or any likeness of what is in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the water underneath the earth You shall not worship them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, on the third and the fourth generation, on those who hate me. So God clearly from from day one is saying, I need to be your only God. I need to be your Lord. There should be no others. Why? He's a jealous God. Because he's holy. Right, and he is meant to be worshipped. So we see repeatedly in the Old Testament, what did the Israelites do? Right? They worship false gods again and again and again And we talked about this culture in Corinth. What was prevalent was idol worship. I mean there were temples everywhere. This is the culture that these Gentiles came from. They were pagan worshipers Right? That's where they came from. And the social elite, this is what they did. And I think we'll get to it in a second, but the context here is what was happening is you would often have Dinners, social events in the temples. That's where they had the the big courtrooms, if you will. Um and often they were sacrificing so these social events they were sacrificing to the idols Right? So the food that was being presented was clearly sacrificed to the idols. That's what Paul is specifically talking about here. Okay? So that's the context. We'll come back to that All right, let's go over to we covered this last quarter, First Thessalonians. You gotta go to the right. First Thessalonians one And you remember uh Thessalonians, Paul was very complimentary of Thessalonians. It's like the model church, right? And he talked about their um work of faith, their um Labor of love and their steadfastness of hope, but he goes on to characterize them this way in verse 9. And how you turn to God from idols to serve a living and true God and to wait for his Son from heaven whom he raised from the dead, that is Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. So in Thessalonica they had a similar culture, maybe not as severe But he is specifically pointing to the fact that they turn from that idol worship and they turn to God. So I'm trying to paint the picture here. Paul has been very clear about the importance of just um You know, this radical amputation with your old way of life, right? To include even the perception of idol worship. That's what's at stake here. All right, uh let's go back to 1 Corinthians. And we'll cover this in a couple weeks, but go to 1 Corinthians 10. Verse 7 says, And do not be idolaters, as some of them were, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and stood up to play. What is that Old Testament reference to? You remember? Yeah, right. So Moses was up on the mountain too long and they decided to build a calf. They were worshiping idols. Go down to verse 14. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry Do you get this picture of of just running away from the perception or anything that had to do with idol worship? Your life needs to be fully transformed now, fully contrasted from what um the life that you used to live. Okay, so that's the context of we see this in Paul. This is his preaching. We see this in the epistles. We see this in the reference back to the Old Testament. So his challenge to them is, um, and let me start with this. It's possible that the tone of the letter from the Corinthians was more of this. They were it wasn't um can we eat idle food? They weren't they're they weren't you know surmising well boy is it okay can we eat idle food? It's why can't we eat idle food That's the mentality, that's the tone that the in in remember those writing the letter were probably the the social elite or the the church leaders at the time. You know, they're saying, why can't we do this? We're free We we know these idols are fake. We know we can eat any food. What's wrong with us participating with our our social buddies at the temple? We we know all this is not true. Right? That's what's at at stake here So his challenge to them is, will their allegiance to Christ override all other attractions and attachments? And that's true of us today, isn't it? Right? We live in a very secular um society as well and and the idols just seem to creep in. Alright, so let's kind of dive in um and dissect these verses a little bit with the time that we have. Again, the social context is um in verse one. Now concerning things sacrificed to idol. So Paul's being very specific here. And again, most likely he is referring to a letter, um, a topic that they brought up in the letter, and I do think this is in quotes. Um we know the um concerning things sacrificed to idols. We know that we all have knowledge Okay, so he's saying we we they're saying we have knowledge. We know that the idols are fake and we know that we can eat anything we want Right? That that's what they're claiming. And because of that freedom, I should be able to participate in in these festivities, is what they're saying. Okay. So knowledge, Gnosis, and Paul saying, well, knowledge in and of itself does what? It puffs up. It makes arrogant. Knowledge without the right heart attitude is simply pride. In our parenting class, we talk about this often. The tendency is what? To teach them the right and the wrong, the checklist. What does that produce? Pharisees Right? At some point, we we make this emphasis, what you're really after is their heart. What you have to do is train their conscience. All right, we're going to talk about that. Their conscience given by God is distorted because of the fall. Right? It needs to be trained, it needs to be disciplined. So the in in Paul talks about in 2 and 3, if anyone supposes that he knows anything, he is not yet known as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, he is known by him. So the the ultimate fundamental principle here is love, right? Let love be your driving motivation in all instances. How do we demonstrate love to God? Shout it out. Obedience. Where do you get that from? 1 John 5. 3. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. And and you gotta follow up with the rest of the verse because this is really precious. And his commandments are not burdensome. Right? If you think, all right, I just gotta keep obeying God, I gotta keep obeying God That's the wrong heart attitude. That's a checklist attitude. That's a workspace attitude. Right? I desire now to please my Lord because I have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. I have the power to do that Alright? That's how we show love to God. By being obedient, by following his commands. That's what we that's why your worksheet, I want you to fill out what are the commands that we have. And then the application of that is a demonstration of love by obedience. That's the formula. Alright, so what knowledge did they specifically have? And they are most likely um quoting something that they heard from Paul, verse 4. Therefore, concerning the eating of things sacrificed to Idol, so that the specific instance where we know Food is being sacrificed to idols. We know that there is no such thing as an idol in the world and that there is no God but one. For even if there are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords, yet for us there is but one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and we exist for Him And one Lord Jesus Christ by whom all things are and we exist through him. Alright? So so they're saying we have this knowledge that we're okay. We know there's only one God. We know we can eat any kind of food, but they were missing the context of of what they were doing. Right? What does that um this passage remind you of Verse six. Yep, for us there is but one God, the Father, from whom are all things and we exist for Him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things and we exist through Him. Is there another verse that Expounds on that And to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. Romans eleven thirty-six. Alright? Paul is reinforcing this idea that your new life in Christ is for whom? Is for Christ. I I bring this um this quote or description back because I think it's really going to be a helpful guide in several of the passages that we're talking about. But this freedom that we have, again, true freedom is not from something or to do something, it's for something. And in this case it's for God. It's to worship God. So yes, you have knowledge. Everything you said is correct. But are you doing it to worship God? Or are you doing it to pacify yourselves and your desire to hang out with your social buddies that are still doing idol worship? That's the context that's happening here Okay. Definition of worship. Our small group went through a book called Spiritual Disrup Disciplines for the Christian Life by Donald Whitney. Really, really good book on you know, developing spiritual disciplines. But they had a definition for worship, really simple, and I love it. Worship is focusing on and responding to God. Think about that. Worship is focusing on and then responding to God. That's pretty wide open. And so we worship God in many, many ways. It's not just on a Sunday morning with song or the preaching of God's word. It's in our giving, it's in our doing, it's in our, you know, living out the one another's, right? It's in our prayer. Um focusing on and responding to God. If you are worshiping an idol Are you doing that? You're not, right? So that's the discipline we want to cultivate is that discipline of worship Alright, verse 7. However, not all men have this knowledge, but some being accustomed to the idol until now eat food as if it were sacrifice to an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. So Paul is addressing this issue of the weaker brother. Um they have not separated themselves from their pagan culture of traditions. They got one foot in the church and they got one foot in the world. Alright? That's what he means by weak conscience in here. One that is unable to make appropriate moral judgments because of the lack of proper edification, meaning the conscience has not been trained. That's why, parents, it's so important that you are focusing on the heart, on the reason behind your discipline when we are raising children. All right. Grandparents too. Right. You play a role in that as well. We need to train the conscience. That's what he means here, is that there are some believers that that are still weak in their conscience where they are still participating in idol worship to truly worship the idol as well as the Lord. We know you cannot have two masters Right? But that's they're not mature in their their faith and their understanding. So here's the crux of the issue. Verse eight But food will not commend us to God. We are neither the worse if we do not eat, nor the better if we do not eat. So he recognizes food is not the issue. But take care lest this liberty of yours somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. You got the wrong motivation Verse 10, for if someone sees you who has knowledge dining in an idol's temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be strengthened to eat things sacrificed to idol? So here's the situation. This weaker brother goes to um the same social event that you're going to And it's in the temple, it's in the outer courtroom or outer table area, and they are clearly sacrificing food to idols. That's part of the ceremony, part of the social event Right? And and he sees you, the stronger brother, stronger, um, sitting there too. The the the issue is he now has the perception that this is okay. It's okay for me to worship this idol. That's what's happening here Alright, that's the danger of here. And that's why I think the alternate view makes so much sense The food is not the issue, it's what are they doing with their liberty, especially in this area of perceived idol worship Right, their own complacency was causing their brother to sin, which ultimately means they were sinning against Christ. That's what we read in 11 and 12. So what what Paul is actually doing here is he could have come out and said, hey, you you who think you're strong, who have knowledge, right, you shouldn't be doing that idol worship stuff. He could have said it that way But I think Paul is trying to get them to to convince themselves. Right? He's admonishing them, but he's doing it in such a way that he wants them to come to that same conclusion. that I need to to really make my life separate. And in in this particular case, what you're doing is actually causing another brother to stumble because of your actions. your lack of, I'll call it integrity, right, in living out the Christian faith. Paul's approach is not one of angry admonishment, like again this checklist mentality, but rather trying to convince those who have not yet been persuaded. Christianity is not about food. It does, however, require the total abandonment of all idolatry. That is consistent with Paul's message throughout the New Testament. Right? And that's why I think this alternate view nails it. This was more about um food specifically in the context of them being a part of an idol worship ceremony, even though they knew to them the idol worship was nothing It meant nothing. Yet they were participating. So even the perception um of idol worship, that's what we have to guard against. Right? That's the danger in this particular situation Alright? Let me do this, verse thirteen. So Paul concludes with this. Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble I will never eat meat again, that I might not cause my brother to stumble. Now, there's a bit of hyperbole on Paul's part here, right? He's saying, I will go to the extreme, because why? What's the heart attitude? Love. Love. Right? If it means that I will cause my brother to sin, he's not saying, hey, you can go to this idol worship, just don't eat meat. That's not he's He's he's hyperbole, right? I will I will go to the extreme, get rid of everything if if it doesn't cause my brother to stumble. Alright? So I um uh again, I'm I'm Very convinced that the alternate view is is more spot on. Now let's talk about the application of this. And I want to read from the commentary because I thought it was I think this is important This is what was written in in the uh commentary. Does not apply to any situation in which someone might be offended by some behavior or belief. Rather it would Rather, it would damage another's relationship with God. So where this is really applicable is if it causes, you know, damage to that other person's relationship with God. The concern is resulting actions that might jeopardize the faith of others and lead to participation in high risk behavior. So let me let me uh frame it this way for you. Alcohol is often a big one used in this context, right? Um let's say you and your spouse um go out to dinner and you love to have a glass of wine with your meal. We don't have time to go into the subject of uh is alcohol okay, right? It it is my opinion. That um what does Ephesians 5 say? Do not get drunk with wine, but what? Be filled by the Spirit or be controlled. When you get drunk, what's controlling you? The alcohol, right? Um is it okay to have alcohol if it doesn't affect you? I I think there's context for that. Okay, that's my opinion. Um, I don't drink 'cause I came from um a sinful behavior of abusing alcohol. And in my case, the Lord just took that sense away. In fact, if I smell it now It makes me wanna Right? It's bad. So I I don't even participate. Um once in a while I'll have champagne, you know, um in an event But um we just Karina and I just don't. But that's how it worked out in our lives. I I'm okay with people having alcohol as uh you know, they want to have it with their dinner, you know, the right context. Now Let's say you're sitting there, you're having dinner, you guys enjoy a glass of uh wine with your dinner, and a brother comes up from church, you know, he sees you, he comes over and and he starts to get a little bit agitated, you know, that you're having alcohol in a public space. He's he is offended at that point. Okay? Um in that case, what are your thoughts? What do you do? Figure out why he's offended. Okay. Is he offended because it's a struggle of his and he's like an carrying for or is he offended? Yeah. Do you have the freedom to drink that alcohol? Okay. Good point. Because because of what alcohol did in their lives or or whatever and it's very very personal to them and it's very damaging and so forth, as opposed to they have some theological reason that they think that it's just sinful to drink. Yeah. I think one would maybe try to figure that out. I think you would Maybe address that differently. Yeah. So the context is important. I love that. Always go back to understand the context. Now, right there in the situation might not be the time to have that. Right? But you can recognize, say, you know, I clearly see you're upset with that. I would love to talk about that. You know, can we meet sometimes to talk? It really hit at the the heart of what's going on Some of it, if it's driven by, you know, this is just my preference, right, you you might now have a conversation that's that talks about where you think you have certain freedoms and maybe bring them back to this passage, right? You can now have a dialogue. If it's um this is a case where, you know, I struggled with alcohol abuse and now I see my elder sitting there having alcohol, you know, that might be a bigger issue that needs to be discussed. Right. So again, go back, understand the context. And so um in that situation where now I know the background of this person and let's say it was an issue where Um this person really struggled with abuse of alcohol and if they see me drinking alcohol they might feel like, well it's okay to to go back to that, right? That's a case where I would not want to drink in front of them because I want to demonstrate love. I do not want them to to um result in actions that might be jeopardized or or harmful to their faith or their bodies. Does that make sense? Okay. Um Similar situation, maybe um, you know, you you both get invited to a social event and that social event, you know, back to the scenario we talked about, is a little bit rowdy, there's a lot of alcohol, people are getting drunk, you're starting to get tipsy or you know what I mean? Clearly your sinful behavior there. And if um the weaker conscious person who is struggling with one foot in and one foot out sees you, what might be the impact of that Oh, it's okay to drink. My elder's doing it, or I see my brother doing it. Right, that's the contrast here. And it takes wisdom and discernment. So we have a case where it's very blank. You are participating in the same things you did as an unbeliever. Right? That's what was happening here. You were an idolater, you're you're part of the same uh social event Right when you are an unbeliever. The danger is that the the person who is still working through solidifying their faith or their conscience is going to struggle and think that's okay Right? So that's a situation you need to understand. But does it mean you should never drink alcohol because I might offend somebody? That's I think the danger too of going too far to the other extreme. What it requires though is a discussion. If you find someone who's agitated, you need to have a discussion. Kirk. This is probably for next week. Yeah. whether any individual's conscience is so tight and it's not informed by scripture. They actually have the freedom to do that, but by their training and being raised a certain way, your conscience actually you would have to violate your conscience in order to do that thing that there's enough freedom to do. Right. No, Kurt, this is really important. I think it's very applicable to what we're talking about here, but we'll see it again And I'll close here in a minute or two because, you know, I brought up alcohol, but what about movies? What about playing cards? What about how you dress? Dancing. Right? It's it goes the full extreme in in how do you handle that. I do think this is this is a fundamental principle on how to handle that. What is your own heart as attitude? Let's start with that. But I think what what I'm telling you is you do have freedom. Let the founding principle be how do I love my brother? But it doesn't mean you can't have a conversation Right, because you do have freedom. Maybe you now have an opportunity to ground somebody in in the word where they might have been you know, grown up with the wrong idea of what scripture is actually saying. You know, see it as an o see that conflict now as an opportunity is what I would tell you. Don't necessarily see it as I have to abandon everything I love to do, right? But it's probably worth a conversation. See it as an opportunity. Why? Because you love that person You might default with, you know what, I'm not gonna do that. I know that this brother really struggles with you know playing cards. So when we get together I'm not gonna play cards. Now, it might mean you need to have a conversation though. Does that make sense? Is that fair? How does the weaker brother become less weak? Yeah. Well to have that interaction to to let them understand that and help help them to grow Again, love. Yeah. And I would only nuance what what you just said, because I think the traditional views sometimes you feel like, well, I'm over here in the stronger brother camp, so what I believe is correct You might learn some things too about yourself. Are you going in with a humble attitude to say, you know what? You're right. I I've been complacent, I've become comfortable um participating in these type of events and and I appreciate you calling me out on that. Right? It needs to go the other way as well. So let that underlying principle be love, be humility. The what does Scripture say? Let's go back to what Scripture says. But I don't think it's just this idea of the strong and the weak. I think that's the wrong way to look at this. In my opinion. Okay, fair? Alright, we're out of time. Let me close. Again, if you got questions, we can talk afterwards