All right, so uh let's open in prayer for we have uh I'm Carrie King for anybody who doesn't know me. Um uh obviously filling in for Christopher. Do an overview. We're doing uh First Corinthians 15. So We'll see what we can get through. Uh if there's something that really that we need to you want to discuss quickly, uh we can. Um I I think a a lot of it is I think my goal is let's get the main points uh and it's doctrine. It's all doctrine today. There's a little bit of exhortation in here But the doctrine's critical, right? Because what right doctrine is right behavior. Um so really Uh what what I was gonna kind of do is we'll do like an overview with the notes for this. Um So what I thought I'd do is I'd do a panoramic case. We're not gonna get through it all. So open your Bibles to 1 Corinthians 15. So let's just let's just hit the highlights or the the kind of the breaks right now So verses one through uh eleven, uh really he's he's telling them uh number one, the gospel that he has preached. I mean we're we're doing this Acts and then the epistles Because if you look in Acts and eighteen one one to uh eighteen, he doesn't tell 'em what really what he what he preached to the uh Corinthians Right? So he gave him the gospel. He's telling us that. Um we don't know uh how much he gave, but um so he'd already preached this to them. So obviously he's told them about the resurrection and he's and so uh one through eleven he's gonna s he's gonna give them evidence and proof again that Christ rose from the dead Twelve through nineteen, he's gonna say, look, if Christ isn't raised, good some well will Well look at just my look at the notes, but there's this Greek mentality, right? They're they're very close right there to Athens, right? He went Paul came down from Athens, went over to Corinth. the Greek uh mindset, the the philosophies, the religions, you know, about resurrection and and and they have, you know they were starting, you know, let's face it, it's incorporated into their culture. So uh it's easy to just bring that and bring it into your beliefs. And now you start asking questions about the resurrection So he's saying, look, without the resurrection, forget it, this is all pretty much uh uh we're in trouble. Your faith is worthless. And 20 through uh twenty-eight He's really gonna kinda reinforce this. My chapter breaks in the Bible says it's a order of resurrection. But if you look, he's also saying by a man. This is huge Uh let's emphasize that today. Jesus was a man. He was. He was he was. Yes, we know, but he Just that element. And that's pretty much a uh Paul's argument. Jesus was a man who was raised, we are men, we will be raised. And he talked about the first fruit and and we'll we'll we'll look at that. But What he's saying is if we're not raised, Jesus isn't raised. That was his argument back there. Jesus was a man Okay? Greeks had a problem with that, right? The flesh is uh corrupt, you know, we can't deal with that. We all we see is the the soul and the spirit Uh versus twenty nine. Uh, let's see, but the thirty-four He basically is is saying, Look, w why be baptized? You know, um uh I'm foolish. I mean there was we may as well eat, drink and be merry. He doesn't say merry, but we'll just throw that in there. Uh, you know, uh cr uh Paul saying, uh my ministry w was r was re worthless, you know. But then he's saying, look, be sober minded. Um This this doctrine's important. You will what we really believe and what we really you know, it's one thing. Well first we gotta know it intellectually, and then we gotta have to move it into I believe it and walk it out. What you believe really is gonna affect uh your your Christian walk. And uh he says, Look, if bad you know, bad company uh it it corrupts each other Uh, then he goes into thirty five and he talks about well, he maybe he's answering the question that they had on their mind. Well, w what does it look like to be raised? And more um maybe in the background could be well what happens to people that maybe get lost at sea? Suppose they're eaten by a shark, suppose you know, h how does this happen? Right? And he's not not directly answering that, but he's he's telling 'em, you know, the the seed that's that's sown is not what grows up. Right? It's the p it's the plant, uh the pro you know. And and he gives that uh analogy uh uh throughout this piece. Versus fifty, um He really talks about the mystery. He kind of gets a little bit into the the order uh uh but again he he uh re uh reestablishes that uh uh You know, what's it what's perishable uh is not fit for heaven. The imperishable is the only thing that's fit for heaven. Uh we'll look at that a little bit. Uh I think there's a little bit more than that too. Uh Maybe we'll read too much into text, but uh I think it indicates uh also the flesh is kind of sinful It's also it's it's defeated death and he's defeated he's defeated sin, the law, it's all taken care of. Right? By the resurrection. The resurrection is is the uh the thing, the the power, the a part of the gospel that that brings us into a relationship with Christ, and into a relationship in heaven. And then there's a little exhortation right at the end, you know, of course be steadfast and moveable, abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your toil is not in vain. Look Really it's that eternal picture, right? Let's not look down here. Let's we we need that eternal picture. And it brings so much into life and and to to scoop So let's see if I can uh get to this. Stop me anytime. Um I don't know if I'm gonna get to all the notes. I'm gonna tell you up front. I uh I used uh It's this is a this is a uh uh a study, a paraphrase on a uh man named Robert Grimacky. Uh it's uh e exposition of First Corinthians Um Kurmacke was a good uh he was a teacher out at uh Cedarville for a lot of years. He's a Greek guy. Uh excellent guy though. He he he's he's kind of a preacher but he's he's uh He's he's he's a scholar. He he he knows Greek. He knows Greek grammar. Look a lot of these guys that are commentators You know the the Pinnacle really knows Greek grammar. It's very difficult. Uh but again he's one of these guys. His uh book on the virgin birth I recommend. It's readable. It's excellent. They of uh I think it was Baker, I'm not sure, Von D Von der one of the publishers approached him and asked him to write this book and he goes, Why? He goes, Well So uh his book on the virgin birth is excellent, readable. Yep. Um the Greeks believed in a resurrected uh soul but not a resurrected body, right? Philosophers in Athens with Listen to Paul, look listen to what he says. Because he has this is Paul speaking to the to the to uh Mar uh uh Aeropagus, right? He's he's uh uh preaching to the uh the intellectuals up there. Because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness through a man So again, the gospel, whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. It's the gospel. This resurrection proves that this guy is who he says he is. We know this. This is so foundational Uh Paul no longer exhorting the Corinthians on godly behavior. This switch. We went from uh uh spiritual gifts, etc. And um Uh twelve through fourteen. Uh so Paul's no longer talking to him about uh the gifts or he or even uh uh he's giving him doctrine on the bodily resurrection of Christ. the true believers. Some of the Corinthians were uh using the pagan philosophy of a resurrected soul but not a resurrected body So then he gets into this uh number one, the necessity of Christ's resurrection. Uh Paul must first show the essential truth of Christ's resurrection before addressing bodily resurrection of the believer. So false teachers are making a separation between Christ's resurrection and the believer. The resurrection is essential. This is 1 through 11 Christ's resurrection necessary for salvation. Now I made known to you, brethren, the gospel which I preach to you, which you also receive, and which you also stand. by which you were also saved if you hold fast the word which I preach to you unless you believed in vain. So Paul would preach this message to the Corinthians. This is Acts 18, 1 through 18 Of course in Acts you don't really see what he preached to him. You you get the narrative of of the uh events that happened. So in which they received a justified standing, right? This is what they stand on. It's by their position, the crucified and resurrected Christ, verse one. Verse 2 there, uh present salvation liter literally reads, you are being saved. Uh so it's that continuation that present tense. And if clause in verse two is a warning for the false teachers and their converts, failure to hold fast which is faith, believing, right? In the message Paul preached would indicate that they had not actually been saved Their vain belief, right? It's all in vain, concerns those who do not believe in bodily resurrection of Christ and bodily resurrection of believers You know, again, remind we need to be reminded. We believe this because the Holy Spirit has opened our eyes and our hearts to this, right? You you we y you're not gonna argue somebody into this, right? We we it's just sometimes it's just we we need to remind ourselves of that. Christ We we read this, we read the truth, Paul's preaching the truth, but God has to open our hearts and our minds to s to hear it and receive it, right? So, but perseverance or the saints persevere. Why? Do I persevere Christ keeps me persevering. I would fall off the wagon and stay off the wagon, right? Christ picks me up, puts me back on. You preserve yes Yeah. And and that's perseverance of the saints and and that's another sign. You know, you see people who go, Well they once believed, what happened to them? They probably never believed, right? They've fallen off and never get back on Christ's resurrection is foundational to the gospel. For I delivered to you is of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scripture. And he was buried and they were raised on the third day according to the scripture. So Paul delivered to the Corinthians the gospel he received from Christ, right? Galatians Memory says, I didn't get this from any man. Christ gave me the revelation. That's important, especially move forward because uh we're gonna see this Paul delivered to the Corinthians the gospel received from Christ. He neither added to it nor left anything out. First, Christ's death is historical, right? Christ died It's redemptive for our sins. He planned it, right? It's according to the scriptures. This was foretold, right? Uh second, he was buried, proving actual death. You don't bury alive person. Third he was raised. In fact, uh he rose from the dead, uh and the time he rose on the third day. Again, um The fact that he rose uh uh from the dead the the time, he rose from the dead on the third day is according to the scriptures. He didn't rise he did he didn't rise from the dead on the second day, the fourth day, it was the third day. That's what he said was gonna happen. It's you know uh and it goes to those scriptures, right? Um uh his body would not uh have decay. So Um these um scriptures are a reference to earlier New Testament writing Some are, yeah. Mm-hmm. And Jesus said, right? Jesus, uh I have down there Matthew uh twelve forty. And remember he's talking about Jonah? He said, just like Jonah, I'm gonna be in the the earth for three days. Right? Uh and he uses that parallel. Uh w which is interesting because he also kind of confirms Jonah there was a reality to the Jonah story, right? The Christ's resurrection proved it uh his appearance, right? Uh and he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve After that, he appeared to more than 500 brethren at one time, most of whom remain until now, but some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, uh, then to all the apostles So the resurrection appearance of these different groups uh of people right gives eyewitness accounts of the proof that the Christ bodily rose from the dead. Paul lists only the sample of the resurrection appearances of Christ uh found in the Gospels, but the appearances to uh to James and the 500 are only listed here in First Corinthians Uh the list shows that Christ appeared at different uh people, right? And different groups at different times and places This v uh uh validates the uh the resurrection. The it's forensic evidence, if you will. Um Um I don't know if you all ever heard of uh who is it Simon is it Greenleaf? He was uh wrote uh works on forensic evidence. His students uh challenged him. He looked at the evidence of the uh resurrection and I I think he wrote a book on it. Uh uh the testimony uh of the apostles I think it is. Uh and he in a lawyer's fashion, it's technical, he he demonstrates that this is accurate uh worthy forensic evidence. It would be held up in a court of law. Paul's life uh changed after the resurrection. Um Uh let's see. Last of all, as the one untimely born, he appeared to me also, for I am the least of the apostles, not fit to be called an apostle Because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and His grace toward me did not prove vain But I labored even more than all of them, yet not I, but the grace of God with me. Whether then it was I or they, so we preach, and so you believe So Paul's reference to born at a time probably refers to his conversion of apostleship coming after Christ that already already ascended into heaven. I I've seen some others and said maybe, you know, Paul was um uh came to faith, not with the with the Jewish nation, but I I think that that takes that's a bit far. Um Uh anyway, we we know that he saw Christ after he sent it. We sa he saw him on the road to Damascus, right? We know this well Um Paul put himself uh forth as a sixth and final witness. Paul was not only saved, but made an apostle of Jesus Christ as his appearance. He considered himself as the least of the apostles because he persecuted the church. Now Paul recognized that the grace uh that grace brought him to salvation uh and the amount of ministry And I kind of worded this in a funny way, but I I I wanted to emphasize it. The power of grace. Grace is something. It is the power that had enabled him to to accomplish uh not his own doing, but God's working through him. Now, you know, I thought about this When you think about Paul and what he did, um and and and what he said here and how much he labored He did it by the grace of God. And it really, Paul, yes, Paul was was active and and he put forth the effort, he was disciplined But I I really think the biggest um the biggest effort to me, uh this is my two cents, this is my theological thing I think the biggest effort is emptying yourself, becoming nothing, and allowing the grace of God to do it That to me is the hard part. Because if we if he does if he'd have done this in the flesh Th y there you you're not you he's not you Christ has to do the accomplishing. Yes, you have to be diligent, you have to go forward, you have to do the work But you know, really to me the biggest thing was Paul edited himself and he suffered, you know, uh uh uh When he when on the road to Damascus when Ananias had heard about him, he goes, man, and God had given Ananias that vision to go get Paul and he's going This guy's killing everybody. You sure? And he's going, look, this guy's going to be a vessel for me. And then he says I will show him how much he will suffer for my namesake. And that's really the hard part, isn't it? I am not a Paul, I'm a carrot. Uh you know, but to empty myself and and to giving myself over to to this, this isn't difficult. This to me is the work That's my two cents. Yeah, my uh two cents I'm thinking of the passage where Jesus um commended the the woman who was anointing him and he said that um uh those who understand that they've been forgiven much will will love Right. And I'm kind of trying to superimpose that on Paul's he has such a um intense desire to to preach and disciple and I would like to think that it out of motivation for it just his gratitude for his own forgiveness coming Absolutely. God could have saved him earlier before the really egregious sins that he's committed before that time. But there I guess there's more even more fervor to obey him because he loves him because because of his understanding And and you know I we all have our gifts. I have the gifts Christ gave me. You all have your gifts that Christ gave you I have what he gave me, I don't have what he didn't give me. Uh you know, uh Paul was obviously set apart and gifted well. I mean, he y you know And we can spend a lot of time on that, but you know, God is is the initiator, God's the cause. Um Um we have a responsibility to to respond, uh for sure, but God's the cause. God's the first cause. Um I could go on about that, but I'm not. Resurrection of all believers Now if Christ has preached that he's been raised from the dead, how do some of you um among you say there is no resurrection of the dead Paul has just given evidence of the final resurrection of Christ. Now he moves to counter the heresy, false teaching that believers would not be resurrected. Paul argues that that the resurrection of Christ and believers cannot be separated. So uh Christ is not resurrected, he's still dead. But it because re again, I want to focus on this week If you forget anything, Christ was a man. He got raised as the God man, but he got raised as a man. That's going to be important for us because we are men, we are people, we are human. And this is really what the argument is, and it'll flesh this out again in the next section. Christ became a man in incarnation, and as a man he cannot be separated from the rest of mankind Hebrews two fourteen and fifteen, right? He had to be made like his brethren in all things. He he probably familiar with that passage. If not, look it up He was born of a woman, he grew, he increased in wisdom and stature. Remember he said that in Luke when he was young and he w and it was that towards the tail end of when he uh His parents came looking for him in the temple, he is that uh if Christ is not resurrected then Paul's message was wrong. And if Christ has not been raised and our preaching is in vain, it's worthless. Uh your faith is also in vain. Moreover, we are even found to be false witnesses of God because we testified against God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise, if in fact the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. So you can see how he's he's uh keeping this together and he's he's linking this to to humanity. Uh it's not as clear as we might like, but uh that's the essence, that's where he's putting us Yes. Um he may also be like uh he's very rational or logical in his argument and I'm I'm wondering if that appeals to the Greek mind as far as uh connecting to that sort of quick rationale. Perhaps true perhaps that's true, but remember Like Paul did to the uh Athenians, right? And uh uh bef when he was o when he was over in Athens and he was preaching to 'em at the Air Opa or the Mars Hill or whatever. He gave them the truth. And that's and I think that's an important thing. I think that's what some of our m our missionaries were saying when they were up there. You know, uh uh Juan was saying that. You y y you need to preach the truth. We we try and make it clear, but it it's it's god it's God's truth. And that's what will penetrate the heart. God takes it and and and makes it work in the heart. When we start to get to Explanatory and put it in her own words. Uh I don't think it uh let God's word speak. Um Uh and it can it can even be one verse, one part of a verse. You never know it's gonna penetrate somebody's heart. God opens it up. Yeah, yeah. I I remember just real quick, I heard a story of this woman who did Evangeline Explosion, I get to you and and she she was giving a message to her mom and she said, I balance it all up, I was so nervous and her mom came to faith. And she felt like saying, No, no, no, I'm telling me again. Who knows, you know, God can take When God opens the heart, he opens the heart. Do you have something, Jeff? The the Greek culture. You know, think about it. Think about look at the look at the the Jews, uh and the believing Jews when uh uh they you get to you don't get to the Peter and the rest of 'em really didn't get uh that the Gentiles were gonna be saved until Acts chapter ten. I think you're talking eight to ten years after Christ r rose from the dead. Peter went to uh Cornelius, right? You know that whole story, it's all chapter ten. It w you know, and how God worked everything together. If you look at chapter eleven, the the when he goes back to to Jerusalem, the Jews say, You went made with some Gentiles. What's going on? And he told him he he told them the whole story of Cornelius and they said, Oh, Gentiles are going to be saved too. And if you notice in in there c you know, so it's the same thing. They're steeped This is something brand new. And they're steeped in this culture and their religion uh W w we get we get a lot of our religion, our our presuppositions, even in Christianity, you you find different beliefs. Uh and a lot of it's It goes back to kind of you know, what's already been there. It's hard to get rid of it. Yeah. We w what Paul is saying is without the resurrection Christ is dead. And that's why that's why I said we could get lost in the weeds. Let's look at a big picture. We miss this in this chapter If Christ is still dead, we don't have a Savior. And if and if Christ didn't rise from the dead Then then and if and if he did rise from the dead and we have the witnesses that he just went through, five hundred people saw him, right? You don't believe me, go ask them. I gotcha. But what he's also saying is Christ was a man. He was raised from the dead. We are going to be raised from the dead. You can't separate the two, and that's what he's trying to argue through And we'll get a little bit more enlightenment and when we go to the next section and he goes, the first atom, the second atom. Yes. From what I know of like the Greeks, they were very high I think always chasing like higher wisdom, enlightenment, all of those different things. And I feel like Paul kind of what Glenn was talking about, Paul kind of cut quick of you can't argue this facts. Here is all of this proof of you have all this higher knowledge, but here's actual proof and acts like it's just a straight argument to it But I when it comes to scripture we're always looking for application. And I think that something that we're talking about is so everybody in this room believes in the resurrection Also, our whole entire world is coloring our perspective on things if we aren't solidly instructive. Scripture. So how much of our theology, like you said, has been formed by world views, God is even acknowledging it. I feel like in my thirty six years of life, I have been constantly being raised on a Baptist of facing certain theologies that I was taught that is not biblically sound, it's just like a cultural belief. constantly and I don't even know it. It's something that I end up being faced with and I'm like, well wait a minute, that's not what I was taught. So obviously I was taught wrong in this way or This way. But I think that just to kind of comment that yes, scripture can stand on its own, but there's just sometimes where people hear certain arguments more clear than others others. Would you agree with that? Well, y yeah, and and again, we give ourselves too much credit. I am I'm getting ready to do a class next quarter. And it's on the will of God and I and I w had to go back and look at to free will because we we get right down to that thing Well what's God and what's me? And this is and so I said, Well I gotta deal with that. So I so I gotta so I so I s I start I'm starting with free will, then I'll get into the will of God But to answer your question, the practic uh you said application, the application is for us because when you look at this resurrection, which is Paul is saying This enabled him to go through all of this because what he's saying is, I w if we don't really meditate on this and and and uh really take it into a belief And it gets yeah, I don't know about you, but you know, it's just like anything. My belief gets stronger. It's kinda as my depth of of n of uh understanding and knowledge of scripture gets uh you know, deeper and deeper deep down into it. It allows us to take this world and put it in its view. Eternity is really the view. While we're here we do kingdom work, but it's eternal because Paul's saying, I don't care what happens to me, I'm willing to go out and die for this because Right? For me the the right to to live as Christ, to die is gain. But he didn't just say it, he lived it. And to live it you really gotta believe it. And to believe it It's not it's just a passive thing. I learn more. We learn more by doing and experiencing. So we take this this theology, now can I can I put some uh put it to the road, you know what I mean? Where the rubber meets the road, as Jay Vernon McGee says, yes Yeah. Come to saying that also that the Greeks believe the flesh was evil and the spirit good. That's another reason that I think that's Yeah, the flesh they just can't comprehend they no sinners and we have sinner body for that and the flesh is so good if God will make And really I would say I would uh and I would agree with them. And I think uh scripture would agree with them. The the flesh is sinful. It really is. It's prone to it And we're getting and if we make it there, which is gonna be hard, that's what he's talking about. This immortal this m uh uh mortal has to put on the immortal Uh when I did uh Leviticus, one of the things you look at in Leviticus, you're looking over is it's the holiness of God and all these sacrifices and all this cleansing, cleansing, cleansing, cleansing People were dirty. If a woman was pregnant, she was unclean for the the time afterwards. Did what was it to she had a chat a child. Okay? God told him to have children And yet she was unclean. To me what what the what the takeaway was is that you can see this mortal body is not heavenly. Christ is holy. When we go to heaven we're gonna have to have a heavenly body to be in his presence. We're gonna live a earthly body. That was my takeaway. And when I saw this over and over and over again, you see as a Leviticus, it's all cleansing, cleansing, cleansing. You're unclean God is holy, we are not. It really just gives you that picture. And that but when you think about it, w what is what are all those sacrifices in Leviticus? It's grace. It's a provision. It's a way to come to a holy God. It's God came down on the mountain, right? And then he gives them the law. God came down, he approached man. The sacrifices was man being able to approach God This is what you have to do. You have to become clean. The resurrection. We're going to be clean. We're going to be holy. We're going to be have heavenly bodies. Yeah that's good questions. I mean really because that's the point. Let's think about what this big picture is here. Otherwise all this little detail is just We're answering Jeopardy questions. Paul's message would have been false, worthless, or useless if Christ had not been raised from the dead Their faith would have been worthless and of no use. And in order for faith to be genuine, it must be based on truth. Biblical faith rests and acts on uh upon acts of God and history, right? Uh God has manifested all of this theological truth in time and history Not only would Paul uh be a false witness, uh the other apostles uh who preached the gospel would have been false witnesses as well. Uh even more would it uh been the preaching of false message that was given to them from God. Remember, Paul received his revelation from Christ Christ had told him about this, obviously Christ you know, this would have been wrong. So if there's no resurrection either in the past or the future, then uh we were c uh They were claiming that God had done something he had not done. Paul has argued that if the dead are not raised then then uh the man Christ Jesus was not raised. Again You know, uh I said there was grace. There was one thing I uh do want to mention. If you ever look at uh First Timothy, you never remember I said Paul operated on grace. You look at First Timothy, um, you know, he talks about, you know, I'm the chief of sinners there in chapter one. I don't have time to go into it, but look at look at that section there. He talks about the chief dissenters, but God used him. Look at their look follow the the in Paul said he was in unbelief when he did all that. He was in the world. He was unsaved. You look at the next couple of verses, you're going to see he's in Christ. Okay? Now he's saved. He's in Christ. He's now he's spiritually alive. He's in Christ. Then you're gonna walk in and goes, In me, he's gonna be an instrument for God That's God working in us through grace to be an instrument for him. It's really cool. In is a cool is a theological word and it and y you have to know you can use vines, but you can you have to find out, make sure it's in, it's it's uh English can can translate different words, but in the Greek it's and it's in it and it's in it in its one form. It's you it's sphere. What sphere are you in? It it's particular. It's not it's not anything else. It's not at, by, it's it's it's it's in. It's what sphere are you in And and if you look you look at that, we are in Christ. Christ is in and out. We are seated in heavenly places. I mean it's just throughout scripture and it's just they're all theological. It's it's It's the thing the Corinthians, the unbelievers were. They weren't in, they were out. They're in darkness. So if there is no resurrection, there's no salvation. How are we doing on time? Run it out. So if Christ has not been raised or faith is worthless, you're still in your sins, and those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. Uh uh we have uh hope we have we have hoped in Christ in this life only. Uh are all men to be most uh pitied Um, so if Christ is not raised the dead, uh uh from the dead, your faith is futile, it's it's fruitless, it's worthless, it's of no account. If Christ is dead then he can do nothing uh for us. uh we are going to die. Christ is interceding for us. Christ lives, right? And Christ is not raised from the dead. We are still dead in our sins. Ephesians 2. 1 Christ died for our sins. He was raised for our justification. You see that at the end of Romans, he's talking about uh justification all through there And he says right there, he was raised for our justification. Uh a crucified Christ who is not raised from the dead cannot deliver from the wages of sin Christians who died believe in the resurrected Christ are dead in their sins. uh have a place of torment uh if Christ is not raised from the dead. So in other words were you saying those who went before they're not they're they're dead. They're in trouble Uh Christ who died, uh believing in the resurrection of Christ or dead in uh redo right? In a place of torment, yep. The time for salvation is while we're here on earth, right? Once we die, then comes the judgment. Hebrews 9 27, you know that? It's appointed for man to die once, then the judgment I don't know about you, but I don't want to be judged, do you? Guilty. Guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty a million times, right? Uh Paul and his fellow workers are the most uh pitied if Christ had not raised from the dead because they had given up everything for the sake of the gospel, right? He had been reviled, slandered, stoned, left for dead gone hungry, without pro possessions, believed in a false religion. Right? Christ guarantees resurrection for all This is a typology of the resurrection. But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits. And here we go, he's gonna kinda explain this again. Uh uh w wh you know, the man-Christ relationship here, right? But Christ had been raised from the dead, the first fruits are those who are asleep. And we know that sleep, that word there, uh I forget what it is, Calkoi Mai or something. No, anyway It's the same as when Jesus same word when Jesus said uh Lazarus is asleep and the apostles go, Well, he'll wake up and now he's dead. Uses another word. Um Christ has been raised from the dead, and the sense of the phrase is that he will never die again. Romans six nine, right Christ bring uh Paul refers to Christ as the first fruits of the resurrection, the image as a reference to the Mosaic law and bringing the first fruit to the harvest And as an act of faith, God would bless the remaining clo uh crop and bring it to uh fruition. So really think about it, they were making it legalistic but really they they had faith They're saying, okay, God told me to do this, I'd bring this, and God's going to bring forth the the big crop, the harvest. God's going to do it But you know what happens. Oh, you know what I've watered it, I planted it, I fertilized it, I put the sand I did everything right, it'll it'll grow. Right? Um So it has already been proved that Christ has been raised from the dead, and he will resurrect his uh remaining body of believers from the dead. And see, 'cause that's the thing. We are the crop he's gonna bring in. Universal death, resurrection. For since by a man death came by a man also let me try that again. For since by a man came death, by a man also came the resurrection of the dead. For in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive. Alright, so sin and death entered into the world through Adam, therefore just as through one man, sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all man Uh because all sin, that's uh Romans 5. 12. So Christ became a man, died for sin, and was resurrected, making him the agent of resurrection Notice that death came by a man. It was necessary for the resurrection to come by a man. The phrase, all will be made alive, there's two possible interpretations, right? It may be restricted to believers only because of that phrase in there, in Christ. But it may also be a universal resurrection because those who believe in Chr uh in Christ uh to an eternal heaven and those who have rejected Christ to eternal hell. And the Bible speaks of this. Daniel talks about those who will be raised some will will be raised to uh uh you know uh fellowship with Christ and will be raised to judgment. That's what uh uh Jesus says in John John, some will be raised to uh you know, e everlasting life with Christ, some will be raised uh again for judgment. Uh Acts 1731. So it may be at the last, I mean all all people will be raised, won't they? All people get a resurrected body, don't they? Don't they? I don't think I think blank is yeah? No? Yeah. Yeah. Right. For destruction. Right. Well, destruction, eternal destruction though, right? Right? Forever and ever, I think is the phrase in Revelation that one they will be tormented forever and ever. What a what a verse. That good Stages of resurrection, but each in his own order. Christ the first fruits, after those who are Christ at His coming. Then comes the end when he hands over the kingdom to God and Father, and when he has abolished all rule and authority and power So all men will be raised, but not at the same time, and according to their order. It's a military term is what he uses in in its uh it's uh really it's an order kind of given uh I think Gurmackey says and you know it's to give the order Brother Trump it's time to move out get ready let's go Uh the first order was Christ, the f uh the first fruits of the dead. Christ being the first fruits, uh maybe a reference to him fulfilling the Old Testament uh uh uh all the feasts of first fruits. Uh this may also refer to the bodies of the dead, the saints who were raised the time of Christ's resurrection. It's in Matthew 27, 52, 53. Second order is after the first resurrection and is prompted by his second coming. Uh this is when the deem redeemed will be uh resurrected. Uh it is called the uh first resurrection and uh revelation The first resurrection is regardless, it it's not so much the first, it's priority of order of resurrection You know, the second resurrection really is when uh at the after the judgment seat or at the judgment seat when all the dead will be raised, you know. Uh Revelation twenty. The third order comes at the end of the age, the end of Christ's millennial reign The second resurrection will take place, uh, Revelation twenty verse uh five and eleven through eighteen. This is when the dead uh rejected Christ raised uh From the dead to be judged for their deeds. Uh the next time element is when Christ hands over the role of the kingdom to the Father. Uh when he is uh defeated and abolished all rule and authority over creation. Both angel and men. So he has to think about it, you got fallen angels, everything is gonna come into order. The resurrection abolishes death Any questions up to this point? Any thoughts? I have a question about um the verse uh Uh if I can find it. It's verse verse uh twenty nine. I knew you were gonna say that. Everybody has a question about that. Romacky says there are probably thirty different interpretations. Now if there's thirty that are somewhere in print, you know there's more. Here's you know, nobody really comes down and says, MacArthur says, you know, it may be that they they uh they were baptized Let me read what I have and then I'll uh I'll I'll give you a couple pointers. There are at least thirty interpretations of this verse. The resurrection of Christ was essential for our salvation, as was pointed out throughout the test If Christ was not raised from the dead, there was no use in being baptized, identified with uh with other believers in Christ Baptism in essence is obedience ordinance, it's a public confession of your faith in Christ. It's also a representation that you believe and identify with Christ's death, burial, and resurrection. That's really what you d were doing. It's what they did in the old and uh when they first believers got saved, they were really saying publicly Right? I believe in this. Uh this is my confession. They're not being baptized for the dead. This is an awkward verse. We we don't really know. So there are some ones in Greek, we're not sure how how Um we're just not sure really what it means. But we know what it doesn't mean, right? Ask it when you're really not sure about a passage, first thing you do is go, well I know what it doesn't mean Are we to be baptized for the dead? Is there any No. If somebody is baptized, are they saved? Trust me, I do baptism class. We get the kids that grew up in the church. You gotta worry about 'em because they know Christ was buried. You know, Christ died for my sins, he was buried, he rose in the knee the answers And they believe it. Look at uh Acts chapter eight if you want to see a belief. Uh Simon the magician Uh Philip went up there and he was doing all these miracles and Simon the magician and people apparently he was doing something miraculous. People believed in him Simon believed what Philip was doing and he was baptized. I believe he honestly believed in what Philip was doing. Peter shows up, gives him the Holy Spirit, and Simon goes, Let me buy that from you And and Sim uh Peter says, Man, your your your goal may have perish with you. I can see. He also says in that passage, you are in the bondage of sin He could tell that. He's not saved. He believed it. So we know that we're not being baptized for something. But if so really what he's saying is I what what most commentators kind of fall down on is that the the the people that died that had fate before You know, we are being baptized, right? We are part of this fellowship. And our fellowship and our baptism says we believe in this resurrected Christ. That's what they're kind of saying. But when you read the Greek text and the English translation, I don't see that at all, right? Says they're being baptized for the dead That's as that's what I can tell you. It's one of those verses. But we but you know what it isn't. That's the important thing. You already know that Um it and again this is a motive uh a motive for living And he and he tells the Corinthian, you know, we that section where he talks about uh you know uh From human uh if from human motives uh he fought in Ephesus or whatever, he says, If I did all this with just human motive and it's not true, let's eat eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die. Do not be deceived. Bad company corrupts good morals. It you know w what are you saying Our faith is important. If you don't if you don't really believe, you're not gonna practice right living. It's it's not gonna happen If you don't have a true faith, you're not going to do this. And if you're hang if you associate with people, even if you are saved, uh th you know, that that are not um uh practicing good moral, you can be corrupted. I mean, we can still sin even though we're saved, right Do not be deceived. Be sober minded. For some have no knowledge of God. That's another thing. If you look throughout Scripture, we know, it says, we know. We have the mind of Christ. We know. We know. That knowledge comes from God. Right? Uh what's it? First Corinthians chapter two, right? The the natural man doesn't know. He cannot know We have the mind of Christ. When you look at chapter three, he goes, you guys are baby Christians. You're jealous? He goes Right right after he tells them we all this stuff we know, he tells them you you're acting like babies. You're jealous, you're you're uh w uh you're not walking in unity So I I I mean that that again that is a takeaway. The the resurrection is huge. It points us to uh we we get our minds set for eternity and it puts all this perspective, why does all this don't happen on the earth Why is this? How how you you look at some of the evil uh and and you see how why could God allow that? I want to give you the short answer. God planned everything. That's a hard one to swallow. Why is there evil? Did God just allow evil? How would how would he know the future in the end? That's that's kind of the that's the thing you have to grapple with There is a the short answer that uh for that. What what is that? There's a greater good That ultimately comes from that plan. The problem is sometimes we see the plan in scripture and we go, Oh, okay, I can deal with that. But the pro most of the time we don't know what the plan is, do we? Why is this happening? Yes. Yeah they as you were teaching Carrie, I I was thinking of over it's easy to estimate over half people in the United States are banking on the fact that our message is Spain and our faith is Spain and there is no our trust in Christ is vain. There is no resurrection. I mean they're bank they're banking on that and because they their hope is that that that there is no resurrection There's no consequence for sin. They may give a little bit of credit to Christians and say, well that your message and your faith may work for you and yes you may uh gain benefit from it either now or in the future but my my hope is that there's no resurrection from Right. Right. Nobody likes a God who judges, that's for sure. Yeah. Yeah, so very much. Yeah, that's the preachers. I I think it's kinda like the what uh the apologist I've Red on that team go with what Kirk was saying. It's kinda like, you have evolution, got no judgment, you got no God, right? Right. Well, thank you uh for your time. Uh sorry we couldn't get through it all. There's no way you can. Um Fifty eight verses, no way.