We are towards the closure here. We're gonna see actually as we get into chapter ten, we're actually gonna be changing topics again, so we'll get to that in a minute, but uh we'll kind of finish things out just Uh with the remaining weeks, really um a one-for-one. So uh week eleven we're gonna be on chapter eleven. So easy peasy. So ten through eleven, you're gonna kind of see this common theme as Paul closes out his letter to the Corinthians And then cartoon-wise, here we're at. We're in the final stages as we wrap up here, and we'll get into that in a second. Alright, we have to start with our memory verse. And being a good leader I gotta try and do this first for you guys. So let me you guys hold me accountable. I'll put it right there so I can't see it Uh 2 Corinthians 12, and I should have said 9 alpha. But if you did, then you're an overachiever. But it's really the first part of that passage. And he has said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness. Good? Okay. That verse can actually be rendered for my power is perfected in weakness, meaning the Lord's power through us. So alright, who el Who else wants to give it a try? Joni Uh second Corinthians twelve nine. But he said unto me, uh, My grace is sufficient for you, for my Power is made perfectly. Excellent. Good job. And that we're going to see that play out today, even. All right. Really critical verse. Who else? That's a great verse to really just meditate on, and we'll come back to that um in a second here. The other part of your homework was to do what? Go to uh the end of chapter nine. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. And your homework assignment was to just meditate on that. Chew on that throughout the week. And what impressions did the Lord put on your heart as you work through that incredible, I'll call it paradox if you will, or that irony of his indescribable gift, where we could spend a lifetime trying to describe it and we'll never get close And yet we should spend a lifetime trying to describe it. And just a reminder, we use that uh the third stanza from the love of God, and there it is up on the screen. Could we with ink the ocean fill and were the skies of parchment made? Oh I should have Doug just sing this. No teasing Were every stock on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by trade, To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry, Nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky Right, really gets at this idea of we could spend a lifetime trying to describe and write about the love of God and and never even get close. So thoughts, impressions, as you worked through that particular verse last week Yes. One one picture that comes to mind is our trip for our youngest daughters graduating this past weekend. And there were six of us who Went through graduation and and came back to Carolina. And six in one van traveling one thousand miles. From Mississippi to Maryland. Sounds fun. Mercy to each of us in the car. Amen. That's something that is an amazing and we were listening to a very uh preaching and teaching podcasts along the way very enthusiastic at heart and one family God chose to put us together and say it's miraculous It is miraculous. That is precious, Kirk. Thank you. Yeah, good. It does sound like fun. Especially stopping at Bucky's I knew that was in there. A little bit of bucky others. Yes, Jeff. Yeah, so that that eternal perspective that we get to look for, new bodies, new heaven, new earth, um, and this idea of adoption as his children and and that identity is really gonna play out today even so we'll get to that. Good. Glenn, I I really appreciate your transparency and that's a really good observation, right? This this is a a a difficult task. Right, and I think sometimes we can we can look at that and say, I'm just gonna put it in this box that I know, right? And we bring it down to our level and we need to spend a lifetime trying to describe it. That's what produces that overflow of thanksgiving, right? And so to really meditate and cultivate, you know, that spirit of thankfulness, a verse like this can be extremely helpful. But I love that point. Right, we often kind of bring it into this box that we know and we're comfortable with instead of stretching outside of that. So and and your last point, it's a journey, isn't it? Maybe you didn't think about that as much as you do now. That's the sanctifying process. That's a beautiful thing, right? Dan, did you have something or no? Thought I saw you raise your hand. No? Okay. Alright, really good thoughts. Here's what I would tell you. Don't skip over this verse. Make sure you underline it in your Bible. Highlight it. Whatever you do. Come back to it. Spend time really if you didn't this week, I'm not going to ask you to raise hands. Spend some time really meditating on this idea of the indescribable gift of God. It is the gospel, isn't it, at its root. Just spend time meditating on that. Okay. If you're not there yet, let's open our Bibles to 2 Corinthians chapter 10. So as I mentioned, Paul is going to now close out his letter to the Corinthians, and it's really 10 through 13. It's all kind of combined, we'll see. Um, and we're gonna see. So he's gonna change the subject And we have a little clue that lets us know that. He's also going to be changing the tone of his letter. And we'll see that 1 Corinthians or 2 Corinthians chapter 10. In the Nasbi, I don't think the ESV says this, but in the Nazbi it says, now, I Paul myself. What do we know about Paul when we see the word now? Change of topic. Right now, this isn't necessarily a new topic. We're gonna see he's gonna go back to this theme of defending the ministry, but he's going to do it in the context of something different. He's going to do it in the context of, I'm coming to see you. I'm coming to see you, and what's in question is what kind of demeanor am I going to have when I come to see you? Right? And am I going to am I going to have to be bold or can I come in meek and gentleness? Right, so he's back to defending his ministry. Um this is a really neat thread he's going to pull here, so pretty exciting, and we'll walk through that. Alright, so Paul spent the earlier part of 2 Corinthians 1 through 7, like I talked about, defending his ministry. And we saw in chapter 7 what? He finally got the feedback. He was waiting anxiously for the feedback of the severe letter that Titus you know, took with him and he finally got feedback from Titus and they repented and there's reconciliation and Paul um paraphrasing just bubbling with joy. Right? He was very anxious waiting for that feedback and and to get that response back from Tite Titus was extremely encouraging. Then he goes on in what? Chapters eight and nine, um this topic of, you know, complete the pledge that you started, right, to collect funds for the church in Jerusalem. Why He wanted them to receive the blessing of that opportunity that you receive when you give, like we talked about. He wanted to show the unification of the universal church, right? Gentiles giving to Jews And we talked about the opportunity that that we have when we give, that grace that is given to us. Not only to meet a physical need, but to receive those blessings. Yes, some of those blessings could be material. I think Scott brought it up in the Old Testament. We're told don't test the Lord. Where's the one area where God says test me? In your giving. And what does he say that you're vest? might not what may overflow. Now again, we're not putting an emphasis on the material. You know, he may bless you materially so you can give more. Right? But the spiritual blessing you'll receive, you could receive both So that was the goal. Again, Paul trying to set them up for success, sending this message ahead of time to finish the pledge. Why? Because he knew the temptations they were under He knew the the um weaknesses they had in certain areas, right? Being so influenced still by the culture that they came from. So he's trying to prepare them, trying to set them up for success. Um often that is a great approach on how we parent our children, right? Trying to set them up for success as they're learning to reason as they're maturing in the faith So now in the conclusion of his letter, chapters 10 through 13, he's going to continue this theme of defending his ministry, but in the context of his next visit. So he's getting ready to come. He's setting expectations for what demeanor will be present in him The letter to this point has been somewhat conciliatory, right? We've seen that in some of the language and in some of the way he has approached the Corinthians. What we're going to see now is a change in tone. It's going to be a little bit more combative. We're going to see a bit more of the boldness come out of Paul. As my wife often jokes, the colonel is coming out Alright, that's what we're going to see in Paul. Again, however, always in grace, in love, but Paul is not afraid to be bold, and this is a great example for us to look at. As we are leaders in the church, in our home, in our communities, this is a pattern that we can continue on how to be good ministers. Paul's conclusion in these last chapters is grounded on what most likely is his chief criticism. Right? We've seen this thread pulled on the criticism that was given to him. And what was it? His style, his demeanor, the way he spoke, the way he presented himself was just what? Unimpressive. Unimpressive compared to what? Partly, yeah. There's a difference there, but but unimpressive compared to who is what I should say. Those four etheries of the cup. The orators of the time, right? Uh the sophists that came through. There was such an emphasis on your Your charismatic, your standing, your presence, how you spoke, how eloquent. And that was that was that happened throughout the Greek culture Right? We talked about that before, but s you just can't imagine how important that was, and we're gonna see later that's the standard that they're using to assess FAL is this secular standard. So they're questioning his adequacy to be an apostle. And at the root of this criticism, right, these are this is the scheme of Satan. His accusers are questioning what? Paul's authority And Paul's authority as an apostle and Paul's authority over the church at Corinth. Right? That's what they're messing with here. And ultimately when you're doing that, whose authority are you questioning? God. Right? That's what's happening here. And that's why Paul's like, Nope, it's time to wage war. And we're gonna talk about spiritual warfare. So the main thought, and I underline this, I I want you to remember this, the main thought that had infected the Church of Corinth was this criticism of Paul, really questioning his authority. Right? We're going to come back to this idea of thought. So let's dive in. Now I, Paul, myself, urge you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, I who am meek when face to face with you But bold towards you when present. First he says, Paul myself. Well, first we talk about now, right? So he's He's bringing he's introducing another topic, again, um a thread that he's already pulled, but we do see a change in topic. But he says, Paul myself. So it's very likely that when Titus re um took that letter and went back to to Corinth, I guarantee he was defending his partner. Right? I guarantee he was trying to defend the ministry of of Paul. But Paul saying, No, this is me. I'm gonna defend the ministry myself, and here it is Alright, so Paul again being bold, we see a change in that tone. I who am meek when face to face with you, but bold towards you when absent. So we've we've we've talked about this before. We don't see um parentheses around these. So it it probably was not something that was written, but most likely something that was stated So he's not making this assessment about himself. He's repeating something, a criticism that he received, most likely when he went to visit on that very short trip while he was at Ephesus. Go down to verse 10, you'll see the same kind of parallel statement. For they say, in now you see in quotations, at least in the Nazvi, his letters are weighty and strong But his personal presence is unimpressive, and his speech contemptible. So again, he's stating directly a criticism against him Paul, actually a master of literary rhetoric, as we know, goes back to Jesus Christ as the model and in his behavior. In chapter eight, Paul begins with what? We had two models on how to give. He shares how the Macedonians are giving, and they're giving sacrificially and proportionally. And eagerness, right? They were begging to have this opportunity to give. If that model wasn't enough, what model did he give for giving? Christ, thank you. Say it boldly. Jesus Christ, right? Um i and it talked about in Philippians where we talked about he was he was there with God and what did he do? He came down, he emptied himself, he humbled himself. to take on the nature of man for our redemption. The ultimate, ultimate example of giving Similarly, Paul begins this section looking to who? Jesus Christ as the supreme example of how to behave in ministry. He talks about meekness and gentleness. That is absolutely the example that Christ gives us. Now, was Christ bold at times? Absolutely. We'll talk about that. But predominantly, how did he treat the saints? How did he treat the sinners even? Right? With meekness and gentleness. You know, you think of all the attributes that Paul could have used to describe Jesus at this point, and he he uses meekness and gentleness to reinforce this is the example I'm using. Jesus Christ is my example and needs to be your example. So real quick, meek means moderation or mildness, a calm, a soothing disposition. Gentleness, kindness, reasonableness, fairness, the idea of compassionate leniency. It was a character quality that they wanted to see in their judges at the time And it was always, gentleness was always linked to the exercise of power. How this authority that you've been given, this power that you've been given, should be used in gentleness. And we see that what? In key attributes of church leaders. So when we are looking at uh potential uh pastors or elders, you go to 1 Timothy 3 or Titus 1, you'll see this character quality of what? Gentleness. This is how that pastor, potential pastor or elder is to minister, is to lead, is with gentleness. In 1 Peter 5. 3, we see a warning to pastors and elders, to what? Do not lord it over them. This authority that you have been given by God, the warning is you can't have a hard attitude to lord it over them. Right? You have authority, you have responsibility, but it is to be used in the context of of God, of Jesus Christ, in the example that He set. So meekness and gentleness. Um and I would say this again, I I always tell you guys, hold us accountable. If you see any of us not acting um in that way, you'll you need to hold us accountable. Now how do you do that? Privately. Privately, thank you. Glenn. Gently. Gently. Graciously with love. Particularly the the scripture gives us um instruction on this. Lisa, did you have something? Just you know the answer though. You know it talks about if if you're gonna make a claim against the pastor or elder, what do you need to do? Yes, privately, but At least two, why? Accountability, but it's also it it is a serious matter to bring an accusation against a passer. I think this is in First Timothy as well. This is really a protection for pastors that any any willy-nilly just can't uh come up and make an accusation. Right. So the intent is you need to be coming with some uh somebody else that can corroborate. what is happening, right? And but that's there to hold us accountable. And we're human beings. We need to be held accountable. Christian. Yes. That's kind of the I think and you correct me if you think correctly is that there's a difference between going to correct some a pastor individually in private and making Fair enough. Yeah, that's a good point. So so Doug talked about the difference between um just vi you know seeing a pastor in private versus making an accusation. I I think that's a great point. There may be times when Hey, just one on one, Pastor, I heard you say something, or I just want you to know that, you know, in that situation, that public situation, you came across just a little bit harsh. I just Can I be praying for you? That's very different than an accusation. That's a really good point. Does that make sense? Yeah, the point here is is this idea of meekness and gentleness. How does the world see that Timid, weak, cowardice. Okay? That's the standard that the these false uh apostles were were infecting the church with. Right? That's how they were evaluating, and we'll get to that in a second. That's how they were evaluating Paul. And Paul's saying, I have the perfect example in Jesus Christ. That's who I'm following. All right, and my weakness and my my or my meekness and my gentleness is not weakness. And we'll see that in a second. Diane. Not only is he following Christ as he's describing his meekness and gentleness, that's how Jesus describes Yeah, exactly. Exactly right. Right. So I I love we see Paul again and again goes back to the gospel, goes back to the standard of Jesus Christ. That is an incredible example for us Let me read this quote from the commentary from Garland. As their spiritual father, Paul expects obedience from his churches, but he believes a father's discipline should be tempered by love. compassion, kindness, and patience. Inserted in here is Colossians 3. 12. So as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. As Christ's apostle, he seeks to emulate the model of Christ's meekness and gentleness, just like you said, Diane. And isn't that a pattern for us as as um fathers? Right, and how to treat our children. Isn't that the pattern of how God treats us as his children? Right? That's the the gentleness that we see from the Lord. The last um uh verse I wanted to mention about the the character quality, if you will, of gentleness, where else do we see that? For everyone Give you a hint, Galatians, the fruit of the Spirit, Galatians 5. That's one of the nine listed, is gentleness. We are all to be pursuing gentleness. Again, often exercised in the use of power. Unfortunately, the Corinthians have been defrauded into thinking Paul's lowly demeanor Which again, Paul asserts he's simply emulating Jesus Christ is what? Timidity or cowardice. He's weak Right, that's the criticism, that's the thought that is being thrown out there and is infecting um the church. However, Paul is about to warn the Corinthians that just like Jesus, who was not afraid to boldly confront the Pharisees and the chief priests when they challenged his authority in the temple, Paul is ready to do the same. Why? Because his authority as an apostle is being challenged. And and he will not stand for it. Why? Because he has been called by God. Because you are actually questioning God's authority when you qu um when you question someone who has been called by God. Which ultimately means Christ's authority is being challenged. If need be, Paul is ready to wage war And we're gonna see that. Right. I I you made the answer my question, which is the um the the danger in freshening authority is that you're freshening God and I know that That's a dangerous place to be. Absolutely. Absolutely. And I will say this, I won't go into great detail, but we as a church we've experienced that a couple of times. where where people were questioning um the authority of the pastor elders and it had to be dealt with. And and I mean um the long history of this church. It's it's happened more than once and it it has to be dealt with Working through that, I'll tell you, is extremely complex and delicate and and uh it's the work of human beings often, right, that complicates that. It can get it can get extremely difficult, but but it has to be dealt with, right, because you're questioning God's authority ultimately All right, let's continue on in verse two. So he's ready to wage war, but what does he say? I ask that when I am present I may not be bold with the confidence with which I propose to be courageous against some who regard us as if we walked according to the flesh. So he says, I I really don't want to have a showdown. I'd rather not come and be bold. I have no problem with being bold against those who are making these accusations. That probably happened during his short time while he was there Right, I don't want to come that way though. That's the contrast that he's giving them. Why no showdown Paul knows it won't be a fair fight, for Paul's weapons are not of the flesh, but what? Rather spiritual. Let me read three through six. This is a great section. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses We are destroying speculations and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God, and we are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. And we are ready to punish all disobedience whenever your obedience is complete. So he starts with what? Paul acknowledges that he is in the flesh. Right? He's a human being, he's walking around in this fleshly body. Um what what imagery has he given us before about who he is in the flesh? A tent? A clay vessel, right? This just dirty, clay, unimportant clay pot that chips and breaks. He he acknowledges that that's who I am and that's where I am and that's what I have to work with. I have no supernatural powers though in the flesh. Right? Nothing is of me. He acknowledges he's frail like a clay vessel, but as our memory verse highlights, what? True power is perfected in our weakness. That's why we're memorizing that verse to remind ourselves God's grace is sufficient. His powers perfected what? In our weakness. We have to we have to purge ourselves of our self sufficiency. And we have to remind ourselves of the sufficiency of Jesus Christ. And that's the sanctifying work that journey that we're all on. Okay? Alright, let's see where I'm at. Paul highlights the weapons he uses to wage war are not what? Of the flesh, but are spiritual. Specifically, how does he describe them? Divinely powerful, right? These are spiritual weapons and they have divine power. That phrase can be interpreted or read mighty before God Paul's and our spiritual weapons are what? God's weapons to be used according to God's rules of engagement. So when you when you're in the military and you got to go do an operation, um the question that is always asked is what is the ROE? What are the rules of engagement? I have all these weapons, how do you want me to use them? What can I strike? What can I not strike You know, how should I do that? That's all driven by by these rules of engagement. It's a really important aspect of war to include spiritual warfare. And we apply these weapons how? According to God's rules of engagement. According to God's standards. So what are the divinely powerful weapons Paul is talking about? Does he list them here? He doesn't. But you know from other passages what are some of those weapons. Ephesians 6. Let's go there I'll start in verse ten. It says, Finally be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the full armor of God that you may be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the full armor of God that you may be able to resist in the evil day, and having done everything to stand firm. Stand firm, therefore, having guided girded your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace In addition to all, taking up the shield of faith with which you will be able to extinguish all the flaming missiles of the evil one, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. So a really cool visual here, right, of uh a great warrior with all his armor on. Um I love the the flaming uh arrows of the enemy, right, with the shield of faith But it all starts with what? You need to be regenerated. You need to be born again. The helmet of salvation. I like to think of maybe the first four listed there are um or first Five, let's see, one, two, three, four, five as defensive weapons. And then maybe that last one, what the sword of the spirit, right? The word of truth as an offensive weapon But what do we read here about how we are to wage war against Satan and his dominions? Verse eleven, what do you see there? Stand firm. How about verse 13? Therefore, take up the full armor of God that you may be able to resist. In the evil day and having done everything to stand firm. So we're often told or we should remind ourselves the goal is not to do offensive battle with Satan It's to stand firm, it's to resist. We have a great example of that in Matthew 4, don't we? Right? Jesus, when coming out of the desert for 40 days, hungry, thirsty, he was tempted, and what did he do? He used the sword of the spirit. Right? He resisted Satan with the sword of the spirit. So yeah, he used an offensive weapon, but it's not like he waged war with Satan. Okay, that's the same standard for us. So what do we what do we hear, this distinction? Resist Satan, flee, youthful us Right? We'll come back to that in a second. We're to flee, we're to run from, we're to cut off, we're to put off youthful lust. Resist Satan. What is a now I will tell you this. This is a great verse or passage that captures really concisely this idea, this imagery of putting on the armor of God. these uh wep these spiritual weapons of war that we have? Is it exhaustive? What other weapons would you put into this category? Which one is missing from here that's actually in this passage? Prayer. Verse 18. With all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit with this in view. Be on the alert with all perseverance and petition for all the saints. So yeah, I really like to make sure we include prayer in this list. Um so let me ask you something. Would you characterize HBC as a praying church? No, probably not corporately. Oh oh I was thinking that um I think the quarterly pair meeting could be much better attended. Okay. But there's a good contingent of people that you pray Okay. So Kirk's comment was was corporately he would say no. Alright? The quarterly prayer meetings that we have, um there's a core group there, but it's small uh the m the morning meetings that we have at nine there's a pretty good group there but considering we have a church of four hundred and fifty people it's it's small. So okay. Other thoughts, comments? Raymond? Okay. A lot of emails going out, right? Yes. For prayer. Good? It's okay, throw it out there. I think since it's a weapon, it's always a word. have to work. Hmm. So cultivating a a prayer life is a discipline, isn't it? It's not something that comes naturally. It needs to be cultivated. Good Back to HBC. Are we a praying church or not? Heard one viewpoint. You all agree with that? Were you all good with that? Angela, yep. Lisa. But on your comparison point. Okay. I think that I think the American church in general thinks that prayer. I think that's African Church is I have been humbled so many times by this Can you give us a a snippet of what that looks like? For one, the expectation that you're going to spend the lengthy amount of time in your prayer, in your services, uh um both individually and corporately in the general term. is like you know on uh Christmas Eve for example. A typical Silver East church is going to spend the entire Eastern No, no one's gonna care that as long as I'm comfortable and the baby is crying, it's just what you do. Yeah. Um and then also just when you encounter or like things in daily life, the first response, because there's a certain like in a typical African mindset, it's very easy to attribute things to the spirit works because that is how they think traditionally and they there's a lot of that secretism that's left over even in the Christian mindset. But for a Christian they then go, okay, this happens I mean, gotcha. And so the so the contrast with the Western world, me personally, American church and gentlemen You're just logical, you're rational. This happened because of this, this thickness is due to this. This bad thing that happened is due to that. And so I think we're just slower to run to prayer Okay. And so I think are we better than your average American church? I think so. But where are you comparing to? Are we should we know? Are we measuring that over here? Yeah, probably. So just Yeah. Okay. Good. That's a great perspective. Great perspective. Yes, Stephanie. I I appreciate I don't know that we're under a fair share of churches. And I really appreciate that whoever's preaching on this company here takes the time to really being prayerful and it's and it and it really does you know the first time I did it on was like Wow, they're just now turning the service. So once you're here and you're part of it, you realize like this is meaningful and this is powerful and I think it it sets a good example for the coloration, but it also just nurtures that discipline of of you know being prayerful together and I I appreciate it it's about big emerging towards things and personal prayers interspersed. So I appreciate that it is a part of the setting for Anything? I'll say we the in Henry Web is greed as we frame possible. Yep. Yep. Good. Good So I I would say that my observation um is is Kirk maybe similar to you having been in the military, moved around a lot, a lot of different churches in the West, but also being overseas, um short-term mission trips. Um, I think that's I I do think it's a Western thing, right? Where corporately you're not seeing maybe the uh participation that you would like. And yet, you know what? I I just am so thankful every time we get together and the core we have is it's sweet. It's a sweet time of fellowship. So yes, we can improve in that area, I think, uh for sure. However I see a lot of individual, you know, you mentioned the emails that go out. We see a lot of prayer um online. I know there are a bunch of small groups. I know several of the ladies have, you know, their their prayer times and they're faithful and dedicated. It's early in the morning. So I know there are pockets, small groups, right? I know prayer is happening. So at an individual in in small, you know, small fellowship arena, I think there's a lot of prayer happening. But again, that's something we have to cultivate. So if if we're not happy with the status as a church, let's do something about it. Right? We all play a role in that. So all right, so prayer obviously, and and I think it's something we often just oh yeah, I gotta pray That might be the most important spiritual weapon you have, other than the word of truth. And I I've mentioned to you, this is something that the Lord has really had to mature me in as my kids become adults and and they're independent and you know I have to just come alongside them now, I I do that a lot more by just praying And and so it's been a blessing to me to have to go through that that process um to just be praying and praying and praying. It's precious. And then when you see the fruit of that and the encouragement that comes from that, it it really is precious. Um let me just mention a couple others. Oh where did I my list go? Oh. So You know, again, this doesn't have to be um exhaustive. You know, divine wisdom, we talked about cultivating a spirit of thankfulness. That that can be a weapon Right, when you're struggling with certain thoughts, when you're going through a trial or a tribulation, to cultivate that spirit of thankfulness, turns your your view back to God, fleeing youthful lusts, resisting Satan as we just read. What about um the command to be filled by the Spirit? Remember that that needs to be yielded or controlled by the Spirit. So when the The Spirit is convincing you of something, reminding you of something. You have a choice to be obedient or not. To be obedient is is a weapon, really. Right? That's spiritual warfare. We talk about in Ephesians four twenty-two this idea of putting off your old self. And then what? Renewing the mind through God's word, through prayer, through fellowship. um in putting on your new self. Again, that's a that's a sanctifying process. Cultivating these spiritual disciplines is what I would tell you. Those are the weapons that we have to cultivate Those are the weapons at our disposal. And so we're going to see now Paul actually using uh one of these weapons to confront this accusation. And I don't know if I'm going to get through all those here, but I don't want to rush it because it's really good. So we can pick it up next week if we have to. Alright, let's go back um to our passage and let's pick it up in verse four Let me start in three again. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful. What? For the destruction of fortresses. We are destroying speculations and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God. And we are taking every thought captive. to the obedience of Christ. So in this context, Paul is waging war against what? The destruction of fortresses or strongholds. Verse 5, destroying speculations or arguments. This gets back to this idea of thought. This is the thought, the speculation, this argument. Why? Because every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God. Right? This argument or this thought is contrary to God's word, to God's standard. That's what he's going to address. That's what he's going to attack. How is he going to do that? By taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ Again, this idea of thought, mind, or design, and is connected in this letter to the activities of Satan. Flip over to chapter 11 real quick And let me pick up eleven verse thirteen. For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. And no wonder For even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light, right? The great deceiver. Therefore it is not surprising if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, whose ends shall be according to their deeds. So th this is kind of the first time we're really seeing clarity that that Paul is calling them ministers of Satan really. Right? That's the danger of of of these people infecting themselves in the church. And he's gonna do warfare, spiritual ba battle against them. Specifically how He's going to hold every thought captive to what? The obedience of Christ. So let me pause here for a second. I don't know about you guys, but but I've grown up understanding this verse to be just a very general that I personally have to hold every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. Every time I'm tempted of this this maybe this lustful thought, nope, I gotta hold it captive. Is there general truth to that? Yes. And we'll talk about that in a second. But that's not the context of how Paul is using this. Right? What he's saying is I'm going to take that speculation, that argument, that false argument from these ministers of Satan that is infecting your church, and we're going to align it with the word of God. What does God's word say? Alright? And it's interesting to note, he's not necessarily confronting directly what? These false apostles. This message is to the church. We need to hold thought captives. I as a minister of the Lord am going to hold this thought captive, this this false narrative, and we're going to align it to what does God's word say. That's what's happening here. Okay? Does that make sense? So that's the the nuance that is happening here in this context. Paul's focus is not on trying to destroy his rebellious adversaries. He'll leave that to God Rather, his objective is to rescue the Corinthians from the grips of foolishness. His goal is their obedience to God. That's what he's trying to hold captive and bring it into alignment. Verse 6, real quick. And we are ready to punish all disobedience whenever your obedience is complete. Most likely, this is from the commentary, what is being said here is once they are obedient, once they are thinking correctly, then together we can deal with these false apostles. He wants them to deal with the false apostles. He doesn't want to come in with a heavy hand. He could, but he's saying you need to be the ministers of your church, right? You need to be the protectors of your church And right now my focus is on your obedience, on your thought, on how you are assessing according to God's standard. Right? So that's what's happening in these passages. So how is he going to achieve this goal? By taking every thought captive and aligning it to God's word. So let me let's pause here for a second and maybe talk about application, because we talked about the individual. So when we think about this idea of taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ, how does that look at a I'll call it a church leadership level, your pastors and your elders You know, clearly we would say they've been given authority by God. Right? As men, we are simply affirming the the calling on their life To be a pastor or an elder, we absolutely have an obligation to what? Protect this church from false narratives. We need to tear those down. We need to destroy those when they happen I'll go back to a couple instances where we had people challenging the authority of pastors and elders at this church. Those those thoughts, those arguments had to be torn down Right? And it's painful. It hurts and it's complex and it's messy. Um but that would be an obvious case, I think, um just like the Apostle Paul of of doing spiritual warfare, taking every thought captive How about um ministry leaders and coordinators, small group leaders? Do you have do you have an obligation to to tear down these these speculations, these false narratives In your personal small group settings? Bill? Yeah, I think anyone who's in a leadership position, whether it's uh at the top level, the elders are front more frontline shepherds, longer players or even you know, husbands and fathers have to be aware of the false ideas and and you know the challenges that are stalking the flock. And and that's part of it is cultivating that awareness of like, oh, our culture is trying to tell us this. So I need to be active in countering that among the people who are under Yeah, perfect Bill. And I I think the point I want to make is is we all need to feel we have that responsibility as what ministers of the gospel, as ministers of the new government. Um new covenant. Right. You've been equipped You've been equipped to do that. We have a job to do this. So I was kind of working my way down, Bill. You just ran there, right? So I'll call it pastor, elders, any kind of ministry, um, leader, small group, coordinator, uh, parents Parents, you are are conducting spiritual warfare every day for the minds of your children. They are just being bombarded by every direction from secular input of this world social media, internet, movies, um where they go to school, right? We we are on a battleground for the the thoughts of our children. We need to destroy those thoughts that are what? Counter to God That's how you're training them up and it's a full time job. Alright, let's even go further. You people who are single or just individuals, how might this play out? Glenn? Everybody is a leader of someone. Even if it's just themselves. They have to be mindful of how the world asked them personally how they eat to get rid of their thoughts. Right. You know, whatever they may be. Um so I I think it launched everything. Absolutely it does. Anybody have a personal example? Go ahead, Doug. You know, this this gets back to the passage that you're referring to. to before it's First Timothy five nineteen that talks about not admitting a charge against the elder. And you I've always kind of thought about this from a public church kind of kind of perspective, but this could very well also apply in a one-on-one situation. If you're listening to gossip about an elder, it's probably the right time to say, ho ho, stop. You know I can't listen to what you're saying because that's you just Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah, Doug, that's a great example because you could clearly take them back to that passage you just read, right? Aligning it you're taking it captive, but you're aligning it to God's standard, God's word. Perfect example. Good. Jeff, did you have one? We encourage a lot of dialogue and sometimes we'll get uh recommendations on something from the internet. And I had to one step and then go to Yeah. But Jeff, that's a great example. Uh again, the influence that social media and that's our generation, our young generation, right? They're they're really and I'm not saying that critically, it's just they're tied into that, it can be very helpful. Um but but when they bring the hey what about this? Right? I heard this uh you know crazy man on on a podcast taking that thought captive in how? With gentleness, with love, but you're doing what? You're aligning it this is what the Bible says. And what you're doing is you're you're trying to get them to go back to the sword of the spirit. Like this is the standard. Um, does somebody else have a Stephen? I guess I have a qu it's more questionable. Okay. So I know it's talk it's talking about yes we can And we need to have leaders do that in a way that calls people to do that. Yep. I just found it interesting that he said he like he talked about dentalness and he says we're ready to punish every obedience disobedience when you're obedient. It's is complete. So would you say in that is there is also a measure I guess just a patience that we need advancement, but sometimes realizing I could go in and say what is true. Yeah. Gun is lazy and it might the person I'm trying to shepherd might actually push them away. And so Paul even in dealing with this could Yeah. I think absolutely Steve, and we see that throughout Paul's letters. You know, I go back to we have this wonderful example I I think it came up first in in the Thessalonians where he deals with them. Sometimes he's encouraging, sometimes he's exhorting, sometimes he's imploring, sometimes he's admonishing. And it really depends on the context of the situation But I go back to the example, the meekness and the gentleness, right? That's the underlying pattern of how he's going to address these these situations Again, and this is this is more from the commentary. I don't know if if I'm right or wrong, but I I think the the intent here in verse six is, you know, I really want to focus on you guys first. And and even in this strong language How he presents himself in person might be much more gentle, right, and much more kind and loving as he deals with these issues But once I get you to that place where your conscience has been trained, you know, then we can start to administer church discipline, you know, Matthew 18 to really start to ad because we have to address these issues. And that whole process can be gentle and gracious and loving. Um so I I think you're spot on. You know, that that underlying demeanor that we have to have in addressing these, you know, it depends on the context, but absolutely I think this might also be related to uh Jesus' teaching about like why you try to remove spoiler from your brother's eye when you have a word of your own. Absolutely. And become obedient to the word and the gospel. And then we can move forward because otherwise you're gonna be able to be a hypocrite, you're gonna like uh said like push other people away and whatever because they're gonna see that as you know you not living faithfully yourself but calling other people to account for things that Absolutely. Yep, good. Let me do this. I I want to cover one more topic. We're almost out of time. Let's go to verse seven. So Paul clearly identifies their problem Um they are examining or looking at Paul through the wrong lens. So he's going to get very detailed here. Here's the issue that you have. Verse 7. You are looking at things as they are outwardly. If anyone is confident in himself that he is Christ, let him consider this again within himself, that just as he is Christ, so also are we So they are looking at what? The outward appearance. That's the secular way to do things. And that was so prevalent in their community and their culture. To compare themselves to others Uh versus what Paul is saying is you need to be looking inward. What are the spiritual evidences that you see? Right? His actions, his behaviors, his words, his heart attitude, the fruit Some are interpret this verb looking. We see that you are looking. Some commentators view that as an indicative, meaning Paul's just making an observation of the truth. Right? You are examining people this way, outwardly instead of inwardly. However, every occurrence of this verb in Paul's letters is what? An imperative. It's a command. A command to look at what is obvious before them. And one of the primary pieces of evidence is the fact that there is even a church at Corinth. He says the fact that you're even a church is evidence of God's appointment of me as apostle and God's work through me. Right? And he's going to talk about that a little bit later. Let me read one summary real quick and then we'll wrap things up and we'll pick up next week continuing this chapter. He says, look at the evidence before your very eyes, but look at it with spiritual perception so that you can see the divine reality beneath the surface. If anyone doubts that I am Christ, then how did it happen that this church was founded through my preaching? Your existence as Christ's church is the primary evidence that I am Christ's servant and apostle. and that the Spirit of Christ works powerfully through me. So he's not only trying to align them to God's word in this simple um act of how they are assessing others. Right? He's he's saying you're doing it outwardly, you need to do it inwardly. And the basic evidence, experiential evidence, is that you're even a church. Right? That God allowed me to come to you. So let me wrap it up there. I do not want to rush through um the rest of this, but we're going to talk about next week um Boasting. Can we boast? And how do we do that biblically? How did Paul boast? We're gonna see. Paul boasted. Let's make sure we understand that and understand that biblically. Right? So that's where I'm going to leave you. So as homework, I want you to continue with the rest of this chapter. Really dig in 8 through 18. And now with some of this context The rest of this chapter might make a little bit more sense. Alright, so that's your homework as well as the memory verse. Alright, let me pray