Alright, I heard Jason say it started in Antioch and they ended up in Antioch. Okay. Alright, so as we go to his second missionary journey, where does he start from though? Jerusalem. Jerusalem. How'd he get from Antioch to Jerusalem? Jerusalem. What drove him to Jerusalem, do you remember? Council. The Jerusalem Council. Acts fifteen. Right? This was really the first big council that we see as you go through and study church history, you'll see a number of these councils um that meat, but this was really the first one in Jerusalem. And what they were addressing was was basically trying to add to the gospel. Right? They there were some Judaizers that were saying, hey, you need to be circumcised as well. And this kind of Put a definitive on nope. The pure gospel is what needs to be preached. And that's going to be really critical as we study First and Second Corinthians. Okay? So you can see though, um we study this, basically we have been studying it as we've studied. study the book of uh Thessalonians, but back through Galatia. You know, that was uh Paul's style to go back to the churches that he started. They he um wasn't there long, so to go back and and reaffirm and see how they're doing and encourage them um was really important. So back through Galatia and then Asia Minor, uh today that is Turkey, up into Macedonia. And you remember he was basically getting kicked from one city to the next because of persecution. And so We know that he was a very short time in Thessalonica, uh less than a month from the uh reading that we have through Berea. Um and then he settled in in Corinth for about eighteen months. So he was there quite a long time. And I think we'll talk about this later, but that's where he met um the couple, uh, Aquila and Priscilla. Right? Now they would go on to Ephesus and and be great ministers there to the church at Ephesus. And we'll talk about another character from Corinth, Apollos, but we'll get to that in a little bit. And then you can see at the end of his journey he works his way back to Jerusalem. And now we are on to his third missionary journey. And again Axis Acts tells us that he um works from Jerusalem back to Antioch. There was no big event that caused that. He was just going back home. And so he will start his third missionary journey. From Antioch, Syria, Antioch, and again back through Galatia to visit the churches, Asia Minor, and he's going to spend almost three years at Ephesus. And it's at Ephesus that He will write the letters of First and Second Corinthians. He's gonna get um reports back from what is happening in uh Corinth and it's not good. Alright, so there's this big contrast between what he heard from the church in Thessalonica to what he's now going to hear at the church in Corinth. But again, the context that you're going to hear in this in a second is so critically important. It's not about Paul just addressing problems in the church. Right? We really need to understand the context of why they're having problems because it is so relevant to us today. Okay? Any questions on that? So again, what we tried to do is tie these missionary journeys to the books that he wrote during those journeys. So first and second Thessalonica Thessalonians is probably the first writings he has had. And then you see this connection now to his third missionary journey, and the first books that he will write are first and second Corinthians. Alright, so let's talk a little bit about the context. Context. Where is Corinth? And I I just want to highlight this unique fish uh feature. They are located on what's called an isthmus. And you can see the the definition down below. An isthmus is a a thin piece of land that connects two big bodies. and then it's got C on both sides. This is important because you know how important the port cities were back then. They basically have two now, right? And then you have the land. So this was a major, major crossing route, trade route, port city, and all the difficulties and complexities that came with that. Alright, so a very mixed culture. They had what they called though the the isthmus games. Think think on the order of magnitude of the Olympic Games. You know, that's how big they were. And you can see some of the pottery down there below highlighting some of that. A lot of pagan temples, a lot of uh you know idol worship, and we'll get to that in a second. But this idea of uh really being driven by a desire to gain knowledge, to to be spiritual. Right? This is really important for the context. And so we'll come back to this chart. Let me see if this uh works. It's not important that you see, it's important that you can hear, so that's approach the melodic line. So what is going on in Corinth, those of you who are trainers will know that we often talk about setting the text in this context, and the whole book context, which gives to us of course the melodic line eventually. help and strengthen us as we come to this and other particular passages uh in the epistle. What is going on in Corinth, in one word, division. That is what is happening in the church. There is a conflict between the church and its apostolic owner. There's a movement which seems to have been initiated by the few, but which is beginning to infect the many, to move away from Paul and his teaching. teaching to what they are claiming is a greater wisdom and a deeper spirituality. And if you look carefully at the text of these opening chapters, you'll find that there are four buzzwords that are uh very much the concern of the Corinthian congregations. Let me just give them to you, and you'll find they occur many different times through the chapters. The first is spiritual pumaticos. What does it mean to be spiritual. That's the big debate, Corinna. Second is wisdom. We'll look at that especially tomorrow. So here, what does it mean to be wise? Where is wisdom found? What is the nature of wisdom? The third is knowledge, gnosis, and the fourth is power, that great word dunos, the ability to get the job done, the strengthening to accomplish the task. Spiritual, wisdom, knowledge, power. These are the emphases that come from the opening chapters of Corinthians and clearly come from the Corinthian culture. Now we know the Corinth was a successful, commercial, wealthy, blitzy city. It was a great port, lots of travel in and out of Corinth, lots of trade going on there, cosmopolitan city. Actually in Paul's day it was called New Corinth. It was only a hundred years old because it had been refounded. And uh I guess everybody would have said it was cool Corinth. If you wanted to be in a place where things were happening, where everyone was on trend. Corinth seems to have been that sort of city in the ancient world. It was of course also a byword for immorality and for license and uh if you describe someone as being a Corinthian, you would mean that his sexual morals were very loose. And yet it was a great center of religion. Some of the scholars tell us there were more pagan temples in Corinth than perhaps you would find ethnic restaurants in a great city today. And it was full of people people who were peddling wisdom. The celebrities of the ancient world in the first century are the traveling philosophers, the sophists as they were called, and they were in and out of Corinth making a great killing for themselves, because people always wanted to hear something view. They always were interested in what's the what's the trend, what's the cutting edge, and there were plenty of people around with plenty of so called wisdom in that great cosmopolitan city. Welcome to Corinth, welcome to Chicago, welcome to London. It's no difficulty in making the connection in our own thinking. Now, of course, the context in which we live always shapes the way in which we read the Bible. When we teach people Truth and framework. One of the things that we need to remind them is that you cannot avoid having a framework. We all of us read the Bible through our frameworks. And the pagan religion and background of Corinth thrives Upon a spirituality that was based on ecstasy, the more incomprehensible and out of your mind the devotee became in pagan religion, the more spiritual the experience. And so mystical spirituality. Which led to a denigration of the body because it doesn't matter what you do with the body, so long as the spirit is alive and being nurtured. That led to a sort of super spirituality, which you find all the way through the letter is what Paul is concerned about. What does it mean to be spiritual? Well, perhaps to have ecstatic utterances, perhaps to have uh gifts from God that are very clearly supernatural. Um certainly if they would claim it them to live above the material plane of the present world. They were all already experiencing the blessings of heaven. Many of the people in the church felt. They had a full measure of that now. When Paul has to rebuke them in chat, Chapter four and verse eight, if you just turn over for the moment, you'll see how he says to them, Already, you've become rich. Um without us you've become kings. And would that you did reign, so that we might share them all with you. In other words, he's saying you've got this vastly inflated view of where you are as Christians, your super spirituality which has puffed you up and makes you think that you're really with it. And Paul is, of course, beginning to expose to them that they are very far short of what God actually requires. I think if you're looking for a melodic line in Corinthians, the melodic line to me is what is biblical spirituality? And the answer is it is cross-shaped. It is the self-sacrificing love of a Jesus who goes to the cross and dies for sinners. And that's why chapter thirteen is chapter thirteen. And that's why it's so much the heart of the letter. And it's not spirituality that impressive in its gifts and in its uh sense of uh having arrived, but spirituality that is prepared to tread the way of the cross. So in chapter eight verse one, knowledge puffs love, love fills up. And the wisdom that was taught by the impressive public orators who were always around in Corinth, that also, you see, from the culture impacted the church. And they wanted to have people who could uh uh could do that sort of thing, who were famous for their rhetoric. Um rhetoric, the art of public speaking, was the was the crown of a liberal education in the Greco-Roman world in the first century. And the orators were the media personalities. of their day. So eloquence was a primary requirement. And it was very big business. If you were a great orator, you were a wealthy man. Now you see how the culture affects the church. So the church is by the pagan influence and of course it's always trying to um extricate itself from the downtrack of the framework, from the views that they had inherited from childhood, these new converts, comparatively new Yes, they've come to know the Lord. Yes, the reality of the gospel is at work in their lives, but that culture is always impacting. And so the spirituality and the wisdom issues owe a great deal to Corinthian. culture. It will express itself differently today, but our culture of course impacts us far more than we realise. So the culture of the church's big business has an impact on local church congregation. Which will very quickly drift us away from the gospel if we're not critical about our cultural presuppositions. We need to come to judge our culture by scripture. And God has given us this scripture in the first place. Corinthians, so that in every generation of the church, whatever the cultural context may be, these criteria can be applied. These ways of looking at things can be effective for us too. Now I've just spent a few minutes on this. That introduction, because I want, in a sense, to focus on the text and the text in its context. But you can see why Paul was so disappointing to them. They are strongly tempted away to a much more Corinthian looking church, we want super spiritual gifts. We want really impressive orators. Because in glitzy Corinth, nothing else is going to come the ice. And Paul is not impressive enough, and he seems to be committed to this offensive message of the cross, which was offensive in the first century as it still is in the twenty-first century, even though An item of jewelry now, and the cross has been glamorized and become decorative. Nevertheless, when people understand the real vessel of the cross, there is still great hostility towards it. And so Paul is disappointing a problem. is now saying to the church that was founded through his ministry, you're in danger of losing everything. And the divisions that are emerging because of these groups that are moving people away from the centrality of the gospel of Christ. Those divisions are not just unfortunate, they are light-threatening. This is a letter that is written to sustain the life of the church in Corinth. Okay. Sorry about that, but I thought really great introduction into what was happening in Corinth and is that applicable to us today? Absolutely. So so let's talk a a little bit about that. Let me get to Raymond first and then Joni. I'll just say who was the the teacher on video. Yeah I'll have to check and see and and let me say this. Um I you know I didn't vet him. Um I don't I don't know how good he is as as biblical doctrine. I thought the intro was excellent though. um as far as capturing uh but I can get that to you. I'll send it out to you guys. So yeah, for sure. Was that what you is that what you okay, good. So what are some of the things that you heard about what was happening there at Corinth? What was their focus? Spiritual knowledge, this whole idea of of I'll call it secular wisdom, right? Being a good orator, uh uh good at rhetoric was really, really important. He used this term sophis, so I have that uh defined here, traveling teachers. So they would they would pay to teach and and demonstrate their skills. I mean it was a really, really big deal. And that's gonna be the the cornerstone when we talk about this idea of division, um, is this culture is really gonna drive what's happening there. Okay? But you can see Paul how upset he was with the fact that we'll see, he he has instructed them clearly in the way of the gospel and yet where are they pulled to? They're they're pulled to their their second worldly culture that's all around them. We have the same challenge today here in America. I guarantee it. Anywhere across the world. But what I want us to do is challenge so the big bumper sticker there. We need to understand our own cultural presuppositions. The presupposition is you make an assumption before you go into an argument or a line of reasoning. We need to challenge those, right? 'Cause we are absolutely being impacted by our culture. Right? Our Western culture. Culture or independent culture. And we should challenge those in this class. Let's do that. Let's have those discussions. Alright, so that's that's why I wanted to share this because almost everything that Paul's going to talk about addressed from an issue. Standpoint stems from this cultural impact that is impacting the church in Corinth. Now we've seen this before, right, in um Judaism. Those those Jews who have become Christians, sometimes the temptation was to bring back their traditional Traditions, right? And we talked about the that's why you had the Jerusalem Council. They wanted to bring back the circumcision. Um so so we get it. We understand that. But we want to understand um how that might be impacting us today. This this book Books, 1st and 2 Corinthians, is like he said, applicable to every age of the church. Right? We all come in with this framework that is driven by the culture that we live in. And I want us to challenge that. God has placed us here, every one of us in this room for this time, this season here in America. And I love America, right? No issue with that. But we have to understand those cultural influences and our own presuppositions, because we all have 'em. We all have that framework. Okay? Alright. I was going to show a really cool video. It was kind of a cartoon-ish that helped explain the entire book of 1 Corinthians. So I'll see if I can get that up for next week, but I'm not going to try and do that again. But this is basically how 1 Corinthians. Corinthians is broken up and we'll use this as a framework to help flow through and follow through what Paul is talking about or what issues he is addressing. And you can see the first four chapters. Now we'll finish out the rest of this quarter in the first four chapters of First Corinthians. Okay, so we'll be addressing this idea of division. And we want to, you know, understand what kind of division is he talking about, right? So that we can apply that to our church here today. And then there are some some moral issues, some sexually immoral issues, just a whole host of things that that he will address here and again heavily influenced by the culture that they live in and and their movement away from the simplicity of the gospel. There'll be some issues related to food, sundry things like that, the way they worship. And then pretty important chapter, chapter 15, a misunderstanding of Christ's resurrection. So we'll talk about that. What's the big uh he he mentioned First Corinthians chapter 13. What's that known for? Love. The love. Love chapter, right? So we'll talk that uh in great detail. That's a great, great um chapter. I highlight again the bumper sticker down there. though um and we'll get to this when we get to chapter three but but he basically says to them, I gave you milk to drink, not solid food. You should be eating solid food at this point. But I have to go back to giving you milk like a newborn babe. That's kinda of the theme of 1st and 2nd Corinthians. Their lack of maturity in where they should be in the faith. Alright, we don't want to be that type of people. And then um I I'll show you this chart again. I did add this piece down here. Here this this is all about the simplicity of the gospel and we will see Paul again and again and again trying to draw people back in all his epistles back to the simplicity of the gospel message. Right? That's where we have to turn our hearts. And and it's not just um when we talk about the gospel we need it every day because it's not just about our salvation that point of our heart being regenerated and we are now children of God but how do we live in that knowledge? How do we live in that context? Our sanctification. Right? And that's applicable to every day of our lives. And we'll see it again today, and this is why I gave you the worksheet that I did, is it starts the gospel starts with who? It starts with God. And it starts with cultivating a really high view of who God is. Is and so that's why I put to know God. And we're gonna talk about that today. Um exciting passage. In a new memorization verse. So I gave you guys a pass. We're not gonna do Psalm nineteen anymore, but we are gonna move on to a new one. Um in addition to knowing God. It's it's knowing man correctly. Who we are, um lost in bondage to sin, but more importantly, who we are as a child of God. Right? And that's the piece I added was obviously it's the work of Christ that allows us to be children. Um so again the simplicity of the gospel really important for every aspect of our lives, even today. Alright? So you're gonna see Paul again and again just go back to that simple message. And then what we're gonna do, and I'll I'm gonna leave this chart up, but let me show you what We're going to do as we go through 1st and 2nd Corinthians, we're just going to start adding to this list. Here's all the issues that Paul was addressing. Some of our just topics. Hey, Paul, what about what about, and we'll cover those. Alright? So Let me I'm just gonna hang out right here as we go through. So if you have your Bible, let's open up to First Corinthians and we'll start going through chapter one. One of the hardness of looking at our cult culture and seeing how it's affecting us is that some of those things are good things and many things are not. So kind of like someone who puts a baby up to the van. No great point, Glenn and it's the discernment, right? Um it's the discernment that we need. I I'll give you a quick example. Just think of the advancement of technology. Right? We're all holding iPads or phones. That's an amoral thing. I mean it has allowed the gospel to go so far. I remember when the Reesmans were here and we had their luncheon they showed several photos of of people having the radio message, you know, that was transcribed into their language, that's that's because of technology, right? All good. That can also be a very evil tool in the wrong hands and the wrong heart attitude. So yeah, but we want to examine that. And I'll give you an example at the end of of where I think um where you can see the uh the effect of the culture on on a church ministry. So make sure I leave time for that at the end. Alright. First Corinthians. Let me read um one through ten first because I think it's always neat to see how Paul addresses a church and remember as we start a new book what do we need to understand who's the author who's the audience and and the context that goes back to the hermeneutic that we talked about. So literal, grammatical, historical. That's why I showed you the video. That gives some historical context as to the culture, but we'll see here clearly who who the author is and who he is writing to. Verse 1. Paul called as an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God and Sophanes, our brother, to the church of God which is at Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, saints by calling with all who knows. in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours. Let us pause for a second there. So who's the author? Paul. Right? And who's the audience? The church at Corinth. He's talking to believers now. Okay, that's really, really important. Now, what did we hear in Thessalonians? How does Paul approach his children? How do parents approach their children? Sometimes we're exhorted. Sometimes we're encouraging. Sometimes we're admonishing. Sometimes we're imploring. Right? So you're going to see that pattern as he goes through really every epistle, but you're going to see that clearly here. In his methods if you will and it's just a great example of how depending on the season of life or who the audience is at that particular time we need to use all of those as methods of of interacting with our brothers and sisters. So all right, so a couple things I want to call out there. It says Paul called as an apostle. This idea called is is called to specifically perform a specific function. And the Greek word, this is interesting, geacon out here a little bit, kletos. heard that before. Pericletos is what? The helper, the Holy Spirit, who is called for a very specific function as the helper, to come alongside, to be an encourager, to intercede for us, to convince us of our sin. Right? So um that's where that comes from. Para come alongside, like a para church organization comes alongside the church. It is not the church, but it comes alongside. So called, Paul specifically called to perform a specific function And that was to be an apostle by what? The will of God. Right, this was God's will. You remember we talked about the two forms of will. One was more of God's purpose or desire, the other is his declared will. It will come to pass. That's what we're talking about. This was God's declared will that Paul would be an apostle. Now, to be an apostle, basically two criteria. You guys know what those are? Had to be with Jesus? Had to see The resurrected Christ. Alright? And the second, as I just mentioned it, you had to be called by God. It had to be God's will or affirmed by God. Many of the apostles also were given miraculous gifts. We'll talk about that a little bit later. Simply, though, to affirm Their authority, their apostleship. Okay? So Paul clearly called to be an apostle by the will of God. We just talked about it. It the audience is the church at Corinth, so we're talking about believers here. And then it talks about in verse two that they are Sanctified. So you can think of sanctified in two phases. There is a positional sanctification, which we're talking about here. Sanctified means to be set apart. So when when you are saved, you are set apart. You are sanctified. But then starts what? Your progressive sanctification. That's that lifelong journey of what? Being transformed more and more, being set apart more and more in the image of Christ. So you're going to see he's clearly going to remind them of Alright, let's keep going. I'm in verse three. Grace to you and peace from God our fathers and the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, I thank my God always concerning you for the grace of God which was given to you in Christ Jesus, that in everything you were enriched in him, in all speech and all knowledge, even as the testimony concerning Christ was confirmed in you. You, so that you are not lacking in any gift, awaiting eagerly the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall also confirm you to the end, blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful through whom you Now I exhort you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all agree. So let me pause there. So go back to um verse four. I thank my God always do we remember that from Thessalonians right that that is often a greeting or part of the greeting that Paul gives. What did we talk about this idea of being thankful? Do you remember? Couple things. It's God's will. Right? I I love that. God's will is that we say thanks, that we cultivate a thankful attitude. So you see that in First Thessalonians five, eighteen, just as a reminder. What other passage talks about um thankfulness or cultivating the spirit of thankfulness. Philippians four Philippians four. Starts in verse six. Remember, rejoice always, pray without ceasing, and when you pray, pray with thankfulness and and what's the promise of that? The peace of God will guard your hearts. The peace of God that surpasses understanding. So I just love to hit this theme of thankfulness. We use it a lot in counseling. We should be using it a lot in our encouragement. to brothers and sisters, right? When you're in those trials and tribulations, what happens when you start to cultivate a mind of thankfulness? Right? You start to focus back on Christ. You focus on God and not your problem. You focus on serving others and not your problem. So really, really important spiritual discipline is to cultivate this spirit of thankfulness. It talks about, let's see here. Yeah, verse 4 again. I thank my God always concerning you for the The grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus. We like to just skim over this idea of grace. Right? The grace of God. But let's go over to Ephesians. Very familiar passage to you all, but it's worth looking at again. Ephesians chapter two and let me read one through ten. Well I'm gonna have trouble getting through today. This is good stuff though. If we need to if we need to follow up next week, I think we can do that, so we'll be okay. Alright, Ephesians chapters. 2 I'm going to read 1 through 10 because it's that important. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the Spirit that's now working. looking in the sons of disobedience. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. This is that middle bubble at the end of the day. At the bottom of the chart here. To understand our nature in bondage to sin. That's who we were. We were children of wrath. Verse 4: Love these words, but God. But God God being rich in mercy, because of his great love which which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him, and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, in order that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. And here's the verse. For by grace you have been saved through faith And guess what? That is not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not as a result of works. Why? That no one should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk. So really important to to go back and meditate on this idea of God's grace. It is a gift, right? It is a gift of His mercy, an unmerited gift that He gives to us, and it has nothing to do with our Why that we should not boast in ourselves. Alright, and we're going to get to that um in in this chapter actually. Alright, good. And then he goes on. I just I I read it, but verses five through seven, he said. You're not lacking in anything. He's reminding them of what they have with the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. They have the power of the Spirit. They have been instructed by Paul. They have the teachings that they need to live out the life that they need. need to live. But what's happening? They're being drawn away by the culture of the day. Right? That's the warning to us. But he's reminding them again, just the simplicity of the gospel. And that's the bubble on the far right here. We have to meditate in in realize the power that we have as a child of God. Alright? Especially today with the the scriptures that we have, the resources to understand them, but more importantly the indwelling, the permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit. And it says what? God is faithful. Verse nine. God is faithful, through whom you were called into fellowship with his Son Jesus Christ our Lord. He is faithful to carry out those promises. The men's meeting on Saturday uh was on we're going through the attributes of God and it was on faithfulness, his trustworthiness to carry out his promises. The ladies, you will be going through the same uh material on Saturday, so I think it's neat that we're studying those together. All right, so he sets the scene again, saying Hey, you guys are all children of God, right? You need to understand what that means. And that was a gift from God that we should not boast. So now he's gonna address the first issue that we're gonna cover here, the division in the church. body. Starting in verse 10. Now I exhort you, there it is. Exhort, right? We talked about that word to come alongside, to advise, to instruct, to encourage. Paul's coming alongside them again. I exhort you. Brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all agree, and there be no divisions among you, but you be made complete in the same mind and in the same judgment. So this idea of divisions, that word is that's where we get um the idea of a schism, right? A a total separation, a break in in uh parties within the church. So there were groups now in the church versus one united local body. And that's the danger of it. Yeah, in this idea he's he's exhorting them that you all agree, that you speak the same thing, that you be united in this doctrine of Christ. And I'll explain that in a second here. Um what is happening here is What I would call the divisiveness of idolizing Christian teachers. Right? He's gonna call them out for idol worship, is what's happening here. That's the division that's gonna happen. And and to have an idol, as you know, anything. thing or person that replaces God's rightful place of worship. That's the danger of what's happening. This is why this is so serious. Verse 11, for I have been informed concerning you, my brethren, by By Chloe's people that there are quarrels among you. Now I mean this, that each one of you saying, I am of Paul, and I have Apollos, and I have Cephas, and I have Christ. So let's pause there a second. Number one, Chloe. Chloe. We don't know. We don't know much about Chloe. Um she must be well respected for Paul to mention her in his writings and to act upon whatever feedback she's given her. She's basically saying, Hey Paul, there there are some issues. Now she is probably in Corinth, um probably a wealthy homeowner, but we don't know about much about Chloe other than she is uh well respected and giving this report back to Paul. Alright let me read a little bit of um some comments And it ties back to the video we watched about about the culture of what was happening. Right? For for someone to come through and be a great orator, um, you would attach yourself to them as a disciple of them and that was a Really, really big deal. That was really, really important. And that's why to say, I am of Paul, I am of Apollos, you're basically saying I am devoted to that person. Right? It was a really big deal. So let me read some of this. The pupil Or disciples of a secular teacher had to give exclusive loyalty to him. Traditionally, they engaged in quarrels with rival pupils over the merits of their mentors, who were also, by tradition, jealous of each other. Corinthians, who were Converted, remember the culture that they're coming from. Corinthians who were converted and baptized through the ministry of Paul, Apollos, and Peter, also perceive themselves in this secular way as their exclusive followers and likewise engaged in quarrel. Over the merits of Christian teachers. Paul declares such loyalty as idolatrous. He wants them to follow the Messiah and not his servants, idolizing teachers or charismatic speakers who seek the loyalty of their members has always been divisive and disastrous for the Christian community. So Paul makes the charge absolutely clear. Did we get there? Yeah, in verse twelve. What I mean is this, that literally Each one is saying, I am of meaning I belong to you know, after some declared loyal loyalty that we just talked about. Alright, so that's what the danger, that's the division that was starting to happen. Their loyal loyalty were to these mentors, these men. That they felt um they were apprentices to, if you will. Alright, that's the division that was starting to happen versus unity over or under Christ. Okay? Um Apollos, if you don't remember him, um you can see that in Acts eighteen, but he came to Ephesus, he was probably in Corinth, and it says he was mighty in the scriptures. He was speaking and teaching accurately the things concerning Jesus. Um he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. What couple was also in Ephesus? Right, Aquila and Priscilla. Now, it talks about them taking him aside and explaining the way even more accurately. So he was probably zealous, it sounds like he was uh bold but it sounded like he had some maturing to do and I I love this idea of them just kind of pulling him gently to the side and and let me instruct you a little bit better. But he ended up being um probably the main pastor at Corinth. Right? So for them to say I am of Apollos, that's why they would say that. Obviously Paul went through there, um and uh Peter as well, so that's Sebas. So again that's the division um that is happening. And it really it starts to usurp uh the authority or deity of Christ when they put their faith, their um devotion to these secular men. That's that's the seriousness of what's happening here. Alright, let's keep going. I'll start in verse twelve again. Now I mean this that each one of you is saying, I am Apal, and I have Apollos, and I have Cephas, and I have um and I have Christ. Has Christ been divided? Paul was not crucified for you, was he? Or were you baptized? Baptized in the name of Paul. So this idea of who baptized you was another element of their devotion to a particular person. And and I love this exchange from Paul. You can you can hear him kind of thinking this out. I thank God that I baptized none of you. So he was saying, I'm glad I didn't baptize a lot of people so that they don't claim that I'm the dude. But he goes on. Now now wait a minute. did baptize also the household of Stephanus. Beyond that I do not know whether I baptized any other. So I love that. He's like, I didn't baptize any well, wait a minute, I did baptize one and there might be a couple others, but you get my point, right? Um So I think that's key. Verse 17, though. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Right? Paul constantly goes back to this message of the gospel. So this theme that we're going to see now is how? He's going to draw them back to the true source of wisdom. Remember what they're fighting against here is secular wisdom. He's going to draw them back to the true source of wisdom, which is what? The gospel. For Christ did not send me to baptize. But to preach the gospel. Not in in the method is really important here. Not in cleverness of speech, that the cross of Christ should not be made void. So he's basically going to contract. or renounce the use of methods of professional public speakers. Remember that was a big deal in this culture. The focus was on performance versus the message. Right? If you were a really good orator, you know, you were the bomb. Do we see some of that today in our churches? Absolutely. The presentation is everything. That is in our culture. And that's what he's going to uh fight against or exhort them against. Verse 18. For the word of the cross is To those who are perishing foolishness, but to those who are being saved is the power of God. For it is written, so Paul's going to reference an Old Testament scripture here. I will set aside. Don't look at your notes. Where is that from? Isaiah, right? So that's from the book of Isaiah. I have been told, um I haven't confirmed this, but I think Psalms is the most highly quoted Old Testament book in the New Testament. However for Paul it's Isaiah. He quotes Isaiah an awful, awful lot, which is a great book to pull from. So you see the contrast that that he's making here, the simplicity of the gospel versus the cleverness of the world. Picking up in verse twenty. Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Remember, that was really important in this culture. Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom begins. did not come to know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. You remember in the video he talked about the gospel message is always offensive. It was offensive back then, it's offensive today. always be offensive to the world. And it's not cleverness of speech that's going to convince people of salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the simplicity of the gospel. For in do verse twenty two for indeed Jews ask for signs and Greeks search for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified. To Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness. So so again he draws them back to um uh the true source of wisdom and what was that wisdom? You know, I just mentioned it it is Christ crucified. Verse twenty five. Because the fooliness foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Amen. For consider your calling, brethren, that there were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world. of the world to shame the things which are strong. And the base things of the world and the despise God has chosen, the things that are not, that he might nullify the things that are. That no one that no man should boast before God. So again, Paul um bringing them back to the gospel, Christ crucified, it's it's a simple message, right? And it doesn't stack up to the the wisdom of this world, the coolness of this world. And yet God has that by perfect design. He wants to take the weak to show he is strong. Right? That's a common theme throughout the Bible. But I want to highlight this idea, um, the last part I just talked about, the importance of it. is to demonstrate God's sovereignty, that no one should boast. Let's keep going. But by his doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. that just as it is written, let him who boast boast in the Lord. In my Bible that's all in bold. Where's that from? Don't look. A guess? Isaiah. Good guess. But you're wrong. Jeremiah, and I want to turn there. And it's actually going to be your memorization verse. Let's go to Jeremiah nine. So you remember Jeremiah, the great prophet, um, and he was actually kind of in that transition from um uh the land of Judah into captivity and he actually witnessed the fall of uh Jerusalem and the and the temple and he is known as the lamenting prophet and that's why Um and it captures that. In chapter nine, it is talking about a lament over Zion, um in a in a warning to Zion. But let's go over to verse twenty three. Starting in verse twenty three. It says, Thus says the Lord, let not a wise man boast of his wisdom, and let not the mighty man boast of his might, let not a rich man boast of his riches. But let him who boast boast of this, that he understands So a couple couple points. Look at um your New Testament reference there. In my Bible it's all it's bold, but lets me know it's a it's a reference to the Old Testament. Um this is true also of the Isaiah reference. It says, let Him this is the uh Nazbi, let him who boast boast in the Lord. Well you go back to Jeremiah, but let him who boast boast of this, that he understand it's not an it's not an identical um capture of Scripture. So this this We can spend a lot of time, we won't do it today, on how is the Old Testament referenced in the New Testament. I have seen commentaries that show about 10% of references, there are 10% of the New Testament as references. to the Old. Those references are either direct quotes or they're they're paraphrases of an idea in the Old Testament. And what we need and which is okay. What we need to understand though is that is the New Testament author trying to um give us additional insight into the meaning or is it trying to apply I'll call it the significance of that passage to the modern day context. You know in this in this case he's bringing Bringing forth application. Right? What Jeremiah said back then is true to us today. We are not to boast in anything but Jesus Christ. Now, what I want to pick out though in the Jeremiah chapter, what are we to boast in? But let him who boasts boast of this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness and justice and righteousness on earth. This idea that we can boast that we know God. Now again, this is an important piece on this on this chart right here. We can only truly know God if we are in this bubble over here, right? Before you were separated from God. Did we know some things about God? Absolutely. General Revelation tells us that. We see some of his invisible attributes, right? And we will be without excuse. So we know some of God. But to truly know and understand God. Truly can't happen until we are saved, until our heart is regenerated. Now, do we exhaustively know God? Absolutely not. Right? He is not I don't know that we ever will. I just don't know. Does the word give us the The sufficiency though, the completeness of what God wants us to know about him. Absolutely. And that's why we need to be in the Word. But I love this idea that what we're boasting in, yes, we boast in God. We boast in His work. But here it's saying we boast than the fact that we know him, that we can know God. And I love this this kind of spectrum that he gives. That I am the Lord who exercises what? Loving kindness. So here we talk about on your worksheet what are some of the attributes of God. Demonstrated here. God is love. We love that part of God. God is love. But what does it say next? He is also just. And then what? He is righteous. So you can get If this bit of a paradox in the fact that he is love and he is just, how do you reconcile those two? Because he is righteous. Everything he does is right. Right? It's perfect. So I love that, right? But I love this idea of what we are boasting in is that we understand and know him. What a gift, what a blessing that we can know our holy God. That's what happens. happens when we are reconciled to God, when we are declared righteous, when we are justified before the Lord. Right? I go back to the gospel. That's why we need that every day. When when we are in despair, when we're discouraged, you know that reminder that we can know Abaf. Father. Um, you guys know Rose. I just love to hear her praise. She she often uses the term Papa. Papa. And I love that. That's a just this term of endearment. We we can't do that unless we are children of God. Right? So So I really want this to hit home this idea of we boast only in the Lord. Number one, because his the the grace he gives us is a gift from him. No work of our own. And yet we also we boast because we get to know him. He shares it. He's a personal God. He's not just transcendent. He's a personal God. He shares with us. So that is going to be your memory verse. Jeremiah 9, 24. So write that on your homework, on your sheet. Jeremiah 9, verse 24. Does not matter what version. Does not matter what version. In fact, I would love to hear a couple different versions. That would be excellent. All right, so I want to leave um a little bit of time for application. So I'll go here, like I said, week by week what we'll start to do is add some this list of um some of the issues and topics that are being brought up and this first one is again this divisiveness that Paul is hearing about and it's really driven by um idol they're they're serving idols is really what's happening here. Right? So again, this idea of division, it doesn't mean, you know, we've talked a lot about eschatology. It doesn't mean that you can't come in and have different views of eschatology. That's not what Paul is saying here. He's getting after, though, the basic doctrine of who Christ is. Right? That's important. And that is a doctrine we need to defend. And I go back to our our new membership class, you know, that's why we spent so much time going through the doctrines and we have here's the basic doctrines. Those are the ones We cannot be divided on. The others we can talk about. We we can have that discussion. But Paul's getting at a central doctrine here of Christ. So that's why it's so important. And again, he's going to spend four chapters on this idea of divisiveness. So. Alright, so we'll make that list. I think by the end of the the time you'll be like, wow, that's a lot of stuff. But again, you gotta keep it in the context of why it's so important that he's addressing these issues, right? He's he's defending against the culture. That they are immersed in. Let us do the same. Let us challenge our presuppositions. So let me give you one example of where I would see that and then we can have some discussion. In the counseling uh ministry that we have in the counseling organization A C B C that we are so heavily involved with, you know, there is a a um a firm stand on the inspired, authoritative, sufficient work of the Bible in counseling. Right? Where there is contention is, well, yes, we need the Bible, but we have so much um goodness from some of the sec secular therapy and in counseling techniques techniques that are out there. Right, that's that's the contention that is happening. And it gets back to some of the presuppositions that we might have about the medical community in other aspects. Let me say this. We do not throw out all that's happening In the medical community, right? Love medical community. Love doctors. And here's what we would say about some of the stuff that happens in psychology and therapy. They have done a ton of studies. We have a lot of data. So the observation Observations are extremely helpful. Where we have disagreement is in um the reasoning behind those those observations. That's where we would we would depart ways. But we can glean so much from a lot of studies that have been done. Alright, so let me give you one example. There's a great resources resource that we have. It's called the Gri Christian's Guide to Psychological Terms. And there's a a very thick volume. Um here it is. called the the DSM, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. And I want to be very sensitive here, but I just I want to give you an example. Um you guys have all heard of, you know, someone is a narcissist. Right, and and this is describing the narcissistic personality disorder. So you could go in and you could get labeled um with this disorder, with the idea that it's a it's a disease, it's something that needs To be treated, potentially with medication and therapy. But let me show you how the observation can then tie into a biblical response. So a definition: a personality characterized by existence. Exaggeration of self-importance and accomplishment. I'm sure we all know people like that, or met people like that, or maybe we were like that. The exaltation of self produces negative behaviors towards others, exploitation and deprecation of others. Others, lack of empathy, demand for recognition, intolerance of criticism, exaggerated envy, unreasonable expectations, and explosive behavior when expectations are not met. So if you picked out one of the things that we're going to do, What are some of the th uh the things that you picked out of what I just described, how might you capture those in a biblical term? Pride. Pride, right, would be a great example. They are very prideful about themselves. Who are they worshiping? self, right? So there's idol worship going on. My point is you can see how those observations of of an of the label narcissist have absolute biblical application. Right? They're prideful, they're they're self focused, they're worshiping themselves. else. These are all things described in the Bible. And we have an understanding from a biblical standpoint on how to um how to counsel from a biblical perspective. That these are heart issues. This is not a disease, it's a heart issue. So that's where You see the culture of our day start to permeate into a ministry of the church. Does that make sense? If you want to talk about that afterwards, you disagree, that's okay. Again, this is a big contention, and sometimes you'll have what's called integrated college. Counselors that bring in the Bible with secular techniques and and it can be very dangerous, right? In my opinion. That's something you've got to watch out for. But I just wanted to show you how you can take something, and again, we benefit from, like I said, all the data that they have, all the observations. Observations, excellent, but we want to bring it into a biblical perspective. So that would be one way where we have to challenge the presuppositions or challenge our culture. Um and it's not popular, right? It's offensive sometimes. So all right, let me pause. there any comments, questions? Apologize for the video, I'll see if I can get that working for next time. But I it was really important that you understood the context because it will be foundational for everything we talk about here on out for the next two quarters. Alright, let me pray.