Amen. Alright, and with that you can turn in your Bibles or your iPads, your iPhones, whatever you have, to uh First Thessalonians, which is where we'll start today. Alright, so a little bit of background, especially for those who weren't here last week. We are studying, um I'll just go to the outline. We are studying, you know, the title was the the second and third missionary of Paul. I I really am just using that as a context um so we can get a better understanding of of where he was at in his life, what was going on with some of the churches. And we're gonna see quite a contrast as we dig into 1st and 2nd Thessalonians, which was written during his second missionary journey. um verses uh 1st and 2 Corinthians which we'll see uh written during his third missionary journey. So that was kind of the the context that we used. And and you can see Thessalonians is not long, right? We go through the first two books Um about halfway or or two thirds of the way through and then the rest of the quarters, this is a three part series, um, will be uh in Corinthians, which is a tough book Right, there's a lot going on in Corinthians, so I'm excited to to kinda parse through that and see what that looks like for us today. Okay? Um You remember the context I really want to drive home is is the gospel as the foundation. We know that that's not only for salvation, and you can see the quote there from Paul, I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God. for salvation. We're going to see more of that today. But I I think very applicable to us as believers today, it's also powerful for our sanctification. For those who he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed into the image of his son. That's what sanctification is, to be made more and more holy like his son. And the real emphasis there is uh I'll call it the components of the gospel. So whenever you're reading scripture, you really want to be, you know, capturing those attributes, those characterizations of God that you see in the passage. So cultivating a really high view of God. And then reminding ourselves of who we were in our bondage to sin. the deplorable, deplorable state that we were in. Right? In the need of a savior and God providing that savior through his Son, Jesus Christ. And then mo I I think as important um who we are as a child of God. And the power that we have, the assurance that we have, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. You know, I mentioned um Crean and I do a lot of counseling, so we see a lot of people come in with uh condemning themselves, you know, not living in we just it's an encouragement to be able to remind them of the assurance that they have um in Christ as a child of God That's why I love to go back to Romans 8, because it's just packed full of promises of who we are as a child of God. So that's kind of the the context, the foundation that I want you to remember as you go throughout this class and really throughout life, your relationships, your your um interaction in the church, uh, your home, your community, it's really rooted in the gospel. Okay? Any questions there? Pretty basic. All right, and then we talked about um uh a little bit of context when we talk about indicatives, so we want to be looking for basically just commands from the Lord, uh the truth, um I'm sorry, just truth, things that he's done, things that he's doing, promises that he makes. You know, statements of fact, right? Statements of truth. That's an indicative. And typically when we see an indicative, then you see an imperative, a command. And you know Paul's structures typically in the epistles is starts with reminding ourselves of those indicatives, those truths We want to uh parse out what are the imperatives that come out of that, what are the commands that come out of that. And then obviously as important is application. And a lot of that's very personal to you as an individual, but also to us as a church, as a church body. Okay? And the example I used is we'll cover this in 1 Thessalonians 4. For this is the will of God. That's a statement from God, your sanctification. Pretty clear. And then in this particular case, um the imperative he's addressing sexual immorality and then a potential application is what you see at the bottom. So that's kind of how that would flow In order to help you guys do that, that's the sheet that you have in front of you, right? That's the homework that that I asked you to work on. Um and as you fill or go through this class, these are the things I want you to focus on. So again, the character or attributes of God, what are you seeing? And some of it might be very blatant, some of it might be implied, some of it might be captured when we look at other verses Um really up to you what you want to write there, but again trying to cultivate a very high view of God. And then we talked about those indicatives, truth from God, imperatives, the commands of God, and then application. And again, specific for you. And what I would encourage you from an application standpoint, you know, don't list 20 things. List one or two things that you really want to work on based on what you heard in the passage. And then the homework. So if you want to write down for this week, your homework for next week will be to read 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. Okay? Alright, we're gonna do a little test, and it's an honor system, so I want everyone to close their eyes. Just trust me on this. Just trust me on this. Everyone close their eyes Alright, I want you to raise your hand if you read chapter one last week. Alright, stay keep your eyes closed. Keep your hand raised if you read it more than once. Alright, put your hands down. Alright, you can open your eyes. Alright, good. Um so I I want to reiterate, you will get the most out of this class, you will get the most benefit, you will get the most sanctification by doing the homework. Okay, so I just want to encourage you to do that. Alright, good. And then lastly as kind of uh a background or intro, this was a chart I showed last week, but but kind of the major themes as we look at the whole book of 1 Thessalonians, it it really is a celebration of their faithfulness. I mean it's a very encouraging letter to the Thessalonians, and you can see that in the first couple chapters. And then the end of that is really an encouragement to to keep excelling more, right? Um a lot of different things we'll talk about as we go through that. And and then kind of sandwiched in between there is the these prayers that Paul has. So we're going to cover the first one. um this morning. Okay? Any questions about anything I just said? Pretty straightforward. Alright, so let's jump into the book of First Thessalonians, chapter one And let me say this, the the format I'm going to use is not necessarily a verse by verse, verse by verse by verse by verse. We don't have time to do that Um there'll be a little bit of that, but I really want to just make sure we're capturing some of the major themes from each of the chapters as we go through there But let's look at verse 1. Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians, in God the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. Do you remember how we got to this writing of Thessalonians? What what happened with Paul and Timothy and Silas? Who can remind me, you know, thinking about Paul's second missionary journey? How did that play out? Yeah, so so the second missionary journey, remember it was after the Jerusalem Council, okay? And um So they they take off and they they start from Jerusalem, they go up to Antioch, and then they start their travel back through Galatia, um into Asia Minor, which is Turkey today, and then into Macedonia Um along the way though they pick up uh so this is Paul and Silas. Along the way they pick up Timothy. So that's where Timothy comes on the scene. And as you know, they're kind of hopping from city to city. Why Frequent flyer miles? No. Why? Persecution. Persecution. Frequent persecution. Right? But they're going, they're proclaiming the ca uh the gospel Uh people are being saved, churches are being raised up, um, but then they're quickly you know moved on to the next city because of persecution. So it's not a friendly environment that these churches are being uh uh built up in, if you will. Anyway, so they quickly have to leave Thessalonica. Paul was there less than a month. We know that from scripture. And so he was there a very short time, and they have to move on. Um I think they go on to Berea and then Athens and then Paul leaves Silas and Timothy behind and he goes on to Corinth And he's going to spend about 18 months there. But along the way he instructs Timothy to go back to Thessalonica. He he wants to know what's going on in that church. So he sends Timothy back. And then Timothy and Silas eventually uh meet up with Paul in Corinth. And Timothy gives this a beautiful account of what's happening in Thessalonica. So you can imagine as Paul as as the pastor, if you will, the evangelist, to hear the report that they got, he had to be so encouraged by what he was hearing. He was there a short time And and so we're going to look at what did he hear, what did he see that was so encouraging to him, and how does that apply to us as a church? Okay, so that's That's the context. But to have this letter now delivered from Paul that includes Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy had to be so encouraging to the church at Thessalonica. You know, that's the point I want to make out is he includes all those in the introduction to this letter They would have known Sylvanus, they would have known Timothy. And to know that Timothy gave Paul a a just an excellent report of what was happening, I just I can't imagine how encouraging that was. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Right? So I I just thought that was very encouraging that Paul includes all three. And you see we, in fact, let's go to verse two. We give thanks to God always for all of you Making mention of you in our prayers. So you can see on the chart here really he starts with this prayer of thanksgiving. That term give thanks. The Greek is Eucharistia, and so that sounds familiar, hopefully. That's where we get Eucharist or Holy Communion. And it is just a grateful acknowledgement of past mercies. Right? It's remembering the goodness of God. Footstop, attribute of God, his goodness. Right? And how do we cultivate this idea of just being thankful to God? Remember, there was persecution happening. And yet they were thankful. Alright, we're going to see that again and again, and we're going to dig into this a little bit deeper. But who were they giving thanks to? Who is the the receiver of their thanks? God. Right? God was the focus. We're remembering what you did, God. You allowed us to stand up this church. You protected us. Um you have blessed them, right? Um the attention is on God. And what's the frequency? We give thanks to God Always. Alright, so you see this frequency of cultivating this continuous spirit uh or discipline of thankfulness Alright, good. Alright, so I want to walk you through a couple different patterns of thankful prayer. Turn in your Bible to Philippians 4. I'm gonna have it on the screen here, but it's always good to kind of read it in your Bible. Um this is another one of my favorite passages um because of the implication that it has For us, Philippians 4, 4 through 9. And let me just let me read it. I'm going to start in verse 4. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely Whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. So I love this promise and the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. How many of us want that peace? Yeah, everybody raises their hands, right? And and I tell people if you want the peace of God that surpasses all understanding, start with thankful prayer. You know, notice how he prayed here. Don't be anxious. This idea of being anxious is almost paralyzing in worry. Okay? Don't be anxious, but rather be thankful. And especially during your prayers. And you have the promise of the peace of God guarding your heart. So this is right praying. This is what we have to cultivate. A spiritual discipline. It's not, it doesn't come naturally, does it, guys It's easy to start thinking about all that we have wrong or the trials or the tribulations happening in our life. Okay? But this says turn that and start being thankful for all that the Lord has given you I often again I I hate to keep referring to uh counseling, but it it is so practical. I tell people to to journal whether um uh on a piece of paper in your mind stack the winds I call it Right. Do you remember what the Lord did for you and provided for your family? Do you remember when? Do you remember when? And just keep stacking, you know, build that that stack of stones, right? Like Jos uh Joshua did, right, when they cast uh across the Jordan, build those memorials, if you will, that take you back to remember the goodness of God, his provision, his sovereignty. Cultivate that spirit of thanksgiving. Again, it doesn't come naturally. It's something you have to build. The promise is though, the peace of God that guards your heart. So right praying leads to what? Right thinking And that's uh verse eight. We often stop at verse seven, but verse eight is just as important. What do we think about then? Whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable If there's any excellence, if there's anything worthy of praise, think about these things. That doesn't come naturally either, does it? Right? That comes by renewing our minds, spending time in God's Word. Right? With with covering ourselves with God's Word. Psalm 19 that I just said, it restores the soul. It's pure. It enlightens us. This is how we are to think. So starting with right praying leads to right thinking and then the application of that right practice. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things. And we're going to see that play out in chapter 1 today. Okay? Alright, any questions about Philippians 4? Does that make sense? It's a beautiful pattern of how you know again he starts in First Thessalonians with giving thanks, and you see it again in Philippians here, this spiritual discipline of praying with thanksgiving. Alright, I want to share, I'll call it another pattern or realistic way of praying, and that is to lament. This is uh I want to share a book. It's called uh Dark Clouds Deep Mercy. And um I actually had not read this until this year and and again I I started reading it because of going through it with a council. Counselee, um it is magnificent. And just absolutely open my eyes to this truth of as believers we can lament before the Lord. And let me show you what that looks like, okay? First, a definition. So I know it's kind of hard to read, but I'll read it out, the definition. And this is from this is from the author of this book. The honest cry of a hurting heart. How many have had a hurting heart before? Alright? We all have. We're all made in the image of God And yet God has given us emotions, He's given us a heart, a mind, a will, affections, and sometimes in this fallen world we are hurting, deep hurt. So the honest cry of a hurting heart wrestling with the paradox Of pain and the promise of God's goodness. Right? How do you bring those two together? Yes, God, I trust you. I know that this trial might be for my sanctification. You're trying to grow me, but man, it hurts. It hurts deeply. Do we have an avenue to cry out to the Lord? We do. It's called lament. All right. Um See if I mark it. Yeah. To cry is human. That's natural, made in the image of God in our emotions, right? We we cry, but to lament is Christian. Right, to to wrestle with this paradox, we have a pattern that we see in Scripture that will teach us how to do this before the Lord and to do it in a biblical way. Alright? I don't know if you knew this, um about a third of the Psalms are actually lamenting Psalms. And then you have the book of Lamentations, of course. Um, I think I said it from the pulpit a couple of weeks ago, this that verse that Jeremiah cries out, your mirth your steadfast love endures forever. Your mercies are new every morning. That is in the midst of him watching Jerusalem be destroyed, his beloved city. Alright? It he's lamenting. Alright, so there's four basic steps. And when you write these down, I want you as you now go through the Psalms to see if you can see this pattern. It'll become obvious to you when you see it. The first is you address God. You're not crying out to a God. You are addressing God of the universe, God our Creator. Our sovereign God. And you see it in the Psalms. How long, O Lord. So step one is you are addressing the only source of comfort that you could ever have. Right? Step two is um the book calls it a complaint. I I don't like that word just because it has some baggage with it. I I would call it more of a groaning Right? And we see in Romans 8, we see creation groaning to be preserved back to how it was in the beginning. We see ourselves groaning to have our bodies glorified Right? So I would call this more of a groaning. But here it is. How long, O Lord, will you forgive me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in the soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Has anyone been there? Nobody? Not even. Right? We've all had those seasons and periods. And and here you see the psalmist crying out to God. It's okay guys to cry out But it's more of a groaning versus a complaint. How long, Lord? How long is this trial gonna last? I can't endure it any longer So step one is you are addressing a holy God. You're groaning before the Lord. And then step three is a request. Consider and answer me, O Lord my God. Lift up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. Lest my enemies say I have prevailed over him, lest my foes rejoice because I am shaking. I need to be encouraged, Lord. Right? I need to be filled with your your presence. I need encouragement from you, O Lord. I need you to get me over this this valley that I'm in. Alright, so a request. And then what you often see highlighted there is the word but or yet and this is where the psalm turns. Right? And and this is important because what if you just got stuck in your groaning and your request? Right? That's that's not full lament. Were you gonna say something Depression, right, hopelessness if you just stay there. You gotta keep going to the last step. An expression of trust andor praise. So look at what he says. But I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord because he has dealt bountifully with me. Is that not a spirit of thanksgiving? Right? That's what I'm talking about when you pray. You could be praying, Lord, this trial is so heavy on me right now. I've been dealing with this illness for years now, and I don't see a way out. But I have trusted in your loving kindness. I'm grateful for the church body that you've given to come alongside me. I'm grateful for the doctors. You see how that turns? And so I I I found w when I went through this and saw that it felt liberating to me You know, a freedom that I now can cry out to the Lord in a biblical way, but this is the pattern that this is done Um any questions about this or any um anything that anyone wants to share of examples of maybe going through this? Don. Yeah, yeah. Um I I wanna highlight something Don said it's really important. Yes, I I kind of put in my own uh preference here of grown. But the the key with what Don is saying is a a freedom to be able to cry out to the Lord. That's the key here. Call it what you want But you have a freedom to cry out and be just vulnerable and transparent before the Lord. Yeah. And and I think to your point Um you can with this pattern you can now be helping your brothers and sisters in Christ. When when you see them complaining No, let me show you something. Let me take you to Psalm 13. Um your complaint is valid, but let me show you what lament really looks like. Yeah, just like that's a great example. Like Abby struggled with that in our marriage And it was at the start. Now she's amazing with it. She would hear me lamenting to God and she would be really worried, like, oh Seth, if you do that, he may bring more judgment on you And it was like Abby and then I showed her like all these things like that. And again, she's way better than me. This is just one place that I have one little bit of strength in Abby. And uh now she understands it. But I was so confused, like why are you wondering like why are you thinking that judgment's gonna fall upon me because I'm complaining to God about what I think is valid, of course probably isn't. But just again. Yeah. And then I understood where she was coming from And when she understood this now now I mean she really gets it and it was just such a good strengthening thing. But I really was I didn't understand it and when I hear you explain it, I I really have to study it myself, but it makes so much sense and I really have compassion on people. people who struggle and don't understand lamenting is actually a great biblical thing. Yeah, and and I'll tie back to something Glenn said. You know, w without this, um either Either to your example we complain and now we feel condemned because we're complaining, or we're left in this space of hopelessness Right? And that's why lamenting can be so precious um to help somebody get out of that that rut that they're in because there is a biblical way to approach the Lord. Yes? Well the the whole idea of complaining and feeling clear. and based on that. Some people might feel like there's a biblical precedent for that, like when the Israelites were grumbling in the desert and God sort of like brought his anger upon them. Mm-hmm. But you have to be very careful. There's a difference between the is groaning and the grumbling. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Bringing this like this crying out to God versus just um accusing God of like that Of course. I mean and the Israelites were were clearly just grumbling, right? Grumbling. I really appreciate the structure and um I haven't read the book yet. But uh Yeah, that's what I heard Don. Ah, I love that. It just jumps. Yeah, yeah. And it's like that's true. That's reminding us of the truth. Yeah. I love that. Yep. That's a great idea. I love that. Um you hit Doug and I'll hit Doug from this side and we'll That's a great idea, I love it I love it. And I do think some of the old hymns uh incorporate that for sure, which is why I love the old hymns. But Raymond. Well some of some of the people in the Old Testament grumbling without faith are in us people. You do know how we know it's true right now. And 'cause I think Buzzley they've been correctly it's twenty and I read it someplace maybe. Yeah. But sometimes, yeah, complain. But also when I complain, I can make sure my touch can like my world can up Humanness attack and you can come back and say, well, I didn't even say that for giving me a lot of people. Yeah. Yeah, good. All right. Great input. All right, let's keep going. All right. Alright, so I want to cover a little bit what was he thankful for? What was Paul thankful for? Alright, so let's do let's do a little uh little lesson here. So how many have you ever heard of the Nine Marks organization? Right, a couple of you have. Mark Devers, who is uh the senior pastor at Capitol Hill Baptist Church in DC. uh has an organization called Nine Marks and one of the thing and and it really is trying to um come alongside, equip churches, help plant churches. I mean that's a big part of their their vision, if you will, but they came up with this list of nine marks of a healthy church. Alright? And I'm not here to say, you know, you gotta agree with this. I'm just showing you a reference of of what that might look like. So We'll go through a couple I'll just go through the list real quick, but um expositional preaching. Now note that when we talk about expositional preaching, and Mark Divers I think does a good job of this, he says the main point of the passage should be the main point of the sermon. That's kind of the gist of it. It's not necessarily verse by verse by verse, although that's often the approach. So expositional preaching is more about taking the main point of, you know, understanding the main point of the passage and then communicating that to the congregation. That's what um to e to exposite really means, okay? So being dedicated to that is really, really important. Obviously a focus on the gospel, an emphasis on conversion, so faith in repentance and then evangelism going out to the world. Um a a um emphasis on being a member of a local body, right? And the importance of church membership. Understanding and applying church discipline. And again, why do why do we apply church discipline? So what's the primary purpose, Glenn? Well the primary purpose is restoration. Restoration. the they're not living correctly according to God's word. We want to see that person restored. But there's also a protection or or purity aspect of the church, right? We do it for protection. Um is that what you're going to share? Yeah. Okay. All right So it's important and it's funny as we go through the new members class and sometimes we do interviews people who come from churches that have never seen that, it's a bit shocking To have a pastor stand up there and say, Hey, I gotta share something with you, and and just walking through what that is and the importance of it Um obviously a a focus on discipleship, so equipping each other, and that could be formally, informally. Church leadership, um primarily the fact that in the Bible you see elders and deacons. But I will tell you, Capitol Hill Baptist Church has some differences on how they govern um what they believe and that's okay, right? There's a lot of different formats, but a really focus on the qualities that are required for church leadership Obviously a church dedicated to prayer and missions. So I'm coming al either sending out people from the church or having people go and come alongside with a particular emphasis on church plan. And Stephen and Lisa, I'm going to come back to you in a second, so hold tight. We are blessed to have missionaries from the field right now with us at Hope Bible Church, so we'll get some of their perspective. Alright, where else do we see in the Word basically some marks of a healthy church? And so obviously you're familiar with Revelations 2 through 3. I just took a quick um kind of survey of of the address to those churches. And those are churches that you'll see in Asia Minor. That's where they're all grouped. And you can see, you might be able to see the pluses and the minuses, but some of the positive statements is they persevered They were intolerant to false apostles and just their faith, you know, the the demonstration of their faith and their endurance. But there were some negatives, you know, those that tolerated false teachers that were spiritually dead, that were lukewarm, that were dipping their toes into the world, right, trying to mix with the world and and their schemes, if you will. So we have some good reference of what that looks like. What's not on this list? What do you not see on this list? Do you see um Professional music team on the list. No, do you see um fantastic youth program? No, you get my point. I'm not saying any of that is bad. We have tons of freedom on the types of ministries that we have. We want to do that with excellence. They all meet critical needs Um but when you look at the foundational marks of a healthy church, I I would argue um that's what these are Okay? Having said that, how would you assess Hope Bible Church? And you can be critically transparent right now. Do we meet many of these marks? Do we fall short Nobody wants to say it. Okay, I'm a little biased? Yeah, a little biased. But I know the heart of our elders and deacons is to adhere to the biblical standards of of church. And that means a lot because they're still men And they still deal with their own weaknesses, um what they strive. And Since I'm in the same boat, I just appreciate that. Yeah. So much. I do want to say coming back to prayer, if you are a believer Then you are commanded to come boldly into the throne room and not the throne of judgment But we're commanded to do before the throne of grace. And we can do that because we have unit of Christ. We should be hopeful in our prayer. And I appreciate that about Pope Bible Church. You will see people spontaneous Yeah, that's precious. Good. Anything else? Yeah, I was just looking at all the nine. I've I've heard that before. Yeah. I'll say so. Yeah. That's all that's correct. No, okay. Go ahead. Well I was just gonna sort of look from the other perspective or from in a sense where you know sufficient in all marks. Yep. But But my my take is, I mean certainly why we're members here is is I do see uh all those things in that as being important and and promoted and and And an excellence being being the desire. Yeah. So that's that's super encouraging. Yeah. And like uh Carolyn said, just uh leadership is This is maybe somewhat hard to say, but uh very godly and and god focused. I appreciate that. I appreciate that. I did not ask you that question to say, hey man, how are we doing? Right, we w we said I said before we should all be like the Bereans You should all be always how do we excel still more? If you have to move, you're in the military, your job takes you somewhere else, these are pretty good framework for what kind of church you need to be looking for Alright, so encourage one another. Where you do see excellence, encourage those ministry leaders. Just like Paul is giving this encouraging letter to the Thessalonians, we need to be encouraging one another Sometimes we take for granted the ministries that we have. So take time to to really um encourage one another. You know, I would say this personally, um having been in the military and moved all over the place, we've seen lots of different churches Um I I would say Hope Bible Church you know excels in a lot of these areas. The the one area I would love to see a bit more excellence is in prayer. I I think we can do a better job in corporate prayer. We have events that we have that we try to bring people together but they're they're not well participated in and that's okay. Um I do believe part of that might be a a Western effect, I'll call it. Um I've seen that in church after church after church in the West. Um but that would be one area that I would I would love to see us grow in. So I love the attention that we're putting on missions and and Angela and team have done just a great job of providing opportunities for us to to get better integrated with the missionaries that we support in the field. Okay? So I do want to pause real quick, Stephen and Lisa You know, you guys are are out in the field. Um, what's encouraging to you? What what do you hear or get feedback from the churches that support you? How are you guys encouraged? Like what is it personally encouraging to come with us? Um I I would say knowing people are praying about us, thinking about us, um what was the blessing that would be you and the homie folk came up just to kind of see what was going on. Yeah. I think there's sometimes you get kind of caught in the context of where you're at and it's just daily life and then to kind of have some When you like are explaining what's going on and like, oh wow, there are a lot that's doing so just to have yeah, I think that camaraderie and So uh yeah. Yeah, but I have two things I thought myself. One I find it very encouraging when people respond to our parallel and just take the time to read it for one and then respond. I read that on Facebook and so you spent all week in very responded that way. And then two, when we do come back, if we're about something that clearly shows like I am paying attention, I've been thinking of you, I've been praying of you because I because they might ask us to the situation. Yeah. Um that is always a huge encouragement because it's easy to remember a person and what that person is doing, but Yeah. And that shows that that remembrance checked continually. Good. That's great feedback. Great, great feedback. You know, you guys know we had the blessing of sending two two teams out this summer, um, one team out to Columbia, but then Pastor Gabe was able to spend time with the Reese Smith. And I know he was so blessed by that, but that that is great feedback to hear that. So You guys be gearing up for the next short-term mission trip. Uh it's a huge, huge blessing. All right. So let's take a look at what is what does Paul address here? What is he thankful for? And this We'll see how far we get today, but this is really the crux of chapter one. Alright, verse three. I'll start uh let me start in verse one again. Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians and God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace. We give thanks to God always for all of you, making mention of you in our prayers. And here's verse 3. Constantly bearing in mind your work of faith And labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. Right? That is just foundational to what he's communicating to the Thessalonians to say what we are thankful for. Right, it's not your music program, it's not the nine marks essentially, right? It's it's these foundational um indicatives really of of faith, love, and hope. Alright, so we're gonna spend some time kind of digging into what all of that means. Alright, so faith, and this is from systematic theology from Gruden, trust or dependence on God based on the fact that we take him at his word and believe what he has said. Right, I'll read that again. Trust or dependence on God based on the fact that we take him at his word and believe what he has said. A good acronym when you think about faith Is K-A-T-C. Sorry. K-A-T, got it? So the first part of that K is knowledge Right? There there when you think about faith, there's obviously a knowledge piece to that. You have to read the word, right? You have to you have to gain that knowledge. Is that enough though? Right? You can't stop at knowledge. The A is for affirmation, um affirmation, assent, they call it. You're affirming um what you read. You believe it The last piece of that though, critical, is trust. Right? You might read that Jesus Christ is the Savior, you might affirm that, but until you actually believe that, right, in the core of your heart. That's not faith. Right? So you have to have all of those elements. And I wanted to read um again from from Brutom to make this point. Knowledge and approval are not enough. So the K and the A are not enough. Moreover, merely knowing the facts and approving of them or agreeing that they are true is not enough. Nicodemus knew that Jesus had come from God, for he said, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God. For no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Nicodemus had elev had evaluated the facts of the situation, including Jesus' teaching and his remarkable miracles and had drawn a correct conclusion from those facts. Jesus was a teacher come from God. But this alone did not mean that Nicodemus had saving faith He still had to put his trust in Christ for salvation. He still had to believe in him. And this uh another story comes from Acts, and this is when Paul is heading back to Rome for his uh first house arrest. King Agrippa provides another example of knowledge and approval without saving faith. Paul realized that King Agrippa knew and apparently viewed with approval the Jewish scriptures, what we now call the Old Testament. When Paul was on trial before Agrippa, he said, King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe. Yet Agrippa did not have saving faith, for he said to Paul, In a short time you think to make me a Christian? Alright, so if he had knowledge, he probably had approval or affirmation of that knowledge, but he didn't have trust. That's the key element is the trust. So Paul is recognizing that these Thessalonians, again, he was only with them for a very short time, are demonstrating this faith. And and that's an important. You see action verbs in front of all of these. So work, demonstration. Right? That's simply what that is. They are demonstrating their faith through actions. Now you know this very familiar passage, but let's go to it because it's important. Let's go over to James 2, starting in verse 14. I'm going to read 14 to 26. It's it's uh kind of really helps uh solidify what we're talking about here. What use is it what use is it, my brethren, if a man says he has faith but he has no works Can that fate save him? If a brother or sister is without clothing and in need of daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace. Be warned and be filled, and yet you do not give them what is necessary for their body. What use is that? So this is very practical service. Even so, faith if it has no works is dead, being by itself. But someone may well say, You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works You believe that God is one. You do well. The demons also believe in shudder. So they have the knowledge, right too. But they don't have faith. But are you willing to recognize, you foolish fellow, that faith without works is useless? And let's be clear, right? James is not talking about a works towards salvation. He's talking about a demonstration of your faith. Through your actions. That's what he's getting at here. And I love this next section. Was not Abraham our father justified by works? When he offered up Isaac, his son, on the altar. That word justified does not mean declared righteous. It's um uh affirmed, um acknowledged, if you will You see the faith was working with his works, and as a result of the works, faith was perfected, and the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. Let me pause there for a second. We may end um right there. The the next goes on to talk about Rahab. But I love this story of Abraham. So this passage in twenty-three And the scripture was fulfilled which says, And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness, um, and he called friend. Let's see. Yeah, when and and this is tied to when he offered up Isaac. So when did that passage happen? When it was reckoned to him as righteousness? Was it after he sacrificed or was about to sacrifice his uh his inheritance, if you will, his legacy, Isaac? Do you remember? And don't look at your study notes. Before. Glenn's right. This actually happens. This saying is from Genesis 15. where the promise had already been given to Abraham that you will have this inheritance, right? The the number will be as many as the sands of the sea. And many years have gone by and that promise has not been realized. Right? And and uh Abraham Abram I think at the time is is a bit complaining of, hey, you you gave me this promise, but it's not happening. And what does God tell him to do? Go outside of your tent, look up at the stars. You see the number of stars, that that's going to be your inheritance. And it was at that point that Abraham believed and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. Right? So that happened before he was about to um slay his only son Isaac. It was that display though of being willing to to sacrifice his son that is the the display of his works. All right, does that make sense? So that's what James is trying to say here, is that we uh his faith was reinforced by the display of his works. And that's the call for us is we can say we have faith, but it's the application, it's the demonstration, it's the work of faith that we need to be displaying. And that's what he got feedback from That's what Timothy came and told them, right? That's the encouragement he had is is the demonstration of their faith. So that's the work of faith. Okay? Alright, let's go on to the labor of love. Labor in this um in this context is just not exertion. It's the weariness we exert in rendering to the Lord. That's a key aspect of this. And let me go back to Stephen and Lisa. Do you guys ever feel feel weary on the mission field in service to the Lord? Quite often. Talk to me, what does that look like? Not to a point of despair, obviously. But it's heavy. And I think all of us have this in any t type of ministry we have. But anything you want to share specifically on on some of those tough points, if you will. A lot of things. Um one is just in the hospitals, you see a lot of death. Like a lot of death and suffering that's way more often than maybe here in the US. Yeah. So that will wear on you. Um sometimes just also big need and trying to balance out how to you can't care for everybody but how can you just keep pulling yourself out to care for people. Yeah. Um has it's been Yeah, just even working alongside other national receivers and yet there can be conflict, there can be frustration, sometimes just people that you care about and they're kinda like headed off in the wrong direction and just like burying that. Yeah. And seeing the impact that that has on your ministry kind of going Yeah, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. That's excellent. Okay, good. Lisa, anything you want to share there or just reinforce that or something. But there's also I would say the second It's a spiritual burden of bearing um other people. That's excellent. I hope you guys are listening. What they said is they're very encouraged by people who are praying for them, praying specifically, and you heard some of that today. So let's be praying for Stephen and Reese uh Lisa um and their family, right? Because we got some great feedback. Good. Anyone else want to share? Um just we we all are involved in different ministries, um caring for our families Uh parents that are aging, they can be very weary. Anything you want to share? Any experience? Don. Um, being kind of pro-academy leader. Um is very weary um in a different way, obviously than we see in a different country, but um the amount of detail that we have to handle from the umbrella legal standpoint to um trying to make decisions as leadership for a ministry that is so individualized. Yeah. With each home school family how having their own preferences and each student having their own needs. Um you can't make everyone happy. And so I think and I think this would be true of any ministry. One of the most worrying parts is serving people. Yeah, yeah. Because you you want to serve everyone in a way that they need, but you can't, which means you can't make everyone happy. Yeah. Um and you Having to shoulder that burden but also try to respond in a godly compassionate way to people who Yeah, yep. Oh great example. Um I will share from a counseling perspective something that they have to drill in our heads is what is our role? Right? You can go to uh several counseling sessions and just sometimes it they're just heartbreaking. Where relationships have gone, things that have been done, things that have been said, heartbreaking. And Sometimes it takes a long time before you see any progress whatsoever. If if we shoulder that burden, that's heavy. We have to remind ourselves our job is is to minister the Word of God If we do that faithfully, we can walk out of that room just praising God. Right? That we were faithful in what He asked us to do. Because who's at work here? The Holy Spirit. We can't change their hearts. But then when you do see application and and you see a transformation, I mean it is just So that's the passion that I have. That's why I keep coming back, right? But I often have to remind myself, nope, I just have to be faithful with this. I have to prepare and be faithful and let the Holy Spirit do his work. Yes Um cook team off of that a little bit. I I understand you may not always be in company of believers. That's the idea, but um I think a lot of what you said struck a folders because I have family members who are unsaved or who don't have a relationship with Jesus. Yeah. And I feel like we have to recognize like what is our role in this relationship. Um, and that feels like a labor of love. Because you know, like your interactions with the general public are only so much. Sure. And you can only do so much for you want everyone to come to Christ, right? Yeah. But if somebody's living a very close to the chance Yeah. That feels a little bit like a labor of love. For sure. I think that's just living as a drawing hand between the person because I cannot Absolutely. That's a great example, right? Having family that you just have this burden and love for and yet all you can do is is act out and and live according to God's word and and let that be your message And be praying, right? Be a people of prayer and be thankful. Yes, Raymond. Yeah, thanks Raymond. Great comments and and grateful you're encouraged that way. That's good. So you just keep praying. Keep praying. Good. All right, let's keep going. So so we talk about this labor that we talk about. Labor of what? Labor of love. Alright, so what is love? In in this particular context, I know you're familiar with various forms of love. This is agape love. Alright, this is the love that God showed us It's charity, benevolence. But here's the key. It's not necessarily what the person desires, but what the person needs Right? That's the idea here. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. We certainly in our sinful state were not asking for a savior. Right? Um, but he knew that's what we needed. That's the idea of this type of agape love. Where can we go to get a good understanding of or framework of applying agape love? What does it look like? Let's go to 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians 13 gives us very clear instruction. There are other passages, of course, but this is a great one to kind of set your mind around. What does agape love look like? And I'll say this up front, it's it's a command, it's an instruction. Yes, a part of love is feeling, but that's not the heart or root of agape love. Right? It's more of a an action, taking the initiative. It is often not conditional. Right? God didn't uh send his son because of something we did. He took that initiative because it's something we needed. 1 Corinthians 13, starting in chapter verse 4. Here's a good description of this agape love. Love is patience. Love is kind. It is not jealous. It does not bray. It is not arrogant. It does not act unbecomingly, it does not seek its own, it does not provoke, it does not take into account a wrong sufferer, does not rejoice in unrighteousness But rejoices with the truth. It bears all things, it believes all things, it hopes all things, it endures all things. Love never fails. That's quite a list, isn't it? How many of us are there? Alright, none of us. That is part of the sanctifying process, but When Paul talks about this labor of love that he is thankful for, that's what he's seen. He's seen this fruit, this description of love is happening. Right, so let that be an application for us. First Corinthians thirteen, chapter four. This is what our relationship should look like in the home, in the church. Right? So if you are praying before the Lord, you're examining yourself and you see gaps in any of these characterizations, let that be your prayer. That's what you want to work on. Don. Yeah, good point. So right now um I'm in the NASV 95. I will sometimes use ESV. So yeah and and here's what I would say Looking at a couple different translations can be really helpful, especially when we're studying particular words. So if you guys have a translation that, like, hey, this my translation says this word, let's bring that up, right? Because that can be very, very helpful All right, labor of love. Uh Matt, sorry. And like looking at what's why for the nine marks and everything else, like that that maybe is one that kind of gets underemphasized in our lives. Yeah. If if we don't have Christ and love for Christ, like first and foremost You end up in one of the negative things, right? Yes. Yeah. Exactly right. Exactly. Great, great point, Matt. Love it. And that's why I wanted to show you a couple different lists to say, hey, this is not a rigid exhaustive and and you can see what Paul emphasizes here is none of the stuff on the left, right? It's Your faith, your love. And then I want to cover mu one more, and we'll pick up the rest of this um next week is hope. Steadfastness of hope. Steadfastness, endurance. Here's the key. It does not surrender to circumstances or succumb under trial. In the weariness of seeing death all around you, right, the physical strain that Stephen talked about, right, he is steadfast. Why? Because of the hope. And you've heard Pastor Gabe be preaching on this idea of hope for the last couple weeks, right? A confident expectation and assurance of future events based on the Word of God. That's what hope is A couple verses, Romans 8, 24-25. And this is again I talked about the groaning of our bodies, you know, uh seeking that redemption. For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. This is not the how the world considers hope as wishful thinking. You know, I hope the Lions win this weekend. Or I hope whatever, right? That's not what we're saying here. It's a steadfast assurance of a future event. Why? Because God said so Because God prophesied about this, right? He told us this was going to happen, or he told us this truth about who we are as a child of God. Um Hebrews 6, 17 through 20. Again, Pastor Gabe's been talking about this. Hope is the anchor of our soul. So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable character of his purpose. All right, I love that attribute of God, his immutability, he is unchanging in his purpose and his sovereignty, that we might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hopes that before us We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul. Alright? So that is all that's being on display here. So I would say this and go back to 1 Corinthians 13. In summary, pursue kingdom qualities. These are the kingdom qualities. Alright? 1 Corinthians 13, starting in verse 8. Well I'll finish up with verse 7. Bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Love never fails But if there are gifts of prophecy, they will be done away. If there are tongues, they will cease. If there is knowledge, it will be done away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part But when the perfect comes, the partial will be done away. When I was a child, I used to speak as a child, think as a child, reason as a child. When I became a man, I did away with the child's face. For now we see in a manner uh in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I shall know fully, just as I also have been fully known. And here's the key verse. But now abide faith, hope, love. These three, and the greatest of these is love. So that's why I say invest, cultivate in these kingdom qualities These are the things that will remain when we are in glorification with the Lord. Alright? Boy, more to follow. I knew this would happen just because there's a lot here. So we're going to pick up the rest of this next week. And we'll cover chapter two as well. So your homework is what? Chapter two. Read chapter two. And again, the goal is to read it Read it again, read it again, meditate on it, be praying through it, some of the the applications, the the things that we talked about today, apply that. Ask lots of questions. You know, that's the format is to observe the passage you're reading. What questions do you have? And then interpret that and then apply. Okay? Alright, let me close in prayer. Good discussion today.