Alright, so let's turn in your Bibles to uh Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 4. And here we are, we are at the end of the quarter. I can't believe it already, so we'll be um Finishing up on First Corinthians four and then next quarter part two we'll start picking up in First Corinthians five. Um good. Alright, so again I'll keep showing this chart as we go through the timeline here. We are at the end of that first block, that first division. um chapter four. And uh again I go back to this bumper sticker, right? I gave you milk to drink and not solid food. We talked about that la last week. I I want to talk a little bit about it today to make sure we really have this principle grounded because this was the underlying issue of what was happening as we look at all the whole litany of of topics and issues that were going that Paul's going to discuss with the um Corinthians, you know, this is really the heart of what's happening here. Um he had this contrast of spiritual men versus men of flesh Remember we talked about uh this term flesh. What what does that uh pertain to when we talk about the flesh? Our desires, our motives, right? Our drives. That's what it's not the physical flesh that you might think of. And typically, like we talk about, flesh is is a negative term when you see that in the New Testament. You know, flee from youthful lust. Flee from the flesh. Always combating the flesh. Um, I talked about from the commentary from John MacArthur, the cause of problems in the church was more than external worldly influence And remember we talked about the the influence that was happening in Corinth at the time. Right? This focus on being really good at rhetoric and debate and oratory. That's what they were focused on. That's what was driving them. So it wasn't just that worldly influence, though, it was also internal carnality. The pressures of the world were combined with the weaknesses of the flesh. And then he also talked in in uh chapter three, as we looked at last week, this contrast between milk and solid food. Um an additional commentary It is not that Paul fails to give them wisdom in the form of solid food. It is that they have not allowed this wisdom to penetrate and permeate their lives. Their discord shows that they have not properly digested the message of the cross when party spirit drives their behavior. Again, they had allegiances to the parties, right? The schisms that were happening Digested the message of the cross when party spirit drives their behavior, not the Holy Spirit So the question was asked, is Paul referring here to their, I'll call it doctrinal or theology knowledge, that they were not mature? That's not what he's saying here. Alright? And this is really important. Let me ask you guys this question. Um How would you characterize I'll call it the DC region? Is it a blue collar or a professional kind of environment? Professional. I you know I grew up in Detroit, automakers, I mean it is a blue-collar town, right? Dan Campbell's a blue collar coach. Right And we not right or wrong, but this area is very professional. And what I mean by that is you have a lot of people that um working for the government, um, professional uh industries, a lot of education. Okay? And so it is it is very easy to to be drawn to the education, to gain more knowledge. That's not what Paul was was admonishing them for Right? It wasn't like, hey, when I when I was with you first, I explained you know the basic tenets of the gospel, and by now we should be talking about eschatology. That's not what he was talking about. He was saying you were given the the mysteries of the kingdom, the gospel message, and your behavior Should show that. The maturity, your sanctification, at this point in time should be at a different level than it is. And how did he know? What was the evidence How did he know the maturity of their heart? Their behavior, what were they doing? Jealousy and strife. Now, we're going to see today that that most likely Paul is addressing the entire church, but he is probably specifically addressing the church leaders. Right, we're gonna see some of that today. He he's really focusing on you are supposed to be the example. And and the church leaders were the ones that were like, I'm of so-and-so, and I'm of so and so Right, their allegiance was to these men and the training they got and that that allegiance started to cause what? Division, strife and jealousy towards each other. Right. That's the that's the culture that Paul was hearing about. in the church. Very destructive. Very, very destructive. So again I just wanted to reiterate when he's talking about milk and solid food, he's saying you you were not ready. You were not spiritually ready. Right to progress. We should be talking about media issues from a spiritual standpoint because you should be more mature. I think that's a great pause for us. Where where are we at in our walk Right? How are we to examine ourselves? And we're gonna get to that in a second. Well that's the application. Yes, Glenn. Yeah. No, that's a that's a great point, Glen. Glenn uh mentioned we we all have different levels of maturity. You know, if you think of the fruit of the spirit, right, that's a great way to examine yourself. Where are you at on that spectrum of those different fruits And some you're probably doing relatively well and and some not so well. I think this is getting at, again, if he's addressing leaders. You know, you are leading this congregation and you behave you're behaving like children is what he's saying You should be mature men, mature leaders, and you're behaving like children. Right? That's what he was admonishing them for. Do you remember what was the evidence of the Thessalonian church? How did he describe their behavior? There were three three items, do you remember? The work of Faith. The labor of love and the steadfastness of hope. Right? That's how he characterized that church. That's how we want people to see us. I'll leave it up to you guys to think to say whether we're there or not as a church, but that should be our goal. Right? That's the ev that's the maturity that he was looking for and expected. The work of faith, the labor of love, and the steadfastness of hope. And so he went on to talk about the clarity regarding, you know, his roles and responsibilities and the rewards of the workers. Right? So he used a couple analogies, didn't he? Um he he first started with He said, you know, some are saying, I am of Apollos and I am of Paul. And we'll we'll talk about exactly what he's meaning uh there, but but what did he say? He said, We're nothing. We're nothing. It's God that causes all the growth. We are simply workers. What were some of the analogies that he used? What kind of workers were they? Okay, builders. Builders. And he said, I am the master builder, because I'm laying this foundation of the gospel. Right, so builders is one of the analogies he used. What was the one he used prior to that? One plant, the other waters. Farmer. Right. So he's farmer and builder, and then um at the end he talked about servants, servants and stewards, and we're gonna he's gonna kinda continue that theme as we go into chapter four But again, his main point was we are nothing. We are simply obedient servants to Christ. And he he went on to talk about the refining fire, that day of judgment. We will all, believers and unbelievers Go to that day of the the day of the Lord. We will all have that final judgment. But it will look very different, won't it, for believers versus unbelievers. Unbelievers, you will be condemned It's too late at that point. You will be condemned to a life of eternity in hell. The believer, on the other hand, your works will be put through the refining fire it talks about. And what comes out of that is your reward. Right? So every action, every heart attitude will be put through that refining fire. We won't go through a sense of condemnation But we will go through that refining fire. So that was his encouragement to them. And again, we talk about how does Paul address the church like a father does his children Sometimes it's exhorting, sometimes it's imploring, sometimes it's encouraging, sometimes it's admonishing Alright, he uses all of those techniques just like a loving father does to his children. We'll see that analogy once again Alright, so that all sets the context for today. Any questions about that? Does that make sense? Alright, so let's go to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. And Paul is going to expound on this idea of being a servant or a steward. So let me read in verse one. Let a man regard us in this manner. Again, he's he's drawing them back to uh Paul and Apollos as examples. This is how you should live. Specifically, I think in chapter four he's really addressing the leaders of the church. This is how you are to lead. We are servants of Christ. and stewards of the mysteries of God. Servant, as you kinda can imagine, this is from one of the commentaries, a word literally meaning under rowers, referring to the lowest, most menial, and most despised galley slaves. who rode on the bottom tier of the ship. Right? There's no more unglorious position than that of just an obedient servant. But that's what he's saying we were. We're nothing. We're simply obedient servants. I really want to pause though on this idea of being a steward. A steward of the mysteries of God. Greek word that means a manager of a household. A person entrusted with and responsible for his master's entire household, buildings, fields, finances, food, other servants, and sometimes even children or the owner. Can you think of a biblical example of a steward in the Bible? Raymond. Joseph. Joseph. Right? He he was uh we understand that that whole turmoil of his life and ultimately brought up to be the steward of uh a household. Now ultimately he gets into trouble with the the wife accuses him of wrongdoing, right? But but he was entrusted with So much responsibility. We're going to talk in a second about roles, responsibilities, and authorities. What does that look like? Alright, give me an example of stewardship today in the church or in your life Who's a steward? How would you Stephanie? Parents. Parents. That's a great example. Steward of what? Right? These precious children that God has given you And as a steward, you are given what? You are given a role, you're given responsibilities, you're also going to be held accountable. Alright? That's the magnitude of what happens when we are stewards. So it's important to note here, um, and let me say this too, parents is a big one, um, grandparents, um, small group leader. Elder, pastor, ministry coordinator, right? There's lots of examples of how you've been designated as a steward of something. Let me say this as a believer What is the minimal um talents or resources that you have as an individual, as a believer? Time Money, right? You may not be a steward of parents or or lead a small group, but you have been given a steward of something, of some talent. That you will be held accountable for. And we'll talk about that in a second. So this addresses everybody when we talk about this idea of stewardship. Now in Paul's case we see there he was a steward of what The mysteries of God, right? So he was given this incredible responsibility. And you know, uh Paul was the chief persecutor of the church, wasn't he? And that's what he was transforming. Now you could say he's the chief builder. Like Marie said, he he was in charge of what? Uh the master builder of laying that foundation the foundation of the gospel, Jesus Christ. And also, as we know in Acts, the beginning of the church age. He was establishing the churches. So when we talk about Paul as the missionary, that's what we we've um you know, traveled with him in all these different cities where he's establishing those churches. And he considers himself the a father of these. He loves his children. And it grieves him to hear these reports But he goes back, right, to try and encourage, admonish when needed, correct when needed, because he loves them. He deepsly loves them. But that's the the role that he has been given to guard and understand the mysteries of God. So look at verse two. What is required, not suggested, but what is required of a steward? In this case, moreover, it is required of steward. stewards that one be found trustworthy. That word simply means faithful. Right? We go back to that day of judgment, the refining fire What God is going to examine, have you been faithful? Have you been a faithful steward of what I have given you? That's the challenge for all of us. Verse 3 and 4. But to me it is a very small thing that I should be examined by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not even examine myself For I am conscious of nothing against myself, yet I am not by this acquitted, but the one who examines me is the Lord. So we have to ask, we are supposed to be faithful, faithful against what standard? Who does the examination of whether I am faithful or not? God, listen to this commentary. Paul's declaration should not be taken as a proud claim of special apostolic independence. Exemption from the congregation's judgment. Paul presents his indifference to being appraised by them as an example for them to follow It bolsters his argument that God's judgment is the only one that counts and that anybody should care about That's really important if you listen to that. He's not saying I I don't care I I'm not held accountable by you. That's not what he's saying. He's saying ultimately the standard of a steward is defined how? By God's word. And the ultimate examiner of that is God. That has to be our confidence that we are going to the Lord for our examination of are we being good stewards or not. Alright? So let me give you an example. And this often comes up in in the counseling room. I'll I will pull this thread with people because I think it's really important. So let's talk about roles and responsibilities. So let's go back to the husband-wife relationship. What is one of the primary roles of a husband? Ephesians 5. 25. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Giving himself up for her. Right? It's talking about this sacrificial love. And I love to then connect that verse to 1 Peter 3. 7. Anybody remember what that one is? Husbands, live with your live with your wives in an understanding way. So to understand them means to gain knowledge, to to really know your wife intimately. And I like to connect those two because We say, okay, husbands love your wives. Well, how do I love them? What does that look like practically? And I often get that question, you know, for my wife, what does that look like practically? Well you need to understand your wife. When you understand, when you really know them, now you know how to love your wife, her preferences, her fears, her joys. Right? Now you can really practically love your wife. So that's the that's the role and the responsibility that is given to a husband to know your wife so intimately that now you know how to practice how to love her. And is that um is that a command or a suggestion? That's a command. Is that conditional or unconditional? Unconditional. It doesn't say love them when when they're doing everything right, when they're submitting to you. It says you love them. That's what you can control. Right? So I will I will take them through that to re-establish that foundation we talked about. This is what God says about your role and responsibility in the marriage relationship. This is what you're responsible for. You have been given a steward in this relationship, a stewardship, right, that you are now responsible for. And so the the next worksheet that I often have them fill out is questions to ask their spouse, in this case ask your wife, where have I demonstrated that type of love to you? Ooh, that's hard. And where can I improve? So I I try to be careful to make it positive, not where do I fall short all the time, right? Be encouraged. Where do I show you love? In what areas can I show you more love? That's a very fruitful but tough conversation Okay? So what I'm trying to do is establish you know this this framework of that's the mindset, not what are you getting out of this relationship, how are you doing what you have been given a stewardship Right? How are you exercising that? And then once they have that firmly, it's how are you constantly examining yourself against these roles and responsibilities? Right that that's what Paul's saying. I I only get examined by who? The Lord and his standard. So flip over with me to Psalm 139. This is a great, great psalm, especially in view of um examining ourselves. Psalm 139. I'm not going to read all of it. The title in my book is God's Omnipresence and Omniscience. And it starts with, you know, where can I go that you won't be, Lord? Right? So it really talks about his omniscience. And that first part can can give you a sense of fear That I can't go anywhere where the Lord is not. I can't go to heaven. I can't go to Sheol. Go to and but but go to verse 13. Let's start in verse 13. And understand how comforting and precious this is. For thou dost form my inward parts. Thou didst weave me in my mother's womb. I will give thanks to thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are thy works, and my soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from thee when I was made in secret, and skillfully wrought in the depths of the earth. Thine eyes have seen my unformed substance, and in thy book they were all written the days that were ordained for me, when as yet there was not one of them. Isn't that amazing? Right that hopefully you get the sense of the assurance of your salvation and protection when you read something like that The Lord formed your your inmost parts. He numbered your days before you were even a substance. Right? That's incredible. That is precious. So go down though to verse 23, and this is the verse I want you to think about. Here is a prayer from us to God. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my anxious thoughts, and see if there be any hurtful way in me, other translations, any grievous, and lead me in the everlasting way. That is a prayer of examination, is it not? Is that an easy prayer? No. Because the Lord will show you. But He is gracious, He is patient. He will show you what you can handle in the season that you're in. But this is a very deliberate examination of oneself. You know, you're not you're not saying, Lord, I I need the secular world to examine me, right? You're examining yourself before the Lord. That's what's happening here. That's what Paul is trying to say. Ultimately, my ultimate judge of if I am being a good steward Is God's word, is God. Examine me, God. Search my heart. Because what happens, right? Sin just is in these little crevices of your heart. And you really need the Lord to show you. Now, how will the Lord reveal sin in your life? Through his word for sure. Through people. Right? He may use your brother and sister to reveal that sin. But what Paul is saying here is these people were so caught up in their secular, carnal, fleshly desires, they were using that as the standard. Right? That was the standard of of am I being a good steward? And some we're gonna see were puffed up. They were arrogant They thought they were living according to the standard. And Paul says, no, my confidence comes from Christ. Does that all make sense? Okay, good. So I want to show you another example that I think is really helpful of this idea of stewardship and talent. So let's go over to Matthew 25. And you are all familiar with this parable, but I think it's worth reviewing. We're going to cover fourteen, the parable of the talents. You guys are all familiar with that, but um I think this really hits the point home. If you were to go back though to verse one, it talks about the parable of the ten virgins It says the kingdom of heaven will be comparable to. So Jesus is describing what the kingdom of heaven will be like. You guys remember the parable of the ten virgins? Give me a rundown of what that was. High level Right? So some ten actually, ten were ready. Is it right? Uh comparable to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Yeah, five of them. So five of them were prepared Right? Five of them were ready for the Lord's return. We talked about that back in 1 Thessalonians. But when the bridegroom came, those who were not prepared, what'd they do? Yeah, they they had to go out and buy more. They they had to you know be delayed and when they came back, what what was um Jesus' response? Too late, man. I I don't even know you. So uh Jesus continues with this parable, for it is just like Meaning again he's describing the kingdom of heaven for it is just like and he's going to talk about this idea of the talents and and I liken it to our discussion on stewardship here. Alright, let's go through this. For it is just like a man about to go on a journey who called his own slaves and entrusted his possessions to them. That's stewardship, is it not? Right? That's exactly what what's happening here. And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one One, each according to his own ability. Now why they received what they did, that was the master's choice. Alright, let's not churn over how much they were given. That's the master's decision to make And it was according to their ability. And he went on his journey. Oh, that makes me sad the slides are not working Immediately the one who had received the five talents went and traded with them and gained five more talents. So what's an important verb there? Or action Beginning of the verse. Immediately. Alright, he was he he was given possessions, he was given role, a responsibility, authorities, and he immediately went into action. Immediately the one who had received the five talents went and traded with them and gained five more talents. In the same manner, right? So again, immediately the one who had received the two talents gained two more. They doubled their investment. That's what they did. They were given stewardship of of resources and they doubled their investment In contrast, let's look at the third person. But he who received the one talent went away and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. Again, it's important to remember whose money is it? It's the master's money. They don't own it, they are stewards. Whose children are your children? Not ours, right? The it's the master's children. Now after a long time the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them. And the one who had received the five talents came up and brought five more talents, saying, Master, you entrusted five talents to me, I have gained five more talents. So obviously this This um servant, the steward, was uh wise with investing, double the investment, so when the master of return was able to present, you know, a a double on his investment, his original investment His master said to him, here's the response. Here's, am I meeting the standard? Here's the examination. Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. Do we not all wish to hear those words? Well done, good and faithful servant. Alright, how about the second one? The one also who had received the two talents came up and said, Master, you entrusted to me two talents. See, I have gained two more talents His master said to him, Same thing. Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master So it doesn't matter what you started with, it matters what you did with the stewardship you were given. Right And the one also who had received the one talent came up and said, Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed. And I was afraid and went away and hid your talent in the ground. See you have what is yours. But his master answered and said to him, You wicked, lazy slave You knew that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I scatter no seed. Then you ought to have put my money in the bank, and on my arrival I would have received my money back with interest Therefore, take away the talent from him and give it to the one who has the ten talents. For to everyone who has shall more be given And he shall have an abundance. But from the one who does not have, even what he does have, shall be taken away. And here's the final outcome. And cast out the worthless slave into the outer darkness And in that place there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. So let's be careful here, right? Jesus isn't trying to describe a believer that didn't use their talents well and then was cast out. This was an unbeliever. We know that from the rest of Scripture. Um but clearly we see this example of what happens with us as believers in the stewardship that we are given, and we will re reap a reward at the end of that The size of that reward depends on our faithfulness as stewards here on this earth. All right? That's what's being described here, the emphasis All right, any questions on that? So let me let's talk about this a little bit. You know, Stephanie, you brought up um you brought up the idea of being a parent, right? And we are stewardships of children. What does that entail? What are some of our roles and responsibilities and authorities and accountability and Okay. Train 'em up in the way they should go. Is that the role of the state? Is that the role of the church? Absolutely, right? The primary responsibility of this precious gift that you have been given, you will be held accountable for that. You are a steward um of these blessings that have been given to you. Now, can the state provide some resources? Let's say you have a special need child. Absolutely Right? They can come alongside. The church is intended to come alongside. Our ministry of Hope Academy is not intended to be a separate school that we now bring our children so that the the Hope Academy trains them up. They are to come alongside. They are to support. That's really the ministry. And that is a an important distinction. Does that make sense? How about you are a young adult, you're a believer, you're not married, you don't have any kids, what are you a steward of? Your time, your talents, your energy. Some of you have been very gifted, right, in in certain areas. You will be held accountable for how you're using that. Right? Maybe you're maybe you're given two talents right now. Alright, so talk to me about um being a young adult. Alright, really good points. I don't know if you heard Tara, you know When you become married, when you have children, you have huge responsibilities and you maybe don't have the freedom to do some of the things you do as a young adult. Alright? So my point is Seasons of life may may dictate what resources you have, what talents you are able to use for the kingdom, for God's glory. It changes over a season Right? In some degree, Tara's bringing on the point you have a lot more flexibility as a young adult. Alright? But but as you are now maybe gifted with marriage and children, I mean these are precious huge responsibilities that you have. Right? So it may change with your season. We need to be faithful at every point. At every point in time Any other comments, questions on that? Does that make sense? Right? So this idea of being a good steward, Marie. Yeah. Marie, that's a that's a really great point that um We live in a fallen world and we can be bombarded, you know, moms. We can be bombarded with y you need to be you need to be this You need to look like this. You need to be a super mom that has this uh outstanding career and and you come home and you're an outstanding mother and and wife and your home is just beautifully decorated you're right, we can create this false standard, this worldly standard. And our standard needs to be the Bible. And that's, I think, the heart of what Paul's talking about here. You need to go my standard, Paul's saying, my standard of being trustworthy is God's word. Again, reiterating why it's so important to be in his word and praying. And I think I'll reiterate um the different seasons of life. I I know transitions can be difficult Um when you enter a season where maybe you're caring for a loved one, a a mom or a dad, I mean to have them come home and live with you totally changes the dynamic of your home And yet that's the season you're in. That's the stewardship that God is asking you to perform. And why does he do that? For your good and his glory and your sanctification Right? His will is our sanctification. We talked about that in 1 Thessalonians. Alright, let's keep going. That I really wanted to hit home this idea of stewardship though and how Paul saw himself and Apollos as stewards, and we all need to see ourselves as stewards. And yet that looks different for everybody, right? And it looks different as we go through seasons of life. Let's keep going. Verse five. Therefore do not go on passing judgment before the time, but wait until the Lord comes, who will both Bring to light the things hidden in the darkness, and disclose the motives of men's hearts, and then each man's praise will come to him from God. So he's going back to, right, let let the standard be God's word, and we talk about when we talked last week about the day of the Lord, right? That refining fire. That's when our true motivations will will be brought forth. Right, that's when we will receive the reward for all of our obedience. But it really gets to the heart. Right? The judge can't be secular, like Marie said. It can't be the worldly standard. It's got to be the Bible. Now these things, brethren, I have figuratively applied to myself and Apollos for your sakes, that in us you might learn not to exceed what is written. In order that no none of you might become arrogant in behalf of one against the other. So I I want to reiterate, and and this can be um a difficult passage, but some of the Some of the commentaries I read had um close consensus here that when he talks about figuratively applied, he goes back to these analogies we talked about, right? He's talking about being a farmer and a builder and a servant and a steward. Right? He's applying those to Paul himself and Apollos, right, as leaders in the church He's saying this is who we are. And he's setting themselves as as an example. Um the commentaries uh said it this way. It was most likely that Paul again was d addressing the leaders in the church at this time And it wasn't so much that they were saying, I'm of Apollos and I'm of Paul, but others, right? Other rhetoric leaders, if you will, in the community And that's where the division. So he was, Paul was actually calling out some of these leaders, but wasn't calling them out by name. His intent was not to shame them. He's showing a bit of grace and mercy here, but he is confronting them. So he's trying to say, you need to look at us, Paul and Apollos as an example. We're brothers that that treat each other as we're just peers. We're just stewards. We're workers for the Lord Right? And let us be here an example of what that relationship should look like, of how your behavior should look like. So that's most likely what is happening here in verses 6 And his warning again was what was happening? They were getting puffed up. We've talked several times about boasting. Boasting in what? Right? Are you boasting in men, which is what they were doing, or are you boasting in the Lord? Which is why we're memorizing Jeremiah 9. 24. Right? I love that that affirmation we are boasting in the Lord. Why? Because we understand and know him. We have the mind of Christ. That's the beautiful treasure that we have been given as believers of being indwelt by the Spirit. All right Verse 7, and Paul, you guys know Paul's routine often uses rhetorical questions to get at the heart of the matter. For who regards you as superior? And what do you have that you did not receive? But if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? Again, we go back to this very basic principle of boasting. What are you boasting in? Right? We know that nothing comes of ourselves. We are to boast only in the power of the Lord. And so he's challenging them again with these rhetorical questions. Let me jump down to, I'm not going to read all of 9 through 13, but Paul is going to go back to emphasizing who they are as apostles, called as apostles. And let me just list some of the things that he talks about here. It says they are last of all, they are condemned to death. They are a spectacle to the world. They are fools for Christ. They are weak. They are without honor. They are hungry and thirsty. They are poorly clothed. They are roughly treated. They are homeless. They toil with their hands. They are reviled. They are persecuted. They are slandered. They are scum of the world. They are dregs of all things. Would you want to be an apostle? No way. Um I'm often amazed there are some today that feel they are apostles and I think, boy, if you only knew what an apostle truly lived like you would not want to be called an apostle. And he's not trying to to gain self pity here, right? He's saying this is the this is the role that we have been called to And we do it faithfully. We we rejoice in it. But that is our humble estate. And yet, we're going to see in his humble estate He doesn't abdicate his role as the father of the church. Right? He is still responsible for their spiritual health. So we're going to see that in the rest of 14 through the rest of the chapter. Although humble in stature, Paul is still their spiritual father in Christ. Paul has roles and responsibilities as a steward and he will be held accountable. So we use this um framework in the military often, but I think it has direct application for any kind of um oh stewardship type of relationship or leadership type role And I think we see it throughout throughout the scripture. You can think of this uh call it a triangle of uh roles, role, responsibilities, and I'll put um authorities And accountability. So let me give you an example. Let's say um Let's say I'm selected to be the commander of a certain unit. So I've been given a role, I'm a commander. That has some very inherent responsibilities to it. What happens though, and I'm going to be held accountable for those responsibilities, what happens though if I'm not given the authorities to carry that out? Happens all the time. Extremely frustrating. Right? Extremely frustrating. Let's say you are a parent and you've been given a role as a parent, you have certain responsibilities. What if some of those authorities are taken away? And I'm not trying to get political here. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm trying to prove a point. Right? You need all three in order to effectively carry out Good stewardship. And so I want you to think about as a steward from God, you are given certain roles and responsibilities. We talked about that as being a husband, right specifically And you are given certain authorities to carry that out. That's the power of the Spirit, and you will be held accountable. Alright? So what I'm trying to emphasize here is though Paul is trying to describe this very humble estate of being an apostle The lowest of the low, the scum of the earth. Right? He never leaves off of his position of having just stewardship responsibility. I am still your father in the Lord Right, that's the the model he's trying, and not from a a condoning standpoint, but in grace and in mercy. I'm still your father. You are my children and I love you. Comment Another way in which this kind of works out is if you were given authority but not really understand your role. Absolutely. Then you start getting into things that aren't really you're supposed to get into and things are mess of so it and it can often happen in the military you're given a role in the authorities but you really don't know what your responsibilities are Or you're given these two and you haven't really been designated in the role. That's you know, if you miss any one of these or you don't have any one of these, it it breaks the whole chain And it causes disunity, it causes all kinds of failures. So you need all three um in the equation. And the emphasis I'm trying to say here is You know, we know the history of Paul. I mean, he why did he go from church to church to church? Because he was being persecuted every place that he went, right? And pushed to the to the next church. And yet that was God's design for him But he never he never abdogated his role. That's my point here. And we don't we can't either as stewards So we talked about how does Paul address those that he loves? How does he address these churches? Again, sometimes it's exhorting, sometimes it's encouraging, sometimes it's imploring. Sometimes it's admonishing. So I want you to think about that as we read these next couple verses, starting in 14. I do not write these things to shame you, right? Paul's not trying to shame them But to admonish you as my beloved children. What does that word admonish mean again? Do you remember? Covered that in Thessalonians. It's a stern warning, right? That's what admonish means. It's it's not um it's very stark difference from encouraging, it is to admonish. Um and are we as parents we go through all those phases too. Sometimes we're encouraging, sometimes we're exhorting. Remember to come alongside with encouragement. Sometimes warning, but but it has this idea of coming alongside, but sometimes we are too admonished. It's a stern warning For if you were to have countless tutors in Christ, yet you would not have many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I became your father through the gospel. Right? That's the role that He has been given. He is their father in Christ, as I was talking about there. Alright, so he admonishes. What does it say in verse 16? I exhort you therefore. Be imitators of me. He's coming alongside Right, trying to to give instruction and encouragement. I am your example of how you are to live. I am your example of how you are to lead. As leaders in the church, let me and Apollos be your examples Imitate me. Do you remember did Paul what was Paul's profession? Tent maker. Did he have to work? No, remember it was written, it's it's my right to not have to work, but why does he work? To set the example. Right? He says that a couple times When it talks about him toiling with his hands, right? He was he did not want to be a burden to anyone, setting the example. So we see he admonishes, he exhorts Um what happens in verse seventeen? For this reason I have sent to you Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, and he will remind you of my ways, which are in Christ, just as I teach everyone in every church. What is he doing by sending Timothy? Delegating? He's delegating. He's encouraging. Right? They knew Timothy. Remember, Timothy was at Corinth with him during his second missionary journey for 18 months. He's sending a faithful servant to come and encourage them. Right? That's what he was doing by sending Timothy Being an encouragement. So again you see him all use all three of those those uh terms we talked about. He admonishes, he exhorts, he encourages. But in verse 18 and 21, now some have become arrogant. He's back to you know them being puffed up or arrogant, as though I were not coming to you. The Father's coming back, he's saying But I will come to you soon if the Lord wills. Why does he need to add that phrase the Lord wills? Paul specifically. What has happened to Paul before? We've covered it when he tried to go somewhere That's right. Right? So he knows I I gotta throw this in there if the Lord wills. This is my plan to return to you if the Lord wills And I shall find out, not the words of those who are arrogant, but their power. For the kingdom of God does not consist in words, but in power. What he's talking about here is, I'm going to come and understand your spiritual potency. That's what I'm going to test. That's what I'm going to examine. You are puffed up. You're arrogant. You're just words. Right? Very similar to the Pharisees and Sadducees, the religious leaders of the time. That's what he's going to test Where is the fruit? What do you desire? He's asking them, how shall I come? Shall I come to you with a rod or with love in a spirit of gentleness? Right, just just like as a parent, sometimes we have to come with the rod. Why? That chastisement is a form of love. We do it because we love our children. You don't if you do not um discipline your children you don't love them. That's what it says in Scripture. Right? So it's important. But he's saying, I I would love to come in gentleness and love. I can come with the rod though. And we're going to see next week he's going to address a very serious issue in the church. Right, this form of sexual immorality. But I go back to Paul never shies away from this responsibility. Okay? And I I think of us as as pastors and elders, we love you guys But we need to protect the church first and foremost, right? This is God's church. We have become stewards of what God has given us here. We often refer to Jesus Christ as the chief shepherd. We are simply under-shepherds. He has given us responsibility, but we are not going to shy away from this. We will be held accountable for this. We do this because it brings us great joy and we love it. We truly do. It is incredible, incredible joy Alright, so the big takeaways I want you to take. We're finishing this section on the first four chapters, which Paul spent really a lot of that time talking about division in the church. And what I want you to take away is remember we talked about, you know, they were dealing with the culture in Corinth at the time. We need to examine ourselves also in our culture We need to understand the presuppositions that we bring, right? And make sure we are examining ourselves. Are we being pulled or caught into the direction of our culture? But this idea uh idea of division is a very, very serious matter. Right? It tears churches apart. Remember the warning he had about trying to destroy the foundation that was laid, Jesus Christ. And so again, our responsibility is to address division. It has happened in this church more than once. Okay, it has happened a couple times. And guess what? It's messy And it's hurtful. And it's painful. But that's what we're called to do. Okay? So division and we all play a role in addressing division that's happening, potentially happening in our church. Right? So we need to take it very, very seriously. The second thing is this idea of stewardship. We are all stewards of Jesus Christ in some capacity. And he is returning for a day of judgment Right, your your obedience or lack of obedience will go through the refining fire. You won't lose your soul, right? Let's be clear about that. But every action will be tested against the refining fire Does that make sense? Questions? Comments? Alright, we'll pick up next week again to start a new quarter.